
Armenian Prime Minister Ovik Abramyan's recent ultimatum to oligarchs has deteriorated the current situation in the country.

Abramyan called on big businessmen at a government meeting to stop law violations from July 1. Country's big businessmen mainly include MPs and government officials, who are prohibited to conduct business based on the constitution.

By this appeal, the head of the government in fact acknowledged that big businessmen, which are close to the ruling party, have been working illegally over the past few years.

Abramyan also warned that he would use his power to deal with irregularities after July 1.

However, fulfilling this promise may lead Armenian to collapse, local media believe.

"In this case, Armenia will be left without top leadership, as well as without the owners of the importing and manufacturing companies,"" the media reports.

Armenian big businessmen in turn have expressed their dissatisfaction with Abramyan's ultimatum.

"After the meeting, many of the businessmen decided to close their activities and leave the country," entrepreneur Silva Ambartsumyan told local media.

She said Abramyan should first make sure that the economic activities are separated from parliamentary ones.

Abramyan's matchmaker, one of the main businessmen in the country Gagik Tsarukyan is not optimistic about the capabilities of the new government.

"The new government is facing a difficult task. Some problems can be resolved within one or two months. Let us see whether they will do it or not," Tsarukyan told local media.

He stressed the need for serious changes. "This is time for trial of the government. The people should not suffer because of bad policies of a small group," Tsarukyan noted.

He went to say that Armenia's economy is on the verge of collapse.

"There is no small and medium business, neither foreign investments. The farmers went bankrupt because of bank loans, there is no construction work," Tsarukyan added. "As a result, tens of thousands of citizens leave the country."

PM Abramyan recently promised to take positive steps for the small and medium enterprises in the near future. Abramyan's government also intends to take steps for attracting large-scale investments.

However, local media called Abramyan's statement on small and medium enterprises as "abstract."

"His statements raise many questions. How can Abramyan support the development of small and medium-sized businesses at a time when he, being an oligarch, is hampering this himself?" the media reports.
