
WOMEN struggling with infertility are increasingly finding it difficult to find egg donors in Australia.

In response, a Queensland fertility clinic is launching a new educational website to encourage Australian women to become egg donors and to help link up women in need to potential egg donors.

City Fertility Centre fertility specialist Julie Lindstrom said the number of women seeking egg donors was rising as women delayed starting a family, however the number of donors remained extremely low.

“As a woman ages, the quality of her eggs is reduced. For the infertile woman over 40, the chance of a successful IVF pregnancy and live birth is substantially reduced when using her own eggs, and this is one of the driving demands for donor eggs,’’ Dr Lindstrom said.

“Each year we see only a limited number of egg donors through our City Fertility Centre clinics Australia wide.

Scientist Lauren Cahill, 27, will become an egg donor next month, making the decision to help others despite not having any children of her own.

“It is 23 chromosomes, for me it is not different from someone donating part of their kidney or liver,’’ she said.

Katrina Buck, 29, is currently 10-weeks pregnant with the assistance of an egg donor and a sperm donor, after finding out a medical condition had made her medically infertile.

“I found out my donor’s age, her family history and looked for someone with similar features and similar ideals about how they wanted the process to work,’’ she said.

Queensland Fertility Group estimates about 120 egg donor cycles are completed a year across the state.

To become an egg donor, a woman must be healthy, between the ages of 18 to 35 and be a permanent resident of Australia or New Zealand. The woman must also undergo counselling and be willing for her identity to be disclosed when the child turns 18. They receive no financial benefit.

News.com.au's Privacy Policy includes important information about our collection, use and disclosure of your personal information (including to provide you with targeted content and advertising based on your online activities). It explains that if you do not provide us with information we have requested from you, we may not be able to provide you with the goods and services you require. It also explains how you can access or seek correction of your personal information, how you can complain about a breach of the Australian Privacy Principles and how we will deal with a complaint of that nature.
