
Thandi Modise. Picture: Motshwari Mofokeng.

Johannesburg - Mineworkers in the platinum belt are defaulting on anti-retroviral treatment due to acts of violence and intimidation, North West premier Thandi Modise said on Monday.

“We appeal to workers on strike to be mindful that their colleagues on chronic medication for HIV/Aids, TB, hypertension, and diabetes need to access wellness care facilities for chronic medication that is life sustaining,” she said in a statement.

She expressed concern at reports that miners on chronic medication in the platinum belt were defaulting due to violence and intimidation that stopped them from accessing health services at their workplaces.

Modise has urged workers to visit their nearest public health facilities to access their chronic medication, family planning support, prenatal care, free TB and HIV/Aids testing and counselling.

She said ending the strike which has now entered its 17th week would be the first step to avert possible job losses and restoring peace and stability.

She said the protracted strike by the Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union (Amcu) had degenerated into a vicious cycle of violence that had resulted in the brutal killing of non-striking workers and destruction of private and public property.

Amcu members at Impala Platinum, Lonmin, and Anglo American Platinum downed tools on January 23 demanding a basic monthly salary of R12,500.

They have rejected the companies' offer that would see a minimum cash remuneration of R12,500 by July 2017.

The cash remuneration includes living-out and holiday leave allowances, but excludes medical and retirement benefits, and any bonuses.

Login and register, if you haven’ t already.

© Copyright 1999 - 2014 Independent Online, a division of Independent Newspapers (Pty) Limited. The copyright in the literary and artistic works contained in this online news publication and its other related and connected websites, as well as in the published editions of group newspapers, their supplements and any other content or material, belongs exclusively to Independent Newspapers (Pty) Limited unless otherwise stated.
