
No one in the Cape Breton Regional Municipality can say they weren’t warned.

The municipal budget process has been drawn out longer than usual this year, and the region is facing huge cuts in services to avoid a tax increase.

Regional council has all but given up hope of getting financial help from the province.

“We’re going to be facing some ugly realities … and at this point, we’re probably standing on our own,” Mayor Cecil Clarke said last week at a special meeting called to deal with staff reports on proposed cuts to transit service and school crossing guards.

Council will hold formal budget debates this week, starting Tuesday at 2 p.m. in the Civic Centre.

Councillors will take a break in the evening to hold a regular monthly meeting, but budget talks resume Wednesday at 9:30 a.m. Thursday is also set aside for the budget, if needed.

“We’ve got to be clear: (this) week is an ugly week in CBRM,” Clarke said.

The municipality’s fiscal year-end is March 31. While working on a new budget with an estimated shortfall of $3 million, municipal officials were informed in March of $5 million in additional costs, which councillors have called downloading from the province, for items such as education and provincially mandated solid waste regulations.

The region is also receiving less revenue from the province for equalization, housing and corrections, and reduced grants in lieu of taxes from Nova Scotia Power.

• closing satellite citizen service centres.

At a special meeting in April, council decided against cutting the $230,000 heavy garbage program because it was too late in the year.

However, alternatives will be discussed for next year’s budget, including a “call to haul” program in which residents could schedule heavy garbage pickup as needed, with some restrictions. Councillors also have suggested the municipality consider offering the full program every 18 months or every other year as ways of achieving cost savings.

Clarke has said continuing the heavy garbage program this year means $230,000 in additional cuts will have to be made elsewhere in the budget.

Last week, several councillors blamed the provincial government for the budget situation.

If provincial financing for municipalities doesn’t improve, “there’s a lot harder days coming for us,” said MacDonald.

Coun. Ray Paruch agreed.

“We give … somewhere in the vicinity of $12 million a year to the Province of Nova Scotia for education,” he said. “This is actually a provincial government responsibility.

Coun. Darren Bruckschwaiger said council has no choice but to make big cuts in spending. This year, the municipality established a five-year capital plan that is predicated on provincial and federal funding that, so far, hasn’t been forthcoming, he said.
