
(Abaji) In the wake of the horrific abduction of more than 200 school girls, which has ignited global outrage, UN Women Executive Director Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka joined a delegation that visited the Federal Government Girls College (FGGC) in the town of Abaji, Nigeria, from 17-18 May. The FGGC Abaji is one of the Federal Government’s all-girls colleges similar to the FGGC Chibok, where more than 200 students were kidnapped on 14 April, in Chibok, Nigeria.

The delegation also included the UN Resident Coordinator (a.i) and FAO Representative in Nigeria, Ms. Louise Setshwalelo; Regional Director of UN Women for West and Central Africa, Ms. Josephine Odera; Acting UN Women Country Representative to Nigeria and ECOWAS, Ms. Adjaratou Fatou Ndiaye; UN Women Programme Advisor for Africa, Mr. Anthony Ngororano; and members of UN Women country team in Nigeria.

In her statement, the Executive Director reassured the public that the entire UN system is committed to ensuring that girls stay in schools in Nigeria and that they do so in a safe and secure environment.

The delegation was welcomed by Hon. Minister of Women Affairs and Social Development, Ms. Hajiya Zainab Maina; the Permanent Secretary, representing the Federal Ministry of Education, Mr. MacJohn Nwaobiala; and the School Principal, Ms. Nkem Uzowulu, along with teachers and hundreds of students.

“Our hearts are bleeding. Everyone is deeply hurt by the abduction of our daughters. But with such solidarity I believe we will succeed,” said Hon. Maina, in her remarks. She praised UN Women for having shown strong engagement and commitment to the welfare and wellbeing of women and girls across Nigeria, including making education of the girl child a priority through a long-standing partnership with her Ministry. She thanked UN Women’s Executive Director for her solidarity mission to Nigeria and for the overwhelming show of support and solidarity from all parts of the world. Ms. Mlambo-Ngcuka’s visit followed that of UNSG Special Representative for West Africa, Mr. Said Djinnit.

UN Women’s Executive Director also thanked religious and traditional leaders who have come out to condemn the abduction of the schoolgirls in Chibok.

A special message was delivered by the head of the school girls, who pleaded for the safe return of her sisters in Chibok and for UN Women and all good-willing actors to ensure that girls stay in school so they can be better prepared for “what life has to offer”.

UN Women is the UN organization dedicated to gender equality and the empowerment of women. A global champion for women and girls, UN Women was established to accelerate progress on meeting their needs worldwide. For more information, visit www.unwomen.org . UN Women, 220 East 42nd Street, New York, NY 10017, New York. Tel: +1 646 781-4400. Fax: +1 646 781-4496.

ReliefWeb has been the leading online source for reliable and timely humanitarian information on global crises and disasters since 1996.

Location Maps - Country maps for your reports and presentations.

Humanitarian Icons - Ready-to-use symbols and icons. Free download.

RSS - Subscribe to information finely tuned to your needs.
