
) ("the Company") is pleased to announce that it has signed a definitive agreement to acquire medical cannabis consulting firm Paragon Consulting Group ("PCG").

PCG is a multi-faceted consulting firm specializing in breeding, mapping and cataloging unique heirloom and land race medical cannabis genetics, with specific emphasis on developing and implementing sustainable, organic, highly efficient cultivation infrastructures, technologies, methodologies and techniques for the growing medical cannabis industry. PCG is comprised of seasoned medical cannabis growers and operators, botanists, scientists, horticulturists, and researchers that collectively have been consulting primarily in California for over 15 years. PCG has consulted and played a vital role in a private analytical study that charted and genetically isolated key strains for the purpose of data mining and archiving the medicinal benefits of those strains. PCG is aiming to bring its full support of knowledge, expertise, resources and contacts to oversee and help execute the needs of the Company and its clients. PCG is currently working with 33 medical cannabis entities. The services PCG provides range from day to day operations of non-profit retail store fronts, to small to large patient delivery services, to their cultivation counterpart, which includes indoor, outdoor and greenhouse cultivators, and preparing for IP rights acquisition, branding and licensing of genetics in the industry.

PCG is the primary consultant of collectives in California that hold branding agreements with Evergreen Licensing for the purpose of helping build an industry standard brand. Evergreen is the licensing entity for ChongSon Inc which holds the rights for Tommy Chong branded or endorsed products. They also have played a vital role in helping develop designer strains such as Connie Chong OG, Obama OG, Black Berry and many more.

"We are pleased to be able to continue to grow the Company in this competitive landscape," said Company President Artemus Mayor. "These acquisitions deliver more resources and expertise to the Company, expand our client and patient base, enhance our revenues, and position us for an even more robust patient experience."

The statements in this document have not been evaluated or approved by the FDA. The products and statements referenced in this document are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease.

SK3 is a healthcare logistics and fulfillment consultancy focused on the delivery of alternative care and medicine. With seasoned management, breakthrough technology and best practices, SK3 brings standardization and transparency to this rapidly growing segment of the alternative care field.

This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements are based on the current plans and expectations of management and are subject to a number of uncertainties and risks that could significantly affect the company's current plans and expectations, as well as future results of operations and financial condition. A more extensive listing of risks and factors that may affect the company's business prospects and cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found in the reports and other documents filed by the company with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
