
Councilman Paul Krekorian’s motion will equip fire truck being donated by Montebello.

LOS ANGELES—The Los Angeles City Council on Friday passed a motion approving a donation of a 1,600-foot fire hose, which will be used on a fire truck that is being donated to Stepanakert, the capital of the Nagorno-Karabakh Republic by the Montebello City Council.

LA City Councilman Paul Krekorian introduced the measure, which passed the City Council on Friday. The motion provided an extensive history of the damage endured by Stepanakert as a result of Azeri attacks on the city from Shushi during the Karabakh war in the early 1990’s.

The motion also emphasized the “friendship city” status Los Angeles shares with the city of Shushi in the Nagorno-Karabakh Republic and calls on the city to make the fire hose available for transport to Stepanakert.

Through the efforts of the ANCA San Gabriel Valley and the current Mayor Pro-Tem of Montebello, Jack Hadjinian, the Montebello Fire Department donate a fire truck valued at $150,000, that is to be sent to Stepanakert.

Since 2005, the city of Montebello has established a sister city association with Stepanakert. The city and its institutions have been committed to creating and strengthening a partnership between the communities.

The fire truck donation from Montebello was part of the recognition of the sister-city relationship with Stepanakert.

“This generous donation is a testament to the commitment that the city of Montebello has invested into this municipal partnership and its efforts to encourage community development in Stepanakert,” said the ANCA of San Gabriel Valley when it first publicized the fire truck donation in February.

Comments are welcomed and encouraged. Though you are fully responsible for the content you post, comments that include profanity, personal attacks or other inappropriate material will not be permitted. Asbarez.com reserves the right to block users who violate any of our posting standards and policies.
