
JOHANNESBERG (Scrap Register): After months of prolonged strike action in South Africa, an escalation in labour tensions in the country has begun to lend support to platinum prices in earnest after having been sidestepped for much of this year, said Barclays in a research note.

According to Barclays, palladium has also encountered some price strength as the escalating tensions set into the market, especially as there does not seem to be an end in sight.

Barclays has thus far maintained the view that platinum would have to come to terms with the effects of an extended strike in South Africa. While palladium has benefitted the most so far this year as it has faced supply pressure from multiple directions, platinum has recently seen significant upside. The labour strike at South African PGM producers has continued, and even escalated this week.

With the lack of improvement in the situation, platinum prices have seen a noticeable uptick, as has palladium. Absent significant trade sanctions against Russia, palladium is vulnerable to a slight correction, but a continued strike in South Africa could continue to lend support to both it and to a larger extent, platinum, Barclyas added.

While reports at the beginning of the week indicated that at least some miners were returning to work – namely NUM union members (Reuters) – their security in the face of intimidation and an escalation of tensions with the AMCU has prevented a large scale return to work; in fact, later this week the NUM discouraged members from returning until the intimidation stops with Sydwell Dokolwana at the NUM saying, "We have said they must stay away until conditions are safe and the intimidation stops. We are expecting very few guys to go to work today” (Reuters). Meanwhile, Lonmin announced on Monday, "In anticipation of finding a solution to the strike we will start the processing operations during May 2014 to process the remaining material in the pipeline. However, if the strike continues, we will fully deplete the pipeline and limit further cash outflow” (Reuters).

This supports Barclays expectations for prices to rise further as the market tightens with no end to the strike in sight. Other reports indicate that there is now a higher police presence and protected transportation to get miners to work, but the AMCU vows to continue to strike, and with daily attendance still below 20% at most operations, the affected South African mines remain severely affected.

Last week, platinum peaked above $1470/oz, and remains relatively elevated. In our view, these prices are justified and could increase further as the quarter continues absent a resolution to the strike action. Lonmin even stated that it would explore all options, including going to court to end the strike, according to Reuters. South African PGM production fell 44.3% y/y in March, after falling 35.8 y/y in February according to Statistics South Africa – South Africa normally produces nearly three quarters of global platinum production.

While PGMs saw a notable uptick this week, gold has remained around $1300/oz. In China, gold demand has continued the marginal w/w upward trend, as indicated by volume traded on the Shanghai Gold Exchange, which has seen the rolling monthly average grind slowly higher after dipping in April. Elsewhere in Asia, bar premiums have remained steady at $1.00/oz in Hong Kong, $1.10/oz in Singapore, and at zero in Toyko. Gold has not benefitted this week to the extent that its PGM counterparts have, largely as the USD has remained strong due to positive data releases in the US.

Barclays maintains the view that gold will move lower this year, while PGMs will continue to benefit in the long term due to constructive underlying fundamentals.
