
Preparations for South Africa’s longest-running film festival, the Durban International Film Festival, are at advanced stage.

The 35th edition of the festival will run from July 17 to the 27th.

This year, the ten-day celebration of world-class cinema will see more than 200 screenings of new films from South Africa, the continent and elsewhere, with a number of world premiere screenings of local and international films.

Organisers says this year’s festival will reflect on South Africa’s 20 years of democracy with a focus on films that explore the many facets of the nation’s history over the past two decades.

Other focus areas for this year include African cinema, British cinema, the Wildtalk Wildlife Film Festival, Wavescape Surf Film Festival and a programme of cinema centred on architecture, in acknowledgement of the city of Durban’s hosting of the International Union of Architects Congress 2014.

The Myth and Me; Richard Linklater’s Boyhood; Mickey Dube’s One Humanity;

Annalet Steenkamp’s Afrikaner; Carey Mackenzie’s Cold Harbour; Diao Yinan’s Black Coal – as well as Thin Ice, Jane Pollard and Iain Forsyth’s 20000 Days on Earth.

Festival manager Peter Machen describes the festival as both strategic and practical.

“The festival is a key event for the African film industry and is a not to be missed date on any film lover’s calendar.

Industry initiatives include a programme of seminars and workshops with notable industry figures from across the globe, including the involvement of 7th Talents Durban, in cooperation with the Berlin Talents and the 5th Durban FilmMart co-production market in partnership with the Durban Film Office.

While the festival returns once more to light up screens in numerous venues across the city with a programme of fresh and exciting global cinema, the festival will now be located at the new, lavishly renovated Tsogo Sun hotel on Durban beachfront’s Golden Mile.

Mike Jackson, director of operations for Tsogo Sun KZN said they were proud to be associated with it and the DFM.
