
Nigerian Society of Engineers  (NSE) at the weekend, advocated  the privatisation of Nigerian Railways in the country while recommending  a speedy amendment  of the Railway Act through the proposed Railway bill.

NSE President, Engineer Ademola Isaac Olorunfemi  made  the call  during the first Quarterly Press Briefing of the society in Abuja.

According to Olorunfemi,  one aspect of Nigeria’s transport system that must urgently be given required attention in the interest of the economy is the Railway adding that the optimal performance of  railway would no  doubt lessen traffic on the  roads thereby extending the lifespan of roads and  reduction of cases of road mishaps.

He reasoned that if  Nigerian Railway Corporation is  privatised and recapitalized,  private investors would be attracted to  inject requisite current and technical expertise based on global standards and investment funds.

“This is necessary since such technical expertise and financial wherewithal abound in the private sector,” he noted.

Olorunfemi also suggested  that a new route systems be built  for double rail system  that  would include the much desired east-west track route to reduce travel times, improve efficiency and optimise operations to facilitate  private investment in the rail sector.

He said the fabrication and local manufacture of equipment by indigenous firms should be encouraged and revamped.

The NSE president said the speedy passage of the Railway Bill is expected to be a major  panacea  that would open the Railway transport sector up for participation of key, reputable and technically experienced railway investors under a well restructured Public Private Partnership for an optimal railway operation in Nigeria.

The president commended the Federal Government on the outcome of the rebasing  of the  Gross Domestic Product, saying that  efforts must be made by the government to address the conversion of Nigeria’s new Gross Domestic Product number to collateral economic and social security for much of the  population.

To this end,  he said government must cater for the needs of farmers,  stressing  that Nigerians should  patronise  Nigerian goods  and services.

Start receiving  Breaking News & Alerts by simply adding your email below. A confirmation email will be sent to you!

Take advantage of our impressive statistics, advertise your brands and products on this site.
