
Learn how to volunteer in Atlanta and north Georgia, browse volunteer events and search local groups who need volunteers in the arts, community, food programs, housing, animal rescue and more.

Thank you for registering!

We have sent you a confirmation email. Please check your email and click on the link to activate your account.

Thank you for registering!

We look forward to seeing you frequently. Visit us and sign in to update your profile, receive the latest news and keep up to date with mobile alerts.

Don't worry, it happens. We'll send you a link to create a new password.

We have sent you an email with a link to change your password.

We've sent an email with instructions to create a new password. Your existing password has not been changed.

To sign in you must verify your email address. Fill out the form below and we'll send you an email to verify.

Check your email for a link to verify your email address.

“Well, not at this stage,” Feinstein said, before expanding on her answer.

A spokeswoman for Lewis said the Atlanta congressman will have a statement later this morning.

This weekend I downloaded the latest Secretary of State’s Absentee Voter File and through the end of the early and absentee voting period, 236,001 votes were cast. Early voting is finished, though the total will climb a little bit due to lag in reporting, and mail-in ballots being received.

Compare this to the July 31, 2012 Primary election, when 413,361 early votes were cast, and we have had 43% fewer early and advance votes this year than in the 2012 Primary.

Leo, the Upshot’s Senate model , currently gives Mr. Gingrey and Mr. Broun a collective 25 percent chance of winning the nomination. The possibility that one of those two flawed candidates could be the Republican nominee is a big reason that Michelle Nunn, the Democratic challenger, has a 41 percent chance of winning the race, according to the model. But Leo’s primary estimates are rough and based on limited data — and Mr. Gingrey and Mr. Broun are not thought to have such a strong chance. If neither advances, Ms. Nunn’s chances might decline. Leo gives Ms. Nunn just a 26 percent chance of defeating Mr. Perdue.

The real fight is between Karen Handel and Jack Kingston to join Mr. Perdue in the runoff. The polls show an extremely tight race, with the last four nonpartisan polls showing Mr. Kingston with the edge. Another thing that Mr. Kingston has going for him is geography. Most of the candidates hail from populous northern Georgia, and Ms. Handel doesn’t have a well-established base, but Mr. Kingston represents a congressional district in southeastern Georgia, where he might well run up the score. That could make a difference if Mr. Kingston can hold up well elsewhere in the state.

Part of Karen Handel’s crunch-time pitch to voters is that she is the only non-establishment conservative who can win. Underlying that is the pitch to tea party types who have been backing Rep. Paul Broun that they need to get into her corner.

The last time Gov. Nathan Deal went to The Temple synagogue in Atlanta, it was for a particularly feisty 2010 debate against Democrat Roy Barnes. When the governor returned Sunday night, he said he noted an attitude change among Atlanta’s Jewish community.

He was attending a small gathering with Jewish leaders commemorating Israel’s 66th birthday, but there were frequent reminders of Tuesday’s election challenge – and a possible November matchup against Democrat Jason Carter.

Carter has tried to reassure Jewish constituents that he is different from his grandfather, former President Jimmy Carter, when it comes to Middle East policy. The elder Carter, who has compared Israeli treatment of Arabs in the West Bank and Gaza to the apartheid that once existed in South Africa, issued an apology to the Jewish community to try to quell unrest.

Deal is traveling to the Holy Land next month with a group of business leaders and donors – a sign he’s not too worried that he’ll be forced into a runoff by two GOP challengers on Tuesday. The ostensible purpose for the trip is to highlight economic development ties, but the political resonance is clear.

The governor said after the event that he expects to attract Jewish voters and donors who otherwise would side with Democrats.

An odd strategy is emerging in the final days of the crowded GOP race for superintendent.

Three of the nine Republican candidates have formed an alliance that was made public at Sunday’s Atlanta Press Club debate. administrator Mike Buck, educator Kira Willis and Quitman County schools chief Allen Fort each agreed that either of them would be better than the other six candidates because of their classroom experience.

The source of Evans businessman Eugene Yu’s money in his Congressional bid remains unknown and is now the subject of an attack ad .

Barrow is one of the dwindling band of conservative Democrats in the House, and thus is a prime target of Republicans. As part of its talking points, the NRCC is pushing the line that Barrow voted against a ban on using taxpayer funds for first-class travel by members of Congress.

….The same language appears in the Democratic budget resolution for 2014, but here’s Barrow’s problem: He voted against that budget plan too. So he’s one of the few lawmakers in either party who did not vote for either resolution — and thus cannot claim he voted against first-class travel for lawmakers.

“I try to forget that it’s political advertising. And I was in normal advertising for 20 years before I ever did a political ad of any note. And the principles are the same. Your competitor’s going to spend a dollar, you’re going to spend a dollar.

Here is a novel test case for our Super PAC age.

Michael Owens, of Mableton, is running for Congress in a Democratic primary against U.S. Rep. David Scott. A Claudette Owens, also of Mableton but at a different address, donated the maximum $2,600 to Michael in the fall. Then on May 13, according to Federal Election Commission data Claudette spent $3,010 on a television ad supporting Michael.

My opinion of David Scott? He's an idiot. Surely my neighbors could find someone more worthy than David Scott.

Scott, who represents parts of west Atlanta, questioned why the White House was unable to find more black nominees in a city like Altanta.

I need a barf bag.

Lie number 1- If you like your plan, you can keep your plan-BS!

Lie number 2- if you like your doctor, you can keep your doctor-BS!

Lie number 3-they conveniently left out that surgeries and medicines would be reviewed on an individual case basis. Translation, if you are young enough to pay back your surgery in taxes, you get it! if not- tough luck! This is Obama thinning out the human herd.

I can't see how ANYONE in the middle class could vote Perdue after his massive outsourcing of American manufacturing jobs.  Shame.

John Lewis is worthless. All he talks about is "When I marched with Dr. King."  and David Scott is an idiot who thinks an island will capsize if too many people are on it. They are more guilty of perpetuating the whole race thing than the people they accuse of being racist. All they really need to do is look in a mirror if they want to see a racist.

They both just need to go away. The country is in a dump and digging itself deeper. These two clowns are obviously part of the problem.

It appears that if you have a different view of how things should be than Obama, it does not matter what you are, the DNC calls you a racist, bigot, homophobe. Well, I know up until recently we all got along before certain groups decided to have a weekly parade for its new members and other certain groups wanted more rights than others.  As for the congress people voting against a budget with the NO first class travel allowed, I would like to know, what else is in that budget?  Was there a provisioning for a billion dollars to study how a musician improvises? Or a billion to build a bridge to nowhere or to study ant colonies in Timbuktu?  Let's hear the entire story. If they had these in and it was an all or nothing deal, of course they would vote against it.

Seems like the Democrats are bogged down in their move to control the judicial branch.

Get real folks.  The majority of everyone's money comes from out of town and from corporations.  What's new about that.

" Great Scott" David who are you calling a Turncoat. Go wash your mouth out with Lie Soap.

I love it when Democrats accuse each other of treason.  Of course, we have the usual suspects here that repeat the lie that Republicans are the only ones who employ "purity" tests.

David Scott, racism is ugly, be it black or white. Represent all Americans ... if you can.

"Waycross, Georgia is a very conservative part of Georgia. Mike Boggs does not appear to have transcended the thinking of his locale.  I believe anyone worthy of being a judge must have transcended the provincial thinking of those with whom he interacts, daily. It is possible for human beings to do this, and it is essential for a judge to have done this, imho."

Mike Boggs, however, does deserve an interview, as Michelle Nunn had wisely stated, before a final decision is made regarding his confirmation.  Hopefully, Boggs has an intellect worthy of a judge, who can walk among the people and yet have a vision beyond the here and now.

The U.S. Chamber of Commerce shelled out $920,000 for TV and online ads promoting Rep. Jack Kingston in the crowded race for Georgia's open U.S. Senate seat.

At the same time, a grass-roots conservative group in neighboring South Carolina spent $515,000 on commercials supporting rival Republican and business executive David Perdue.

Other groups are showering millions more on the fiercely competitive campaign.

Facing little competition for the Democratic nomination, Nunn has received the most PAC donations of any of Georgia's Senate candidate, raising $475,789 from groups including women's advocates and labor unions.

Lie number 1- The smoking gun is the mushroom cloud.-BS!

Lie number 2- Yellow cake uranium from Niger-BS!

Lie  number 3- Thousands and thousands and thousands of high strength aluminum tubes.-BS!

Lie number 4- We will be greeted as liberators.-BS!

Just remindin'.

Perdue or Handel is the only sensible vote.  Nunn will slaughter any of the other càndidates in November.

Obama probably doesn't like Boggs' background either, but he thought that he's probably qualified, so he was willing to hold his nose and agree to the package deal.

But the Congressional Black Caucus went nuts over Boggs. They were very outspoken in their criticism of Obama, including Lewis. After awhile, though, Lewis announced he wasn't going to say anymore.

I don't think anyone's playing the race card here, although I agree some might see it that way. Really, though, Boggs offended lots of people, not just blacks.

@Charles50  Why, Scott is in a totally safe seat so his re-election is assured for as long as he wants to return to DC.

Of course, we have the usual suspects here that repeat the lie that Republicans are the only ones who employ "purity" tests.

Please, show your work.

We on the American side tend to find that somewhat offputting.

@AtlantanITP Look no further than the epic disaster they did not support, the bush administration.

Please, show your work.

@honested   @DontTread  I didn't "admit" anything like that.  Nice strawman.

My premiums doubled under ACA.  As a business owner, I just watched two single people over 50 have to pay for maternity.  Yes ACA is just grand....  Also if you think socialized medicine is so wonderful take a look at how well the VA is doing.

Lincoln would not be welcome today in the self-styled "Party of Lincoln."  Nor would Jeff Davis be welcomed in the Democratic Party of today.  Parties, like people, change.

Kamchatka, it is fact, but we all know the truth is covered up by the media. If you keep watching MSNBC, you will eventually kill a Republican and end up in jail.  The liars in the media perpetuate the fallacy that Republicans and Conservatives are bigots and racists.  You are condemning the ones who supported civil rights just 50 short years ago.  It was NOT the mainline Democrats.  How foolish you people are nowadays.

That is 100% correct, but you will still face arguments from the liberals on here who want to claim it all came from the Georgia electorate, and the adamant refusal to believe that Georgia is now a dyed-in-the-wool Republican State due to the far, far left infiltration of their father's Democratic Party.

Nunn raised over $840,000 in April. Among new contributors in April, 86% gave $100 or less. She's getting grass-roots support from many, many people.

David Perdue has contributed about $3 million of his own money to his campaign. He raised about $219,000 in April (26% of what Nunn raised). Perdue's campaign is mostly self-funded. He's trying to buy his way into the Senate with his own money.

EVERYONE needs some sort of medical care at some time.

Cherry picking what you want to pay for COSTS everybody.

If you think only paying for the costs you might incur is a good idea, let's take it farther and let me pay for the State Department while withholding any contributions to the Military.

@honested   @td1234  it was only gouging if you had a pre existing condition.

@Ultraman8   @honested   @td1234  I'm guessing your "small" business is made of a total of one employee.

@honested   @td1234  Obama insurance came with an asterisk- must use government approved docs and your case for meds will be on an ICB. EVERYONE's Insurance went up b/c insurance companies had to make EVERYONE equal-so you paid pre existing prices even if you had no current condition.There were things in there that you had to pay for but may never use- such as a guy paying for mammograms and child stuff. Your rate may have gone down, but so have your choices. BTW- you also have a max time with the doc too. They have to see X amt of patients per day. Good luck with your OBAMA socialized medicine care.

I am telling the truth.

My experience simply displays the gouging that was forced on very small groups BEFORE there was protection under the ACA.

My new coverage is better, my total cost is lower, and my old coverage would be considered a 'bronze' plan today.

If your premiums doubled, you need a new agent/broker.

Then look forward to when we small businesses are allowed to use the exchanges and do away with the parasites in the sales force who are a very big part of the problem.

Thank you for registering!

We have sent a confirmation email to {* data_emailAddress *}. Please check your email and click on the link to activate your account.

Thank you for registering!

We look forward to seeing you on [website] frequently. Visit us and sign in to update your profile, receive the latest news and keep up to date with mobile alerts.

Don't worry, it happens. We'll send you a link to create a new password.

We have sent you an email with a link to change your password.

We've sent an email with instructions to create a new password. Your existing password has not been changed.
