
Intensive preparations for announcement of winner of 6th Season, Bayraq-bearer.

ABU DHABI - The Cultural Programs and Heritage Festivals Committee – Abu Dhabi intensifies its preparations for the last episode of The Million's Poet in its 6th season. The episode will begin on Wednesday evening, at Al Raha Beach Theatre in Abu Dhabi amid a large public interest in the Arab region and elsewhere. By the end of the episode, the Committee's Abu Dhabi Performing Arts Troupe will participate with an outstanding heritage and art performance. A number of children from the different schools in Abu Dhabi will also take part.

The 15th and last episode of the live broadcast of The Million’s Poet in its 6th season will witness a competition between the six ‘poetry knights’ who were qualified for the finals. The Million’s Poet enjoys an unrivalled attention, not only from the lovers of Nabati poetry, but also from poetry lovers in general. Many Arab and international media do cover the competition. Over the past six seasons, The Million’s Poet has managed to attract a significant number of followers, at Al Raha Beach Theatre, on television, in the press and on websites.

The six poets, among whom one will leave at the beginning of the episode, include Omani poet Kamel Al Bathari , and Emirati poets Saif Al Mansouri  and Ali Al Qahtani , who reached the finals  upon a decision of the jury. The remaining three poets were qualified owing to the public vote, and are Saudi poet Mastour Al Dhuwaibi, Bahraini poet Mohammed Al Arjani, and Emirati poet Hamad Al Balushi, who was the last one of those qualified to reach the finals in the previous episode.

In the beginning of the last episode, the name of the poet who will leave the competition will be revealed. The programme presenters, Hussein Al Ameri and Shayma will announce the names of the six poets who are just one round away from the poetry Bayraq. This episode is awaited by many viewers, who are looking forward to knowing the final outcome with much anxiety and suspense.

In the previous episode, each of the six poets recited a poem of free meter, rhyme, and theme (10-15 verses) as requested by the jury. The poets also recited conformity verses consisting of five lines of the same meter and rhyme, which came to conform to the verses of poet Rashid Ahmed Al Rumaithi, the winner of The Million's Poet competition in its 5th season. Rumaithi had announced his decision to hand over the Bayraq to the contestants of the 6th season.

Also in the previous edition, the jury gave 30 points out of a total of 60 grading points to the contestant poets, distributed as follows: 28 points out of 30 for Ali Al Qahtani, Kamel Al Bathari and Mastour Al Dhuwaibi;  Saif Al Mansouri secured 27 points as 26 points were given to Mohammed Al Arjani and Hamad Al Balushi. Next Wednesday, the 30 remaining grading points will be awarded according to the performance of the poets in the last episode.

The public, who began voting via text messages (SMS), will award 40 grading points by the end of the episode. After the count of the public vote and jury points, the poet with the lowest grades will leave the competition. The five remaining poets will compete in the finals according to the norms and conditions put forward by Dr. Sultan Al Amimi, that is: a poem of free meter, rhyme, and theme (10-15 verses).

On Wednesday, the five remaining contestants who will be present during the last episode will be on a rendezvous with their last chance to compete for the Bayraq, the title, and AED 5 million. Organised and produced by the Cultural Programs and Heritage Festivals Committee – Abu Dhabi, The Million’s Poet, is the most popular TV programme of poetry in the Arab world. The competition aims at preserving the cultural heritage of the UAE, and all the Arab countries concerned with popular poetry, particularly Nabati poetry. The Million’s Poet also seeks to establish a large audience for the cultural heritage that is shared by all Arab countries.

Since its launch in 2006, The Million's Poet has enjoyed a large popularity and an unrivalled interest that were not witnessed by any other Arab competition before. During the current season, The Million’s Poet has been attracting an unprecedented attention owing to the higher level of the contestants. The participating poets have, in fact, benefited from the experiences of the dozens of poets who took part in the previous seasons, and reached the finals. The poets of the current season are subject to a new test which consists in a psychological and body language analysis under the supervision of Dr. Nadia Bouhanad.
