
A SUNSHINE Coast family is struggling to pick up the pieces after 69-year-old father and grandfather Allen Munro fell from a cliff at Coolum earlier this month.

Mr Munro fell about four metres onto rocks, breaking some 32 bones in his neck, back, ribs and wrist.

The fall has affected all aspects of life for himself and his only daughter, Tascia Mare.

"Within a split second, it's amazing how life can turn upside down," Ms Mare said.

"Being an only child, it's really the first time that I've felt, 'wow, we've actually got nobody to share that responsibility with'."

The family is from South Africa and Mr Munro does not qualify for support benefits. As a result, his income has dried up while in hospital and he has had to break the lease on his accommodation.

"He's had an operation on his spine and an operation on his wrist but, moving forward, it's unknown how he's going to support himself into the future," family friend Elisabeth Ranson said.

"He needs to recover from that before they put him through further surgery on his wrist and sternum."

The accident occurred at the Beach Retreat, south of the Coolum Surf Club, where six paramedics worked to stabilise him. The paramedics and a lifeguard carried him across the rocks to a surf club vehicle, which ferried him to a waiting ambulance.

He expects to be in hospital for up to three months and has had to put his business, servicing air conditioning units, on hold.

"He's had to break his lease on the place he lived; he's got no money coming in while he's in hospital in Brisbane," Ms Ranson said.

"It has also since been discovered that he has been suffering silently with Motor Neurone Disease for the past 12 months.

"It's a sad situation all around."

Ms Mare would like to track down a woman, known only as Tara, who witnessed her father's accident, to thank her for her help.

Ms Ranson is raising money to assist the family. To donate contact her on 0407 029 129.

Help make the news! Share your photos, stories, events or just post a general notice to the community.

© Gatton Star Pty Ltd 2014. Unauthorised reproduction is prohibited under the laws of Australia and by international treaty.

Refer to our helpful FAQ section for any problems you might be experiencing.
