
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .

If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .

Queensland’s Housing Minister Tim Mander will next week push for a new affordable housing category in the wake of Federal Government’s decision to axe the National Rental Affordability Scheme (NRAS).

Announcing ConstructionQ on Monday - a new blueprint for Queensland’s $6 billion housing and construction industry - Mr Mander said changes had to be made to encourage construction of low cost, affordable housing in Queensland.

Under the NRAS renters pay 80 per cent of the market rate on eligible properties, and people living in homes provided under Queensland's social housing register, which is not federally funded, pay 25 per cent of their income in rent.

Mr Mander believes there needs to be a "middle ground" when it comes to helping those eligible find affordable rental properties.

“We need another stepping stone to help people exit the social housing system and also to stop people coming into it," he said.

Mr Mander said he would present his case to construction industry leaders at a ConstructionQ industry forum being held in Brisbane over three days next week.

“So that is one of the areas that I know that I will be advocating that we look at some innovative solutions in meeting this ongoing challenge to provide affordable housing,” he said.

Under the Rudd Government scheme – which aimed to provide 50,000 new dwellings between 2008 and 2012 and a further 50,000 since 2012 - developers were paid $8000 per unit by the Commonwealth Government to build affordable units, rather than more expensive units.

Tim Mander said the NRAS scheme had worked in Queensland, describing its scrapping as a "major blow".

“ NRAS has worked in Queensland,” he said.

“Thirty per cent of people in NRAS properties have come off the social housing waiting list.

“And I think it is nine per cent of dwellings we have built since we have come into office have been built through the NRAS program.

Mr Mander said he would also be making recommendations to Treasurer Tim Nicholls and to Premier Campbell Newman ahead of the state budget.

Paul Bidwell, the deputy executive director of Queensland’s Master Builders said the organisation was trying to work out the impact of the decision to stop the NRAS scheme.

“But there is no doubt that the building approvals we have seen recently, the high proportion of the multi-unit dwellings, well a lot of that – well some of that – has been because of NRAS," he said.

Mr Bidwell said Master Builders had not had contractors raising the problem with them, but he said some contractors had used it “to great advantage” to produce affordable housing.

Mr Bidwell said the Master Builders wanted building firms to look at newer housing models, newer housing structures and materials to “drive down costs”.

He said Master Builders also believed removing stamp duty could also reduce housing costs.

“If you got rid of stamp duty it would be an enormous boost to residential building activity," he said.

The Abbott Government is determined to shut down, close, remove and destroy anything that actually benefits the less well off, while giving everything to the big end of town leaving them actually better off and totally unscathed.

If you did a bit of research you would be able to post an informed comment, know why it was closed down and why Qld is the only state where it has benefited "the less well off"

Perhaps Tim could bring in the Tenants Advocacy Association, a service to support people to remain in current rental properties so they dont end up homeless or in public housing . . . Oh wait . . .

It's just typical of the class warfare by Abbott, Hockey and their Tea Party mates.

Weren't the states supposed to have abolished stamp duty when the GST was introduced?  Perhaps since Abbott has effectively put increasing the GST back on the agenda, now is the time to revisit eliminating stamp duties once and for all.

Unfortunately a lot has to do with greed. Investors who buy investment properties want the highest return possible for what they paid for. This then comes back to the seller of a property who wants the highest possible amount of money to sell. It all snowballs from there. I know this would hurt the existing home owner tremendously, but the only solution to affordable housing is devalue all residential homes. This can start with governments reducing high stamp duties, abolish capital gains tax on investment properties, and councils to bring rates to investment properties in line with residential properties. Hopefully if an investment property has less overheads, the rent should come down as well.

J.G.

My mother wasn't eligible to get on the housing wait list because she deemed to be coping in the private rental market e.g. not living on the street, despite her only source of income being the Disability Pension. Thank goodness the NRAS scheme made her accommodations costs just a little easier to manage.

Mr Mander said, "And I think it is nine per cent of dwellings we have built since we have come into office have been built through the NRAS program." Dwellings WE have built?  I didn't realise the State Government was a developer?  I understand that since the current Government has been in office there have been 200 social housing homes sold, the vast majority of remaining social housing outsourced and the Tenant Advice and Advocacy Service cancelled. I believe Mr Mander's priority here might be to keep the dollars flowing to the developers.

I would by pass the Master Builders for a start because all they have wanted to do in the past is skim and I would be on the phone to the Chinese and ask them about their 3D housing copiers.

"No surprises" !  Every day as I read the news I find a new "surprise" ... the axing of the NRAS, a relatively minor program is symptomatic of the priorities of this iniquitous government.  the only non-surprise II experience is in the direction this "mob" are taking us; but even my scepticism didn't expect the brazen breech of trust this LNP delivers..

All information entered below may be published.

Error: Your Screen Name must be less than 255 characters.

Error: Please enter your comment.

Error: Your Message must be less than 300 words.

I understand that submission of this content is covered by the Conditions of Use by which I am bound and Commenting Guidelines are available for my reference.

You need to have read and accepted the Conditions of Use.

Your comment has been submitted for approval.

Comments are moderated and are generally published if they are on-topic and not abusive.

The opening span of Riverwalk is commissioned on Tuesday, with boaties required to call Council and wait "5 to 8 minutes" for it to open.
