
Johannesburg - The ANC Youth League (ANCYL) will fight an application to have it provisionally sequestrated over the R4m debt it owes Gallagher Estate Convention Centre, a lawyer said on Monday.

"The ANCYL was given two weeks to file an opposing affidavit by the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg after it indicated over the weekend that it would oppose our application," said Phillip Patlansky, for Gallagher.

Atterbell Investments, trading as Gallagher Estate, said the ANCYL owed it more than R4m for four events it held at the centre in June 2011. In April this year it asked the court to place the ANCYL under final liquidation or provisionally sequestrate it.

According to an affidavit by the convention centre's chief executive Adolf Venter, a default judgment was handed down on the matter in September 2011.

Patlansky said the ANCYL was ordered to file its opposing papers within 15 days, after which Gallagher Estate would have 10 days to file answering affidavits.

"The case was postponed without a date. Legal costs have been reserved," he said.

In March, another liquidation case against the league was settled out of court.

South Gauteng High Court Judge Phillip Boruchowitz discharged a provisional liquidation order made in November last year.

The original liquidation order against the league was applied for by Bloemfontein events company Z2 Presentations, which had originally been tasked with running the ANCYL's 2008 national conference in the Free State.

The conference left the company R15m out of pocket after the league did not pay its bill.

A hotel, trading as Palanquin Hospitality Management and based in Bloemfontein, claimed R1.5m from the ANCYL, lawyer Steven van Rensburg said during a new court application in January.

Palanquin, which is in liquidation, provided accommodation for the conference delegates.

Travel - Look, Book, Go!

SMS Alerts Get breaking news stories via SMS.

Blogs Your opinion on you, me and everyone.

Calais Website keywords automated by OpenCalais.

© 2014 24.com. All rights reserved.

Creating your profile will enable you to submit photos and stories to get published on News24.

This username must be unique, cannot be edited and will be used in the URL to your profile page across the entire 24.com network.

* The image you selected could not be uploaded.

Hi News addict,

Join the News24 Community to be involved in breaking the news.
