
Two Ugandan customers allegedly tried to offer a shop salesman a bribe of ten mobile phones that they had bought with forged credit cards to let them go when he discovered their attempt to swindle.

On October 24, NW, 28, jobless, and FW, 27, guard, entered a mobile phone shop in Dubai’s Al Rifaa area and asked the salesman SK, 37, Indian, for iPhone5s.

“As I told them that we don’t have this model, they asked for any other iPhone model. I showed them another model and they asked for five sets and then increased it to ten sets,” the salesman told investigators.

Because they suddenly increased the purchase from five to ten sets, the salesman became suspicious and asked them how they are going to pay for them.

“When they told me that they will pay with credit card, my suspicions increased further but I waited until they present a card. One of them took out a card and presented it, I checked it and found out that it was forged. The forgery was very clear. I immediately told my co-workers in Hindi language, which the customers did not understand, to ask others to help in holding them and call the police. About 12 of us managed to control them.

“One of them started begging us to let them go and offered me a bag that contained ten mobile phones. When his bribe offer did not work, he negotiated to complete the purchase, saying that he is a legal worker in the UAE for which he had proof,” added the salesman.

Police arrived and arrested the two and confiscated the mobile phones they had offered as bribe for their release. It was found out that they had purchased them -- nine Samsungs and an iPhone worth Dh15,000 – from another shop with the forged credit card.

Police also confiscated from NW, the first accused, a forged passport that had well-forged entry and exit stamps and a forged visa stamp.

Three forged credit cards were also confiscated from the two accused.

The Dubai Prosecution accused NW of forging and using a forged passport, forging a cheque and over staying his residence visa period.
