
Johannesburg mayor Parks Tau could be arrested for contempt of court.

The city is concerned with the recent judgments and contempt of court orders granted by different courts against the metro.

This was after two complainants took the city to court over incorrect electricity billing.

The managing agents of a Randburg complex went to the high court in Johannesburg in June 2012 to dispute a municipal bill which claimed the complex owed the city more than R2.6m for electricity.

The court ordered the city to repair or replace the electricity meter, to adjust the accounts and issue a full statement within 15 days.

The order was ignored and one of the complex’s managing agents took the matter to court for a contempt of court order application, which was granted.

The city was ordered to pay a R10000 fine within 90 days and to issue a correct bill, which was not done.

In a second matter, Tau and his mayoral committee were ordered to pay a R50000 fine for contempt of court after the city “refused” to issue a correct bill to the Hellenic Community.

“The city reiterates its commitment to do everything in its power to ensure that the orders are implemented,” spokesperson Nthatisi Modingoane said.

He said the city viewed contempt of court in a serious light and had instituted a process to ensure that these do not recur.

City manager Trevor Fowler said: “Court orders against the city are a reflection of the public resorting to the courts to address their concerns, therefore an order is a part of the checks and balances to strengthen our democracy. Consequently, it must be implemented as soon as is possible.

A contempt of court order is unacceptable.

Fowler has instructed the city’s group risk and assurance services to institute a full investigation to establish what led to the contempt of court application against the city by the Hellenic Community as well as the second order in the Castle Hill matter.

“Where there is evidence of dereliction of duties or negligence, disciplinary steps will be taken. Steps to be taken may include (but are not limited) to suspension or dismissal,” Fowler said.

A team of city investigators spent the weekend analysing the documents and interviewing personnel involved in the entire value chain.

“The city reiterates its commitment to strengthening good governance through increased accessibility, transparency and accountability of the city,” he said.

Fowler said that the city’s auditor-general’s unqualified report and healthy financial position indicated significant progress in improving the efficiency of its billing system and maintaining a strong and robust financial position.

“All departments and municipal entities have been instructed to speedily address these matters,” Modingoane said.
