
New ILSCM head Mario Landman with previous ILSCM Head Dr Deon van der Merwe Grad Mar 2014.

South Africa was a country born out of logistics given its unique geographical position which made it a key trading post along shipping routes of old.

This is the view of Mario Landman , the newly appointed Academic Head of the Institute of Logistics and Supply Chain Management (ILSCM), a division of the Open Learning Group (OLG).

Landman has garnered a variety of skills during his years in the adult education sector including curriculum development, education sector research and programme accreditation. "My job now is to heighten our visibility among the myriad of professional bodies spanning the logistics, freight and warehousing sectors," he says.

OLG Graduate Kevin Nkomo and guests Sifiso Hlengiwe and Thabani Mbehle Mar 2014.

The evolution of the ILSCM in the market takes place against the backdrop of the latest CSIR State of Logistics Report (2012), which cites that Africa currently only contributes 5% of global GDP, while logistics costs as a contribution to South Africa's GDP grew by a remarkable 0.8% to 12.8% between the beginning of 2011 and the end of 2012.

Landman comments that despite this encouraging local outlook, there are still challenges facing the development of the sector across Africa, in terms of a lack of foreign investment.

This situation is further exacerbated by statistics from the Skills Demand List of 2013, that recorded a demand for 132 000 positions in the logistics industry.

OLG Graduate Gareth Hans with his family and OLG CEO Etienne Stiglingh Mar 2014.

"The market is growing in tandem with skills shortages in major industries such as teaching, nursing and engineering. We see one of our key roles as addressing the gaps that currently exist in those skills brackets," says Landman.

The ILSCM therefore aims to offer quality assured, academic programmes that provide a more holistic solution incorporating broader, academic and non-academic student support. As such, Landman has two clear mandates in mind, namely the expansion of the support that the ILSCM offers its students and the publication of more formal and informal research.

Established in 1997, the Open Learning Group forms part of the Open Learning Holdings structure of education solution companies. Subsidiaries under the OLH structure include the Business School of Excellence (BSE) in Namibia, Credo Books, Masithuthuke Consulting Services, The Training Room Online, Principal Software (Pty) Ltd and D6 Communicator (Pty) Ltd in South Africa. The collective best practices, accreditation and experience delivered via OLG and OLH is of large benefit to students and clients using the ILSCM for their development pathway.

Open Learning Group is registered with the Department of Higher Education and Training as a private higher education institution under the Higher Education Act, 1997 – Registration Certificate No.: 2009/HE07/005.

Open Learning Group is accredited as a QCTO Skills Development Provider: QCTO NATED/13/006.
