
The American, Russian and French cochairmen of the OSCE Minsk Group, who went to Karabakh on May 17, were met with protests in the Kashatagh area of Berdzor (former Lachin). Young people with posters blocked their way, and the U.S. co-chair James Warlick went out of the car to talk to them.

The posters held by the protesters said: “This is our land and we will not give it to anyone”, “no to foreign troops in the Artsakh land”, “respect democratic principles”, “not a single inch of land”, “we have made the choice in 1991”. Residents demanded that Azerbaijan be called to discipline as this country does not abandon its aggressive designs.

The next day, the co-chairs met with Karabakh President Bako Sahakyan. After the meeting, the Russian and French cochairmen refused to meet with journalists, but Warlick was willing to talk to them.

People in Karabakh are categorically against the six elements of settlement recently published by Warlick. How the co-chairs see the implementation of these points in such conditions? Responding to this question, the U.S. cochairman said that they respect the right of people to present their demands. “It was a surprise for me, but I got out of the car and had a pretty useful meeting,” he said.

He said that the most undesirable option would be the resumption of war, which means that, despite the differences, one should find a way out. In reply to the observation that the realization of the six points itself could lead to war, Warlick said that his main goal is to establish a lasting peace and stability in the South Caucasus region. “These provisions are not new, they have been discussed also before,” said the mediator, stressing that these elements are certainly not the final version of settlement.

He said that the people of Karabakh have the right and deserve to know it all and express their agreement or disagreement. “I think this is a basis for a frank conversation,” stressed Warlick. He reiterated that the Minsk Group is not there to foist decisions, but is there to help people and listen to their opinions.

Karabakh is not directly involved in the negotiations over the settlement of the conflict, its interests are represented by Armenia. However, the Karabakh authorities have repeatedly stated about the inadmissibility of the so-called Madrid principles for settlement. At the same time, the Armenian authorities continue to negotiate on the basis of these principles some of which imply the division of Karabakh.

The lands over which Karabakh established its control as a result of the war imposed by Azerbaijan has long been populated by people, mainly refugees from Azerbaijan. Armenian experts believe that the publication of the six points by Warlick was a kind of warning to the Armenian people that such a plan is being prepared. Moreover, as suggested by Lragir online newspaper columnist Hakob Badalyan, this plan is being promoted by Moscow as part of its Eurasian policy and the American cochairman is trying to warn about it.

But judging by the reaction in Karabakh, the Armenian side considers the plan to be absolutely unacceptable. It is to this that many analysts attribute the uncertainty lingering over Armenia’s entry into the Customs Union of Russia, Belarus and Kazakhstan. Eurasian officials say there will be customs checkpoints at the border of Karabakh and Armenia. But Armenian authorities have openly declared that there can be no customs border between the two Armenian states.

Articles may be reproduced, provided ArmeniaNow.com is cited as the source.
