
Seattle Mayor Ed Murray on Monday nominated Kathleen O'Toole, a former Boston police commissioner, as the new chief. The nomination now goes to the City Council for confirmation.

Seattle is likely to get its first woman to run the Police Department.

Seattle Mayor Ed Murray on Monday nominated Kathleen O'Toole, a former Boston police commissioner, as the new chief. The nomination now goes to the City Council for confirmation.

O'Toole, who is from an old Boston police family, was police commissioner from 2004 to 2006. She also was inspector general of the Garda Inspectorate, Ireland's national police force.

If confirmed, she will take over a department of about 1,300 officers and one under the microscope of federal oversight to reform.

"I'm incredibly honored and humbled to be appointed to this position," O'Toole said after Murray announced her nomination. "I'll work tirelessly on behalf of this city to realize your vision."

A room full of top police brass and city officials gave O'Toole a standing ovation upon Murray's announcement of her nomination at City Hall.

Three years ago, Justice Department investigators determined the officers sometimes used excessive force and wrongly escalated confrontations. There are also questions about biased policing.

"Seattle is in a difficult place," Murray said at his Monday morning announcement.

Seattle has had two interim chiefs since John Diaz retired in April 2013: first the reform-minded Jim Pugel, followed by Harry Bailey, whom Murray picked to replace Pugel upon his takeover of the mayor's office. Pugel has since retired from the force.

Murray appears to have picked a kindred spirit: O'Toole branded herself Monday as a collaborator who seeks to partner with community members and other agencies to solve problems. That characterization echoes Murray's self-branding as he ran for mayor last year against the more firebrand incumbent, Mike McGinn, who initially resisted federally mandated police reform.

"I want my plan to reflect the people of the organization," O'Toole said. "No one person can change this organization. It will be a collective, collaborative effort."

O'Toole, who expects a 30- to 60-day transition period as she assesses the department, says she will emphasize four themes in her leadership: public trust, quality of life, department pride and good business.

Though the Seattle Police Department has long been criticized for projecting opaqueness in crime investigations and agency operations, O'Toole pledged to run a straightforward and more transparent department.

"I don't think we can have public trust without transparency," she said. "I think a police department should be as transparent as possible."

Murray said the department's lack of transparency and clarity was among his greatest frustrations. He believes O'Toole will be honest with him about her opinions.

She also hopes to accomplish the benchmarks set out by the federal consent decree in the next three years, adding that she hopes to gain significant momentum in the next year.

The settlement agreement "provides and outstanding roadmap" she said, and wants it to be implemented as soon as possible.

Pramila Jayapal, co-chair of the chief selection committee with former King County Executive Ron Sims, said that was an important quality the committee sought in a candidate.

"We wanted someone to see the consent decree as a floor, not a ceiling," she said after the conference.

O'Toole said she was attracted to the post in Seattle because of its similarities to Boston, such as its size and "small-town feel," as she put it. She also noted liking Seattle's "innovative" mindset.

"I love the fact that this city is an innovation city second-to-none," O'Toole said. "It's a really good fit."

She said she plans to stay at the position for a long time to come and will live in the city - a notable claim given that most police officers live outside city limits.

"That sends out and important message," O'Toole said, adding that she hopes to create an environment in Seattle that will make officers want to live in the city.

Jayapal, who vetted O'Toole in Boston, said that her vast network of relationships in Boston helped her stand out to the search committee.

"I was just so impressed with the depth and breadth of her relationships in the community," said Jayapal, who is also running for state Senate this year in the 37th Legislative District.

Community members she interviewed in Boston "just wanted us to know that there was nobody better for the job than her," she added.

Both Murray and O'Toole said Seattle's chief search was rigorous.

"I've never seen anything like this," O'Toole said of the intensive search process.

The City Council's Public Safety Committee will meet a few times in June to ask O'Toole questions and gather public comment. The full council is expected to vote on her confirmation June 30.

Murray will propose a $250,000 salary for O'Toole. Former Chief John Diaz made $188,000 in 2011.

– Robert Lehner, chief of police in Elk Grove, California, and a former police chief in Eugene, Oregon.  He once served as assistant chief in Tucson, Arizona.

– Frank Milstead, police chief of Mesa, Arizona, who spent 25 years with the Phoenix Police Department and headed the Phoenix Homeland Security Bureau.  He has, on occasion, done standup comedy.
