
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

FLINT, MI -- A Flint gang enforcer could spend more than 30 years in prison in the rape of a woman outside a shuttered Flint middle school.

Gary Allen Fisher Jr., 24, was sentenced Monday, May 19, by Genesee Circuit Judge Archie Hayman to 16 years and nine months to 30 years in prison after pleading no contest to first-degree criminal sexual conduct, carjacking and armed robbery in the July 1, 2012, early-morning attack outside the closed McKinley Middle School on the city's south side.

He was also ordered to serve a consecutive two-year term for felony firearm.

The attack occurred around 2 a.m. after Fisher asked the victim for a ride to the mother of his child's home, according to testimony from a November 2012 preliminary exam. The victim refused, but Fisher pulled a gun from his waistband and demanded a ride, according to testimony.

Fisher forced the victim into her car and demanded that she drive toward the middle school, which closed at the end of the 2011-2012 school year.

The victim testified that Fisher said the woman he wanted to meet lived near the school.

However, once the two arrived at the school, the victim testified that Fisher forced her into the vehicle's backseat and raped her. He then forced the victim out of the car and left her at the school.

Authorities have said that Fisher is an enforcer for the Spanish Cobra gang. He has been in the gang since he was 13, authorities say.

Fisher was sentenced in November 2013 to 18 years and nine months to 50 years in prison after he was accused of stabbing another inmate more than 10 times while in the cafeteria of a Saginaw County prison.

He was released from prison on May 23, 2012, after serving the maximum of his five-year prison sentence for 2007 Genesee County convictions of unlawful driving away of an automobile and third-degree fleeing from a police officer but was eventually charged with assault with intent to murder, committing a felony as a gang member and possessing a weapon as a prisoner for the Aug. 20, 2011, incident at the Tittabawassee Township prison.

Authorities alleged Fisher stabbed another inmate who is a member of the Gangster Disciples gang because the victim began associating with the Latin Counts gang.

Fisher was also sentenced in June 2013 to six years, nine months to 20 years in prison after pleading guilty to an August 2012 armed robbery at an east Flint mobile home park.

© 2014 MLive Media Group All rights reserved ( About Us ).

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
