
Israel's State Comptroller Joseph Shapira is not exactly considered a champion of human rights or a great revolutionary. The opposition contends that he does not relish taking on the government and treats public representatives and civil servants with kid gloves. On May 14, Shapira surprised his critics. On the second anniversary of his appointment, he fired an arrow straight into the apple of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s eye, one of his government flagship projects: the uncompromising war on African asylum seekers .

Summary ⎙ Print In an interview with Al-Monitor, the chairman of Physicians for Human Rights-Israel, Raphael Walden, says that his NGO, which cares for Palestinians and African refugees, might lose its tax benefit status over its criticism against government policy.

Actually, Shapira took a stand alongside the human rights organizations that advocate on behalf of the refugees seeking asylum in Israel. He noted that the government has focused on blocking infiltration into the country, reducing the number of asylum seekers in the cities and encouraging their voluntary departure, but has not formulated a plan to deal with the tens of thousands of Eritrean and Sudanese citizens currently in Israel. He placed the blame on the minister of interior and the minister of justice  and demanded that they put together a proposal as soon as possible to ensure the dignified basic existence of all the aliens who cannot be deported.

The government cannot punish Shapira for his criticism of the damage done to the most defenseless group in Israel. For the moment, it is resorting to a fight against the asylum seekers and their backers. Thus, the authorities have declared war on human rights organizations, among them Physicians for Human Rights (PHR).

Lacking authority to shut down the organization, the government has decided to shut off its oxygen. The Finance Ministry announced a decision to  revoke recognition of PHR as a public organization, a status that grants tax breaks to donors. This status, conferred on thousands of Israeli organizations, makes it easier for them to raise the funds they need to operate.

The Treasury also contends that PHR’s struggle to end the occupation “is a deeply controversial goal, with political overtones, the achievement of which entails a political struggle.” One can infer from the letter that any move or political stand opposed to government policy cannot be considered a legitimate political end deserving of tax breaks.

In a conversation with Al-Monitor, PHR's Chairman Rafi Walden said he had no doubt the Finance Ministry’s initiative was designed to harm the organization, which operates outside the current government’s comfort zone.

He noted  right-wing organizations , among them quite a few that promote deeply controversial goals, enjoy tax exempt donations. Walden cites as examples organizations devoted to the establishment of the  Third Temple , a nonprofit dedicated to land allocation to Jews only, another one aimed at preventing deals for the release of Palestinian political prisoners, among them vicious terrorists, and promoting freedom for jailed Jewish political prisoners, among them cruel terrorists.

Walden:  The aims and activities of the organization are to promote the right to health of all the populations under Israel’s responsibility . We are proud of the fact that we do not make do with presenting a humanitarian face. Our job is also to direct a critical look at government policy that brings patients to our doors or prevents them from getting to us, and to advocate change. We apply this approach also in our diverse activity within Israel to strengthen the country’s public health system, help the poor who cannot afford to buy medications, regulate human experiments, provide treatment to refugees and undocumented aliens, ensure fair medical treatment for prisoners and more.

We believe that with this activity we carry out the deep professional and ethical commitment of the medical community. We will not stand on the sidelines when we witness the violation of our patients’ right to health.

Al-Monitor brings together top journalists from across the Middle East. Including Egypt, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Lebanon, Palestine, Syria and Turkey. Plus, we have daily translations from 20 major news organizations in the region.

Stay connected. Sign up for our daily newsletter.
