
People stand near a damaged building in the Bustan al-Basha district of Aleppo yesterday.

The death toll in Syria’s three-year conflict has exceeded 162,000, a pro-opposition watchdog said yesterday.

The Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said it has documented 162,402 deaths in the conflict, which started in March 2011.

The figure includes civilians, rebels and members of the Syrian military forces.

A third of those killed, or 53,978, were non-combatants, including 8,607 children, the observatory said.

More than 60,000 of the dead were fighting for President Bashar al-Assad, including 37,685 regular soldiers, 23,485 members of loyalist militias and 1,662 mainly Shia foreign fighters.

On the opposition side, the figure included 29,172 Syrian rebel fighters as well as 13,529 Sunni Islamist fighters from outside Syria.

The Syrian conflict started with peaceful anti-government demonstrations in March 2011 but degenerated into violence as government forces cracked down on protesters. Since then, it has tapped into sectarian tensions and regional rivalries.

Shia groups from Lebanon and Iraq who are loyal to Iran’s Islamist regime, Assad’s main ally, have sent fighters to back up his overstretched forces while Sunni militants from other countries have joined jihadist groups fighting in Syria.

Meanwhile, the defence minister in the opposition government-in-exile, Asaad Mustafa, told Dubai-based broadcaster Al Arabiya that he had resigned.

His announcement came as the opposition remains frustrated with the level of Western military aid for rebel forces.

“I cannot be a defence minister when I lack the minimum means to protect my people from attacks the regime is carrying out against them,” Mustafa told Al Arabiya.

Some advanced US-made anti-armour weapons have recently appeared in the hands of Syrian rebels, and they are understood to have been vetted by the United States.

But Western countries, who are alarmed by the leading role of hardline Islamist groups in fighting on the ground, have refused to allow the rebels to be supplied with anti-aircraft weapons to counter Assad’s air force.

The head of the opposition National Coalition, Ahmed Jarba, visited the US this month but apparently made no progress on the issue.

In Brussels, German Development Minister Gerd Mueller called on the European Union to put more effort into establishing humanitarian aid corridors in Syria, an issue he said he planned to raise at talks with his 27 EU counterparts.

“It can’t be that millions of people in Syria suffer miserably and perish without any help whatsoever,” Mueller said.

He called for the implementation of a recent UN resolution on humanitarian access to Syria.

The bloc’s foreign policy agenda has been dominated in recent months by developments in Ukraine although officials in Brussels have said that efforts to tackle the situation in Syria continue unabated.

According to UN agencies, more than 9mn people in Syria are in need of aid. A similar number, out of a total population of 22.4mn, have been driven from their homes by the conflict.

I agree to receive newsletters from Gulf Times.
