
 The Abu Dhabi Ports Company has moved its fleet of tug boats operated by its subsidiary ADPC Marine Services to the UAE’s classification society TASNEEF.

TASNEEF was established in 2012 as the very first classification society in the United Arab Emirates as well as in the Gulf Cooperation Council region and Arab world.

It is responsible for issuing mandatory certificates that are required internationally to be provided by ships, which are important to ensures the safety as well as to ensure the protection of the environment in accordance with SOLAS (International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea), and MARPOL (the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships).

The new contracts signed by Hamad Al Maghrabi, General Manager ADPC Marine Services, and COO of TASNEEF Eng. Omar Abu Omar, will give the classification society the authority to inspect and confirm the vessels adherence to international accredited technical standards. The classification society will carry out regular surveys of the vessels, to ensure continuing compliance.

Hamad Al Maghrabi and Eng. Omar Abu Omar, accompanied by Captain Mohamed Juma Al Shamisi, CEO ADPC and Rashed Mohamed Al Hebsi, CEO TASNEEF, signed the contracts, which cover each vessel for five years.

Speaking after the signing ceremony Al Maghrabi said ADPC Marine Services works to deliver professional, timely and safe integrated marine services to all users of ADPC’s ports.

“We are keen to support TASNEEF and are confident that the company will provide the services and expertise that we need to a very high standard,” Al Mghrabi said.

“TASNEEF is like ADPC, a local and yet ambitious customer focused company meeting international standards and we are delighted to be its first UAE maritime customer”, he added.

Commenting on the signing, Eng. Rashed Al Hebsi, CEO TASNEEF expressed his happiness in this occasion by saying the classification society is very proud and appreciative for the valuable trust that was given to ADPC by classifying its fleet by the National body.

“This will contribute to the refinement of national experiences and will open the gate for international cooperation," Al Hebsi said.

"We wish for other national companies to follow the same step as ADPC, by registering and classifying their ships in the UAE.  Doing that will enhance the capability of UAE fleets and will be of its benefit in the international forums and organisations," he added.

and         enter the result. E.g. for 1+3, enter 4.

Published by & © 2014 ITP Business Publishing Ltd. All Rights Reserved. |   Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Policy and Privacy Policy.
