
"Global export of violence and terror"

“Abu Hamza was not just a preacher of religion,” Edward Kim, assistant US    attorney, said in opening arguments. “He was a trainer of terrorists and he    used the cover of religion so he could hide in plain sight in London.

In response, the defence said that he may have said some outrageous things,    but Nelson Mandela was long listed as a terrorist.

Joshua Dratel portrayed the cleric as an “independent thinker” who was seeking    a “third way” between the “extremes” of Osama bin Laden, the late al-Qaeda    leader, and George W Bush, the former US president.

Saajid Badat, a British terrorist “supergrass”, lived at the Finsbury Park    mosque, and was seen as a key ally of Hamza's.

He described meeting Osama bin Laden, and told how the Al Qaeda leader hugged    him and “wished me good luck in my mission” at the end of their meeting in    Afghanistan in November 2001, two months after the September 11 attacks.

Badat, who was released from prison in 2010 after agreeing to testify in    terrorism cases in Britain and the US, also said that he discussed plans for    an attack on Canary Wharf with Khalid Sheikh Mohamed, the mastermind of the    September 11 atrocities.

Badat testified that he met Feroz Abbasi - another young British Muslim    described by prosecutors as a “terror lieutenant” deployed by Abu Hamza – at    a jihadi training camp in Afghanistan and translated for him when he was    asked if he would conduct attacks on American and Jewish targets.

Mr Abbasi had worked at the Finsbury Park mosque as a security guard before    moving to Afghanistan. He was captured by US forces after the overthrow of    the Taliban regime in late 2001 and held at the Guantánamo Bay detention    centre for four years, but then released without charge.

Margaret Thompson was one of 16 Western tourists snatched by terrorists in the    Yemen in December 1998, and told of the    terrifying moment hostages were used as human shields .

Three British tourists and an Australian died in the attack.

Mrs Thompson stared at Hamza as she told the jury how she was shot during the    rescue attempt.

“There was much more gunfire at that point. I started to fall forward and hit    the ground. I was hit in the leg with a bullet from behind, it was my left    leg. I was falling forward and my legs flipped forward under me.

“I fell backwards and slid into a bush. I was wearing a scarf, so I took the    scarf off and put it into the wound.

Mrs Thompson, now retired and living in Texas, spent weeks in Yemen and London    hospitals having surgery.

Hamza was in reality working secretly with British intelligence "to keep    the streets of London safe" by "cooling hotheads", his lawyer    claimed.

Holding up what he said were reports from Scotland Yard, Joshua Dratel    described the cleric as an "intermediary" who cooperated with MI5    and the police to try to end foreign hostage-takings and defuse tensions    with the Muslim community in Britain.

He said that Hamza expressed his true "intent" in discussions with    Scotland Yard and MI5.

"It goes to the theme of our defence that he was an intermediary, that MI5    asked him on multiple times to act in hostage situations , cool down    the community and maintain a sense of order," he argued.

The jury was shown videos    of him praising the 9/11 hijackers , as they sat in a courtroom a few    streets from the scene of the attacks at Ground Zero.

The panel of 12 saw an interview in which Hamza said he was "happy"    about the September 11 2001 attacks in which terrorists flew planes in to    the World Trade Center.

In another video, the Egyptian-born cleric said that that he approved of the    suicide bombing of the USS Cole by al-Qaeda operatives in 2000 which left 17    American sailors dead.

"My wife turned me to Islam"

Hamza claimed it was his first wife, an Englishwoman, who persuaded him to    start to study Islam with her because she became interested in the religion,    he explained.

The Egyptian-born cleric worked as a hotel receptionist, a bouncer and even    briefly as the co-manager of a strip club in London’s Soho district after    moving to Britain in 1979 aged 21, he said.

“They were small jobs to make money and enjoy myself – a normal Western life,” he told the jury after explaining that he came from a non-religious family    in the Mediterranean port city of Alexandria “where we always looked for a    Western life, American style”.

Hamza has previously claimed he lost his hands and an eye while fighting the    Soviets in Afghanistan during the early 1990s.

But during the trial he said he was injured    during an explosives accident while working on a road project with    the Pakistan military in 1993.

And he admitted he saw little fighting while in Afghanistan where he “fired a    couple of bullets” but “it was very quiet when I was there” and he was    responsible for health and safety of fighters.

Ian McGinley, prosecuting, summed up the case by telling the court that Hamza " devoted    his life to violent jihad ."

But Hamza's lawyer, Jeremy Schneider, said the government's case boiled down    to incendiary statements that gained the preacher a reputation among radical    Muslims – rather than anything he actually did.

"He cannot keep his mouth shut. That's how he is. He doesnt avoid the    tough questions. Sometimes he's firey, sometimes he's engaging.
