
The South Australian Economic Development Board has apppinted a former Premier, a young entrepreneur and the former Managing Director of JP Morgan in a refocusing exercise it says will support the transition of the State's economy, with a focus on job creation.

A new special Cabinet committee of key economic Ministers, chaired by Premier Jay Weatherill, will also be formed to prioritise the EDB's work.

Former Liberal Premier Rob Kerin, David Garrard, Professor Tanya Monro, Professor David Lloyd, Dr Donald Russell and Lily Jacobs will replace former members Michael Keating, Kevin Osborn, Grant Belchamber, Ian Gould, Michael Hickinbotham and Corinne Namblard who have either retired or whose contracts had expired.

Premier Jay Weatherill said the new membership of the EDB, which will be chaired by Raymond Spencer, continued the process of renewal and would more closely align the with the Government’s priorities.

“Our State has been well served by the EDB which has been responsible for delivering the new state brand and supporting South Australia’s growth sectors - specifically unconventional gas, education and agricultural areas,” he said.

“But we know we confront serious challenges in the near future that we need to grapple with and we must accelerate our efforts to meet those challenges.

“As a former Premier, Mr Kerin will bring to the table his vast understanding of economic issues facing regional South Australia, while Ms Jacobs will provide representation for Adelaide’s small business community from her role as General Manager of Renew Adelaide.

Mr Weatherill said the Board will now be supported by the new Department for State Development and report to him through the newly established Economic Development Cabinet Committee.

“The EDB will continue to be a source of independent advice to Government and monitor the state’s economic performance but it will also drive policy development and attract inbound investment,” Mr Weatherill said.

EDB Chair, Raymond Spencer, said he welcomed the new members and highlighted the need to act quickly to take further action to transform the State’s economy.

“We need to act boldly and with an increased urgency so that we can address the big challenges that are facing the State’s economy,” Mr Spencer said.

“The refocussing of the work of the EDB will create a direct linkage into the Premier which will ensure our work can be accelerated and prioritised.

Deputy Chair, Rob Chapman said it was an important time to renew the Board’s focus and membership. “The EDB is a group of committed people who have the best interests of the state at heart,” he said.

David Garrard is currently a member of JP Morgan’s Advisory Council, based in Sydney. Mr Garrand was previously Managing Director, Head of Corporate Broking, JP Morgan (Sydney), where he worked on a broad range of advisory work including equity advice on capital raisings, mergers and acquisitions and market feedback to public-listed companies.

Rob Kerin was the Liberal Premier of South Australia from 22 October 2001 to 5 March 2002 and has held the Ministerial portfolios of Primary Industries, Natural Resources and Regional Development, State Development and Minerals and Energy. Mr Kerin currently consults for Griffins Lawyers and is Independent Chair of Primary Producers SA.

Professor David Lloyd was appointed Vice Chancellor and President of the University of South Australia in August 2012, and took up his position in January 2013. Professor Lloyd is a biochemist who holds a Bachelor of Science (Honours) in Applied Chemistry and a PhD in Medicinal Organic Chemistry from Dublin City University, and was also a Post-Doctoral Research Fellow at Trinity College Dublin.

Professor Tanya Monro is an Australian Research Council (ARC) Federation Fellow and the Director of the Institute for Photonics & Advanced Sensing (IPAS) as well as a Professor of Physics within the School of Chemistry & Physics at the University of Adelaide. Professor Monro has published over 450 papers in journals and refereed conference proceedings.

Dr Donald Russell was the Secretary of the Department of Industry, Innovation, Climate Change, Science, Research and Tertiary Education from 2011 to 2013. His previous career includes Chair of New South Wales’ State Super superannuation fund, Australian Ambassador to the USA from 1993 to 1995, and Chief of Staff to Paul Keating, as Treasurer then Prime Minister.

Ms Lily Jacobs is a former lawyer, who worked in commercial, property and intellectual property law. Ms Jacobs has worked as an associate to Justice Lander at the Federal Court and with the firm Camatta Lempens. As current General Manager of the not-for-profit organisation Renew Adelaide, Ms Jacobs’ has overseen an increase in property activations and opportunities for creative entrepreneurs rise from three to 30 per year and has been a leader in the creating a more vibrant Adelaide.

Copyright© 2005-2014 Newsgallery Pty Ltd. NewsMaker® is a                         trademark of NewsGallery Pty Ltd.
