
Deutsche Bank AG is taking 1.75 billion euros ($2.4 billion) of Qatari funds to shore up capital, joining banks from Barclays Plc (BARC) to Credit Suisse Group AG courting the world’s richest nation during times of need.

Paramount Holdings Services Ltd, an investment vehicle owned and controlled by former Qatari Prime Minister Sheikh Hamad Bin Jassim Bin Jabr Al Thani, agreed to buy 60 million Deutsche Bank shares at 29.20 euros apiece, the bank said late yesterday. The Frankfurt-based lender also said it plans to raise an additional 6.3 billion euros in a rights issue.

Germany’s largest bank, which at the end of last year held less capital than all but two of the nine biggest European and U.S. investment banks, is reprising a crisis-era trend of banks tapping Gulf investors for equity injections to repair balance sheets. It also marks the second deal in less than a month for Sheikh Hamad, who helped oversee a series of high-profile transactions for Qatar as head of its sovereign wealth fund.

Qatar, the wealthiest nation on a per capita basis, invested billions in emergency fundraising by Barclays in 2008, becoming the London-based bank’s second-largest shareholder in the process. It’s also Credit Suisse’s second-biggest holder after the bank raised 10 billion francs ($11.2 billion) from investors in Qatar, Israel and Saudi Arabia in 2008.

Qatar is buying Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank shares at a 5 percent discount to the May 16 closing price. No further details of the transaction were provided in the release.

The stock fell 1.6 percent to 30.26 euros at 11:17 a.m. in Frankfurt trading and has declined about 13 percent this year.

Al Mirqab Capital SPC, an investment vehicle also controlled by Sheikh Hamad, on April 30 made an offer for Heritage Oil Plc. that valued the company at 924 million pounds.

Sheikh Hamad was replaced as prime minister by Sheikh Abdullah bin Nasser bin Khalifa Al Thani last year, when Qatar’s Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani handed over power to his son in Qatar’s biggest leadership shake-up in 18 years.

Credit Suisse (CSGN) in October said it exchanged $4.5 billion of notes held by the Qatar Investment Authority, the country’s sovereign wealth fund, into debt that qualifies as capital under stricter rules to help meet regulatory demands.

Qatar, which has the world’s third-largest gas reserves, is snapping up assets across the globe as it seeks to reduce its energy dependency. The country’s economy is set to expand 5.5 percent this year, the fastest pace in the Gulf Cooperation Council, a survey of 13 economists compiled by Bloomberg shows. That surpasses the expected average growth of about 2 percent for the Group of 10 industrialized nations.

Still, previous equity infusions by Gulf investors in banks have led to regulatory probes and lawsuits. The U.K.’s serious fraud office, which prosecutes bribery and white-collar crime, is investigating Barclays into whether it adequately disclosed fees paid to the Qatar Investment Authority, during the financial crisis.

The investigation centers on 322 million pounds ($544 million) the London-based bank paid the QIA as it was raising 7 billion pounds in 2008 from investors. Robert Diamond was head of Barclays’s investment bank at the time of the fundraising.

Abu Dhabi Investment Authority, one of the world’s biggest sovereign wealth funds, has been embroiled in litigation with Citigroup Inc. after agreeing to buy the equivalent of 4.9 percent of the bank in 2007. That was before share issuance during the financial crisis eroded the value of its holdings.

Businessweek.com, on behalf of itself and select partners, may send me offers and promotions.

Bloomberg, on behalf of itself and select partners, may send me offers and promotions.

Thank you for subscribing to our Daily Newsletter. You will receive a confirmation email shortly at .
