
The ANC greeted its big victory with jubilant celebrations but the May 7 elections confirmed the strengthening of opposition parties in South Africa with the Democratic Alliance increasing its vote while the Economic Freedom Fighters, which was contesting in its first elections barely eight months after its birth, garnered a credible 25 seats.

On its part, the ANC won the election with 62.1 percent of the popular vote, which was lower than the 65.9 percent it got in the last elections in 2009. The ruling party won more than 11.4 million votes in this year’s election while the main opposition DA garnered 4.1 million votes, representing 22.2 percent of the popular vote. This was a significant improvement for the DA, which got 16.7 percent of the vote in the 2009 polls.

“The African National Congress has won a fresh mandate to rule South Africa following hotly contested general elections on 7 May that confirmed the strengthening of prominent opposition groups,” sardc.net said in an analysis of the results.

It added that the strong performance of the EFF led by expelled ANC Youth League leader Julius Malema “could be viewed to reflect the growing discontent with the ANC’s socio-economic policies”.

EFF’s showing in the SA plebiscite shows that its policies have connection with some voters in the country and cannot be ignored. In fact the party’s ability to garner 25 seats in its first participation in national elections exhibits its potential to make a foothold in South African politics. While critics have dismissed Malema and his EFF’s policies as “populist”, the nationalisation model has been used with success in other regions of the world. Venezuela, under the late President Hugo Chavez, used its natural resources to move from being one of the most unequal countries in Latin America to the most equal one in terms of income. The Venezuela example, therefore, stands out as a successful model of how to nationalise mineral wealth for the benefit of the people.

“The EFF stands to become a future model for all white-dominated African economies,” argues Chengu.

Stephen Hurt of Oxford Brookes University says the EFF has benefited from the continued absence of a more genuine left-wing alternative to the ANC.

“The EFF’s focus on the nationalisation of strategic sectors of the economy and land redistribution without compensation clearly has some resonance with sections of the poor black majority,” Hurt says. The ANC achieved its victory in the face of deepening poverty, unemployment and inequality.

“Its election campaign, summed up in the slogan, ‘we have a good story to tell’, focussed on its credentials as the party that overcame apartheid. There is an increasing tendency for the ANC to focus on past achievements to secure its contemporary legitimacy,” Hurt observes. Even some within its ranks such as former Minister Ronnie Kasrils launched a “Vote No” campaign in the run-up to the polls, disgruntled by their party’s performance in government.

Kasrils and his group urged voters to vote for any of the smaller parties or to spoil the ballot papers. Only 1.4 percent of votes were spoilt while the majority of smaller parties failed to secure even a single vote in the national assembly.

“However, it is symptomatic of a rising tide of criticism of the ANC, reflected in both popular protest and discontent within parts of the labour movement,” says Hurt.

For a party that has battled allegations of being too elitist and too white, it is rapidly gaining black support.

“The DA grew in this election by 1.1 million votes of which 700 000 came from black South Africans,” the party claimed.

Despite the challenges posed by the opposition, President Jacob Zuma believes the ANC still holds the hope for the future for the majority of South Africans.

“We are particularly moved by the fact that we accept this overwhelming mandate from our people on an important day in our country’s history,” Zuma said.

He dedicated the victory to the late anti-apartheid hero Nelson Mandela and pledged to serve all South Africans regardless of their political inclination.

The IEC results tally showed that 13 of the 29 political parties that contested the 2014 general elections received enough votes to have seats in the National Assembly.

For a political party to obtain one seat in the National Assembly it needed about 0.25 percent of the national vote, or between 37 000 and 50 000 actual votes, depending on voter turnout.

The ANC won the most seats in the National Assembly, acquiring 249 seats out of a total 400 seats. This was 15 seats lower than the 264 seats it got five years ago and much lower than the 297 seats it controlled after the 2004 elections.

The DA obtained 89 seats, up from 67 in 2009. This means the main opposition party has nearly doubled its seats in the National Assembly from the 47 it controlled in 2004.

The EFF got 25 seats while the Inkatha Freedom Party won 10.

The first sitting of the National Assembly is set for May 21 during which the newly elected Members of Parliament will be sworn-in and the Speaker and Deputy Speaker will be elected.

The president of South Africa will be elected during the same sitting of the National Assembly.
