
The private media and important actors both at home and abroad  including Washington have downplayed, and in some cases completely  ignored, the terrorist actions perpetrated against the Venezuelan  government over the past three months. Among the latest examples of  terrorism news that have been underreported abroad is the assassination  in late April of Eliézer Otaiza, an historic leader of the Chavista  movement and the president of the city council of Caracas. Another is a  series of reports issued by Interior Secretary Miguel Rodriguez Torres  with a wealth of documents – including videos, emails, phone call  registries, and phone call recordings – that establish connections  between terrorist activity and sectors of the Venezuelan opposition.

Anyone who gets their information solely from these sources could  easily reach the conclusion that with the exception of a few minor  excesses, which are normal and inevitable in protest movements of this  sort, what is happening in Venezuela represents a flagrant violation of  human rights on the part of the government.

Objectively speaking, the overall picture created by the discourse of  political adversaries and the media’s coverage encourages the radical  fringe of the opposition that is engaging in violence on an extensive  scale. In this sense, those who downplay the importance of the  opposition-promoted violence and exaggerate or fabricate actions of  security forces to control the protests consciously or unwittingly serve  as accomplices of those responsible for destructive activity.

The above statement needs to be accompanied by words of caution. A  journalist or political actor certainly has the right to make  accusations without being accused of aiding or abetting those belonging  to the violent fringe or playing into their hands. The problem, however,  is two-fold. In the first place, all analysts agree that cherry picking  amounts to distortion of the facts and that the media has the  obligation to present all relevant information. To do otherwise is to  encourage culprits and blame those who are innocent.

In the second place, accusations made or insinuated by the media and  the opposition are often formulated without any proof whatsoever. These  statements serve to neutralize any negative reaction to the  opposition-promoted violence. In modern-day vernacular, the tactic is  called “damage control.” Thus, for instance, the opposition newspaper  “Tal Cual” published an article by Sebastián Boccanegra which criticized  Chavista spokespeople for alleging that the opposition was behind the  assassination of Otaiza (a hypothesis that Interior Minister Rodríguez  Torres put forward on the basis of an analysis of the circumstances of  his death).  Boccanegra then defended the hypothesis that it was the  work of delinquents without offering any evidence. Similarly online  posts by the opposition completely devoid of evidence attributed  Otaiza’s assassination to infighting among Chavista factions.

Similarly, the opposition’s demand for the liberation of student  prisoners serves to draw attention away from the violent actions of the  protesters. On May 13, the opposition coalition Mesa de la Unidad  Democrática (MUD) suspended a much-anticipated “peace dialogue” meeting  on grounds that the government had failed to liberate student prisoners.  The MUD statement, like those of the opposition in general, lacked any  acknowledgment that many of the prisoners, if not most, participated in  acts of violence. Obviously the determination as to whether individual  prisoners are guilty of unlawful activity corresponds to the courts and  not the national executive. The demand for the liberation of the  students has become a major slogan of the opposition and street  protests.

Recently the Chavista television commentator Miguel Pérez Pirela  called on his colleagues to use the word “terrorism” instead of the term  “guarimba,” which is a local slang-word referring to foquista-type  urban violence.

The list of actions that qualify as terrorist is extensive. One of  the most affected sectors has been the metro of Caracas. Metro stations  in the eastern part of the city controlled by opposition mayors have  been devastated (as well as the one in Parque Carabobo near the city’s  center), 90 metro buses have been damaged, and 200 passengers have been  injured. On May 13, metro workers marched to the Attorney General’s  headquarters (which had also been heavily damaged by opposition  protesters several months earlier) to demand a firm government response.  The terrorist list also includes the killing of six national guardsmen  and three policemen, the complete demolition of the campus of the  military school UNEFA in the city of San Cristobal, the destruction of  public buildings including the Housing Ministry, the burning of a truck  that distributes gas of the state company PDVSA-Gas Comunal in the state  of Táchira, as well as vehicles of the state food chain PDVAL, reported  cases of attacks on 162 Cuban doctors who work for the state-sponsored  Misión Sucre, and the list goes on and on.

The statements coming out of the U.S. Congress and Obama  administration condemning human rights violation fail to recognize that  sectors of the opposition have been involved in acts of terrorism. It is  ironic that the same government that justifies massive indiscriminate  surveillance throughout the world and intervenes in numerous nation’s of  the Middle East and Africa in the name of anti-terrorism turns a blind  eye to terrorist activity in Venezuela and ends up actually encouraging  it. The State Department’s revocation of the visa of the president of  the National Assembly Diosdado Cabello (on the absurd grounds that he  acted as a bag man on behalf of Osama bin Laden) attempts to discredit  the very Chavista who represents a hard line in the struggle against  terrorism in Venezuela. Terrorism cannot be defined as actions only  carried out by one’s enemy. If that is case, the term loses all  credibility.
