
HOSPITALISED domestic violence victims will be given free bedside legal advice as part of Australian-first medical scheme.

Solicitors will consult family bashing victims on applying for intervention orders, arranging alternative accommodation or other legal remedies in a “one stop shop” pilot program at The Alfred Hospital.

Launched in March, the HeLP clinic allows patients with a suite of legal problems ranging from domestic violence to gambling addiction, immigration, insurance and will disputes to be given pro bono advice.

The Michael Kirby Centre at Monash University has recruited law firm Maurice Blackburn to deploy ‘triage’ solicitors to the hospital two days a week.

Maurice Blackburn CEO Greg Tucker said he expected family violence cases would arise in the six-month trial.

“When are at your most vulnerable, when you’re in pain or you’ve got a bad injury its handy to have someone around who can come bedside and let them know what the next step is,” Mr Tucker said.

Patients are referred to a solicitor by a clinician or hospital social worker and are then given the choice of three law firms for advice.

Michael Kirby Centre Director Bebe Loff said only patients whose legal and medical issues were linked would be referred.

She said Transport Accident Commission and workers’ compensation claims would be excluded. Maurice Blackburn has also agreed not to pursue medical negligence claims involving the hospital.

Ms Loff said there was a strong association between legal problems and long-term illnesses.

“By resolving the issues the patient feels are out of their control, it may be that their health benefits as well,” she said.

Findings from a recent nationwide legal survey show people’s legal problems become more common as the severity of their illness or disability increases.

Former High Court Judge Michael Kirby said similar initiatives in the UK and US showed the program would succeed.

“Many people who come to The Alfred Hospital for assistance experience mixed health and legal problems which this new initiative may help resolve in a one-stop shop,” he said.

Mr Tucker said the pilot was hoped to ease the pressure on the hospital system in preventing recurring hospital visits from vulnerable people.

He said that although there were similar programs on foot in Australia, this was the first of its scale.
