
SAN FRANCISCO (MarketWatch) — Gold prices settled with a slight gain on Monday, finding some support from weakness in the U.S. dollar but failing to reclaim the $1,300 level as investors looked ahead to speeches from Federal Reserve officials and minutes from the central bank this week.

Gold for June delivery US:GCM4 edged up by 40 cents to settle at $1,293.80 an ounce on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, after tapping a high of $1,305.70 in electronic trading. Prices, which haven’t closed above $1,300 since Wednesday, lost a total of roughly 0.9% on Thursday and Friday.

July silver US:SIN4  tacked on 2 cents, or 0.1%, to $19.35 an ounce.

“Gold has been fairly quiet this year, and we anticipate for the short term gold to hover around $1,300, which seems to be a key magnet level,” said analysts at Lido Isle Advisors, in a note Monday.

Gold ended last week on a low note, at $1,293.40 an ounce, but prices notched a gain for the week amid a flood of mixed economic news.

Dallas Fed President Richard Fisher and San Francisco Fed President John Williams took part in a panel discussion on monetary policy in Dallas Monday. Williams said the Fed will probably start lifting interest rates next year.

Later in the week, other Fed officials are scheduled to speak and the minutes for the last Fed meeting will be released. See Economic Calendar.

Elsewhere in metals trading, July platinum US:PLN4  rose $4.10, or 0.3%, to $1,470.20 an ounce while June palladium US:PAM4  added 60 cents, or 0.1%, to $815.60 an ounce. High-grade-copper US:HGN4  for July delivery climbed 2 cents, or 0.6%, to $3.17 a pound.

In related gold news Monday, the European Central Bank and other central banks reached a new Central Bank Gold Agreement — the fourth of its kind — marking a commitment to preserve the clarity and transparency the pact provides for gold-market participants. The pact becomes effective on Sept. 27 of this year, following the expiry of the current agreement.

Those that signed the pact noted that they do not have any current plans to sell significant announces of gold.

In a statement following the central banks’ announcement, the World Gold Council pointed out that over the last 5 years, major gold holders from European central banks have “virtually stopped all gold sales” — selling less than 25 metric tons of gold against an agreed limit of 2,000 metric tons.

Copyright ©2014 MarketWatch, Inc.  All rights reserved.

Intraday Data provided by SIX Financial Information and subject to terms of use .                 Historical and current end-of-day data provided by SIX Financial Information. Intraday data                 delayed per exchange requirements. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones & Company, Inc.                 All quotes are in local exchange time. Real time last sale data provided by NASDAQ. More                 information on NASDAQ traded symbols and their current financial status. Intraday                 data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, and 20 minutes for other exchanges. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM)                 from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. SEHK intraday data is provided by SIX Financial Information and is                 at least 60-minutes delayed. All quotes are in local exchange time.
