
Total has announced that it has invited direct foreign investment in its Marketing and Services affiliate, Total Maroc, and that Zahid Group , headquartered in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, has become a 30% shareholder of the company. Total Maroc is also currently preparing an initial public offering (IPO) on the Casablanca Stock Exchange, which would allow individual Moroccan shareholders and institutional investors to acquire 15% of the shares of Total Maroc. The IPO is expected to be launched in the near future. Total will continue to retain a controlling interest in Total Maroc and operate it.

"Having outside partners acquire interests in our affiliates is a key component of Total's strategy in the petroleum products and services retail sector in Africa and the Middle East, and a critical factor in long-term success," explained Momar Nguer, Senior Vice President, Africa/Middle East at Total Marketing & Services. "Not only does it allow us to further strengthen the local roots of Total's different affiliates by giving local and regional investors a stake in their performance, it also opens up new business opportunities through partners that trust Total as an operator," he added.

Total has operated in Morocco since 1926 and aims to cement its long-term position and support the country's continued growth by welcoming new investors. An affiliate that sells multiple products and is solidly established in its market, Total Maroc is, in fact, a mainstay of Total's downstream business in Africa, through its size, financial performance and ability to provide a deep pool of talent for the Group’s activities worldwide.

Looking for Oil, Gas and Power Research & Data? PennEnergy Research has the answers.

Please fill out the remaining fields to complete your registration.

By clicking 'Register' you are indicating that you have read and agree with our Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy .

By clicking 'Register' you are indicating that you have read and agree with our Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy .

Enter your email address below and click Submit to receive password reset instructions via email.

An email has been sent to .

Please follow the instructions in the email to change your password.

Your account has been created and you are now logged in.

It looks like you've already registered with .  Please login below to link your accounts.

Thank you for registering.  An email has been sent to with instructions on how to verify your account.

The specified email address, , needs to be verified in order to login.

An email has been sent to with instructions on how to verify your account.
