
DuBiotech, part of TECOM Investments’ Science Cluster, today welcomed global biopharmaceutical company Alexion, as a new business partner. Alexion is best known for developing life-transforming therapies for patients with severe and life-threatening rare diseases.

Announcing Alexion as a new business partner at DuBiotech represents a concerted effort to attract the world’s leading organisations to the UAE. In doing so, the Free Zone is able to facilitate synergies that favour innovation which supports the Government’s vision to develop a knowledge-based economy and to grow the number of skilled workers in the area of biotechnology and pharmacology.

The UAE imports around 80% of the medicine we use, with domestic production representing just 15% of the drugs sold locally. Therefore by attracting companies such as Alexion to operate at DuBiotech, the freezone is able to facilitate a rebalance for the benefit of UAE residents as locally produced medication can be tailored to the needs of the population and it is often more cost effective.

DuBiotech is home to some of the region’s premier life science and biotechnology companies. It supports both start-ups and international firms looking for a regional base in the Middle East. With over 150 companies licensed by DuBiotech, it is central to a community that is committed to the industry’s success by bringing together business, regulators and Government in partnership. Alexion’s new facility will be licensed by DuBiotech, the premier destination for innovation and technology in the Middle East.

Marwan Abdulaziz, Executive Director of TECOM Investments’ DuBiotech said: “We are proud to welcome a major player like Alexion to our growing list of world-leading companies. DuBiotech is home to some of the region’s premier life science and biotechnology companies due to the freedom to design facilities around each organisation’s specific needs, the support we provide in navigating the legal landscape and unrivalled access to the significant market of the MENA region.

© Abu Dhabi City Guide. All rights reserved. No part of this site may be reproduced without our written permission.
