
Machnouk to Emiratis: Come for a holiday!

BEIRUT: Interior Minister Nouhad Machnouk called Monday on Emiratis to visit Lebanon for vacation, saying the UAE was considering lifting the advisory warning against travel to the country.

“The Emiratis are most welcome to visit  Lebanon ... the security situation has come under control,” Machnouk said from Abu Dhabi, where he announced a tour of several Gulf states aimed at encouraging tourism and garnering support for Lebanon’s security services.

“There are encouraging indicators that the travel advisory warning Emiratis against visiting  Lebanon could be lifted, but we still haven’t had a decisive promise,” he said.

Machnouk said his visit to the  UAE would restore the trust and admiration which previously characterized relations between  Lebanon and the Gulf country.

Saudi Arabia lifted its travel advisory for  Lebanon earlier this month and other Gulf countries are expected to follow suit. The advisory was initially issued by the Gulf countries in mid-2012, ostensibly due to the deteriorating security situation in the country.

Last year and at the beginning of this year,  Lebanon witnessed a series of bombings that rocked the country, mainly targeting areas associated with Hezbollah.

Most of the attacks were claimed by Syrian rebel groups who said they were retaliating against the party’s military role in Syria alongside President Bashar Assad.

A version of this article appeared in the print edition of The Daily Star on May 20, 2014, on page 3.

Your feedback is important to us!

We invite all our readers to share with us their views and comments about this article.

Disclaimer: Comments submitted by third parties on this site are the sole responsibility of the individual(s) whose content is submitted. The Daily Star accepts no responsibility for the content of comment(s), including, without limitation, any error, omission or inaccuracy therein. Please note that your email address will NOT appear on the site.
