
QUETTA : Security forces seized huge arms, ammunition and explosives and saved Balochistan form Major destruction.

This was stated by Provincial Home Minister Sarfraz Bugti at a press conference at FC Madadgar Centre here Monday. Capital City Police Officer Omar Cheema was also present.

Home Minister said Intelligence Fusion Cell recently established with the cooperation of Central and provincial Intelligence and security agencies was receiving reports form some time that a specific gang was smuggling large quantity of arms and ammunition to various arts of Balochistan form Khyber Pashtoonkhwa which would used for terrorist activities.

On indication f sensitive agencies FC and Balochistan Police conducted a joint operation in which huge arms, ammunition and explosives were seized. This was being smuggled by trucks into Balochistan. Seized arms and ammunition included SMGs (100), G-3 (3), Pistols all calibers (136), shot gun (1), kalakov (9), remodeled pistol guns (8), snipper telescope (10), bullets all calibers (2000), Nitro phosphate (70 bags) detonators (200), LED light (200), LED remote control (45), transistors (200). He said during the operation two terrorists were also arrested. They are Pakistanis.

He said earlier on the indication of sensitive agencies FC Balochistan and Balochistan Police in a successful operation had recovered equipments sued in explosions. This included hundreds of mounds of explosives, remote detonators, prima cords and switches of different kinds.

Minister said according to confirmed reports terrorists in Balochistan have support of NDS intelligence agency of foreign country which wants to create unrest in Pakistan particularly Balochistan with other forces. They were providing terrorists with arms and ammunition, training and financial resources.

He said he assure that we would not let enemies to succeed in their nefarious designs and no effort would be spared to make Balochistan a peaceful and exemplary province. Operations against ulterior motives would continue so long we ensure life, property and dignity of people of Balochistan.

Answering a question he said it is hoped new government in Afghanistan would take care of such incidents.

Answering another question Home Minister said there are 34 camps in Afghanistan run by people from Balochistan.

He told that our borders are porous. However Frontier corps was playing positive role and they are working very good.

He said we are bringing major reforms for levies, Balochistan constabulary and Police. Army was training [police on modern lines. He aid provincial government has accorded top priority to health, education and law and order.

Replying to another question Home Minster said extension has been accorded to FC to vest police powers and notification to this effect has been issued.

Get Social with Us!

© Onepakistan.com 2012. All rights reserved.
