
The workers working under sun in the road projects at the site on the Saikh Rashid Bin  Saeed Al Maktoum street in Abu Dhabi yesterday.

Abu Dhabi: Working conditions are getting hotter as the sun rises higher and the soaring heat of summer licks at thermometers across the UAE.

With temperatures reaching 45C in Abu Dhabi and humidity hitting 60 per cent of late, labourers who toil outdoors say the heat is already difficult to cope with and a midday break isn’t protected by law until the summer season starts in June.

A Nigerian worker who works 12 hours a day, seven days a week for a salary of Dh1,300 a month said that despite the law, there are times when it is difficult working outdoors.

According to medical experts in the UAE, it is not advisable for labourers to work when the temperature exceeds 40 degrees.

It can be fatal.

“I got some sunburns, but what about tomorrow?” said A.A., who moved from his home country for better work and wages. “Risks of eye diseases and sunstroke may also exist.

“Before I came to the country, our company made so many promises, however, they were not fulfilled. There is no sun shelter and no rotational shiftwork.

According to the World Health Organisation (Who), labourers should not be allowed to work outdoors when the temperature soars upwards of 50 degrees.

Gulf News also spoke to some of the workers on the construction sites.

Many said that they can’t wait until the midday break starts in June so they can avoid the heat.

Abdullah Al Hammadi, owner of Al Nasl Construction Company, told Gulf News: “I have over 20 workers in my company. We follow a strict policy when the summer months commence. Air-conditioned caravans are built in four different construction locations and drinks are handed out to construction workers to cope with the oppressive heat.

UAE authorities introduced the midday break rule in the summer of 2005, forcing firms who have labourers working in an outdoor environment to allow time off during summer months.

“This year, the midday break is enforced from June 15 until September 15,” an official at the Ministry of Labour in Abu Dhabi told Gulf News. “Labourers who work in open areas such as construction sites will be given a two-and-a-half hour break from 12.30pm to 3pm.

Ben, I am surprised with your comment... Probably you never experienced working outdoors! All those laborers are asking for is some shades or flexible working hours especially around noon time.

I wonder what temperatures in the summer back home? And how they work there - everywhere AC and shades? It looks like all construction sites coming from Siberia and they never experienced +40C.
