
May 19, 2014, 5:07 p.m.

Melanie Taylor was inspired by her friend's battle with the disease to organise an event that might help find a cure.

BREATHING EASY: Melanie Taylor can't wait to have fun with the photo booth at the Mount Compass Inaugural 65 Roses Benefit on May 31.

MOUNT COMPASS – Melanie Taylor is breathing life into a good friend by hosting a fund-raiser for cystic fibrosis on Saturday, May 31.

“Brooke is an absolute inspiration to me every day," Melanie said.

“She is a beautiful, kind-hearted, compassionate person who would give the shoes off her feet if she saw someone wearing none.

Melanie said every day is a battle for Brooke. Her days are full of a routine of airway clearance treatment, medications and trying to give her body enough nourishment, just to stay alive. On top of this, Brooke has two sons, a partner, maintains the household and runs a business from home.

“Imagine doing all of this while breathing through a straw all day, every day,” Melanie said.

Melanie said she is saddened when Brooke has to go to hospital and leave her family.

“The fact that there is no cure for cystic fibrosis is really hard to deal with. If our little benefit in Mount Compass can raise a decent amount of money to go towards research for a cure or better treatment options, then we have achieved something.

Money raised at the event will go to the national Cystic Fibrosis Foundation for research funding, and Cystic Fibrosis South Australia to help support people living with the condition and their families.

Melanie hopes the fund-raiser will be one of many similar events for the cause.

The night will include a three course meal, designed by chef Jason Brand, live music by Lyrical Breathing, raffles, door prizes, an auction, photo booth by Jessica Macrow from Macrow Photography. Emcee Jason Brennan of Happy Valley will keep the night moving along smoothly and also provide a few tunes on his guitar.

There will be various references to the number 65 during the night, including a 65 balloons game and a 65 hearts of gratitude wall.

Children will be entertained with a disco, craft, face painting and lucky dips in the supper room, located near the main room. Children’s meals will also be available.

Tickets are $40 each and tables are being sold in sets of six. The tickets include a complimentary beer, wine or champagne on arrival. Tickets can be purchased by phone on 0408 284 498.

Some children living with cystic fibrosis call their disease '65 roses' as they find it easier to say.

The term is thought to have started in America in 1965, when a woman, Mary G. Weiss, became a volunteer for the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation. Her three sons Richard, Arthur and Anthony lived with the disease. Many's duty was to call every civic club, social and service organisation seeking financial support for research.

"I know what you are working for," he said.

Mary was surprised.

"What am I working for, Richard?" she asked.

"You are working for 65 Roses," Richard replied. Mary was speechless.
