
Johannesburg - South African President Jacob Zuma on Sunday expressed concern over the activities of armed rebels and called on the AU to bring stability on the African continent.

“Part of the capacity needed by the AU is the establishment of the African Standby Force agreed to previously for rapid deployment in crisis areas without delays,” Zuma said in a statement.

He called on the African Union to activate measures and ensure peace and stability on the continent.

South Africa looked forward to the next meeting of the African Union Peace and Security Council to discuss the security situation and collectively find solutions to problems in the continent, he said.

Zuma condemned the kidnapping of over 260 Nigerian school girls by militant group Boko Haram.

“The government and the people of South Africa condemn in the strongest terms the abduction of school children in Nigeria by the armed group, Boko Haram and calls on the kidnappers to release the children without further delay,” Zuma said.

Regarding the recent bombing and killing of civilians in Kenya, Zuma said the targeting of unarmed and innocent civilians was deplorable.

On Friday, a bomb attack in a Nairobi market left 10 people dead and scores wounded.

Zuma also called on the people of Central African Republic (CAR) to work towards peace in their country.

CAR has seen an ongoing conflict that has claimed thousands of lives of lives in that country.

“We urge all leaders in CAR to unite the people behind a common vision of peaceful co-existence and national unity,” he said.

Login and register, if you haven’ t already.

© Copyright 1999 - 2014 Independent Online, a division of Independent Newspapers (Pty) Limited. The copyright in the literary and artistic works contained in this online news publication and its other related and connected websites, as well as in the published editions of group newspapers, their supplements and any other content or material, belongs exclusively to Independent Newspapers (Pty) Limited unless otherwise stated.
