
New York University said it will investigate reports that the workers who built its new Abu Dhabi campus in the United Arab Emirates lived in "squalid" conditions and that the school's labor standards were broken during construction.

For a report published Monday , the New York Times interviewed dozens of workers, many of whom were living 15 to a room, forced to work overtime, pay "recruitment fees" to get their jobs and relinquish control of their personal documents, such as passports.

"The occurrences cited in today's New York Times are, if true as reported, troubling and unacceptable," NYU spokesman John Beckman said in a statement.

"On a project this enormous, we expected that there would be instances when our standards were not met; our goal, for any worker who was not treated in accord with the standards we set for the project, has been to identify and correct those occurrences," said Beckman.

Beckman said the university will, "be working with our Abu Dhabi partners and Mott MacDonald, the compliance monitor for the project, to look into these reports."

When NYU agreed to build in Abu Dhabi, the university promised ethical labor standards and hired the firm Mott MacDonald to monitor labor conditions.

But as construction wrapped up, the New York Times found that migrant workers were living more than a dozen to a room and working 11-hour days. Workers reported the contractors that employed them sometimes fell behind on the payroll, or that wages were lower than promised.

In order to make something even approaching what they'd originally offered, laborers worked overtime, up to seven days per week. Even then, some made only around $272 per week including overtime pay, the Times found.

Labor camps that housed almost all of the site's nearly 6,000 workers were described as "so crowded that the men must sleep three to a stack – one on the upper bunk, one on the lower bunk and one below the lower bunk, separated from the floor by only a thin pad for a mattress."

"Tangles of exposed wiring hang down from the ceiling, and cockroaches climb the walls," the Times reported.

In a strike highlighted by the Times, hundreds of migrant workers thought they were about to meet with management for negotiations, but were instead arrested, beaten and deported.

One of the university's labor standards banned charging migrant workers "recruitment fees." Nevertheless, the Times reported that nearly every construction worker it interviewed was charged up to a year's worth of wages in exchange for a job. Recruiters then held workers' passports and, in some cases, their bank cards.

Although Mott MacDonald found a contractor fell one month behind in wages, it described "strong evidence confirming that stakeholders involved with the NYUAD Project are taking the issue of upholding workers’ rights and raising labour standards seriously."

And in speaking with the Times, Margaret Bavuso, the executive director of campus operations for NYU Abu Dhabi, cited what she said was a strong safety record during the construction. There was one fatality, but she said, according to the Times, that the accident rate was better than the one experienced during the construction of London's Olympic Park.

Subcontractors contacted by the Times either couldn't be reached, or denied knowledge of unpaid wages.

Other American institutions building in the same area of the UAE have faced criticism for labor standards.

In 2011, 130 international artists signed boycott pledges calling for the Guggenheim to protect workers' rights at an Abu Dhabi branch under construction.

Our editors' picks for the day's top news and commentary delivered to your inbox each morning.
