
The action thriller was shot at several locations in Abu Dhabi, including Emirates Palace, Al Ain city and Jumeirah Etihad Towers.

Hollywood action film Fast & Furious 7 has completed filming in Abu Dhabi, official news agency WAM reported. The movie, which stars late actor Paul Walker, is the latest installment in the popular franchise produced by Universal Pictures.

Fast & Furious 7 was filmed at several locations in Abu Dhabi, including Emirates Palace, Al Ain city and Jumeirah Etihad Towers.

The film’s production was “made possible” by Abu Dhabi government entities and twofour54 intaj, the television and film services provider of twofour54, the report said. During the filming, the Ministry of Interior, Abu Dhabi Municipality and Abu Dhabi Department of Transport also provided on-the-ground support by providing permits and managing traffic.

In a bid to attract international film producers, the Abu Dhabi Film Commission offers a 30 per cent rebate on all qualifying spend in Abu Dhabi.

“The Abu Dhabi government’s efforts to attract international productions are a resounding success,” added Al Kaabi.

Filming of Fast & Furious 7 began in Abu Dhabi in November 2013, when a visual effects crew captured helicopter shots, stunt footage and visual effects scenes at Abu Dhabi landmarks. However, shooting was suspended after Walker’s sudden death in a car crash in Los Angeles.

The movie resumed filming in April 2014, causing a social media frenzy in the UAE.

Abu Dhabi, aiming to become a regional hub for international moviemakers, has managed to attract some big ticket productions including Hollywood thriller Deliver us from Evil, Syrian production company Clacket’s The Brothers and the BBC’s Top Gear.

Gulf Business is the premier business monthly for the region’s decision-makers.

Gulf Business is the region's first and leading business magazine. Region-wide, it has remained the preferred magazine for decision-makers, corporate leaders and high-ranking government executives.

Covering a wide spectrum of economic sectors, from energy to real estate, banking to stock markets and technology to human resources, the magazine is a must-read for business leaders.

© 2012 Motivate Publishing. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy.
