
FILE - In this Thursday, May 8, 2014 file photo, Nigeria President Goodluck Jonathan speaks during the World Economic Forum on Africa in Abuja, Nigeria. The president of Nigeria for weeks refused international help to search for more than 300 girls abducted from a school by Islamic extremists, one in a series of missteps that have led to growing international outrage against the government.

Nigerian President Goodluck Jonathan speaks during the World Economic Forum on Africa in Abuja, Nigeria.

A world united in outrage over the abduction of nearly 300 schoolgirls in northeastern Nigeria, by the terrorist group Boko Haram, has mobilized to put pressure on the authorities to find them. That pressure is wonderful to see. The trouble is, the help is too little too late. And it is too little too late not because countries offering assistance such as the United States and Britain were slow to respond. It is because the Nigerian government didn’t care enough about the plight of its own citizens to stand up and fight for them when it really mattered – in the hours and days after the kidnapping.

Nigeria is probably ill-equipped to defeat Boko Haram on its own. Even the U.S., with all its power and resources, had only limited success and at great cost against insurgents in Iraq and Afghanistan, and in the long-term, Nigeria may need help to fight violent extremists. That said, the Nigerian government had responsibility to make every effort to save those girls, and it didn’t even try. Grieving family members have told reporters that since the April 15 kidnapping, they have not seen any troops or security forces in the area trying to mount any semblance of a rescue operation.

The fundamental responsibility of any government is to ensure the safety and security of its citizens. In Nigeria, that’s not apparently the case. Government authorities have not been motivated to do anything to save the girls, and indeed it was not until the world reacted with anger and dismay at the tepid response that the president, Goodluck Jonathan, even addressed the issue. But four weeks later, the girls remain in captivity, with no indication the government has any clue what to do. God knows what agony these schoolgirls are going through, and now in an act of defiance, Boko Haram is parading them before the world in a newly-released video, as a bargaining chip.

Boko Haram is no doubt a brutal organization, but how it grew into such an evil force should be a salutary lesson to all. In northern Nigeria, a part of the country where most people live in abject poverty, the group’s founder Mohammed Yusuf, (who was killed in police detention in 2009), channeled the anger and animosity many felt against the government into a movement of deadly intent for his own nefarious goal. He preached that poverty and inequality in Nigeria was the product of a political elite corrupted by Western education and values, which had to be wiped out. Boko Haram makes no exceptions. It blows up both boys’ and girls’ schools, killing indiscriminately. According to its warped ideology, once all the trappings of secularism are eliminated, a fairer and more equitable Islamic state would be created in Nigeria. The harsh economic conditions certainly provided fertile grounds for Yusuf’s grand illusion.

As Africa’s largest oil producer, Nigeria has annual (2011) revenue of $55 billion. But the national statistics agency says 61 per cent of the people – about 100,000,000 – live in “absolute poverty.” That’s living on less than $1 U.S. a day. In the northeastern part of the country, the heartland of Boko Haram, 76 per cent live below the poverty line. All this as oil revenues soar and then disappear into thin air. Only recently, the governor of the central bank wrote to Jonathan complaining that out of $65 billion earned from oil sales over an 18-month period, only 24 per cent, or $15 billion, had been put in state coffers. The remainder was unaccounted for, and the governor demanded a corruption investigation. Under such circumstances, Yusuf’s message resonated with disaffected and impressionable young people who had no hope for a better future. They were brainwashed and turned into a heartless killing machine, now led by the notorious Abubakar Shekau that terrorizes the country.

The Nigerian government has failed the schoolgirls, but the world must not. It cannot be, and it must not be that 276 girls are kidnapped and it just ends there. But as we all pray and hope for the girls’ safe return, world powers must turn their attention to long-term planning, particularly in the field of intelligence, satellite imaging and counter-terrorism training to help Nigeria defeat Boko Haram.

Mohammed Adam is an Ottawa writer.
