
On May 17, The Australia n Federal Police (AFP) was awarded as the highest-ranking public sector supporting lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex among employees. The award was given at the 2014 Equity and Diversity Awards which coincided to the International Day Against Homophobia and Transphobia.

Shane Connelly, AFP's National Manager Human Resources said through an official statement that AFP aims to uphold a strong commitment in improving the representation and understanding of the public towards the LGBIT community.

"The AFP remains committed to creating a supportive, flexible and fair work environment where difference amongst employees is respected. AFP is honoured to be recognised as a leader in this field."

AFP is a proud member of Pride in Diversity - Australia 's only not-for-profit employment program catered distinctively to aid Australian employees, LGBTI employees included.

Furthermore, AFP's Gay and Lesbian Liaison (GLLO) Network was given rightful credit during the Equity and Diversity Awards as number one among the employee networks category.

The AFP GLLO, to date, has 125 members trained to support employees of the LGBTI community, to attend to those who want to raise LGBTI concerns, and to provide with advice on top executives on how to handle sexual diversity issues in the workplace.

The GLLO Network was established back in 1996 through a 3 month Gay and Lesbian Contact Officer (GALCO) pilot scheme operating out of ACT City Police Station led by one male and female officers.

assisting the Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual,      Transgender and Intersex Australian community;

providing advice to managers when dealing      with sensitive sexual diversity issues.

Back in 2011, AFP had also been awarded as the leader in Best Public Sector Organisation by the same award giving body.

In 2012, AFP was included in the Top Ten of all organisations in 2012 in the Australian Workplace Equality Index Awards.

The department had also established stable relationship with relevamt organisations such as the Canberra AIDS Action Council which taught AFP members on HIV/ AIDS and sexual diversity.

The AIDS Action Council had awarded AFP with two distinct awards. In 2003, for the department's assistance in advancing HIV/AIDS issues in the community and in 2004, the President's Award in recognition and appreciation for its ongoing commitment to promoting safe sex, community education and support to the AIDS Action Council of the ACT and the people living with HIV/AIDS.

We value your privacy. Your email address will not be shared.
