
THOUSANDS of jobs are on offer in Adelaide’s northern suburbs, but employers cannot find suitably skilled workers and are constantly having to retrain their employees, an Adelaide University survey has found.

The research comes as the State Government warns federal Budget cuts to vocational training will make it even harder for South Australians to break into the workforce or upskill to improve their position in the job market.

The survey, conducted just before Holden announced in December it would cease manufacturing in 2017, found there were 1000 vacant positions in the north, mostly for skilled labour.

A total of 3500 vacancies were expected this year.

“Many employers expressed difficulties with finding skilled labour, and one in five companies said technicians and tradespeople were highly sought after,” said Associate Professor John Spoehr, who heads the Australian Workplace Innovation and Social Research Centre.

More than one third of companies said that attracting experienced and qualified staff was a major problem. Close to half of employers had no staff living within 5km of the workplace.

“This is an interesting situation, and it begs the question why. What is it about workers in the local area that is not meeting the employers’ needs?” Prof Spoehr said.

“More than a third of employers said they didn’t feel local people had the skills or experience needed for the job. However, nearly 70 per cent of employers surveyed indicated that hiring local people was desirable or very desirable.

“Our survey also showed that many companies are consistently needing to train or retrain their workers, some on an annual basis.

The survey was the first in what will be a long-term series of studies about business intentions in the Salisbury and Playford council areas.

They aim to improve understanding of business needs to inform decisions about workforce and industry development.

The State Government says Federal budget cuts to training and education will cost SA $400 million over the next four years.

Employment, Higher Education and Skills Minister Gail Gago said the cuts to vocational education programs would mean fewer places for trainees.

are the keys to opening opportunities and job prospects for many of Australia’s youth,” she said.

“Those young South Australians whose education options are limited to vocational programs,

Ms Gago said SA would lose $37.5 million in vocational education funding, or 23 per cent, over four years through the scrapping of the National Partnership Agreements on Skills Reform.
