
Telstra has announced a massive investment in wireless technology for customers today. Telcos are thinking ahead to a more wireless world.

News that Telstra plans to build a national wi-fi network, as reported by The Australian and Fairfax mastheads , shouldn’t come as a shock. Given the volatility of anything and everything to do with mobile internet use, nothing should surprise us any more. But it should scare you.

Telstra’s plan, which is being announced right on Crikey’s deadline, will — according to tweets from ZDNet’s Josh Taylor — reportedly see $100 million spent showering the country with new modems for broadband customers who choose to act as wi-fi hotspots using Fon sharing technology . It’ll be free to use by the telco’s fixed broadband customers, although any data used will count towards their quota, and a “small daily fee” for others.

Arranging free wi-fi for fixed broadband customers is not uncommon in Asian and North American cities, although the Fon sharing is a less common twist, and it’s a logical move for Telstra for the same reasons. It makes the telco’s fixed broadband packages more attractive, it reduces the load on 3G/4G mobile broadband services in high-traffic areas, and — not talked about so much — it provides more opportunities to track customer behaviour for all those data mining and monetisation strategies that make modern telcos into something much more like a media company.

For all the hype around the “mobility revolution”, and while consumers are increasingly using their mobile devices away from the home or office, the growth in Australia’s mobile broadband market was just 3% in the 12 months to December 2013, according to research released yesterday by analyst firm Telsyte.

The proliferation of public wi-fi hotspots, which Telsyte analyst Alvin Lee says are “sprouting like mushrooms and are now widely supported by local councils, shopping centres, local businesses and increasingly our transport networks”, means that there’s less need for a dedicated mobile broadband device — particularly as most smartphones can now operate as a wi-fi hotspot, and people are becoming more comfortable pressing that button.

“The opportunity for dedicated mobile broadband is diminishing even as mobile traffic continues to grow,” Lee said. As a result, Telsyte believes telcos will only be able to monetise 20% of the consumer media tablet market.

iiNet sees its wi-fi offering more as a marketing tool.

My weekend in San Francisco showed how this might play out. AT&T has wi-fi hotspots across the city, and you see their branding every time you look for a connection. It left an impression. But at the same time, most bars, cafes and shopping malls have “free” wi-fi too — along with power outlets and somewhere to sit.

If Telstra is planning something similar — and given that this is increasingly the way things are done, I suspect it’s likely — then this could be the start of one of the most comprehensive consumer tracking databases in the country.

Its a scary concept to be tracked by wifi. but with apple find my ipad app the use of this on an ipad without 3g is a concept which worries me.

Oops!

That $40-60-80bn NBN is suddenly not looking so vital after all.

It actually just made the NBN more necessary.

You will be sharing your ADSL service with whomever is near your house. If they are streaming media, your available bandwidth falls.

Given that the average broadband connection in Australia is just under 6mbits/s, just one person watching iView or Foxtel Go uses half your bandwidth.

Well Matt that’s true if everyone is downloading mbits in huge volumes in their homes.  But the evidence around you is that people are going wireless with their devices.  This proposed WIFI network is supposed to relieve demand in mobile data.

I don’t see how having thousands of km of fibre to homes does anything for the multitude going wireless.

The wifi hotspots use existing domestic internet connections, piggybacking on Telstra customer’s home connections. If you have a poor internet connection it could be largely consumed by people accessing it externally. The Telstra scheme relies on good quality domestic internet connections and is a great example of a hidden benefit of a nationwide fibre network such as the NBN.

Read the ABS statistics.

Zoid,

Both the web pages you pointed to contradict you.

The first one has mobile and fixed wireless at 1.7% distribution in July 2006 and 49.1% in December 2013.

The second web page specifically excludes data downloaded by mobile devices, according to the last sentence.  This massive growth in mobile data is not going to the thousands of km of fibre the NBN is connecting to suburban homes.

I think you are reading the old data from 2006, I am reading 2013 data.

December 2013 said 6,040,000 (Down 110,000).

While Fixed Line data has been increasing through out of 2013.

DSL: June 2013 said 4,787,000,

December 2013 said: 4,898,000 (Up by 111,000).

Cable: June 2013 said 934,000,

December 2013 said: 944,000 (Up by 10,000).

FTTP: June 2013 said: 115,000,

December 2013 said: 167,000 (Up by 52,000).

Wireless: June 2013 said: 27,232TB,

December 2013 said: 37,426TB (up only 10194TB).

Fixed Line: June 2013 said: 629,964TB,

December 2013 said: 823,421TB (up massively of 193457TB).

Also with every other alternative technology (be it Wireless, Sats, FTTN, Cable, etc) requires Fibre to be installed.

Happy with your numbers Zoid and I think fibre is great.

Mobile wireless accounts for half of all connections.  It does not use fibre to the home and it is what Telstra’s new WIFI network will support.

Of course, all technologies need fibre.  They just don’t need it to every home in every suburb of every town and city in the country.  Your huge volume on fixed lines is going mostly through ADSL and has more to do with pricing than demand.  Telstra’s WIFI will not need fibre in the last kilometre, which is where 80% of the cost of Conroy’s NBN was/is going.

There’s no escape mate.  This new wireless technology shows just how profligate Conroy’s NBN is and in future, that will become yet another financial millstone round the neck of Australian taxpayers as it abjectly fails to deliver the return Labor promised.

We heard claims before about Wireless, and Wifi over the past 10+  years, it’s not going to replace fixed line, regardless your anti-Conroy, anti-fixed line statements.

Liberals over the years (the past 10 years especially) have said that Wireless will replace Fixed line.

If it had, it would have been done so already, especially in other countries that are rolling out FTTP now (Indonesia, New Zealand, USA, a number of European countries), the rollout of FTTP has accelerated this year.

You seem to have specific agenda to set, in my view, you are expecting to profit over this (be it a shareholder, trust, or other form of gaining profit)..

The only companies that accept that technology like FTTN, Wireless and WIFI is the incompetent Telcos.

Ah yes.  If I think Conroy’s NBN is a crock of horses waste material, I must by definition have a vested interest.

Yes I do have a vested interest.  The 60-80 billion the NBN will end up costing will be paid by taxpayers, of which I am one.

In the meantime, Telstra will meet the burgeoning demand for mobile broadband, thus by-passing all those expensive fibre lines to the home.

Bang on about download speeds if you like.  People will trade downloading a DVD in 5 seconds for access to the internet on the train.  in the café, in their shared lounge with 3 flatmates where they don’t pay for a fixed line.  You know, the modern world of 2014.

Oh and the incompetent Telcos are making money by providing a service that people want and are willing to pay for.

Oh dear, Another $60-$80 billion nonsense, this myth has been broken so many times, just as the Labor’s NBN rollout being favored in Labor seats, and the myth that Labor’s NBN will cost $200+ Per month retail.

Once again, you have used a myth originated from the Liberal Party Camp, which has been used time and time again by the Liberal Party, including in their biased Strategy Review, which they simply ignored 5 different other options, because they went ahead with their MTM Model, completely ignoring their previous BB plans.

They also broke another promise, where by they will do a Independent Cost-Benefit Analysis (i.e. Productivity Commission), but has left it in the dark, because as I said, went ahead anyway of the CBA.

Again, this number has come out of liberals Ar$e.

Yeah didn’t think so.

They provide no business guarantee, they provide nothing for small business, medium business, they cannot even provide Large-Multinational companies/Governments Fibre because it’s not in the business plan, that is where revenue is lost.

So just because you don’t like Conroy, doesn’t mean you can simply make up something to fit with whatever vested interests you have.

It’s not so hard to say, well yes, we need to something about this network, let’s have a better constructive discussion.

Well, we been doing that for years, even under John Howard.

I’ve researched the topic well enough to think it’s time to get rid of the old copper, the costs to keep it does not make sense.

I’ve dug through plenty of Senate Committee hearings, forums (local and international ones, especially UK forums because they deal with copper), researched the subject of thousands of articles, debates, up’s and downs, did my own costs, search’s through international rollouts, equipment, government policies.

FTTP is the only way to go, we delayed it once, 10 years ago, during Howard times, the mining boom time, let’s not waste it again.

Mass Wireless or WIFI cannot be done unless FTTP can be done.

Zoid.

It’s great that you’ve done so much research and know so much about FTTP.

It doesn’t change the fact that Telstra’s WIFI service will bypass it and meet the needs of people who use mobile data in Australia.

The Telstra WIFI service will make the NBN business model more difficult to work.

Level 6, 22 William St,
