
Student marketing agency Veldfire Media is proud to announce a new partnership with Shift4Ward, a career lifestyle platform for ambitious young professionals immersed in career growth, skills development, business and entrepreneurship.

The Shift4Ward platform is aimed at young professionals and professionals-to-be, providing them with practical career and entrepreneurship advice on how to get ahead in today's world of work and business via a bi-monthly digital publication called 4Ward! Magazine. Built in HTML 5, the magazine is viewable on the full range of laptops and smart devices without the need to download additional apps.

The platform also teaches job hunting skills through e-learning video tutorials and links them with learnerships, internships and full time graduate recruitment opportunities.

Veldfire Media sees the great value in fostering young talent and providing budding entrepreneurs with the tools to succeed. Not only does this represent a valuable marketing opportunity for clients, but also a chance to make a positive difference in equipping youths with real-world skills and knowledge.

"Shift4Ward is taking this initiative to colleges and universities throughout South Africa. We would like to invite the youth to make use of these free opportunities and build their future careers and business," said Nelize Ernst, Director of Shift4Ward Digital Proprietary Limited.

The campaign will run throughout the year to ensure the message reaches as many young people as possible. "Every year thousands of young graduates enter the job market unequipped with the necessary skills needed to be successful during job applications. It is essential that we provide more support in this area of our youth's development," says Ernst.

With South Africa's current skills deficit and high youth unemployment, Veldfire Media is excited to get in on the ground floor with Shift4Ward and be a part of what is expected to be rapid growth in the coming months. By helping build on the skills of today's youth, Veldfire feels it is helping play a part in building a better South Africa for tomorrow.

Go to shift4ward.co.za to browse through past editions of the magazine. The latest issue, no 8 came out on May 15.
