
For service, call 1-877-734-7728.

For billing, call 1-866-790-7748.

For private seller and classified advertising, call 614-888-8888 or visit DispatchClassifieds.com .

For retail advertising, call 614-461-5500 or email us .

For national advertising, call 614-461-5199.

For online advertising, call 614-461-5143 or email us .

To send news tips, use our News Tip Form or call 614-461-5200.

Fax 614-461-5565.

Enjoy the convenience of home delivery plus Digital D. Sign up for our BEST VALUE today!

Online? On the go? Enjoy unlimited premium dispatch.com content plus the E-Edition for computer and iPad.

Award-winning journalism conveniently delivered to your home. Choose the custom package best suited for you!

Four of the 11 giraffes at the Columbus Zoo and Aquarium’s new Heart of Africa exhibit explore their new home.

A Vervet monkey plays in the new Heart of Africa exhibit, the area is set up to resemble a safari camp. In Africa, the monkeys often raid safari camps while the campers are asleep or gone.

A Vervet monkey plays in the new Heart of Africa exhibit, the area is set up to resemble a safari camp. In Africa, the monkeys often raid safari camps while the campers are asleep or gone.

Six blue neck ostrich are among the new animals roaming Heart of Africa, the Columbus Zoo and Aquarium exhibit. The ostrich are 7 to 9 feet tall.

After a lengthy gap, giraffes are back in the Columbus Zoo and Aquarium, with 11 roaming the new Heart of Africa exhibit.

The exhibit offers spots to get close-up views of animals, including this cheetah.

About 80 percent of the new Heart of Africa exhibit conists of a simulated savanna large enough for herds of animals to roam.

Volunteer Sue Repke rides a camel in the Heart of Africa exhibit at the Columbus Zoo and Aquarium. Among other attractions, visitors can go for a spin on the humped animals.

Visitors gather to watch and feed the giraffes, which are back at the zoo as part of the Heart of Africa exhibit.

A group of flamingos flocks around the watering hole in the new exhibit. The exhibit features more than 160 animals and took years to plan and create.

Visitors watch a cheetah in the new area of the zoo, which features different observation spots for both up-close and faraway viewing.

Dama gazelles graze in the Heart of Africa exhibit, which spans 43 acres. The simulated savanna allows animals to roam.

Warthogs tear the protective cover off a tree in the new Africa exhibit. The exhibit is set to be unveiled to the public on Thursday.

• Interesting fact: They spend hours picking parasites and debris from one another’s fur.

• Interesting fact: Its tongue is up to 20 inches long and black, which helps keep it from getting sunburned.

The kumbayah moment for the Columbus Zoo and Aquarium’s new African savanna is nearly here.

The 43-acre Heart of Africa exhibit is set to open on Thursday after years of dreaming, imagining, planning and building.

The most-hyped features so far might be the exhibit’s size, camel rides and opportunities to feed the giraffes, but the real stars are the 165 exotic animals.

Some species, such as giraffes and ostriches, are back at the zoo after a long hiatus. Others, such as lions, have been moved into the African exhibit from another spot on the grounds.

But most are new to Columbus and bringing excitement.

The wildebeest, for example, an antelope with an ox-like head and large horns, is a favorite of Doug Warmolts’, the zoo’s director of animal care.

“They’re like big puppies, really playful,” Warmolts said.

They’ll have plenty of room to play in the exhibit, the largest the zoo has ever built. About 80 percent of the area is a simulated savanna large enough for multiple herds to roam together.

More than one species will roam the grassland at the same time. Intermingling at various times will be six Grant’s zebras; seven wildebeests; five slender-horned gazelles; seven Thomson’s gazelles; five dama gazelles; and four greater kudu — a type of antelope with curlicue horns.

Also among the animals: 11 giraffes.

“There’s nothing better than seeing a herd of giraffes running,” zoo director Tom Stalf told the zoo board last week.

The giraffes include reticulated and Masai and come from other zoos as well as from the Columbus Zoo’s animal preserve, the Wilds, in Muskingum County.

The exhibit’s walkways, which run along its southern edge, are designed so visitors can see animals both at a distance, wandering the savanna, and close up. The savanna appears to be one long expanse, but it is broken up by “ha-ha moats” — narrow valleys in the landscape with fences deep in the moats that separate animal groups.

For close-up views, there’s a watering hole, a giraffe-feeding station, a restaurant overlooking the savanna and an African camp that will be half for humans and half for vervet monkeys, another animal new to Columbus.

The vervets came from zoos in South Africa, where they’re common, Warmolts said.

Lions will be lured close to visitors with an abandoned plane that’s half in their habitat and half along the walkway. Warmolts said the plane’s wings will be air-conditioned so the lions will lie there to cool off.

Big birds will run through the savanna, too, including two saddle-billed storks brought in from the San Diego Zoo; 52 guinea fowl about the size of chickens that will travel as a flock; and 10 East African greycrowned cranes, an endangered species that can reach 4 feet tall.

None of the new animals has been plucked from the wild, Warmolts said. They’ve come from more than 13 zoos and four animal preserves, with many reserved for Columbus years ago, when planning for the exhibit began. The keepers have spent the past few weeks introducing the animals to their new home, taking them out separately and then together.
