
(MENAFN Press) The African nations face numerous healthcare challenges. These range from access to quality healthcare services, to high infant and adult mortality rates, and an increasing incidence of chronic disease. The speaker faculty from the Africa Health Congress has developed a new report "Trends in Africa Health 2014". This report was commissioned to provide perspectives from Africa's leading healthcare organisations and institutions and is free to download.

"The report has been written in context of the upcoming Africa Health Congress taking place from 29-31 May 2014 at the Gallagher Convention Centre, Midrand, Johannesburg," says Simon Page, Managing Director, Informa Life Sciences Exhibitions. "Our expert speaker faculty was asked to give their viewpoint in regards to the development of the African healthcare sector; what can be done to improve the development, the main challenges and potential opportunities."

The "Trends in Africa Health 2104" report will give the reader an insight into the type of issues being raised at Africa Health 2014. The event will feature 140 expert speakers, across 14 CPD accredited conferences on a range of topics. All conferences are CPD accredited, and cost 100 ZAR to attend.  All registration fees will be donated to the Smile Foundation.

According to Dr Onyemaechi O. Azu, Nelson R Mandela School of Medicine, University of KwaZulu-Natal, who will be speaking at the 4th Ethics, Human Rights and Medical Law Confrence at Africa Health 2014: "It is anticipated that a more holistic approach to improving health, as systems move toward preventative as well as curative care, would be implemented by many countries. Improving access to and equity within health systems will however require multi-sectoral interventions. Also, in light of the uncertain condition of the global economy, African countries will need to re-evaluate their relationships with international aid agencies and bilateral partners and possibly look more to private“public partnerships in order to tap into and unlock these bottlenecks. A refocus on non-communicable diseases (NCDs) needs to be highlighted in view of the high priority given to overwhelming burden of communicable disease and high rates of maternal and infant mortality," Africa Health 2014 has been established to provide a forum for debate, discussion, and education; to share experience and to examine approaches to the region's healthcare challenges. Africa Health 2014 conducted this qualitative study with leading regional healthcare organisations, academics and healthcare professionals, to gain insights into the challenges facing healthcare in Africa, and possible solutions.
