
I would like to receive The Root email newsletter.

I would like to receive The Chatterati email newsletter.

100 Amazing Facts About the Negro: Meet America’s first black collegians, who faced a system that explicitly favored the white elite.

Editor’s note: For those who are wondering about the retro title of this black-history series, please take a moment to learn about historian  Joel A. Rogers , author of the 1934 book  100 Amazing Facts About the Negro With Complete Proof , to whom these "amazing facts" are an homage.

After Chavis, the geographic trend for black college students was north and westward, reflecting the increasing fracture in the country over slavery. To understand education’s symbolism and power, it is always wise to keep track of who is being let in and who is being kept out.

Turns out, Middlebury College also was home to the first African-American college graduate to receive a bachelor’s degree. His name was Alexander Lucius Twilight, and the year was 1823, just one year after the founding of Liberia in Africa and three years after the Missouri Compromise drew the free-slave line across America’s western territories.

In 1826, three classes after Twilight, Middlebury College graduated its second African-American student, John Brown Russwurm, who, as we learned in an earlier column , in 1827 co-founded the first black newspaper in the United States, Freedom’s Journal, a year after he graduated. Also in 1826, Amherst College in Massachusetts awarded a degree to its first black graduate, Ernest Jones.

Middlebury was apparently so proud of Professor Freeman that, in 1852, it invited him back to receive an honorary master’s degree. In 1856, Freeman was elected to serve as president of Avery College, eventually resigning during the Civil War to take up a professorship in math and natural philosophy at Liberia College in Africa, where he encountered the likes of Alexander Crummell , who founded the American Negro Academy in Washington, D.C., in 1897 and was one of Du Bois’ heroes.

Other distinguished African-American leaders of the antebellum period looked abroad for educational opportunities, most famously Dr. James McCune Smith , who, in 1837, broke ground as the first black American to receive a medical degree. His alma mater: the University of Glasgow in Scotland. After returning to his native New York, Smith became the first African American to practice medicine and open his own pharmacy. He was even more influential as an antislavery activist. “I have striven to obtain education, at every sacrifice and every hazard, and to apply such education to the good of our common country,” Smith told his fellow black New Yorkers . During the Civil War, he applied that education further by accepting a professorship in anthropology at Wilberforce University in Ohio.

Ohio also was home to the abolitionist haven Oberlin College, which opened its doors in 1833 and soon became a magnet for black men and women. Oberlin’s first black graduate was George B. Vashon, class of 1844, who became one of the founding professors at Howard University after the Civil War. Most of Howard’s original faculty was white and would remain so for decades; Vashon was one of first black professors to teach at “The Capstone of Negro Education.” It took abolitionist schools such as Oberlin, willing to buck the proslavery trend in the United States, to train black scholars who would, in turn, train rising generations at the nation’s historically black colleges and universities.

Oberlin honored other barrier-breakers before the Civil War. In 1850, Lucy Stanton Day Sessions became the first black woman to earn a certificate in literature from Oberlin. At her graduation, she gave a speech titled “A Plea for the Oppressed,” which was then published in the Oberlin Evangelist.  “Ye that advocate the great principles of Temperance, Peace, and Moral Reform will you not raise your voice in behalf of these stricken ones!—will you not plead the cause of the Slave?” she declared, according to Allison Kellar’s entry in the African American National Biography. After the Civil War, Sessions answered the call of history by moving to Georgia to teach under the sponsorship of the Cleveland Freedmen’s Aid Society. After another stint in Mississippi, she and her family became one of the first to live in the City of Angels: Los Angeles.

In 1862, Mary Jane Patterson became the first African-American woman to receive a bachelor’s degree in the United States, from Oberlin College. She became a teacher and, after the Civil War, moved to Washington to serve “as the first black principal at the newly established Preparatory School for Negroes, later known as the M Street School and still later as Paul Laurence Dunbar High School,” writes Roland Baumann in his entry on Patterson in the African American National Biography.

What about the Ivy League? This where it gets interesting. Craig Steven Wilder’s remarkable new book, Ebony and Ivy, traces the early Ivy League schools’ dependency on the wealth generated by slavery, and it wasn’t uncommon to see the presidents of these institutions owning slaves on campus. Progress came slowly.

Then there’s my alma mater, Yale. For years, the assumed milestone-maker in New Haven was Edward Alexander Bouchet , class of 1874, but now it seems that distinction belongs to New Haven native Richard Henry Green, a member of the class of 1857, the same year the U.S. Supreme Court handed down its Dred Scott decision, denying blacks basic federal citizenship. “After Yale,” the Yale Alumni Magazine reports, “Green went to medical school at Dartmouth and served as an assistant surgeon in the U.S. Navy” before settling down to practice in Upstate New York.

History unfolds in perplexing, often painful ways. Today, the same schools that erected strict racial barriers against black admissions are racing to embrace the legacy of the first African American on their campuses! And in the process, we see how complex questions of racial identity really can be.

That same year, 1850, Louis Agassiz, Harvard’s distinguished professor of zoology and geology, called black people a separate race when “viewed zoologically” and warned that Americans should “beware of how we give to the blacks rights by virtue of which they may endanger the progress of whites,” according to Louis Menand in  The Metaphysical Club: A Story of Ideas in America . As a point of fact, Snowden, Laing and Delany weren’t even interested in “endangering the progress of whites,” as Agassiz put it. They were there to be trained for medical service in Africa as part of the antebellum colonization movement. Turns out, “Fair Harvard” wasn’t always so fair.

Indeed, when my graduating class entered Yale University in 1969, there were 96 black students, compared with just six who had graduated in 1966. Did Yale somehow discover 90 more smart black people by miracle? Of course not! Yale made a policy change, and my classmates and I were swept up into the Ivy League as part of a conscious decision to respond to decades of regressive action by educating a new leadership class across the entire spectrum of ethnicities in the United States—not just white men. That same year, 1969, women also entered Yale as undergraduates for the first time.

The function of the Negro college, then, is clear: it must maintain the standards of popular education, it must seek the social regeneration of the Negro, and it must help in the solution of problems of race contact and cooperation. And finally, beyond all this, it must develop men. … Herein the longing of black men must have respect: the rich and bitter depth of their experience, the unknown treasures of their inner life, the strange rendings of nature they have seen, may give the world new points of view and make their loving, living, and doing precious to all human hearts. And to themselves in these the days that try their souls, the chance to soar in the dim blue air above the smoke is to their finer spirits boon and guerdon for what they lose on earth by being black.

To Du Bois’ list we must add the 40 or so black college graduates who received their degrees before the end of the Civil War. (You can read a fuller chronology on The Journal of Blacks in Higher Education website.) For anyone celebrating a graduation this year, I ask you to pause to honor the sacrifices these men and women made for our people. Remember, you are the fulfillment of centuries of resiliency against regressive action and the proud descendants of men and women who—against the greatest of odds—“made a way out of no way,” so that generations of black people to come could achieve their dreams of a higher education.

Congratulations, Class of 2014!

As always, you can find more “ Amazing Facts About the Negro ” on The Root, and check back each week as we count to 100.

Henry Louis Gates Jr. is the Alphonse Fletcher University Professor and founding director of the Hutchins Center for African and African American Research at Harvard University. He is also editor-in-chief of The Root. Follow him on  Twitter  and  Facebook .

The Root encourages respectful debate and dialogue in our commenting community. To improve the commenting experience for all our readers we will be experimenting with some new formats over the next few weeks. During this transition period the comments section will be unavailable to users.

We apologize for any inconvenience and appreciate your continued support of The Root.

While we are experimenting, please feel free to leave feedback below about your past experiences commenting at The Root.
