
Hundreds of farmers in the three Northern Regions of Ghana Friday embarked on a street march in protest against attempts by Government to pass the Plant Breeders Bill into law as a prelude to the introduction of GMO products into the country.

The more than 600 small-holder farmers marched through the principal streets of the Northern Regional capital, Tamale to draw attention to what they said were dangerous steps being considered by government which have the potential to undermine the local economy and worsen poverty in deprived regions of the country.

They cited the Plant Breeders Bill, the Genetically Modified Organisms as well as the vexed issue of the Economic Partnership Agreement (which government is determined to sign) as the retrogressive steps.

After the nearly three hours march, the protesting farmers converged at the Jubilee Park in Tamale where they presented their concerns in the form of a communiqué to the Northern Regional Minister who was represented by the Regional Coordinating Director and the Northern Regional Director of Agriculture.

In the communiqué, the farmers complained there had not been sufficient consultations with Civil Society groups, including faith-based and famer-based organizations, NGOs, CSO coalitions and concerned Ghanaians on the Plant Breeders Bill as well as the introduction of GMO products in Ghana.

“Currently, the Plant Breeders Bill is at the consideration stage by parliament. Public debate and consultations of a bill which has such far-reaching implications for the nation and the livelihoods of citizens requires more in-depth debate and civil society inputs than is presently the case. It is for this reason that the Speaker of Parliament in his wisdom has postponed any further discussions on the Bill until he is assured of sufficient discussions by the public,” the farmers said.

The debate on the Plant Breeders Bill (PBB) and Genetically Modified Organisms (GMOs) in Ghana and across the globe is of concern to food security, socio-economic, cultural and human dignity. This is most important to small holder farmers due to implications for agriculture which still forms the backbone of the economy.

The PBB in its current state undermines and threatens the inherent right of indigenous peoples and farmers to access to, own, save and share their traditional germplasm and biodiversity, which is necessary for their survival. Therefore privatization of seed and biodiversity through any intellectual property rights (IPR) regime, favors large-scale plant breeders, while violating the basic right to seed of indigenous communities and small holder farmers, who depend on seed as a resource for survival.

The passage of the PBB in its current form, which is at the consideration stage, would allow multinational seed and chemical companies to take over the country’s seed market from Ghanaian seed producers and indigenous farmers.

Section 23 of the Plant Breeders Bill which states: “A plant breeder’s right shall be independent of any measure taken by the Republic to regulate within Ghana the production, certification, and marketing of material of a variety or the importation or exportation of the material”. This means that the bill as it stands means that the government has no authority over any seed production and marketing firm which deals in so-called “improved” seed varieties in the country.

Another absurdity of the bill is that it demands royalties from farmers who use seeds bred by scientists working in public research institutions in Ghana, using public funding. The germplasm that the scientists have used to develop their varieties is from seed that farmers have developed, bred, saved and freely shared over centuries. It is therefore an outrage to demand royalties from  farmers who have developed and freely shared the seed that scientists now use.

An attempt to delink the Plant Breeders Bill from the current global discussions on Genetically Modified Organisms (GMOs) is erroneous as the PBB provides the legal framework for the introduction of new varieties including GMOs.

The ECOWAS block has signed on the interim EPAs waiting to rectify technicalities in the agreement for implementation, the implication accepting GMOs in Ghana and trade with EU is simply opening our markets to them but Ghana will not be able to export to EU market due to GMOs being banned in Europe.

We recommend legislation to regulate corporations’ access to biological resources, knowledge and technology so that access  shall be allowed only with the prior informed consent of the local communities and the State and shall benefit them, and to recognize community rights in order to protect the heritage of the local people. Such policy should be based on the AU’s African Model Law on the Regulation of Access to Biological Resources.

Smallholder farming must be excluded from infringement actions and included in the exceptions provided in clause 21.This is very important to avoid criminal sanctions against smallholder farmers. The sanctions include jail terms, fines as well as civil remedies such as destruction of propagated and harvested materials.

Indigenous agricultural crops should be protected and promoted.

There is a need for establishment of a competent bio-safety authority with proper representation of farmers’ and consumer groups to uphold strong regulatory requirements on GMOs, to ensure monitoring and to take major decisions on PBB and GMOs in the public interest.

Considerations of Biosafety must be made in line with the AU’s African Model Law on Biotechnology and Biosafety.
