
Durban - A dispute over an apparently unpaid ANC Youth League bill erupted into a race-filled diatribe on Facebook on Sunday.

League members are accused of racking up an R83 000 tab at a Durban night club and not paying the bill.

The Sunday Tribune reported that Emmanuel Bongumasa Gumede, director of four companies going into liquidation, and Themba Dlomo approached a director of the Velvet Lounge club, asking him to host two parties for the league on 5 and 6 April.

The manager, who was not named, said after the first party Dlomo paid R8 000 on his credit card for a bill of R27 000, spent by a table of 10 people, and said the rest would be settled at the next party.

At the following party, the entire bottom floor of the club was booked out by the league and VIPs were accommodated upstairs.

The unpaid bills from this night totalled R82 583, including R24 000 for whisky and R10 000 for champagne.

Dlomo told the Tribune he had acted only as a facilitator for a “funder” to meet the restaurant owner.

However, having read Sunday’s media report, Dlomo took to Facebook to vent his anger at the story.

He accused the “idiotic Indian” of trying to popularise his venue by using his and the ANC’s names.

“Why does he not mention the Indian that [he] is fighting with? Would he be going to press had the other Indian paid him?” he asked on his Facebook wall.

Dlomo charged that he was worried because the bulk of the ANC’s election funds came from Indians.

A month ago, Dlomo had complained on Facebook about being contacted for the payment.

“Nothing I hate more than calls from service provider on a Friday one Gupta didn’t pay another Gupta. Fundraising Blues,” he wrote.

Eventually he heeded the advice of his friends and deleted his comments late on Sunday afternoon.

Dlomo and the restaurant director could not be reached for comment.

ANC Youth League task team co-ordinator Nontembeko Boyce told The Witness that the body did not know about the party until it was approached by the Tribune last week.

Boyce said the league’s leadership would consider the article at its next meeting and see what action to take against the two.

Travel - Look, Book, Go!

SMS Alerts Get breaking news stories via SMS.

Blogs Your opinion on you, me and everyone.

Calais Website keywords automated by OpenCalais.

© 2014 24.com. All rights reserved.

Creating your profile will enable you to submit photos and stories to get published on News24.

This username must be unique, cannot be edited and will be used in the URL to your profile page across the entire 24.com network.

* The image you selected could not be uploaded.

Hi News addict,

Join the News24 Community to be involved in breaking the news.
