
CAMP MACABULOS, Tarlac City -- President Benigno Aquino III awarded Tarlaqueño SPO1 Dominador Canlas the "Medalya ng Kagalingan" in Malacañang during the recent 113th Police Service Anniversary for his heroic acts in saving three kids caught in a crossfire between rebels and police.

Canlas was the lone awardee from Central Luzon and one of eight police officers conferred by the President and Philippine National Police with the individual achievement award in the field of intelligence.

Monday, August 25, 2014 - 06:53 p.m.

AMID Monday's anti-pork barrel protests, an administration lawmaker vowed to scrutinize every item in the proposed national budget for next year to ensure transparency.

Eastern Samar Representative Ben Evardone said Congress will look into the legitimate concerns of the anti-pork protesters.

Monday, August 25, 2014 - 04:16 p.m.

MANILA - The Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) will coordinate with Davao City Mayor Rodrigo Duterte regarding the supposed recruitment of some young Dabawenyos by a rebel group in Iraq and Syria, a Palace official said Monday.

Presidential Spokesperson Edwin Lacierda, quoting Lieutenant Colonel Ramon Zagala, AFP public affairs office chief, however, maintained that so far there was no confirmed information regarding the recruitment of Filipinos to Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (Isis).

Monday, August 25, 2014 - 04:08 p.m.

SENATOR Nancy Binay reiterated on Monday her call for the Commission on Audit (COA) to immediately release the full audit reports of several controversial government funds, which have been linked to questionable transactions, as well as corruption.

Binay said that it has already been more than a year since the probe on Priority Development Assistance Fund (PDAF) scam and the expose on alleged illegal releases of the Malampaya Funds but until now COA has not given the public even a summary of its audit report covering the years 2010 to 2013.

THE Aquino administration has released P1.6 billion to start the implementation of the Cavite-Laguna (CALA) Expressway Project, the Department of Budget and Management (DBM) said.

The fund release will partially cover the acquisition of right-of-way (ROW) and contract services for the project, Budget Secretary Florencio Abad.

MANILA -- (Updated) Government and private employees simultaneously joined Monday the protest rally held at the Luneta Park in Manila to showcase their disdain for the continued presence of the pork barrel system in the government.

Monday, August 25, 2014 - 02:19 p.m.

MANILA -- President Benigno Aquino III warned the public on Monday against those pretending of pushing for reforms but only seeking to sow doubt and lies.

The Chief Executive made the warning as he led the celebration of the National Heroes Day in Taguig City and amid the protest action in Rizal Park where participants called for the abolition of pork barrel.

Saturday, August 23, 2014 - 07:28 p.m.

MANILA -- The Filipino seaman suspected of acquiring the dreaded Ebola virus has been found negative of the disease.

According to the Department of Foreign Affairs (DFA), results of the medical examination done on the Filipino indicated that he is not suffering from the Ebola virus disease (EVD).

Saturday, August 23, 2014 - 07:20 p.m.

A BILL that will enable the local government units (LGUs) as well as agencies, departments, bureaus and commissions of the national government to retain their savings and use these for other unprogrammed capital outlay projects has been filed in the House of Representatives.

A BILL seeking to increase the personal exemption for individual taxpayers to P100,000 from the present P50,000 has been filed in the House of Representatives.

Saturday, August 23, 2014 - 06:33 p.m.

MANILA — The Philippine government said Saturday that it would bring home its peacekeeping forces from the Golan Heights amid the deteriorating security in the region and withdraw its troops from Liberia because of the Ebola outbreak.

Saturday, August 23, 2014 - 05:38 p.m.

THE Philippine government would pursue its claims in the West Philippine Sea and would use diplomatic approach to resolve the dispute with China, a Malacanang spokesperson said.

Presidential spokesman Edwin Lacierda said Friday that the government "will not cease in filing and availing of the legal and diplomatic means" in resolving China's dispute against the country.

Saturday, August 23, 2014 - 05:21 p.m.

HEALTH authorities in the Philippines have enough capability to fend off the entry of Ebola virus as the disease spreads in African countries, Malacanang said Saturday.

The Department of Foreign Affairs confirmed recently that there is a Filipino seafarer being tested for Ebola virus infection in Togo, West Africa.

Saturday, August 23, 2014 - 01:26 a.m.

MANILA -- A Filipino seafarer has been tested and monitored for the Ebola virus in Togo, West Africa, the Department of Foreign Affairs (DFA) confirmed Friday night.

DFA Assistant Secretary Charles Jose said in a text message to reporters Friday that the Philippine Embassy in Nigeria is awaiting results of the tests conducted on the Filipino.

ANGELES CITY -- Some 2,000 aspiring journalists from the Angeles University Foundation (AUF), Holy Angel University, Pampanga State Agricultural University and neighboring schools from across the region gathered on Friday for the Second Media Congress at the AUF Sports and Cultural Center here.

MAGALANG -- Governor Lilia Pineda has commended the officials and workers at the Dr. Andres Soriano District Hospital (DASDH), describing the district hospital here as the "cleanest and one of the most reliable."

Pineda, who spoke during the launching of the Hospital Operations and Management Information System (HOMIS) at the DASDH on Wednesday, said, "We will not hesitate to spend more for the hospital considering it’s doing well."

CAMP OLIVAS, Pampanga -- The Police Regional Office-3 (PRO3) conducted a six-day Aptitude Development Advanced Leadership (ADAL) schooling for Chiefs of Police.

This initiative for the ADAL schooling PNP-PRO3 and its members was carried out by Chief Superintendent Raul Petrasanta, PRO 3 director.

Friday, August 22, 2014 - 07:40 p.m.

MANILA -- Police have arrested eight suspected members of an online syndicate accused of blackmailing more than 1,000 Hong Kong and Singapore residents after luring them into exposing themselves in front of webcam, an official said Friday.

The raid on the syndicate's locations in Bulacan on Thursday was a follow-up to an operation backed by Interpol in April in which 58 Filipinos were arrested, and another 100 linked to the extortion in a subsequent investigation in May.

A BILL seeking to penalize photographers and videographers who intrude on people's privacy for profit or commercial purposes was approved on second reading.

House Bill 4807 seeks to curb acts of trespassing and other intrusions on personal privacy committed by any person in order to capture visual or sound impressions of an individual with intent to gain or profit.

Friday, August 22, 2014 - 07:00 p.m.

THE Department of Education (DepEd) has been able to easily monitor the total public school enrolment with the use of online information system or the Learners' Information System (LIS).

Education Secretary Armin Luistro said the LIS, which was launched in 2011, enabled them to better track the Filipino students in formal and non-formal instruction to formulate more appropriate interventions in the provision of quality education.

MANILA (Updated) -- The Sandiganbayan Third Division denied the appeal of detained Senate Minority Leader Juan Ponce Enrile, who is facing a non-bailable offense of plunder, on his 90-day suspension from office.

SENATOR Antonio Trillanes IV said Thursday that he was not appalled on the possibility of Vice President Jejomar Binay becoming a president in 2016.

Trillanes filed a resolution seeking an investigation into the alleged overpriced Makati City Hall 2 building built during the terms of Binay as then mayor and his son, current mayor Jejomar Erwin "Junjun" Binay.

Thursday, August 21, 2014 - 07:23 p.m.

FOREIGN investors remain supportive of a resolution seeking to amend the economic provisions of the 1987 Constitution despite moves by some lawmakers to include in the discussions the political amendments.

House Speaker Feliciano Belmonte Jr. said that the support of Joint Foreign Chambers and Philippine Business Groups to the economic Charter Change (Cha-cha) remained intact.

Thursday, August 21, 2014 - 06:48 p.m.

THE Department of Agriculture (DA) clarified Thursday that the National Dairy Authority (NDA) did not transfer funds to the legislators or to non-government organizations (NGOs) in relation to milk feeding program.

In a statement, the DA expressed confidence that the NDA, its attached agency, can justify its actions in relation to the findings of the Commission on Audit (COA) on the milk-feeding program funded under the Disbursement Acceleration Fund (DAP).

Thursday, August 21, 2014 - 06:20 p.m.

THE body of the last missing Tourism student of Bulacan State University (BSU) in a drowning incident last Tuesday was retrieved Thursday in Madlum River in Barangay Sibul, San Miguel, Bulacan.

The student who was missing for two days after being swept away by current flashfloods was identified as Maiko Bartolome.

Thursday, August 21, 2014 - 05:23 p.m.

MANILA -- Renewing his call against charter change, Vice President Jejomar Binay said Thursday the country's democracy will be in danger if moves to extend the term of President Benigno Aquino III and clip the powers of the Supreme Court (SC) will succeed.

In his speech after accepting the Ninoy Aquino Medal of Valor in Pasay City, Binay said the Constitution granted powers to the judiciary to avoid another dictatorship, which the nation endured under the late President Ferdinand Marcos.

Wednesday, August 20, 2014 - 09:34 p.m.

MILITANT lawmakers believed that the upcoming debates for the proposed Economic Charter Change (Cha-cha) next week will pave way for the "wholesale amendments" to the 1987 Constitution particularly the lifting of term limits.

Bayan Muna party-list Representatives Neri Colmenares and Carlos Isagani Zarate stressed that any form of Charter change now whether it be economic or political is dangerous because "it will open the flood gates" for any insertion that will enable not only President Benigno Aquino III but also other elected officials in their last term to seek re-election.

Wednesday, August 20, 2014 - 09:22 p.m.

AS THE shipping industry reportedly has lost around $5.4 billion in revenues, lawmakers have adopted a resolution urging the City Government of Manila to implement a three-month moratorium on the controversial daytime truck ban.

House committee on Metro Manila Development and Quezon City Representative Winston Castelo said that the house panel voted unanimously to adopt a draft Omnibus Resolution calling for a moratorium on the truck ban ordinance.

Wednesday, August 20, 2014 - 09:10 p.m.

A VIRAL video showing the refusal of a rescue team in Antipolo to heed the request of the family of an ailing old woman for an ambulance received violent reactions from the netizens.

Mary Michelle Mauricio-Edralin, the Facebook user who shared the video online, said the City of Disaster Risk and Reductions Management Office (CDRRMO) Rescue team in Antipolo allegedly rejected to accompany her grandmother Salvacion Mauricio who was in critical condition in an ambulance.

Wednesday, August 20, 2014 - 07:36 p.m.

MANILA -- Boxing great Manny Pacquiao and his wife Jinkee will not be required, for now, to pay multi-billion peso bond in relation to their tax assessment case.
