
The distraught relatives of four British sailors missing in the middle of the Atlantic pleaded with the US Coast Guard to resume the search for them.

The relatives of the yachtsmen criticised the decision to halt the search after just 48 hours and launched an on-line petition demanding it be restarted.

The petition, which last night hit 32,000, was backed by some of the biggest names in world of sailing.

The racing cruiser Cheeki Rafiki was returning to the UK from Antigua when all contact was lost with her in the early hours of Friday morning when she was 600 miles east of Cape Cod, Mass.

The crew had earlier reported that the 40-foot-long boat was taking on water and that they were heading towards the Azores.

Two electronic distress signals known as EPIRBs (Emergency Position Indicating Radio Beacons) were later activated.

Onboard were skipper Andrew Bridge, 22, from Farnham, Surrrey, James Male, 23, from Southampton, Hants, Steve Warren, 52, from Wincanton, Somerset and Paul Goslin, 56, from West Camel, Somerset.

US and Canadian Coastguards mounted a search of a 4,000 square mile area using two aircraft and three merchant ships but called it off in the early hours of Sunday morning.

On Saturday the crew of a cargo ship in the area reported see the hull of a capsized yacht and reported its position and the crew’s families believe they evacuated the sinking yacht in a liferaft.

Mr Warren’s sister Kay Coombes, 46, from Bridgwater, Somerset, said: “It’s an utter nightmare, we are grateful for the US and Canadian coast guards for what they have done so far but it’s stopped too soon after two days,

Mr Male’s father, Graham Male, said earlier: “We just can’t believe the coastguard have called off the search so soon.

Tony Bullimore, 75, yesterday backed their calls.

The veteran sailor, famously rescued after spending six days trapped inside his capsized yacht in the Southern Ocean in 1996, said he was ‘very concerned’ it had been called off.

He said: “If the location of the upturned yacht is known then I cannot understand why no effort is being made to find it and establish whether anyone is inside.

“It is quite possible to survive inside an upturned boat for a few days although hypothermia, frostbite and finding sustenance could be an issue.

“It would be a bit like being inside a washing machine and they would have to hang on to something to stop being thrown around but, saying that, it is survivable.

Hugo boss skipper Alex Thomson said: “ It’s absolutely disgusting that the search for these men was called off and I can only believe it was for financial reasons.

“It’s an unwritten rule of the sea that you do everything you can to help a fellow sailor in distress.

Yesterday the British Martime and Coatguard Agency refused to be drawn into the controversy.

However Craig Burton, spokesman for the Royal Yachting Association (RYA) said it was just a ‘chance in a million’ that the crew would be found.

He said: “I fully empathise with the families and understand their desire to see the search pushed forward.

“At the same time, the search and rescue teams are experts in their roles and do not take the decision to call off an operation lightly.

“The RYA cannot second guess if that was the right or wrong decision, and only evidence from the scene would lead to a change in that situation.

“Obviously we all hope they’re still alive and there’s a one in a million chance that miracles will happen and this will all turn out well.

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).
