
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .

If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .

Investors say they would not mourn Australia's triple-A credit  rating if the economy were stripped of its prestigious badge by ratings agencies  because top ratings have become less relevant to bond fund managers since the  financial crisis.

Australia is one of only 12 countries which boast triple-A status  under the Standard & Poor's methodology. Sovereign analyst Craig Michaels  told Fairfax Media there  was "at most" a one-in-three chance of Australia being downgraded to  double-A, and S&P is counting on the Abbott government to win Senate  approval for at least some of the $37 billion in planned savings to address the  budget deficit position. Labor has signalled its opposition to almost half of  that.

Investors suggested that if Australia were unable to hold onto  triple-A, the damage would be more of a reputational blow than an economic one.  An inferior credit rating should imply a higher cost of borrowing all things  being equal but that has not always been the case. When the United States was  downgraded in 2011 there was no adverse impact on demand for US sovereign debt  or the price at which the US could borrow.

The Australian dollar shed a fraction in Tuesday trading to  US93.28¢; the S&P/ASX 200 Index was steady.

Vimal Gor, head of income and fixed interest at BT Investment  Management, said by virtue of the shrinking pool of triple-A sovereigns,  Australia now represented about 15 per cent of global triple-A issuance from  less than 1 per cent before the crisis.

"I don't know whether anyone really pays attention to sovereign  credit ratings anymore. There's no question that Australia's debt metrics are  among the best in the world... and if we were to lose the triple-A rating I  don't think it would be significant for our bond or equity markets," he said.

"Ten years ago I think it would have had a much greater  significance. The issue is the GFC questioned the whole way people use credit  ratings because a lot of the issues that blew up were triple-A rated."

Mr Gor said he does not agree with the preoccupation of returning  to surplus. "From an economic viewpoint I can't understand why it's relevant  right now. In times of slow growth the government is supposed to be the buffer,  right now we have slow growth and tight fiscal policy, which is far from ideal,"  he said.

Australian 10-year bonds were yielding 3.7 per cent, little changed  from Monday's session.

The big four banks, which are hamstrung by a long-standing reliance  on foreign capital to fund their lending, command a double-A rating.

You'll be able to work from gate to gate ... as long as you have the right device.
