
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .

If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .

Leighton Holdings is firmly in Spanish control after independent chairman Robert Humphris said he would leave the contractor by the end of the year, and raised doubts if another independent chairman would be appointed.

The 71-year-old, who claimed to have dropped ''a bit of a bombshell'' on new Leighton chief executive Marcelino Fernandez Verdes on Friday in announcing plans to retire,  would not comment on whether he would be replaced by another independent chairman.

But he promised to find another independent director to join the  other independent, Michael Hutchinson, on Leighton's seven-member board before retiring.

''I'm not going to step down unless I believe the board has adequate representation of independent directors,''  he said after Leighton's annual  meeting in Sydney.

Mr Humphris  said his decision to retire had nothing to do with ''the shape or direction'' of Leighton following controlling shareholder Hochtief's $1.2 billion takeover bid, which gives it almost 70 per cent of the contractor.

''It's been a very tough year. I have been in the office almost every day when I haven't been on other company business or overseas … I just want to go and do what most retired  people do, which is have fun.''

But Leighton's board, which lost three independent directors at the  end of the AGM and gained two Spaniards, came under fire from the Australian Shareholders'

Association for its lack  of independence in the wake of the takeover and approving some $23 million in termination packages for former chief executive Hamish Tyrwhitt and former chief financial officer Peter Gregg.

ASA policy co-ordinator Stephen Mayne said Grupo ACS, which owns Hochtief, had treated the former executives ''ridiculously generously'' and giving so much money away was  disrespectful to minority investors.

Mr Fernandez Verdes refused to directly comment on  questions at the AGM, referring  them to Mr Humphris.

Protest votes of about 11 per cent were recorded against the termination packages. New Spanish directors Pedro Lopez Jimenez and Jose Luis de Valle Perez also received protest votes of about 8 per cent.

Mr Mayne said Mr Fernandez Verdes' employment contract, which has not yet been finalised, should be ''suitably modest'' because he was already paid to be chief executive of Hochtief.

''Obviously we'd love it if he did a James Packer and agreed to work for nothing,'' he said.

Mr Humphris confirmed Mr Tyrwhitt and Mr Gregg  were  ''absolutely shell-shocked'' after being sacked by Mr Fernandez Verdes in March and denied reports they had formed a ''suicide pact'', with Hochtief wanting to keep Mr Tyrwhitt but get rid of Mr Gregg .

''I don't believe it happened,'' he said. ''They both wanted to stay, they both felt there was a job to do … when [the termination] happened, it happened with no notice and they were both absolutely shell-shocked. They were both distressed … and did not see it coming.''

''Watertight'' restraint provisions in both men's contracts  prevented them speaking about their dismissal, Mr Humphris said.

The chairman also confirmed that independent directors Paula Dwyer, Russell Higgins and Vicki McFadden were leaving because Hochtief did not want them to stay.

Mr Hutchinson, who was easily elected as an independent director, acknowledged Leighton would now be directly controlled by Hochtief, and  the future role of independent directors would be ''very different''.

Mr Hutchinson was persuaded to remain on the board after a conversation with Mr Fernandez Verdes.

You'll be able to work from gate to gate ... as long as you have the right device.
