
Former Virginia senator James Webb, a Democrat who was elected to the Senate in 2006 on the strength of his record as a combat veteran who opposed the Iraq War, said in a radio interview Monday that he is thinking about running for president.

Appearing on the “ Diane Rehm Show ” on WAMU to discuss a newly published memoir, Webb, a prolific author, Vietnam veteran and former secretary of the Navy, said he is concerned about the direction of U.S. foreign policy and is looking for a way to reengage in the national debate.

“My wife and I are just thinking about what to do next. I care a lot about where the country is, and we’ll be sorting that out,” he told guest host Susan Page when she asked whether he was considering a 2016 run.

He said he was concerned that on foreign policy, the nation is now “bouncing from issue to issue without a clear articulation of what the national security interest of the United States actually is.” At the same time, he said, he is worried by the growing gap between the rich and poor, which he said could be addressed through better leadership in Washington.

Webb’s comments took the political establishment in Virginia and beyond by surprise.

Since declining to run for reelection to the Senate in 2012 after serving only a single term in office, Webb has largely disappeared from the political scene.

He spent little time in office or since leaving it nurturing the kind of political connections that would be needed to run for president, particularly to challenge the kind of fundraising and organizing juggernaut that would be available to former secretary of state Hillary Clinton.

And Webb never relished the superficiality of the campaign trail, which he might find even more pronounced at the presidential level than in the Senate.

Still, Webb, 68, is considered an especially independent-minded maverick.

He served in the administration of President Ronald Reagan before running for the Senate as a Democrat. A highly decorated former Marine, he exchanged sharp words about the Iraq War at the White House with President George W. Bush shortly after his election to the Senate.

People close to him said he would not have opened the door to a possible run if he were not thinking about it seriously.

She said Webb could help focus the race on issues of economic populism and fairness, a frequent topic of his writings and speeches since before his election to the Senate. He has pushed Democrats to reconnect with white working class communities that have grown culturally suspicious of the party.

His latest book, “I Heard My Country Calling,” recounts his childhood, including his father’s roots in Appalachia and his mother’s background growing up in poverty in Arkansas.

In the Senate, he focused on prison reform and strengthening U.S. ties with Asia. He championed an update to the G.I. Bill, to help veterans of Iraq and Afghanistan with educational benefits.

Steve Jarding, a political consultant who advised his 2006 effort, said Webb could make an intriguing alternative to Clinton.

Webb has spent less time preparing for a race than other Democrats who have acknowledged thinking about running, including Maryland Gov. Martin O’Malley and former Montana governor Brian Schweitzer.

However, Webb appeared at a veterans gala in the key early primary state of New Hampshire on Saturday.

One Virginia Democrat said he finds it hard to believe that Webb has the stomach for a campaign.

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
