
IT’S said we spend one third of our lives in bed, so its stands to reason that you should enjoy spending time in your bedroom.

A calming colour palette and a big luxurious bed with thick, soft bedding and fluffy pillows will go some way to creating the perfect space, but modern bedrooms are becoming far more than a sleep chamber.

Contemporary display homes now feature ensuites that can be larger than the family bathroom; spacious walk-in wardrobes and dressing spaces; and parents’ retreat areas and balconies that are large enough to accommodate a couple of comfortable armchairs for those times when you just want to curl up with a good book.

The concept of the bedroom as a refuge from busy modern life is well and truly alive and with it comes a host of considerations when it comes to design and decoration.

Blues give a tranquil, serene feeling and can create the illusion of space if you have a smaller room, while light green tones are relaxing and restful to the eye, making them ideal for the bedroom.

Lighting is also an important aspect in your bedroom and many experts recommend the use of a dimmer switch or low voltage bulbs to create atmosphere and ambience.

If you have a small bedroom consider an oversized mirror leaning up against a wall to bounce light around the room.

to fit in to it.

Coco Republic.

Victoria recommends choosing the maximum-size bed you can fit in your space without it feeling overcrowded and then choosing pieces such as bedside tables, dressing tables and tallboys to fit around it.

She also says you should aim to maximise floor space, especially if space is an issue, by using wall-mounted shelving or even bedside tables if possible.

One of the most important elements of your bedroom — and one that you will probably have for a longer time than other pieces such as bedside furniture — is your mattress.

The first choice to make is whether you prefer a mattress with or without springs.

“If you sleep on your back and have a small frame, then a three zone spring system will be enough for you but it will be a different story for side sleepers or people with larger frames who need more support,” says Michelle Scaplan from Sleepmaker.

Latex and memory foam mattresses don’t contain any springs and while these options will cost more, Michelle says they are well worth the investment.

“Most people move about 40 times a night but these mattresses will recover their shape within around 4.5 seconds so you won’t find yourself falling back into the groove which can actually disturb your sleep,” she says.

Pillow selection is just as important.

“Your pillow should support your neck while cushioning your head and should allow you to roll over with relative ease,” says physiotherapist Heather Mariner. “Your pillow should also suit your body size and shape.

Replace your pillow as soon as it starts to wear out or you feel it isn’t supportive.

Choice says most pillows will last between six months and two years, with foam and latex lasting slightly longer.

As we move into the cooler months, many of us are getting the blankets and heavy doonas out of storage in preparation for those chilly nights.

If you’re buying a new quilt, many manufacturers will rate their warmth using a numbered system. The weight of your choice of doona will come down to personal preference but feather or down quilts will provide maximum warmth without weight.

Microfibre quilts are another popular option and are great for allergy sufferers.

They range in weights from around 250gsm to 350gsm (grams per square metre). As a general rule, 250gsm quilts are best for hot sleepers or summer months while 350gsm quilts are designed for use year round.
