
Penrose — As part of his  campaign efforts, Ret. Major Gen. Bentley B. Rayburn on Friday stopped  at  Coyote's Coffee Den to meet and greet constituents, not only at the restaurant, but also at their homes and  in several other communities in the region.

Recently, Rayburn announced he is running in the primary against Doug Lamborn for  the 5th Congressional District seat in the U.S. Congress.

"The reason I'm running against Doug is over the last seven years, I've witnessed a total lack of leadership," Rayburn said. "He's got seven years of experience, and I've asked people to  name one thing he has led on and nobody has been able to give me an answer."

With five military institutions in the district and Colorado Springs having the second highest population of veterans in a major metropolitan area, Rayburn said Lamborn had not led in terms of protecting the bases. Also, he said, the district has not had anybody with military experience to represent it for a long time.

For example, Lamborn said he supported the expansion of the training area in Pinion Canyon; however, his approach was wrong, Rayburn said.

"There were a lot of great ways to do it that didn't involve buying anybody's land or didn't involve imminent domain," he said. "(When we did) training exercises in Europe, we didn't have any training space. We would cut a deal with the farmers. They liked it because they got more money for renting their land than they would have for growing their crops, and they got to grow their crops anyway. In the end, whether we win or lose, I would have expected him to fight for it and he never did."

If Rayburn is elected, he said he would surround himself with capable people, including someone who understands the Constitution.

"There are too many things going on in Washington," he said. "They have ignored the Constitution, everything from ObamaCare on. It's just ridiculous. Obviously, the big issues are the debt and the economy. We can't keep loading up (trillions of dollars of) debt on our grandchildren. The government is  trying to take over more and more of our life. We need to fight back."

Rayburn said people will say several things about Lamborn, which are he votes right and the district cannot give up on his seniority. However, he added, there are others in Congress who have 18 to 20 years more seniority than Lamborn and  are virtually unknown.

"The point is seniority doesn't mean anything without leadership," Rayburn said. "You can have all the seniority in the world, but if you don't have leadership, nobody cares."

During his career, Rayburn spent 31 years in the Air Force, serving in Spain, Korea, Middle East, Saudi Arabia and various other places.

"I have a broad background, not only in military, but also  working with international governments," Rayburn said. "I also have a pretty extensive background in education because I ran two master's degree level schools at the Air Force. Then when I got out, I ran Colorado Tech University for a couple years."

Rayburn is the board president of a  charter school in Colorado Springs and is involved with the Presbyterian Church in America, where he serves as the chairman of  the denomination's commission on chaplains and military personnel.

"One of the things we do is the chaplain has to be endorsed by a church to be in the military," Rayburn said. "With everything going on in the military from 'Don't Ask, Don't Tell' being repealed (to several other issues), we've been working on the First Amendment, 'freedom of religion, freedom of free speech' issues for a long, long time."

He said he also was  involved with bringing a National Cemetery to the region.

Voters will have an opportunity to vote in the Primary Election from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. June 24 at the polling places or by  ballots that will be sent to homes shortly. For more information, visit rayburnforcolorado.com .
