
A SURVIVOR of a fire which ripped through a tent in Camp Bastion has told an inquest how he could hear a North-East soldier who perished in the blaze calling out his name.

Private Sikeli Ratu told the hearing how he was woken by the smell of smoke, and as he fled to raise the alarm the flames took hold of the canvas tent.

Privates Dean Hutchinson, 23, from Spennymoor , County Durham, and Rob Wood, 28, from Hampshire, were killed when the fire broke out in the Transport Troop tent in the early hours of February 14, 2011.

Pte Ratu told the inquest: "I smelled smoke. I could smell burning and saw flames jumping from the edge of the table and catch the tent.

"I just ran out. The first thing was to get help. I was shouting their names... Once the fire reached the sides of the tent it travelled quickly.

"The flames had got to the point in the tent where they were sleeping. Hutch was calling my name."

He said after running out of the tent he looked back but could not see anything because of the thick smoke.

Asked to describe what was going through his mind at the time, he replied: "I was lost and I couldn't think straight."

The hearing in Salisbury, Wiltshire, has heard how the soldiers, who served with the Royal Logistic Corps, were sleeping in the tent so they could respond more quickly when supplies arrived at the military base in Afghanistan 's Helmand province.

Pte Ratu said the flames were coming from the area of the tent housing a 32-inch flat screen TV, boiler and fridge.

Fire investigators have concluded that the blaze started in the vicinity of the electrical appliances and quickly spread, igniting combustible materials stored nearby.

Wiltshire and Swindon Coroner David Ridley has already heard evidence that soldiers in the Transport Troop unit would sleep during night duties - something their staff sergeant and unit commander were aware off but not their senior officers.

Pte Ratu said he did not hear the sound of the alarm from a smoke detector but added that he could not remember if there was one fitted in the Transport Troop tent or not.

Earlier, the inquest heard evidence that the tent was not on Camp Bastion's "asset register" - a document kept by the Army and facilities contractor KBR listing all buildings and structures the US firm was responsible for.

Major Leigh Jackson, who was the facilities manager at the time of the fire, said when he arrived in Afghanistan in November 2010 it was apparent there were gaps in the register because Camp Bastion was growing - and so a review was taking place.

Ian Brown, KBR's contract manager at Camp Bastion, was asked by the coroner why the Transport Troop tent was not on the asset register.

"The reason it wasn't on the register was because it was already there. It was one of those 'legacy issues'," he said.

The inquest was adjourned until tomorrow (Tuesday, May 20).

We want you to enjoy your visit to our website. That's why we use cookies to enhance your experience.  By staying on our website you agree to our use of cookies. Find out more about the cookies we use .
