
CAPE TOWN, May 19 (Xinhua) -- South Africa's biggest opposition party the Democratic Alliance (DA) on Monday urged Public Protector Thuli Madonsela to investigate whether President Jacob Zuma abused his power to improperly secure private business deals for his nephew.

Recent allegations suggest that in 2009, Zuma negotiated on behalf of his nephew Khulubuse Zuma to secure a stake in oilfields worth 100 billion rand (about 9.7 billion U.S. dollars) in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) in exchange for South Africa's security assistance and expertise in the field of hydroelectric power.

Furthermore, in 2010, Zuma helped to secure an investment deal to the tune of 13 million rand (about 1.26 million dolalrs) for his nephew's controversial mining company, Aurora Empowerment Systems.

"These abuses of President Zuma's position and powers are added to the laundry list of scandals that have marred his term in office. President Zuma continues to abuse state power for his own enrichment and that of his family," said James Selfe, Chairperson of the DA Federal Executive.

Zuma has been under fire for his suspected role in the controversial security upgrades of his private home in Nkandla in KwaZulu-Natal Province. The project allegedly cost public funds worth 245 million rand (about 23 million dollars).

In the present cases involving Zuma's nephew, the DA contends that the Public Protector should investigate whether Zuma violated Paragraph 2(b) of the Executive Ethics Act.

This violation, Selfe said, includes exposing Zuma himself to any situation involving the risk of a conflict between his official responsibilities and his private interests, using his position or any information entrusted to him, to enrich himself or improperly benefit any other person; and acting in a way that may compromise the credibility or integrity of his office or of the government.

"At a time when South Africa needs clean governance to facilitate economic growth, President Zuma, with his growing list of scandals, is not fit to hold office for another term," Selfe said.

"The DA will not stand by and let this list grow any further. We trust that the Public Protector will take swift action and begin an investigation as soon as possible."

Selfe said the DA must send a message to all South Africans that corruption and maladministration have no place in the government.

Zuma, whose ruling African National Congress (ANC) won the May 7 general elections, will be inaugurated on May 24 for a second term.
