
Ignacio Palacios has travelled the world's vast continents, capturing award-winning images of people and places across Asia, Africa and South America.

But it was Sydney's rock pools that struck a chord in the Spanish photographer, inspiring him to put together a book which showcased his amazing photographs of the scenic attractions.

Mr Palacios said that when he first came to Sydney five years ago with his Australian wife whom he met in Indonesia, the sight of the rock pools reawakened his passion for ocean swimming.

'When I came to Sydney, I came off the plane at 7am, and the first thing I did was go for a swim in the rock pool at Clovelly,' Mr Palacios said.

'In October 2009, I settled at Dee Why beach and loved the sound and the smell of the ocean, the breaking waves and the Australian beach culture. I soon discovered that Australia is the most swimming-crazy country in the world and I became crazy about it too!' he wrote on his website .

Despite not swimming seriously for at least 20 years, Mr Palacios soon joined a swimming club and began competing in ocean swims again.

North Curl Curl rock pool is another one of the photographer's favourites. The name of the pool is believed to have derived from the Aboriginal phrase 'curial curial' which means 'river of life'

The photographs that will feature in his book, Sydney Rock Pools, showcase an array of the pools that the city has to offer.

The beautiful colours, are partially acquired by always being shot at sunrise or sunset, when the best light sweeps over the waterside locations.

But simply pointing and shooting is not the only part of the process for Mr Palacios, who says Photoshop and editing play a big part in his images.

'I love creating the pictures, not just taking the pictures,' he said.

'I use Photoshop and create a final image for what I have captured with my camera.'

Dark clouds form over the 25 metre Avalon rock pool. Mr Palacios said that editing is a big part of his work and that he doesn't just like taking pictures, but loves 'creating the pictures'

The professional photographer, whose constant travelling of the world in search for the perfect photograph never ends, said that despite focusing on portraits in Asia and wildlife in Africa, in Australia it was all about the landscapes.

He also shared some insight into which of the rock pools were his favorite, citing the ones which feature natural environments and that are least manipulated by people.

'Mona Vale in the northern beaches is like an island in the ocean, and then at Curl Curl there are some rocks that are coming out from the pool,’ he said, trying to list his favourite places.

'And in eastern suburbs Mahon - it's just all very natural.'

Mr Palacios, who has spent the last five years living in Sydney, said he couldn't get enough of the water: 'In the first four years that I was here, I was swimming far more than I was photographing and for the last year I've been photographing more than swimming'

But in a month Mr Palacios will be saying goodbye to the Australian landscape, as he jets of to his new destinations of Hawaii , followed by Alaska  and eventually Canada.

'It's a very special project,' he said of his book. 'In the first four years that I was here, I was swimming far more than I was photographing and for the last year I've been photographing more than swimming.

'As I'm getting ready to leave Australia, by publishing this book – it's just a really nice way for me to end my time in the country and say goodbye.'

Good work.

The comments below have not been moderated.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
