
Looking ahead, it will have been 100 years, 1,200 months, 36,524 days and one word: genocide.

Every April 24, Armenians and supporters all across the world take to the streets to remember those who were lost during the 1915 Armenian Genocide and to protest the Turkish government’s rejection of the events.

The legal definition of the word is “any of the following acts committed with intent to destroy, in whole or in part, a national, ethnical, racial or religious group, as such: killing members of the group; causing serious bodily or mental harm to members of the group; deliberately inflicting on the group conditions of life calculated to bring about its physical destruction in whole or in part; imposing measures intended to prevent births within the group; [and] forcibly transferring children of the group to another group," according to the United Nations.

That definition has been the center of conflict between Turkey and Armenia for nearly a century, but the response and reaction are almost the same with every year that passes.

“Until all governments including the U.S. and Turkey acknowledge and condemn this great crime against humanity we cannot heal completely and move beyond our violent past,” said Councilmember Mitch O’Farrell of Los Angeles City Council District 13.

For Glendale Mayor, Zareh Sinanyan, this year is just as important as all the others. As the mayor of the city with one of the largest Armenian populations in the country, Sinanyan says he feels the same amount of pressure every day to seek change, regardless of any big anniversaries.

“Its about justice. It’s about history. It’s about taking ownership of your ancestry. It’s about heritage. It’s about moral values,” he said.

Days before the 99th anniversary, the Armenian Film Foundation delivered 420 digitized genocide survivor testimonies to the USC Shoah Foundation. All but one of the survivors featured in the recordings are no longer living.

The Shoah Foundation has been committed to archiving the testimonies of all genocide and holocaust survivors in a way that is both educational and user-friendly.

“If we’re going to have the kind of moral leadership to speak out on human rights as a nation, if we ‘re going to continue to be a preeminent voice for human rights, we cant discriminate when it comes to recognition of genocide,” he said.

For years, he has lobbied for legislation in support of the Armenian fight.

Schiff has gone so far as to speak on the Senate floor in Armenian, a language far from his native tongue.

Reach Contributor Ani Ucar here . Follow her on Twitter .
