
Palaeontologists in Argentina have discovered what they believe is the world's biggest ever dinosaur. This has been deduced from the discovery an enormous fossilised thigh bone, which suggests the creature measured 40 metres in length and was 20 metres tall.

"It's like two semi trucks, one after another, and the equivalent of more than 14 African elephants' combined weight," says José Luis Carballido , the dinosaur specialist at the Egidio Feruglio Museum in charge of the study of the specimens.

Before you start having nightmares at the thought, be reassured by the fact that the researchers believe the dinosaur is a new species of titanosaur -- a gigantic herbivore from the Cretaceous period, so nothing that would devour you whole -- unless it confused you for a tasty shrub.

The bones were discovered by a farm worker in a Patagonian desert. When palaeontologists from Egidio Feruglio Museum came to excavate the site, they discovered 150 bones altogether, and calculated that the creature weighed in at 77 tonnes. This is seven tonnes more than the next largest dinosaur, the Argentinosaurus -- also first discovered in Argentina.

According to the BBC , which filmed the excavation, the bones were apparently discovered in a "remarkable condition" given that the dinosaur is estimated to have lived between 95 and 100 million years ago. The researchers believe that the creatures died in the same place they were discovered, indicating that there may have been a drought, which may have drawn them together towards small pools of water where they became stuck in the mud. Samples have also been collected showing the remains of 60 large carnivorous teeth, which could have broken off when scavengers were trying break through the titanosaurs' thick layers of skin.

While a significant number of bones have been found belonging to the new beast -- adding up to seven specimens in total -- there isn't a full skeleton, and without full skeleton it is hard to know whether it, or others that could also be the world's largest dinosaur, can truly claim the title.

Still, the palaeontologists have not yet finished their investigations and remain working on the site. "We estimate that one fifth of the completed excavation process, so there is still much work to do and probably much to discover," said Carballido.

The new discovery does not yet have a name. "It will be named describing its magnificence and in honour to both the region and the farm owners who alerted us about the discovery," the BBC quotes the researchers as saying. Argentinosaurus is obviously already taken, as is Patagosaurus, so perhaps it should have a name that conveys its gargantuan bulk. What would you call it? Let us know.
