
Samsung South Africa has partnered with telecommunications provide Vox Telecom to provide users of Samsung Smart TVs with almost a terabyte of data when they purchase a new television set . For every user that purchases a television, Vox will give them one-million megabytes for free, which is valid for a year and is unthrottled, unshaped, premium grade ADSL.

“As a technology leader we strive to supply premium quality bandwidth at a lower cost, and we believe it is key to develop data service solutions that will enhance the consumer’s viewing experience and our partnership with Samsung, gives us the opportunity to not only provide free data but also contribute to the new world of TV in South Africa,” said Gary Sweidan, executive head of products and marketing, Vox Telecom, in a press statement.

With a great number of apps available for Smart TVs in South Africa, you would be able to stream content without having to worry about the cost of data.

“As a global pioneer in innovation, Samsung allows businesses and their customers to connect at every touch point. We provide our customers with hardware and software solutions, as well as content and services. This partnership with Vox Telecom will allow us to create even smarter solutions for our consumers,” added Ansgar Pabst, business lead TV/AV, Samsung Electronics SA.

With the one-million megabytes at your disposal, you would be able to stream 60 000 videos and watch up to 1 000 movies as well as connect via social media, email, chat and surf the internet.

Unlike many news sites, we don’t necessarily proclaim that our reporting will always be unbiased, although we do maintain that most of the time it is. We do, however, take every effort to ensure that our reporting is accurate and fair to all sides in a story.

Our writers’ bios are all over here . It’s a team of rather unparalleled experience and enthusiasm in every field.

And if you’re really old school, call us on 011 023 8005.

You can contact us via this form , and we’ll be updating with PGP and secure details soon.

htxt .africa is South Africa’s newest and most exciting tech blog, covering everything from the top end of government IT investment and spending down to maker culture, hackspaces and – well, generally – fun. We cover far more of the latter than the former, in fact, and aim to make this the number one community for genuinely interesting stuff that’s coming from South Africa and the rest of the continent.

We love games, 3D printers, start-ups and innovative apps that will save the world. We believe that all across the continent, tech is making a difference to people’s lives in ways that are revolutionising living and working. htxt.africa was born of the absolute certainty that there’s a tremendous amount of stuff that’s going on, and no-one is covering this stuff with the care, attention and enthusiasm that it deserves.

You can read all about us over here .

No wildebeest were harmed in the making of this website.
