
Cape Town - A 28-year-old Beaufort West man has been arrested and charged with attempted murder after allegedly torturing a two-year-old boy for several hours.

Last week Thursday, the suspect, who lived with his girlfriend, the 24-year-old mother of the boy, at a house in Khanya Street, held her and her child hostage from about 8am.

The mother managed to escape at about 2.45pm and called for help at a  police station.

By the time police and community members arrived at the house, the suspect had fled.

One of the community members broke a window to get in and rescue the toddler.

“The child was transferred to George hospital due to the severity of his injuries,” said police spokesman Captain Malcolm Pojie.

Officers from the Beaufort-West Family Violence, Child Protection and Sexual Offences Unit (FCS) arrested the suspect on Sunday afternoon after a call for assistance in locating the man was broadcast on a community radio station.

“Within minutes after the broadcast, the investigating officer, Sergeant V Booysen, received an anonymous call from a member of the community who revealed the whereabouts of the suspect,” said Pojie.

He said the man would remain in custody until his first court appearance.

The child has undergone an emergency procedure at a hospital in George and has shown satisfactory results, police said.

However, he remained in a serious condition.

Western Cape Minister of Community Safety Dan Plato on Monday morning condemned the attack.

Social Development MEC Albert Fritz lauded the community and said that he was “saddened” by the attack.

“I want to applaud the community for their role in the events that led to the arrest of a suspect and I hope that the law will deal with the perpetrator in the harshest possible manner.

© Copyright 1999 - 2014 Independent Online, a division of Independent Newspapers (Pty) Limited. The copyright in the literary and artistic works contained in this online news publication and its other related and connected websites, as well as in the published editions of group newspapers, their supplements and any other content or material, belongs exclusively to Independent Newspapers (Pty) Limited unless otherwise stated.
