
The controversial indigenisation regulations, which say foreign investors should cede 51 percent of their businesses to locals, could soon claim a victim after a leading Bulawayo fast food outlet was given seven days to comply with the law.

The National Indigenisation and Economic Empowerment Board on Friday threatened to shut down Golden Grill if it does not comply with the directive. But indigenisation minister Francis Nhema told the Southern Eye newspaper that he did not know anything about the move.

The Association for Business in Zimbabwe and the Zimbabwe Congress of Trade Union led the condemnation of the directive, saying it would be wrong to close the firm in a city which is already experiencing high levels of unemployment due to company closures.

This development comes at a time when several government officials, including finance minister Patrick Chinamasa, have been indicating that they may be having second thoughts about the much derided law.

According to the law, investment in sectors such as grain milling, bakeries, local transportation and fast food out lets are reserved for locals. Golden Grill, which employs about 100 people in its three outlets, is owned by Paul Evans who as a white person is considered under the controversial law not to be indigenous enough.

The indigenisation law has been heavily criticized by many Zimbabwe watchers who feel that it not investor friendly.

Paul Evans and his wife are not white but of mixed race. He is very hardworking and known for cash talk and does not cut corners.  The mafia type of approach used by NIEEB in which they want to be paid something to let go once they have eyed your business is tantamount to corruption and economic sabotage. These officers ask for protection money Italian mafia style. If you don’t comply they make all sorts of threats. Can the relevant authorities take action.  Linda Dube must be brought to book.

NIEED should take over those closed factories in Bulawayo if they are serious and Leave Paul Evans alone. We will be more than happy to see Bulawayo functioning again. Icho chigombiro chekuti angoita kabusiness anonzi hee hee indigenisation wotoona ana Linda Dube vachimhanya netuma threats tusina musoro kushanya nenyadzi iyo bulawayo ichifa soo, wobva washaya kuti zvinhu zvacho zvirikumbofamba cei.

And we are telling the world to come and invest in our country yet we let idiots like these people called Nieeb rob hardwokers so that they can oil their hard looters.
