
Liberals like to claim the NRA is responsible for every shooting that takes place, but Gary Kiehne, a Republican businessman running in Arizona 's 1st Congressional District, says otherwise.  During a debate Saturday, he said that most mass shootings in the United States are committed by Democrats , the Associated Press reported Sunday, citing the Arizona Daily Star .

Kiehne made the comment in response to a question about protecting gun rights , the Daily Star said.  Kiehne, a rancher from Springerville, told the audience he owns more guns and ammunition than the other candidates and believes everyone should own a gun.

House Speaker Andy Tobin, a third candidate in the race, did not attend the debate.  The event was hosted by the Pinal County Republican Committee.  The winner in August's primary will face incumbent Ann Kirkpatrick, a Democrat, in November.

A post at the Gateway Pundit says the argument is one that has been around for some time.  A February 2013 letter to the editor, for example, has made its way around various social media outlets and says that "progressive liberal democrats" are responsible for the worst shootings in recent history.

A January 2013 article at Doug Giles' Clash Daily cites San Diego talk show host Roger Hedgecock and says the five worst mass killings to date had one thing in common -- the shooters were all progressive liberal Democrats.  One, Hedgecock said, was a member of Occupy Wall Street.

Some disagree with the premise that all the shooters were Democrats, but Ann Coulter says at the very least they "were committed by visibly crazy people who were unaccountably not institutionalized."

A September 2013 article at the American Thinker says that "liberalism is far more deeply implicated in the problem of gun crime" than anyone is willing to admit.  For example, the article says, every mass killing since the 1950s has taken place in a so-called "gun-free zone," a liberal construct that only disarms law-abiding citizens.  That article also said mental health "reforms" that essentially give crazy people more rights than the sane are also part of the problem.

"Jared Loughner, notorious in Tucson for his demented stunts, James Holmes, whose psychiatrist actually reported him to police, and Cho Seung-hui, who frightened nearly everyone he encountered at Virginia Tech, might have been safely locked away if not for Judge Bazelon's humanitarian impulses," J. R. Dunn wrote.
