
RACING Queensland has been plunged into turmoil after deputy chairman Barry Taylor quit the board following a bitter feud with chairman Kevin Dixon over transparency of boardroom decision-making.

The resignation is a major blow to the Newman government who cleaned out Racing Queensland and launched an inquiry into the actions of the previous board which saw former chairman Bob Bentley, Labor powerbroker Bill Ludwig and eight others referred to ASIC.

Last week board members were sent a directive to close corporate betting accounts because of probity issues with the multi-billion TAB deal which is being negotiated.

The Courier-Mail can reveal Mr Taylor and Mr Dixon had multiple boardroom stoushes in recent months and shared a cold relationship.

Racing Queensland has an over-arching All Codes board as well as separate boards for the thoroughbreds, greyhound and harness-racing codes.

It is understood there is a growing perception among some board members that a “kitchen cabinet” has formed of exclusive directors and senior executives who are making significant decisions without widespread consultation.

That claim has been denied by Racing Queensland.

Mr Dixon, with the backing of Racing Minister Steve Dickson, has blocked out the majority of the board from the negotiation process in the TAB deal.

There was speculation last night that more resignations could follow later in the week.

When contacted last night Mr Taylor confirmed he had quit the board but would not comment on the circumstances surrounding his resignation.

“I have no comment to make,’’ he said.

The relationship between Mr Taylor and Mr Dixon was so strained Racing Queensland chief executive Darren Condon issued a statement on the organisation’s behalf instead of Mr Dixon.

“Mr Taylor is passionate about the racing industry and I would like to acknowledge his service to the organisation as the board’s Deputy Chairperson,” Mr Condon said.

The bombshell comes in the middle of the Queensland Winter Carnival.

Mr Dickson declined to comment on the circumstances surrounding the resignation. He has distanced himself from the board in recent weeks.

News.com.au's Privacy Policy includes important information about our collection, use and disclosure of your personal information (including to provide you with targeted content and advertising based on your online activities). It explains that if you do not provide us with information we have requested from you, we may not be able to provide you with the goods and services you require. It also explains how you can access or seek correction of your personal information, how you can complain about a breach of the Australian Privacy Principles and how we will deal with a complaint of that nature.
