
KUWAIT: Kuwaiti authorities met officials from the Comoros to discuss the idea of granting the African republic’s nationality to stateless residents who are unqualified for naturalization. Kuwait is exploring the option following in the footsteps of the United Arab Emirates, who in recent years has encouraged its own population of stateless residents to obtain Comorian citizenship after reaching an agreement with the African state’s government. The news comes after a recent statement in which Maj Gen Sheikh Mazen Al-Jarrah Al-Sabah, the Interior Ministry’s Assistant Undersecretary for Citizenship and Passports Affairs, hinted at the possibility of granting bedoons the citizenship of an Arab country based on an agreement currently in the works with the Central Apparatus for Illegal Residents. An official from the apparatus confirmed the negotiations, but denied reports that speculated that the plan involves deporting bedoons to the Arab state after their naturalization is finalized.

Officials from the central apparatus held a long meeting nearly three weeks ago with government officials representing the Federal Islamic Republic of Comoros, said the source who spoke to Al-Jarida on the condition of anonymity. Officials from the Interior Ministry’s Citizenship and Passports Department were also in attendance, the source added. The meeting discussed a plan under which bedoons will be granted economic passports from the Comoros which will enable them to live legally in Kuwait. The Comoros will receive financial benefits as part of the agreement, the source said. Kuwaiti officials also told their Comorian counterparts that in order for the agreement to go through, all authorities in the Comoros must recognize bedoons as their nationals, and agree to receive bedoons who are deported from Kuwait in case of committing a crime, the source added. If the project goes through, the central apparatus plans to start with 1,900 registered bedoons in its database who are people with no records before 1985 and are unqualified for consideration to receive Kuwaiti citizenship, according to the source.

Sheikh Mazen had clarified since his televised statements last Thursday went viral that there are no plans to deport bedoons, but that their presence in Kuwait must be legal. The state is yet to make an official statement regarding reports about the negotiations with the Comoros. In the meantime, a ‘high level diplomatic source’ with knowledge of the plan welcomed the prospect of reaching an agreement with the Arab state to end Kuwait’s decades-long bedoon issue. “[Kuwait] will not hesitate to take any route that leads to ending this dilemma once and for all,” said the source who was quoted anonymously by Al-Rai yesterday. He reiterated the importance of a comprehensive plan under which Kuwait naturalizes bedoons qualified for citizenship, and confronts those who are not with documents that the state says prove their original citizenship. In the latter case, all options are possible, including the idea of granting them the Comorian citizenship. But if that eventually happens, it will not be a way to deport bedoons, but rather as a criterion to ensure that there would no longer be people living illegally in Kuwait, the source explained.

This post has already been read 1503 times!
