
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .

If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .

Video will begin in 5 seconds.

Former minister Chris Hartcher fails to avoid the media after attempting to evade questions by going through a shopping complex.

Tensions inside a corruption inquiry have spilled out onto the street   as associates of former Liberal state energy minister Chris Hartcher   allegedly assaulted reporters after he left the witness box on Monday   afternoon.

The dramatic scenes in the lift and outside the Independent   Commission Against Corruption building in Sydney come after Mr Hartcher   locked horns with the barrister leading the inquiry inside the hearing   room.

Channel 7's state political reporter Lee Jeloscek was repeatedly   kicked in the shins by a man understood to be Mr Hartcher's son.

This occurred as Mr Hartcher tried to avoid the media by weaving through a series of shops within Sydney's CBD.

Two other reporters were shoved in the lift inside the ICAC building.

The former energy minister and the two young men finally jumped into a cab at Martin Place.

Mr Hartcher, the alleged "mastermind" of schemes to channel tens of   thousands of dollars in illegal donations to the Liberal Party, started   giving evidence shortly before midday at the ICAC.

He said he could not recall "laundering" $4000 in Liberal Party   cheques through his old law firm, Hartcher Reid, and directing the money   be paid to Micky Tech, a company run by the partner of his long-term   aide Ray Carter.

"I have already explained to you now on seven occasions that I don't recall," Mr Hartcher snapped.

Mr Watson interrupted with, "Do it again."

Mr Hartcher said Mr Carter's evidence that Mr Hartcher asked him to   give him the money was "wrong" but stopped short of calling him a liar.

"I want you to know what I will be putting, Mr Hartcher ... you pocketed that $4000," said Mr Watson.

"I reject that absolutely!" said Mr Hartcher angrily.

When Mr Watson repeated the allegation, Mr Hartcher shouted, "I resent that!"

"Don't you DARE tell me that you resent anything!" Mr Watson shouted in return.

As the pair continued yelling at each other, Alister Henskens, SC,   for Mr Hartcher, added to the mayhem by shouting "I object!" over the   top.

Commissioner Megan Latham was forced to intervene.

"Can we all back off right now ... I don't want things to degenerate into a screaming match," she said.

"They are both setting each other off and they need to take a backwards step."

Mr Watson then started afresh by suggesting calmly that Mr Hartcher   had instructed Mr Carter to give false testimony to the commission and   that he used his nephew, a solicitor at Hartcher Reid, to launder money.

After Mr Henskens objected once again to the use of the word   "launder", which he said "had a particular meaning within the Crimes   Act", Mr Watson stated: "I want to make it clear. I am putting that Mr   Hartcher laundered the money through Hartcher Reid."

This was a "rolled up, emotive, sensational, media grabbing proposition", Mr Henskens responded.

The ICAC is investigating allegations that Mr Hartcher was involved   in a number of schemes to "wash" illegal donations to the Liberal Party   before the last state election.

One was an alleged "sham company" called Eightbyfive, which the   inquiry has heard billed property developers and other companies for   fake services to disguise the fact they were making illegal donations.

The company was set up by Mr Hartcher's former adviser, Tim Koelma.

Mr Hartcher, the member for Terrigal, has denied he was involved in the schemes.

Mr Hartcher is the last witness to give evidence before Operation   Spicer adjourns until August 4 to give investigators time to examine new   evidence implicating former police minister Mike Gallacher in "serious   electoral funding irregularities".

Daredevil wingsuiters take on 'epic challenge'

Onlookers cheer as two Dutch wingsuiters jump from a helicopter and soar around the Euromast building in Rotterdam.
