
RESTON, VA -- (Marketwired) -- As announced today at the Gartner Business Process Management Summit Australia, Appian customer Queensland Government Department of State Development, Infrastructure and Planning (DSDIP) has been named a winner of the 2014 Gartner Business Process Management Excellence Awards for the Asia Pacific region. DSDIP, the lead state agency for land use planning in Queensland, was recognized by Gartner for organizational excellence in using technology to improve business performance and deliver business results through its innovative State Assessment and Referral Agency (SARA). SARA uses the Appian BPM platform to accelerate the assessment and approval cycle for development projects, driving process efficiency and transparency of critical project data. DSDIP will present key initiatives and process objects of the SARA program during today's summit.

DSDIP was previously recognized by the Planning Institute of Australia (PIA) as the winner of the National Process Improvement Award, as well as the Overall Planning Excellence accolade. SARA is delivering a coordinated, government-wide approach to the state's assessment of development applications that have created the most efficient and effective planning and development system in Australia.

On July 1, 2013, DSDIP launched SARA to reorganize and streamline the state's role in the assessment of development applications covering everything from high-rise building permits to clearing vegetation. DSDIP sought out Appian to build a completely new system that would support the efficient on-line operation of SARA for the department, other state agencies, and developers. Appian was able to develop and deploy the system in less than three months, creating a single agency assessment point for development applications, where the state has jurisdiction and decision making authority. SARA's Appian platform provides all parties involved in the assessment process with greater visibility into project statuses and the ability to communicate to key stakeholders in real-time.

The Appian BPM Suite is a modern Work Platform that empowers all employees in an organization to make smart and efficient decisions, and take rapid business action. Appian discovers and unites enterprise data, connects users through social and collaborative engagement in the context of business data, and provides the leading BPM platform to execute business processes, enforce rules, and ensure all actions taken by users are in accordance with corporate policies and procedures. Appian delivers its full suite capabilities on-premise and in the cloud, on the desktop and on all major mobile device platforms.

"The SARA program is an example of how a modern Work Platform can be adopted at the state government level for enhanced business performance, client service, and organizational transparency," said Karen Astley, Regional Vice President, Asia-Pacific at Appian. "We heartily congratulate DSDIP on another well-deserved recognition for this outstanding program."

In addition, Appian customer Crawford & Company received an Honorable Mention from Gartner for its set of business applications, Crawford Desktop + Mobility, which streamline catastrophe-related resource management and assignment of insurance adjusters to rapidly manage damage claims. Crawford & Company applications deployed on the Appian platform include Claim Portal, Claim Assignment & Scheduling (CAT Connection), Contractor Extranet (repairStream), Automated Claim Report Review/Approval, Customer Billing, and more.

Appian's market leading Business Process Management (BPM) Suite seamlessly integrates work automation with native mobile and social capabilities. All the data, all the processes, all the documents and all the collaborations -- in one environment, on any device, through a simple social interface. The Appian BPM Suite is available on-premise and in the cloud, with complete portability. More than 3.5 million users, from Fortune 100 companies to the mid-market and small businesses worldwide, trust Appian to power their critical business processes. For more information, visit www.appian.com .

Copyright© 2005-2014 Newsgallery Pty Ltd. NewsMaker® is a                         trademark of NewsGallery Pty Ltd.
