
Have an opinion? Express it and get the Wordsmith badge for posting relevant comments on articles and photos.

Make Timesofindia.com your news hotspot. Visit the site regularly earn this badge.

Your opinion matters! Get the influencer badge when other people Recommend or Agree with your comments on Timesofindia.com.

Top Headlines in your inbox!  Subscribe to the TimesofIndia.com. newsletters and become an Inboxer.

Members are registered users on Timesofindia.com. Only they are qualified to earn badges and points for their activities. So register and get a badge right away!

Grow your network; get people to follow you to earn the Networker badge on Timesofindia.com.

Share and recommend the articles, photos and videos you like on Timesofindia.com; earn the Sharekhaan badge!

You can earn the Well Connected badge by linking your Facebook and Twitter accounts to your Times profile. Remember to add both your ids to get the badge!

Watch a movie and become a critic! Review and rate a movie on TimesofIndia.com to earn a Movie Buff Badge!

MUMBAI: After almost eight months of discussions, Tata Communications has finally agreed to sell its South African unit Neotel to Vodacom, an arm of British telecommunications giant Vodafone, for $676 million, or Rs 3,959 crore.

Neotel, in which the Tata Group holds 68.5% stake, is South Africa's second biggest fixed-line phone operator and the deal marks the salt-to-software conglomerate's first bigticket overseas asset sale under chairman Cyrus Mistry.

The sale also puts the $100-billion group's globalization efforts in the reverse gear, as it joins several other Indian corporates feeling the heat of foreign acquisitions.

The Tata Group is exiting Neotel as it no longer wants to engage in long term-financial commitments in a highly competitive market.

The shareholders of Neotel and Vodacom have concluded an agreement on the "commercial structure and terms" that will enable the latter to buy 100% stake in Neotel , including shareholder loans against it, Tata Communications said in a statement. The deal is subject to telecom regulatory and competition authority approvals. South African investors Nexus Connection and Communitel own 19% and 12.5% respectively in Neotel, earlier known as SNO Telecommunications.

The Neotel sale will help the Vinod Kumar-headed Tata Communications to cut down its over Rs 11,000-crore debt to some extent. "The deal is in line with our financial objectives, while paving the way for Neotel to improve its value proposition in the South African market," Kumar said.

Neotel was established in 2005 after the South African government deregulated the telecom market, with the Tata Group initially acquiring a 26% stake in the company. Since then, it has been increasing its stake in the unit. In 2009, it became Neotel's controlling shareholder with a 56% stake and, in 2012, its stake increased to 68.5%.

On Monday, shares of Tata Communications ended at Rs 305, up over 3.7% on the BSE.

Non logged-in comments will go through a                                                                                                         verification process for security reasons.

Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community. Help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive. Let's work together to keep the conversation civil.

We encourage you to register/login and proceed.

However, if you choose to remain                                                                                     non-loggedin, you are required to fill up the form below and verify                                                                                     your email address before we can publish your comment.

That way, we                                                                                     can verify that the email address doesn't belong to someone else.

We encourage you to register/login and proceed.

However, if you choose to remain                                                                                     non-loggedin, you are required to fill up the form below and verify                                                                                     your email address before we can publish your comment.

That way, we                                                                                     can verify that the email address doesn't belong to someone else.

The Tata Group is exiting&#160;Neotel&#160;as it no longer wants to engage in long term-financial commitments in a highly competitive market.

Your Reason has been Submitted to the admin.
