
Login or Signup now to share stories and leave comments.

Login or Signup now to share stories and leave comments.

PITTSBURGH (AP) - Nearly 100 people packed The Alloy Studios in Friendship on Saturday for discussion groups and a fashion show spotlighting the beauty and diversity of natural African-American hair. Many were part of the local group It’s a Natural Thang, which educates and supports women and men in their journey to let chemical agents and relaxers grow out and natural hair textures and curl patterns grow in.

In Washington, D.C., a few hundred gathered in the name of natural hair, paying special attention to styling tips for kids and members of the military. The celebration continued from Connecticut to Canada, Tallahassee to Tokyo and more than 50 other places in between to mark International Natural Hair Meetup Day.

Adeea Rogers of Greenville, N.C., started the event three years ago as an opportunity to connect for “naturalistas,” as those who forgo chemical styling agents affectionately call themselves. Word of her efforts spread organically through social media, she said, and the meet-up day has picked up more participation each year in America and abroad.

Saturday was the second time the event had a presence in Pittsburgh and the first time it included a fashion show featuring hair styled by The Natural Choice, a barber shop and salon in Oakland specializing in natural hair care. Globally, the event was presented by Koils by Nature, a hair product line specially formulated for curly, textured hair.

Tamiah Bridgett , founder of It’s a Natural Thang, has watched her Pittsburgh group grow from fewer than 20 people in 2010 to quarterly meet-ups in the area that attract 100-150 guests and a Facebook page that’s 3,000-plus followers strong.

In the early days, they met in homes and then at libraries until “we got too loud for the library,” she said. These days, they typically gather at Union Project in East Liberty. Meetings can cover anything from how to find a good hairdresser to how to dodge natural hair product marketing schemes. People come for varied reasons; some are thinking about going natural while others are seeking advice in the midst of their journey. Others have multi-race families and want suggestions for their children’s hair.

“Each meet-up has its own theme and its own flair,” Bridgett said.

To become an official meet-up day host city, local groups pay a fee and complete informational webinars educating them about tips and requirements for their festivities. This year, all attendees were asked to bring a new natural hair care product to be donated to charity. INHMD Cares, the altruistic arm of the international meetup organization, also raised awareness in each city about lupus and suicide prevention.

Hair groups are the latest iteration of the natural hair movement, which has been evolving since the 1970s. For many, what differentiates the endeavor between then and now are the intentions behind going natural.

Bridgett made the decision 13 years ago in graduate school.

After school, her day job was as a social worker and on the side she aided women with styling their natural hair. They liked how she wore hers and requested her help. She pursued her license in cosmetology, and It’s a Natural Thang was born.

Social media and worldwide attractions such as the annual World Natural Hair Show in Atlanta have brought more attention to natural hair.
