
Dubai, United Arab Emirates, May 18, 2014: Data Science Technologies (DST), a subsidiary of StorIT Distribution and a pioneer in the Big Data Analytics solutions and services space, announced that it is supporting the Open Compute Project hosted by OCP in association with IDC CEMA as a partner of the event. Boby Joseph, CEO at DST will be presenting on behalf of the company at the niche event to be held at the Burj Al Arab, Dubai on May 19th, 2014.  “We are proud to be a partner of the Dubai edition of the Open Compute Project, a project established by Facebook with the goal of building one of the most efficient computing infrastructures at the lowest possible cost. The event is a platform for the local ICT community to meet and discuss the latest developments in OCP, where they communicate, collaborate and contribute. We are happy to present DST’s ventures in OCP and meet and network with participants at the event,” says Mr. Joseph, CEO, DST. The event is organized by the Open Compute Project Foundation in association with IDC CEMA. Participants will get a chance to listen to senior executives of the OCP Foundation, Microsoft, Splitted-Desktop, Data Science Technologies and Servergy.

Data Science Technologies, a subsidiary of StorIT Distribution, is a business which is changing the landscape of Big Data Practice. DST consists of a set of Data Scientists, Developers, Consultants, Business Practitioners and Visionaries who constitute the Big Data Practice. The Company offers Big Data expertise, the visibility of technology and analytical skill set brokered to you and you consumers in a model which allows them to transform their practice of information business through a new approach.

With expertise in SAS, Hadoop, MapR, MapReduce, Greenplum, Elastic Search, Python, MongoDB, Redis Solr etc., DST can offer unparalleled consulting and integration services in the Big Data Analytics.

About StorIT Distribution FZCO: StorIT is the Middle East’s leading Specialist IT distributor of Enterprise Data Storage, Data Protection and Data Management Solutions. Incorporated in year 2002, StorIT is based out of Dubai, with branch offices in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia and Doha, Qatar. With active operations spanning more than 12 countries across the region, StorIT works with a wide Reseller Channel Network, comprising Value Added Resellers and Solution Providers, in offering comprehensive turnkey solutions to customers in the SMB, SME and High Enterprise Segments of the market.  StorIT’s proven track record, over a period of 10 years, of successfully introducing the very best of breed technology providers of the world to the Middle East market, by establishing and enabling a robust reseller channel that has been a key factor in their rapid growth in the region, has sealed its credentials as one of the most reliable, resilient and far-sighted value distribution organizations in the region. Supported by enhanced distribution services right from presales consultancy, marketing support, post sales professional services, project financing options through warehousing & logistics hubs in Dubai, Riyadh and Doha, StorIT has witnessed stupendous year-on-year growth over a decade by offering great value proposition as a dependable long-term partner to both its vendors and resellers (customers).
