
Click  here to view what's in the latest edition  of the Screen Africa magazine.

The latest news from our  listed companies showcasing  their activities.

Deepend Films and its sister companies Deep End Post-Production and Splash  FX have earned considerable acclaim lately with the production of a number of  documentaries, two of which took home major awards at the South African Film  and Television Awards (SAFTAs), held at the beginning of April.

The completed documentaries form part of an ongoing series exploring the lives  and work of some of South Africa’s leading visual artists. Chickens Can Fly, which  took the awards for Best Director of a Documentary Feature (for Deepend  founder and executive producer Paulene Abrey) and Best Cinematography in a  Documentary Feature (for Paul Kruger) and was also nominated in the Best  Documentary Feature Category, focuses on Pieter van der Westhuizen. Light  and Dark, which was nominated for Best Editor, Best Cinematographer, Best  Director and Best Documentary Feature, looks at Norman Catherine. Norman  Catherine Curriculum Vitae continues the exploration of this artist’s work, and  Outsider, which is due for release this month, examines the work of Beezy  Bailey.

Deepend Films was founded by Abrey, together with Luaan Hong, in order to  create original content under the Deepend banner, in addition to the services it  already offers in the area of post-production. The three companies closely  complement and add value to one another, with Deepend Films creating  content, and Deepend Post and Splash finishing the products from offline to  online and effects. Of course, the two post and finishing facilities also offer their  services independently.

Deepend Films is currently working on several features, including three more on  the lives of South African artists. Outsider, their most recently finished feature,  will premiere at the Labia in Cape Town on 14 May, followed by a screening at  Cine Centre Killarney, Johannesburg on 19 May.

Synchro Music is one of the top 3 major production music library agents in South Africa, with a great  Source  for Production Music Tracks. We represent over 30 International Production Music Libraries.

Intelsat is the world's leading provider of satellite services. Envision…Connect…Transform…with Intelsat,  celebrating 50 years of  space leadership in 2014.

Puma Video - 401 Jan Smuts Avenue, Blairgowrie, Randburg, Gauteng, South Africa.

The new XS live production server delivers the fastest access and distribution of multi-camera recorded  content, for enriched tv programming.

AJA Video Systems is a leading manufacturer of high quality and cost effective digital interface,  conversion, acquisation and  desktop solutions.
