
The billions of rands spent on training South Africans as doctors in Cuba could be better spent to expand infrastructure and capacity at local medical schools.

This was the general feeling among local universities that offer medical training.

They believe the training could be offered in SA, given the difference in disease patterns of the two countries, culture and the environment.

SA and Cuba entered into an agreement in 1995 to bolster human resource requirements in SA through the recruitment of Cuban doctors, mainly to work in rural communities.

Later, local qualifying youngsters were sent to train in Cuba at South Africa’s expense.

While Health Department spokesperson Joe Maila declined to divulge the exact figure involved in training the students in Cuba, the amount is believed to run into billions of rands.

“We can’t give figures because the amount is not the same due to exchange rates,’ Maila said.

He said the quality of training and the output by doctors trained in Cuba was good.

The only difference in Cuba was the emphasis on disease prevention.

Wits University vice-chancellor Prof Adam Habib says the money should rather be redirected to expanding infrastructure and capacity at local medical schools.

“It will be far better to invest those funds to expand local infrastructure. In SA, we produce about 1200 doctors per year whereas we should be producing at least 5000,” Habib said.

“If you go to Cuba, the diseases are different from SA. The students have to come back in their fourth year and need training in our disease patterns,” he said.

Habib said the university was willing to expand its infrastructure and human capacity if the government and private sector were to provide the resources.

Pretoria University dean of the health sciences faculty, Prof Eric Buch, said the main obstacle for expansion was the lack of funding.

“We do not want to hike our fees as we seek to train more students from poorer communities,” Buch said.

University of Cape Town spokesperson Linda Rhonda agreed that funding was a crucial obstacle to expanding capacity at the institution.

Rhonda said the faculty of health sciences had submitted a plan to the Department of Higher Education and Training that would enable it to increase first year enrolment from 220 to 300.

“Without this investment, the faculty will have to revert to accepting 200 students in the first year, as we are already facing challenges with space, equipment and staffing shortages,” she said.

But Maila remained convinced that the SA-Cuba agreement was still the “way to go”.
