
Sam Berenstain (above), a farm manager with Project Grows in Verona, helps 6-year-old Tovah Kowell (left) and 5-year-old Meghan Skally pick herbs. The home-schooled girls belong to the Prism Learning Community, which visits the farm weekly. At left, Berenstain helps children from the learning community replant herbs.

STAUNTON — Markets, traditionally, are places teeming with people seeking to buy things. Sometimes there’s negotiation back and forth, and potential customers may riddle a vendor with questions about a product.

But some markets harbor an easier atmosphere. They become places where people linger and talk and open themselves up to new ideas.

Jenna Clarke, director of operations at Project Grows, said that’s the sort of spirit she notices at the area’s farmers markets, and it’s a mood that, as she sees it, makes them good settings for the sort of educational work performed by Project Grows.

Project Grows, a nonprofit educational farm in Verona, is incorporating farmers markets more thoroughly into its work this year than ever before.

Last year, the group worked a stand at the North Augusta Farmers’ Market in Verona. This year, it will manage the North Augusta Farmers’ Market, continue to run a table there, and also run a table at the Waynesboro Farmers Market.

Clarke said selling produce at the markets helps generate revenue for Project Grows — which donates about half of its produce and sells the rest, at various venues, to sustain its educational programs. She said a presence at the farmers markets also helps the group to fulfill its larger mission.

Susanna Byrd, marketing and outreach coordinator for Project Grows, noted a few plans that may be coming to the North Augusta Farmers’ Market. Byrd mentioned the possibility of a kids’ day and an uptick in music at the market.

She also said staff members were working to implement the acceptance of Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program benefits — also known as food stamps — at the North Augusta Farmers’ Market. The markets in Staunton and Waynesboro accept SNAP.

Part of what has helped Project Grows to bring innovation to the North Augusta Farmers’ Market is the presence of the Allegheny Mountain School in Highland County, which has helped to create a network of people with knowledge of food systems. Byrd, a senior fellow at the school, was able to work with Mandy Henkler, another senior fellow at the school, to create some new programming at the market.

To log in, enter the email and password for your Times-Dispatch All Access account.

Need more information about All Access? Get all of the details here .
