
Harris 'Wanted To Be First To Tongue Kiss Girl'

The alleged victim, who was aged about 11, tells a court she was "frozen" and "repulsed" when the entertainer kissed her.

Rolf Harris kissed a girl of 11 or 12 while she was off school "so he could be her first," a court has heard.

The woman, who is now in her fifties and cannot be named for legal reasons, said she was left "frozen" and "repulsed" by what happened.

She added that as a result she still felt "frazzled" whenever she was kissed, saying it caused her "panic attacks".

The woman, from the Northern Territory, was the first Australian witness to give evidence on day six of the trial at Southwark Crown Court.

There is no charge against entertainer Harris, 84, regarding the woman and her evidence is being used to support the prosecution's case.

The woman told the court she was assaulted in 1969 and was staying with friends when she woke up, came downstairs in her pyjamas and found Harris polishing wood.

She told the court: "He asked me how old I was and he said he wanted to be the first one to introduce me to a tongue kiss.

"I stood there. I didn't think anything. I just froze. I didn't think he was being serious. Then he walked up towards me."

She said Harris ran his hands up her body, bent down and kissed her.

"I was scared. It seemed to last forever but it must have been very quick. He put his tongue inside my mouth," she said.

When asked how she felt afterwards the woman replied: "I was quite repulsed, absolutely. He just stopped and then said 'look at what I have been doing'."

The woman, who has been married three times, told the court the alleged incident had repercussions in her adult life as she found it difficult to tongue kiss.

She said she went to police after reports of the investigation against him emerged.

Meanwhile, a woman allegedly groped by Harris broke down in tears as she described how Harris molested her on a dance floor.

The witness, who is in her fifties and cannot be named, said he put his hand up her skirt during a wine launch event in New Zealand's North Island in 1970 or 1971 when she was 16 or 17 years old.

Sobbing heavily the woman told the court: ''I saw the dark side of a man who I thought could be trusted. It was in a public place."

She said the day after the alleged incident she told her mother what happened and described Harris as a ''disgusting, vile, repulsive man, who had taken away any trust in the fact that he was a celebrity.''

She added: ''He violated my trust, I never thought he was somebody who could not be trusted.''

Harris, from Bray, Berkshire, listened to proceedings from the glass-fronted dock, dressed in a black suit, striped shirt and tie.

His wife Alwen was in the public gallery along with other friends and relatives.

Harris denies 12 counts of indecent assault allegedly carried out between 1968 and 1986. The trial continues.
