
Democratic Alliance leader Helen Zille.

Johannesburg - The Press Ombudsman has dismissed a complaint by the Democratic Alliance that a story printed in The Star newspaper was inaccurate.

Ombudsman Johan Retief, in a ruling released on Monday, said the complaint was about a story printed on April 22 this year, and syndicated across Independent Group titles, headlined “Reserve Bank 'does endorse DA economic plans' “.

“The DA complains that the story inaccurately stated that: the party were running a radio advertisement that the SA Reserve Bank had 'endorsed' its economic plan and had “agreed” with it… ” said Retief.

The story stated that the DA was “continuing to claim that the SA Reserve Bank has endorsed the party’s economic politics, despite both the bank and Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan rejecting the claims several months ago”.

This was even though DA leaders were careful to attribute the endorsement of their manifesto to “a Reserve Bank consultant”.

“The journalists claimed that the DA’s radio adverts 'repeat(ed) the claims',” Retief said.

“They also reported that Zille said at a rally outside Kroonstad that this consultant 'did an economic model of the DA’s policies and stated it would lead to eight percent growth and six million real, sustainable jobs'.

The ombudsman said the journalists also stated the advert said the SARB “agreed” that the DA’s economic plan would lead to an eight percent growth rate and the creation of six million jobs,” Retief said.

Retief said the questions confronting him was whether the story misrepresented the DA’s position and, if so, whether it had likely caused it unnecessary harm.

While Retief believed that the story was technically inaccurate, he referenced an interview Zille had done with eNCA, which The Star had also cited, where she said: “We know we can get six million jobs if we have a proper economic policy that can grow the economy at eight percent per year.

Retief said if Zille never said those words, he would have found  the statement in the story to be essentially untrue and an apology would have been appropriate.

Retief said he had no evidence that Zille stated the SARB had “modelled” or “endorsed” the DA's policy, at the rally near Kroonstad.

“The newspaper also did not provide me with any proof to this effect,” he said.

“However, even if it was inaccurate to have stated that she made  this statement near Kroonstad, Zille had made the very same assertion elsewhere.

Regardless of the above, Retief was concerned the journalists got the when and the where of Zille's statement wrong on both occasions.

“This is a cause for concern, and should urgently be addressed by the powers that be at The Star,” he said.

Login and register, if you haven’ t already.

© Copyright 1999 - 2014 Independent Online, a division of Independent Newspapers (Pty) Limited. The copyright in the literary and artistic works contained in this online news publication and its other related and connected websites, as well as in the published editions of group newspapers, their supplements and any other content or material, belongs exclusively to Independent Newspapers (Pty) Limited unless otherwise stated.
