
A young woman diagnosed with terminal cancer after hospital staff failed to spot abnormalities in a routine cervical smear test has criticised the ‘appalling mistakes’ made by the NHS.

Fay Harryman, 29, from Chatham, Kent, went for a routine cervical smear in April 2009.

The  test was analysed at University Hospital Lewisham and she was told  there were no abnormalities and should attend another routine smear test  36 months later.

However, within months she started suffering from bladder problems and abnormal bleeding.

Shockingly, she had an MRI scan in November 2010 which showed a large tumour on her cervix.

As a result, she had to have chemotherapy and radiotherapy which left her infertile.

But the treatment failed to stop the spread of the disease and she has now  been told that it has spread to her lymph nodes and is incurable.

She said: ‘It’s very hard not to be bitter or angry as I now know that if my smear test had been correctly interpreted in 2009, the last five years would have been very different and I would probably have a future to look to now.

‘There have been numerous campaigns in my lifetime about the importance of attending regular smear tests and how early detection saves lives. When you follow these guidelines, you expect the NHS to correctly play its part in keeping you safe, but sadly my care fell well short of this.

She said: ‘To be told at the age of 25  that cancer treatment has left you infertile is devastating enough, but  to now be told treatment can only prolong my life rather than cure me is  almost impossible to comprehend.

‘I had always wanted children but the first course of treatment led to me suffering a premature menopause.

Cervical cancer is a rare type of cancer that develops in a woman's cervix.

It often has no symptoms in the early stages meaning it is often not diagnosed until it is more advanced.

Symptoms that can develop include unusual vaginal bleeding which can occur after sex, in between periods or after the menopause, and pain during sex.

When the cancer is more advanced, symptoms can include constipation, blood in the urine, loss of bladder control, back pain, loss of appetite and weight loss.

Screening (which is offered to all women aged 25 to 64 in the UK) aims to pick up abnormal cells before they turn cancerous.

These pre-cancerous cells can normally be treated to prevent them becoming cancerous.

Almost all cases of cervical cancer are caused by the human papillomavirus, which can be spread through sex.

Since 2008, an HPV vaccine has been routinely offered to all girls aged between 12 and 13.

Of all the women diagnosed with cervical cancer, 83 per cent will survive for a year and 67 per cent will survive for at least five years.

‘My boyfriend Mike and I then planned to have children via a surrogacy route in America but I was rejected for funding on the NHS and now my cancer has returned it is not something I can continue to pursue.

Ms Harryman has now instructed lawyers  to investigate whether more could have been done to detect and treat her cancer sooner.

The firm is also investigating whether earlier detection would have saved her life.

Expert evidence commissioned by the lawyers found that Lewisham Healthcare NHS Trust failed to detect abnormal cells in the smear test taken in April 2009, incorrectly reported the smear as ‘normal’ and recommended a standard recall in 36 months (three years).

The evidence also suggests that, had the test been correctly reported as showing abnormalities, further testing would have been recommended within four weeks which, on the balance of probabilities, would have confirmed cancerous cells and meant Ms Harryman could have been sent for immediate treatment to remove them, preventing the cancer from spreading.

The Trust has admitted liability for the failure to detect and report the cancerous cells, but continues to dispute how the failures contributed to the cancer returning and whether it would have saved her life.

Ms Harryman’s legal team has now issued court proceedings in the hope of quickly securing her a vital settlement to fund her ongoing treatment costs and cover her loss of earnings.

Victoria Walne, her lawyer at the firm Irwin Mitchell, said: ‘This is a tragic case - Fay is not yet 30 but has been left with terminal cervical cancer and unable to have children.

‘While the Trust has admitted liability for its failings relating to interpreting and reporting the smear results, we believe it also needs to give answers about how it was possible for these failures to happen and confirm what steps have been taken to ensure the same, frankly appalling mistakes, can never happen again.

‘This includes ensuring that we carry out additional reviews of smear tests when necessary.

The comments below have been moderated in advance.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
