
From time to time, the Fact Checker writes an analytic piece on news events, based on his three decades of experience covering diplomacy and politics, rather than a traditional fact check. This is one of those columns.

But such shorthand betrays a misunderstanding of how the State Department works. Yes, Hillary Clinton was secretary of state in 2012. Designations of foreign terrorist groups are ultimately issued by the secretary of state. But the decision on how to handle the group was resolved before it ever reached her level, according to officials familiar with the deliberations.

1. It must be a foreign organization.

3. The organization’s terrorist activity or terrorism must threaten the security of U.S. nationals or the national security (national defense, foreign relations or the economic interests) of the United States.

If the Bureau of Counterterrorism decides a designation may be warranted, then the State Department’s regional bureaus weigh in. The regional bureaus, of course, deal directly with the ambassadors of the affected country and, thus, can provide perspective on the political impact of a designation. Ultimately, if a recommendation goes to the secretary of state that the groups should be designated, then the attorney general and the Treasury Department are asked to concur. Officials at the White House are also generally kept informed if it looks as if a group is going to be designated.

The Justice Department also weighed in, with Lisa Monaco, then head of the Justice Department’s national security division, sending a letter to the Bureau of Counterterrorism saying the group met the qualification for designation.

State Department officials vigorously debated how to treat Boko Haram, with the Bureau of Counterterrorism, headed then by Assistant Secretary Daniel Benjamin , leaning toward designation, and the Africa bureau, headed then by Assistant Secretary Johnnie Carson , urging caution. One big issue was that Nigeria was a government close to the United States — and Nigeria was adamantly opposed to the designation.

Nigerian officials also argued that an FTO designation — which halts any flow of funds to the entity or people associated with it — would make it difficult for humanitarian aid to continue in the region where Boko Haram operated.

The Nigerian concern was echoed by academic experts on Nigeria, who signed a joint letter to the State Department arguing against a premature designation. “If economic development is to play a role in alleviating tensions in northern Nigeria, we should not hamper access by USAID [the U.S. Agency for International Development] or private NGOs [nongovernmental organizations] in providing aid and assistance in the region,” the experts wrote, noting that the designation would make it illegal for NGOs to communicate with members of Boko Haram to urge them to renounce violence — or even to conduct independent scholarly inquiries about the group.

There was another, complicating issue: U.S. officials believed the Nigerian army had engaged in brutal human rights abuses in its efforts to fight Boko Haram.

From the perspective of the State Department, designating Boko Haram as a foreign terrorist organization was not a simple choice, even with the pressure from Congress. The host government was adamantly opposed to the idea — and its military was doing a very poor job in handling the threat. So officials decided to see whether there was a way to use the situation to send a signal to Boko Haram and pressure the Nigerian military to clean up its act, without angering the Nigerian government with a unilateral designation that it opposed.

“The debate was really about the Nigerian attitude toward designation,” Robert P. Jackson, principal deputy assistant secretary of state for African affairs, told Congress. “The government of Nigeria feared that designating these individuals and the organizations would bring them more attention, more publicity and be counterproductive.

The strategy, which represented a compromise in the positions of Benjamin and Carson, was set in discussions with Deputy Secretary William J. Burns , who is a career Foreign Service officer. The administration would name three leaders of Boko Haram as specially designated global terrorists while holding out the possibly of a broader designation of the entire group as a means of improving the behavior of Nigerian forces battling Boko Haram.

Friend alluded to this leverage in her congressional testimony.  U.S. law bars Pentagon aid to military units suspected of human rights abuses.

In other words, it was a step-by-step diplomatic process. It was made clear that formal designation of the group could come later — and it did, the very next year. But in the meantime, the State Department hoped it could use the threat of designation — and the pressure from Congress — to induce better behavior by the Nigerian military and a more serious approach to the threat by the Nigerian government. By contrast, officials feared that going immediately to a designation would forfeit that potential leverage and upset the Nigerian government.

In any case, in 2013, the State Department did formally designate Boko Haram as a foreign terrorist organization.

Hindsight is always 20/20. In retrospect, perhaps the State Department could have moved quicker with a designation, as Jackson conceded to Congress. But at the time the officials involved in the discussions believed they had come up with an acceptable compromise that would not upset the Nigerian government and would have helped improve the behavior of the Nigerian military.

Given the facts at hand, it was not an unreasonable solution — and the process by which the decision was made was fair-minded and thorough. Officials on both sides of the debate argued their case, and, as is often the case, a compromise was reached. Moreover, there is no evidence that an FTO designation any sooner would have prevented the kidnapping of the girls.

Glenn Kessler has reported on domestic and foreign policy for more than three decades. He would like your help in keeping an eye on public figures. Send him statements to fact check by emailing him , tweeting at him , or sending him a message on Facebook .

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
