
One of your articles has caused quite a stir! 250 comments have been made about it so far!

Awarded after your 25th article is published on MyNews24. You're halfway to the next level!

 For a couple of years now i have heard stories that people are been refused the right to get married @the department of home affairs in Port Elizabeth. I recently spoke to a couple i know who went there to get married married and then got turned away,  All this couple wanted was to get married , i mean it"has   been legal in  South Africa  since the  Civil Union Act  came into force on 30 November 2006.

The decision of the Constitutional Court  in the case of  Minister of Home Affairs v Fourie  on 1 December 2005 extended the  common-law  definition of marriage to include same-sex spouses—as the  Constitution of South Africa  guarantees equal protection before the law to all citizens regardless of  sexual orientation —and gave  Parliament  one year to rectify the inequality in the marriage statutes.

My friend did eventually find somebody to marry him and his husband , but he was definitely let down here he was denied a service that would have been aloud by strait couples  , His dignity was tarnished and he was discriminated again on basis of his sexual orientation.

I Fact it made them more stable solid and successful, the children they adopted were adopted because they really wanted children, and let me tell you these guys love them like no parent i have ever seen.

Disclaimer: All articles and letters published on MyNews24 have been independently written by members of News24's community. The views of users published on News24 are therefore their own and do not necessarily represent the views of News24. News24 editors also reserve the right to edit or delete any and all comments received.

Get Published!

Travel - Look, Book, Go!

SMS Alerts Get breaking news stories via SMS.

Blogs Your opinion on you, me and everyone.

Calais Website keywords automated by OpenCalais.

© 2014 24.com. All rights reserved.

Creating your profile will enable you to submit photos and stories to get published on News24.

This username must be unique, cannot be edited and will be used in the URL to your profile page across the entire 24.com network.

* The image you selected could not be uploaded.

Hi News addict,

Join the News24 Community to be involved in breaking the news.
