
In 2013, the Dubai Foundation for Women and Children (DFWAC) gave shelter to a record 101 women and children, including three victims of human trafficking under the age of 18 — passed on to the shelter by the Dubai Police, the DFWAC announced at a Press conference on Sunday.

Figures from the foundation’s latest annual report give a revealing picture of the type of abuses against women and children being committed in Dubai, and the profile of the victims.

The number of women and children admitted to the shelter last year continued to climb about a quarter overall for the second year in a row, with cases of child abuse more than doubling.

DFWAC programme and research director Badriya Al Farsi said the increasing number of clients being dealt with reflected the hard work that had gone in raising awareness in society, rather than increase in violence.

The foundation not only provided immediate protection to those who needed it — in one case a woman who was in immediate danger from a violent partner — but also conducted awareness programmes, training and workshops, she said.

The efforts to keep women and children safe appeared to be working “from the frequent communications received by the DFWAC for services, consulting and the increasing numbers of cases ... as well as the increased demand for community education programmes”.

Of the 101 sheltered victims last year, 42 were the victims of child abuse. That is up from the 20 cases in 2012, when 85 women and children were sheltered.

Child abuse cases made up the greatest proportion of the internal cases, at almost 42 per cent. Two-thirds of the victims were female and one-third male, though the foundation said this most likely related to the age of admission for males rather than representing a real gender imbalance.

Out of the child abuse cases, 11 were Emiratis, 26 were other nationalities, and five were listed as ‘unknown’.

The foundation also offered advice and assistance to a further 313 external cases via their helpline, with the overwhelming majority being domestic violence victims.

dubai — The Emirati father of the three children, whose Ethiopian housemaid had allegedly tried to kill them in Dubai’s Al Warqa area in April, has obtained a court verdict in his favour. The court ruled that his ex-wife failed to look after the three children and had left them under the care of the housemaid while she travelled abroad.

In a telephone interview with Al Bath Al Mubasher radio programme of Ajman Radio, the father claimed that the management of the hospital, where his children were undergoing treatment, “was reluctant” to hand his children over to him.

“A woman doctor at Rashid Hospital delayed the discharge of my children, even though she herself had set the discharge date,” he claimed.

He added that the duty police officer at the hospital was reluctant to hand his children over to him claiming that they were unwilling to be with him.

The Ethiopian housemaid allegedly stabbed the three Emirati children — aged 16, 14 and 12 — at their home on April 11.

She allegedly chased them with a cleaver and poured boiling water over them, leaving two of them with serious injuries. She then reportedly tried to commit suicide.

Domestic violence amounted to 70 per cent of these calls, of victims ranging in age from 17 to 70. Surprisingly, eight per cent of the victims calling for help were male.

The abuse ranged from emotional to physical and sexual, though almost nine-tenths was emotional, while 42 per cent of victims were Emiratis.

A further 15 of the 101 victims who spent time in the shelter were victims of human trafficking, ranging in age from six months old to 33 years.

The report says the majority of the victims were from Asia, and had suffered abuse including emotional (73 per cent), sexual and financial (67 per cent) and physical abuse and neglect (53 per cent).

In spite of the shocking details, the cases are actually down from 35 cases of human trafficking reported in 2012, which made it the most prevalent reason for victims to seek shelter.

This is a point of view shared by United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime GCC Head of Office Dr Hatem Aly, who says the GCC is particularly vulnerable to illicit trafficking due to its geographical location in the middle of the world and the fact that it is a travel hub.

The UAE showed “great willingness” to combat the illegal human trafficking trade.
