
Johannesburg - President Jacob Zuma on Monday expressed concern about the kidnapped schoolgirls in Nigeria.

"The government and the people of South Africa condemn in the strongest terms the abduction of school children in the Federal Republic of Nigeria by the armed group Boko Haram and calls on the kidnappers to release the children without further delay," Zuma said.

About 230 schoolgirls were kidnapped from a school in Chibok in Nigeria's north-eastern state of Borno on 14 April. Militant group Boko Haram have claimed responsibility for the act.

Zuma also denounced the bombing in Kenya on Friday which resulted in 10 deaths and 70 people being wounded.

Zuma said targeting unarmed civilians was deplorable.

He said the African Union (AU) needed to urgently activate its peace and security structure to end the activities of armed groupings responsible for attacks on civilians.

He called on the African Union to ensure peace and stability on the continent.

"It is crucial to build a stronger and a well resourced AU to take forward the promotion of peace, security, and the socio-economic advancement of the continent," he said.

These worrying developments threatened to undermine progress made by the continent on economic and other fronts.

"Part of the capacity needed by the AU is the establishment of the African Standby Force for rapid deployment in crisis areas without delays," he said.

He called on the people of the Central African Republic to work towards peace in their country.

"The people of the CAR have endured enough strife and conflict. We urge all leaders in the CAR to unite the people behind a common vision of peaceful coexistence and national unity," Zuma said.

Travel - Look, Book, Go!

SMS Alerts Get breaking news stories via SMS.

Blogs Your opinion on you, me and everyone.

Calais Website keywords automated by OpenCalais.

© 2014 24.com. All rights reserved.

Creating your profile will enable you to submit photos and stories to get published on News24.

This username must be unique, cannot be edited and will be used in the URL to your profile page across the entire 24.com network.

* The image you selected could not be uploaded.

Hi News addict,

Join the News24 Community to be involved in breaking the news.
