
Despite trailing U.S. Sen. Mitch McConnell by sizeable margins in polls heading into Tuesday’s primary election, Republican U.S. Senate candidate Matt Bevin remains optimistic he will win the GOP nomination.

Bevin stopped at the Capitol Friday during a multi-county bus tour in his campaign’s final pre-primary push. He has traveled 47,000 miles throughout Kentucky making his pitch to voters in “every single county,” he said.

“I don’t sleep anymore, but other than that, life is good,” he quipped.

The tea party-backed candidate launched his political ambitions at the statehouse in July, but no supporters met him at the Capitol this time around. Instead, Bevin spoke to a handful of reporters before addressing a group of schoolchildren visiting Frankfort.

Bevin has not signed a pledge from the Republican Party of Kentucky to support the GOP nominee following Tuesday’s primary. While Bevin said he “has no reason not to support myself” after winning the nomination, he offered to support McConnell should the U.S. Senate minority leader be the victor as expected.

Sort of.

“I’ve never supported a Democrat in my life over a Republican,” said Bevin, who has been hammered on the campaign trail for remarks he made at a pro-cockfighting rally in Corbin, praising the federal governor’s Troubled Asset Relief Program in a 2008 letter to investors and listing the Massachusetts Institute of Technology on a résumé posted on the website LinkedIn.

Grimes predicted a turnout Tuesday below 30 percent, a bittersweet estimate for Bevin. On one hand, he said a low turnout will likely help his chances against McConnell, but on the other, it’s “heartbreaking” that so many voters are expected to stay away from polling booths Tuesday.

“If we don’t come out and vote and ensure that this continues to be a government of and by and for us, then a handful of people will hijack this process, and this is not good for our future,” Bevin said.

"... then a handful of people will hijack this process, and this is not good for our future,” Bevin said."

A handful of people that call themselves the Tea Party, and they are not good for our future.

grackle: "My thanks to the Bevin campaign for not harassing us the way McConnell has."

Oh Mitch is harassing us in far more important and lasting ways...let me count them for you...weakened protections of the environment, assured global climate change, cut funding for the social safety net that we all are just a major illness or accident away from needing, putting his party ahead of our country, guardian of gridlock in Congress, unlimited corporate and billionaire funding of campaigns (what could possibly go wrong there?), blocked the Senate over 400 times, then voted to shut down the government, hurting Kentucky’s and the nation's economy, industry stooge, and so on and so forth.

Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell and the Republicans that he commands can’t light the house on fire, then claim credit for putting it out, especially while it’s still burning.

number of robocalls from Bevin campain: zero.

we're on every do-not-call list possible. My thanks to the Bevin campaign for not harassing us the way McConnell has.

"Despite trailing U.S. Sen. Mitch McConnell by sizeable margins in polls heading into Tuesday’s primary election, Republican U.S. Senate candidate Matt Bevin remains optimistic he will win the GOP nomination."
