
Kenya: Deputy President William Ruto is facing rebellion from Kipsigis leaders in the Rift Valley over his handling of the region’s issues.

Being the largest sub-tribe of the Kalenjin community, Kipsigis now feel left out of the Jubilee government after voting in large numbers for President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy in the last General Election.

Mid this week, a section of URP MPs took issue with Ruto after the removal of Kiplimo Rugut as the Director General of the National Youth Service.

Nandi Hills MP Alfred Keter faulted the DP over Rugut, who was replaced by former State House Comptroller Nelson Githinji, saying Ruto has not been keen on insisting on a 50:50 sharing of appointments in government with Uhuru.

The leaders are also angry that Ruto has fallen out with Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto, formerly one of his strongest political allies as well as other lawmakers from the community who either took part in the formation of the United Republican Party (URP) or financed Jubilee campaigns in the region.

The Kipsigis leaders have retreated and are now coalescing around the Bomet Governor, who has on his side his embattled Kericho counterpart Prof Paul Chepkwony, Nandi MP Alfred Keter and Zakayo Cheruiyot of Kuresoi North.

In a bid to check the DP’s growing political influence in the region and to offer an alternative leadership, the group allied to the Bomet governor has been holding a series of secret strategy meetings to chart their political future.

Insiders told The Standard on Sunday that the leaders were toying with the idea of forming a rival political party or force the Deputy President out of URP.

There has been growing discontent in the South Rift following allegation that the DP was undermining Kipsigis leaders who have fallen out with him politically.

Governor Ruto’s camp also feel the DP has neglected South Rift in terms of development, saying he had also failed to fulfill his pledge during the campaigns to construct a referral hospital in Kericho.

According to Mr Jonathan Rono, the URP Nakuru County Vice Chairman and a key ally of the Bomet Governor, the Deputy President has instead concentrated on expanding the Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital in Uasin Gishu.
