
DOHA: Thirty-six participants from 10 countries yesterday completed the UNWTO Regional Capacity Building Course on Tourism Strategy organised by Qatar Tourism Authority (QTA) and UNWTO THEMIS Foundation.

The five-day regional workshop held at Al Mirqab Souq Waqif Boutique Hotel provided the participants skills needed for building successful destination tourism strategies.

Hassan Al Ibrahim, Director of Strategy Development and the Head of the Tourism Industry Development Committee at QTA, said the workshop was part of the QTA’s Tourism Strategy.

“This initiative is one of those we have launched in the field of developing human capital, which is one of the most important factors in the implementation of the strategy. This initiative also comes as an implementation of the second phase of the agreement we have signed with the UNWTO in February. We will hopefully be organising more courses before the end of the year and every quarter next year,” said Al Ibrahim.

A vital element of the workshop was excursions to existing and potential tourist destinations in Qatar to assess their potential for growth.

Divided into three groups, the participants visited potential tourist attractions in the country including Zekreet, Al Zubarah, and villages and forts in the Northern part of Qatar.

“They visited these sites to propose some policy recommendations and product development recommendations, which they shared in the final session today and definitely we’ll try as much as possible to integrate their creative and innovative ideas in our plans moving forward to the future,” added Al Ibrahim.

This initiative is just one of the many initiatives of QTA along developing human capital building capacities in the sector. Another important initiative Al Ibrahim mentioned was the Tour Guide programme, in which QTA has collaborated with Stenden University Qatar.

The first batch under this programme has already graduated. This programme focuses on Qatari candidates to attract them to the sector and the tour guide job, one of the most important jobs in the sector, he added.

“We will also be targeting the public and private sectors moving forward in the future with some of these initiatives,” he said.
