
John Woodell, the husband of Menlo Park Councilwoman Kirsten Keith, deliberately destroyed evidence in his case against two defendants in a defamation lawsuit, a San Mateo County judge said Monday.

Although she had already issued a tentative ruling Friday afternoon to dismiss Woodell's complaint against Menlo Park Fire Protection District board members Virginia Chang Kiraly and Charles Bernstein, Superior Court Judge Lisa Novak took the latest arguments of both parties under submission Monday.

The case stems from Bernstein's discovery of Woodell's cellphone near a toppled campaign sign on his front yard in October 2011. Woodell, a former Google employee, has given the court various explanations for why the data in his phone was erased in early 2012.

Novak didn't buy any of the explanations.

Woodell "is not an unsophisticated phone user," she said Monday. "There is no doubt in my mind that Mr. Woodell intentionally destroyed the evidence in this case with the design for precluding the defendants the fair opportunity to examine the phone in its original condition."

She said Woodell "cherry-picked" information from the phone that he could use as evidence before destroying the rest of the data.

Nonetheless, despite firmly believing that "terminating sanctions are appropriate," Novak said she is "open to some other remedy."

Woodell's lawyer, Seth Rosenberg, argued for a lesser sanction, claiming that his client still has "a viable case" against Kiraly and Bernstein.

In his October 2012 lawsuit, Woodell claimed Bernstein and Kiraly defamed him by telling others that he had trespassed onto Bernstein's property to take down a sign promoting Kiraly's candidacy for the fire district board, dropping his phone during the act. Kiraly also accused Woodell of stealing other signs, the suit alleged.

Bernstein and Kiraly's lawyers told Novak that trying to recover the phone data from Google or T-Mobile would be time consuming, with no guarantees of a successful result. And there would be no way to prove Bernstein's position that he saw the words "Woodell family" scroll across the screen when he found the phone.

Novak appeared to be sympathetic to those points.

"Should the defendants be forced to go through the added expense of litigation and defending themselves against these very serious charges when perhaps the most exonerating piece of evidence has been purposefully destroyed by your client?" she asked Rosenberg.

Woodell's lawyer said his client shouldn't be punished, but Novak countered that there needs to be some consequence for his actions.

"It seems so unfair to the defendants," Novak said. "I'm not hearing anything that even has the flavor of being unfair to Mr. Woodell, and he's the one who controlled all the evidence, destroyed the evidence and then pursued litigation."

Woodell is an elected member of the San Mateo County Democratic Central Committee. Kiraly, a Republican, was elected to the fire district board in November 2011 and Bernstein was elected two years later.

Novak is not the first judge to express frustration over Woodell's defamation case. In April, San Mateo County Judge Steven Dylina continued the trial date to Jan. 26, 2015, after a fruitless day of settlement talks between the parties.
