
On April 14, the militant group Boko Haram kidnapped 276 Nigerian schoolgirls from the hostel where they were staying in Chibok, Borno state, the most northeastern state in Nigeria.

Borno has been under Boko Haram’s influence for several years, and it has been part of an area subject to a state-of-emergency declaration by Nigerian President Goodluck Jonathan since May 2013.

For additional content from SOFREP, a media partner of U-T San Diego, go to SOFREP.com .

Founded 12 years ago by Muhammad Yusuf, both in response to his accusations that Nigerian government forces were committing ethnic cleansing against the Hausa and Fulani people of the northeast and in an effort to enforce strict Shariah law and Islamist governance in Nigeria, the group’s attacks have continued to escalate since Yusuf’s death and Abubakar Shekau’s ascension to leadership. These extremists have bombed churches, mosques and government buildings, and they oppose any Westernization of the country.

The attack in Chibok was the latest of Boko Haram’s numerous offensives against schools. On Feb. 27, it attacked the Shuwa Primary School in Adamawa, Yobe state, just south of Borno state, killing between 20 and 37 — estimates have varied. The school was run by the local St. Augustine Catholic Church.

Abubakar Shekau has appeared on video, chuckling about the new kidnappings and claiming that he has been instructed by Allah to sell the girls at market as wives because they were receiving a Western education. Wearing a camouflage jacket with an AK rifle slung in front of him, he claimed that women are Allah’s property.

He has since offered to return the girls if the government frees imprisoned members of Boko Haram.

Jonathan, the president, has asked for U.S. aid to help get the girls back, although the U.S. is already pumping considerable aid into the country, as Nigeria is considered a major U.S. partner in Africa.

The U.S. designated Boko Haram as a terrorist organization last year and has placed a $7 million bounty on Shekau’s head. He is extremely elusive, however; he’s been reported dead by Nigerian authorities multiple times, always to crop back up again.

While Lagos has generally adopted a “so what?” attitude to the violence in the north, the kidnapping has led to numerous protests in the capitol, with citizens demanding that the government work harder to rescue the girls.

Upgrade your browsing experience with a paid subscription to the U-T.
