
As instant verdicts go – it’s icy feedback . Voters have told Tony Abbott in no uncertain terms they are not mugs.

If the latest polls are reading the national mood correctly, voters are so clear in this conviction they are prepared to make Bill Shorten the prime minister only seven months out from a political car crash that Labor thought would consign it to opposition for the best part of a generation.

Voters are actually looking more closely at the anti-politician, the #resistance plutocrat Clive Palmer, who lists unpredictably between high parody and precision “truth” bombing. Palmer in this budget period has emerged as that character from Shakespeare who somehow, despite absolute randomness and exquisite incoherence in the delivery (or perhaps because of it), cuts through the chaos. He’s the character who manages to narrate the tragedy in ways the protagonists can’t because they are too busy spinning their wheels in the court intrigue and foul murther.

Those developments alone have got to be the very definition of interesting times.

The voting public in the post-budget washup appears to be sending Abbott a clarion message – they aren’t buying the Coalition’s version of national interest, made manifest in last Tuesday’s budget, nor are they buying Abbott’s latest outbreak of post-truth, post-fact dissembling.

In the hit to Abbott’s personal authority we see in the latest published opinion polls, voters are giving the thumbs down to the prime minister’s attempt to blame them for not listening adequately to his “mantras” before the election (which by his own admission he minimised and maximised, according to the audience) – rather than blaming himself for promising them hand on heart that he would deliver a world that he evidently had absolutely no intention of ever delivering.

Voters heard what the prime minister said before the last election and they’ve seen what has been done afterwards and they notice that the two stories do not add up. Tony, it really is that simple. You cannot invent the broken promises meme, roll it along the production line, massacre your political opponents with it and then assume different rules will somehow apply to you – not even with the News Corp tabloids sneering intermittently but obligingly at their readers and the radio talkback kings of Sydney cheerleading in your corner can you pull off comprehensively that particular magic trick.

I was firmly of the belief that the Coalition had a shot at landing an unpopular budget if the story it told made sense, and if voters could see the measures were in the national interest.

Voters experienced a period of deep voter alienation from Canberra with Labor’s rampant self-indulgence and the perception of chaos that stemmed from a government running too fast administratively, and the disconcerting minority parliament. As a result, Abbott could have pulled off austerity as his opening gambit if there had been any clarity and purpose, and (dare we say) true courage.

Not the “courage” to ping voters who don’t vote for you, but the courage to just own the whole flawed business. What was required was respect: respect for the voter, respect for evidence-based policy and self-respect. It demanded the maturity to stand up and atone for the deficiencies of the conversation that politics had been having with the public, to acknowledge the alienation and the estrangements, and map out what needed to be done.

Steadiness was required, and instead there are pea and thimble tricks, unconvincing formulations and outright shocks.

Voters have given the budget the thumbs down because they know it serves sectional interest not national interest, and it fails the essential task of story-telling. The economic statement fundamentally has a split personality – small government and big government simultaneously. Each component hangs together more or less in its own separate sphere, but as a complete story there’s little internal logic.

The budget lacks the courage of any coherent conviction, except that those who can least afford it should pay the most.

There is another curiosity about the exercise: the budget strategy is a long-game one, which would be laudable if it wasn’t an act of unbridled optimism in the face of evidence.

Opinion poll data from the opening seven months suggests that this government has next to no political capital to spend, and yet it has insisted on disconcerting the voters in its first major definitional act of governing. Instead of getting brownie points for bravery, the voters polled in surveys seem inclined to intuit this behaviour as an act of egoism rather than of policy prudence.

The government has also left itself little room to reposition. It looks as though the Senate will revisit repositioning upon them, but Abbott can’t step back without making things worse.

If this is to be the conviction budget then it must be the conviction budget, even if the conviction budget is built on a bedrock of dissembling.

Our editors' picks for the day's top news and commentary delivered to your inbox each morning.
