
Chi-Hi senior Bre Nowak tied for sixth place on Monday at the Old Abe Invite at Lake Hallie Golf Course.

MADISON — Some Republican state lawmakers upset by a federal judge’s ruling against the state’s voter ID law are vowing to introduce new legislation.

Republicans, including Gov. Scott Walker, say changes are needed to ensure that voter fraud does not occur. Democrats say the real purpose is to turn away poorer voters who lack IDs and lean Democratic.

Wisconsin’s law, passed in 2011, would require all voters to present a state-approved photo ID. U.S. District Judge Lynn Adelman struck it down April 29, saying it would disproportionately impact racial minorities, violating the Voting Rights Act.

The unequivocal ruling, which the state is appealing, dampened Republican calls to pass some form of voter ID before the fall elections. Born and Schraa’s bill would be introduced next year; it would let certain voters cast specially marked ballots after signing an affidavit. A similar bill passed the Assembly last session but died in the Senate.

The League of Women Voters of Wisconsin opposed this earlier bill, which executive director Andrea Kaminski calls “an effort to do the least possible to make voter ID constitutional.” So did Common Cause in Wisconsin and the city of Milwaukee.

In fact, no group with a paid lobbyist registered in favor of this bill, which passed the Assembly on a 54-38 party line vote. This and other voting-related bills seem to defy the popular belief that lobbying drives legislation.

The 2011 voter ID bill passed despite being opposed by more than 30 state lobby groups, from Disability Rights Wisconsin to Milwaukee County to the United Transportation Union. Only two groups — the Fox Cities Chamber of Commerce and an engineers union — were in favor, and they accounted for just 11 of the 1,300 hours of reported lobbying activity.

And no lobby groups backed bills that passed this session to limit absentee voting, change the rules for advance voter registration and let election observers stand within three feet of the tables where voters register or check in.

Kaminski is especially troubled by the changes to advance voter registration. No longer can address information be verified via delivery of a postcard from clerks’ offices; now registrants must present proof of residence to clerks or others authorized to register voters.

Bill Lueders is the Money and Politics Project director at the Wisconsin Center for Investigative Journalism (www.WisconsinWatch.org).

Copyright 2014 Chippewa Herald. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

We carry: Kevin Murphy, Wella, Bumble & Bumble, and Aveda!

Make your appointment today!

Hint: Enter a keyword that you are looking for like tires, pizza or doctors or browse the full business directory .

Breaking News, News Update and Sports Update Headlines. Delivered at 11a.m. daily.

I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site consitutes agreement to it's user agreement & privacy policy.

Username & Password Required!
