
"We make every effort to see that our actions live up to our words and be vigilant with regards to our behavior."

A one-day consultative workshop was organized by the National Tourist Board on 16th May at Country Lodge with the aim of bridging the gap between stakeholders and the private sector on the challenges faced by the public and private sector in the tourism industry.

Explaining the significance of the workshop, the Chairman, Khalil Jah, said in order to develop tourism in Sierra Leone, there should be collective responsibility of stakeholders in the tourism industry to map out strategies that will facilitate more tourist activities in the country. He added that the main reason for organizing the workshop is to discuss issues affecting the growth and development of the industry and to come out with sound recommendations in terms of future collaboration between stakeholders.

He stated that tourism is a crucial and wider sector that needs more attention from the various stakeholders, development and implementing partners in providing funds and developing more infrastructures aimed at preserving and protecting tourist sites in the country noting that tourism contributes greatly to the country’s socio-economic development.

In his key note address, the Chairman of the National Tourist Board, Ahmed Wurie said there is significant room for the development of tourism in the country, only if all stakeholders can work together to develop the industry. He explained that the high cost of fares to visit Sierra Leone is affecting the number of tourists that come to the country, noting the several complaints they receive from tour operators and tourists concerning fares to the country when compared with other countries.

He also made mention of the poor transportation system in the country especially from the Lungi axis and the poor infrastructural development in the country generally. He maintained that for tourism to develop in Sierra Leone there should be proper infrastructural development that should include good roads, adequate and constant electricity supply and a healthy environment to attract more tourists. He therefore called on all stakeholders to collaborate with the Ministry of Tourism and Cultural Affairs to ensure the development of the tourism sector.

According to him, one the objectives of the workshop is to facilitate effective coordination between stake holders to ensure quality service delivery. He said the workshop has served as a forum for discussion between and amongst stakeholders in the tourism sector.

He informed that the National Tourist Board together with its development partners are engaged in rigorous rebranding campaign activities nationally and internationally showcasing Sierra Leone’s tourism potentials.

In his statement, Abimbola Carrol of VSL Travel, said as a tour operator in Sierra Leone, one way to salvage the challenges faced in the tourism industry is to reduce the high cost of transport and hotel fares in the country. He recommended that the Ministry of Tourism and Cultural Affairs and its development partners try to engage the services of low rated commercial air lines to charter them to bring in tourists into the country as it is done by The Gambia and other West African countries. This he maintained will reduce costs. He expressed grave concern about what he said is the unchecked sand mining that is taking place on tourist sites especially along the Peninsula and Bounce Island. He said this activity if not stopped will destroy the beauty of the country’s beaches which he said is a major attraction to tourists.

Awoko Newspaper Copyright © 2010-2011. All rights reserved.
