
MORE ON GALLUP'S EFFORT TO FIX LIKELY VOTER MODEL - Steven Shepard: "Eighteen months after the Gallup Organization incorrectly showed Mitt Romney leading President Barack Obama on the eve of the 2012 presidential election, the legendary but embattled polling firm unveiled additional research aimed at fine-tuning their methodology before the 2016 campaign….Gallup’s likely-voter model is largely based on self-reporting. Respondents tell interviewers whether they are registered to vote, whether they have voted in past elections, whether they intend to vote this year and how interested they are in the election. To that end, Gallup and researchers at Michigan designed two experiments to reduce the degree of over-reporting – people saying they voted in the past when they haven’t, for example. By asking questions aimed at source monitoring – prompting New Jersey and Virginia voters to think about specific details about whether they had voted in the last gubernatorial election in 2009 – researchers found that reduced the number of voters who said they had cast ballots by between five and seven percentage points. Similarly, prompting voters to think about things that might prevent them from voting, such as an illness on Election Day, reduced the percentage who said they intended to vote immediately prior to the 2013 election….[Frank] Newport, Gallup’s editor-in-chief, demurred when asked if the firm had specific plans to commission further research in preparation for 2016."

POLLSTER BILL MCINTURFF (R) CLARIFIES ACA REMARKS - Friday's HuffPollster included an excerpt of a New York Times/Upshot item that quoted Republican pollster Bill McInturff saying that after the primary elections, he would "expect a shift in Republican candidates’ rhetoric against Obamacare." McInturff wrote HuffPollster to clarify his remarks, saying in an email, "Republican candidates will continue to support the repeal of Obama care, but I do think the way this is expressed in the general election could sound different than the way it sounds today in the primaries. For example, I expect there to be more precise examples of what Republicans want to repeal. I also expect there'll be more first-person testimonials from those hurt by the law."

HUFFPOLLSTER VIA EMAIL! - You can receive this daily update every weekday via email! Just click here , enter your email address, and and click "sign up." That's all there is to it (and you can unsubscribe anytime).

Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day..

Use this form to alert a HuffPost editor about a factual or typographical error in this story.

Thank you!
