
National Nurses United, the country's largest nurses' union and an opponent of Community Health Systems' recent buyout of Health Management Associates , has accused the Franklin-based health system of "suppressing free speech and censoring patients' right to know about its pricing practices," according to a news release.

In the release, the union says billboards it put up warning patients of CHS' hospitals' higher-than-average prices – determined based on more than a decade of research, the union said – have been removed because of "complaints" that NNU suggested "came from the CHS corporate office or from its affiliated hospitals."

Tomi Galin , CHS' senior vice president for corporate communications and marketing, said two NNU affiliates, the California Nurses Association and the National Nurses Organizing Committee, have, during five years of collective bargaining negotiations, "routinely published false statements criticizing the management of the various hospitals and the patient care they render, with the singular objective of coercing the hospitals into accepting contracts on the union’s terms."

"The billboards described in the union's press release are simply the latest example of the union’s campaign to denigrate our affiliated hospitals in an attempt to force the hospitals negotiating with the California Nurses Association to capitulate to the union’s bargaining demands," Galin said in an e-mail. "These billboards were placed in markets where the union does not represent employees and where the union has no relationship. Representatives at the hospital in Knoxville became aware of a billboard in their market and reported concerns about the accuracy of the information, which resulted in the removal of two billboards – one in Knoxville and the other in Biloxi, Miss."

Eleanor Kennedy covers Nashville's health care and technology industries.

If you are commenting using a Facebook account, your profile information may be displayed with your comment depending on your privacy settings. By leaving the 'Post to Facebook' box selected, your comment will be published to your Facebook profile in addition to the space below.

Sign up to receive Nashville Business Journal's Morning Edition and Afternoon Edition newsletters and breaking news alerts.
