
With a second round of local authority elections looming on Sunday, when Greeks will also vote in a European Parliament ballot, political parties started discussing strategy and alliances on Monday, with conservative New Democracy and leftist SYRIZA expected to clash vehemently in the coming days ahead of what are expected to be tense runoffs.

ND threw its support behind the incumbents for Athens mayor and Attica regional governor after both of its candidates were knocked out in the first round. Giorgos Kaminis, an independent backed by PASOK and Democratic Left, is to face SYRIZA’s Gavriil Sakellaridis in the runoff, while the experienced Attica Governor Yiannis Sgouros, a Socialist, is to go up against the leftists’ Rena Dourou, who beat him in the first round. ND cadres expressed doubts about the likely effectiveness of the conservatives’ strategy as there have been tense exchanges between ND’s official candidates and the incumbents.

In the conservative camp, officials spent most of the day discussing tactics and alliances, with sources telling Kathimerini that Prime Minister Antonis Samaras is aiming to enlist key cadres to boost ND’s electoral fortunes. Samaras is said to want former Premier Costas Karamanlis to be actively involved in this week’s election campaign. It remained unclear until late last night, however, whether Karamanlis would make a public statement to back the conservatives. Meanwhile speculation was rife on Monday about whether prominent ND cadre Dora Bakoyannis, formerly a foreign minister and mayor of Athens, would be approached to take a leading role in ND’s campaign.

ND and PASOK officials were also discussing possible cross-party alliances on a local level to boost candidates supported by both ND and the PASOK-backed Olive Tree alliance.

In the same vein, SYRIZA cadres were also debating possible alliances and overtures to groupings opposed to the memorandum, including, one source indicated, to citizens who voted for Golden Dawn.
