
A group of students from the Engineers Without Borders student chapter at Missouri University of Science and Technology will travel to Santiago, Honduras, to increase access to clean drinking water for more than 6,000 community members.

A group of students from the Engineers Without Borders student chapter at Missouri University of Science and Technology will travel to Santiago, Honduras, to increase access to clean drinking water for more than 6,000 community members.

The students will leave for Santiago Sunday, May 18, and return Sunday, May 25. The team will meet with local leaders to better define the community’s needs, work to design a way to bring water to an elevated part of Santiago and continue to conduct water quality tests to monitor decreases in biological contamination after adding chlorine to the water.

The team has been remotely monitoring a water chlorination system that they installed in the community last summer. The team routinely calls water operators in Honduras and contacts Santiago’s mayor to gauge the community’s use of the system. This past winter break, the team installed two more chlorination systems.

Mac Prather, a senior in mechanical engineering from St. Louis, and Cathryn Pherigo, a senior in chemical engineering from St. Charles, will lead the Honduras trip. Dr. Richard Stephenson, professor emeritus of civil, architectural and environmental engineering, is the local chapter faculty adviser.

David Hoffman, an associate research engineer at S&T, and Stephen Hubbs, a volunteer mentor in the civil, architectural and environmental engineering department, will travel with the team.

People can donate to team’s cause at www.ewb-mst.org/donate.

Heather Castelli, a junior in mechanical engineering from Catawissa,

Lauren Ernat, a sophomore in chemical engineering from Hamilton,

Evan Haley, a junior in mechanical engineering from Springfield, Missouri,

Kortnee Long, a freshman in engineering from Rolla,

Luis Pereira, a senior in computer science from Sedalia,

Cathryn Pherigo, a senior in chemical engineering from St. Charles,

Mac Prather, a senior in mechanical engineering from St. Louis,

Haley Witcher, a junior in chemical engineering from Sedalia.

Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.

Your privacy is important, read our privacy policy.

Original content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted.
