
Don't miss stories. Follow Vox!

"As Secretary of State, I saw the way extreme inequality has corrupted other societies, hobbled growth, and left entire generations alienated and unmoored. From Guatemala, to Greece, to Pakistan, I urged elites to pay their fair share — to provide services that would be the base on which more of their fellow countrymen and women could climb out of poverty. I pressed governments to invest in their people an inclusive positive vision of the future. Now, in the Middle East and North Africa, we saw the explosive results when opportunity and potential are denied for too long."

Here, Clinton is positioning herself as a kind of global crusader against income inequality, urging corrupt and wealthy elites to do something about this challenge. And by bringing up the Arab Spring, she alludes to the "explosive results" that could occur if the US doesn't do something to address it. "Many Americans feel frustrated, even angry," she said. Though Clinton never explicitly argues that social upheaval akin to the Arab Spring could happen here, bringing it up in this context clearly underscores the need for urgent action. So rather than arguing that her Secretary tenure makes her qualified to lead on foreign affairs, she's saying it beefs up her qualifications on domestic policy.

It's an interesting reaction to the growing possibility that, if there is a competitive Democratic primary in 2016, inequality issues will be the main battleground. The New Republic's Noam Scheiber wrote that an Elizabeth Warren run could be "Hillary's nightmare." And last week, Vice President Biden — another potential candidate — gave what was described to CNN as "a stem-winding, almost revival-type speech" about inequality issues.

As part of the new Vox launch, prior users will need to choose a permanent username, along with a new password.

Your username will be used to login to Vox going forward.

Please login to your Vox Media account.  This account will be linked to your previously existing Eater account.

As part of the new Vox launch, prior MT authors will need to choose a new username and password.

Your username will be used to login to Vox going forward.

We'll email you a reset link.

If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.

Almost done,

By becoming a registered user, you are also agreeing to our Terms and confirming that           you have read our Privacy Policy .

Great!

Choose an available username to complete sign up.

In order to provide our users with a better overall experience, we ask for more information from Facebook when using it to login so that we can learn more about our audience and provide you with the best possible experience. We do not store specific user data and the sharing of it is not required to login with Facebook.
