
DIGHTON — Under Dusty’s protection, a rare species is thriving at the county’s agricultural high school.

A crop of 18 lambs born with genetic abnormalities all trace their Bay State lineage back to a small, wobbly-legged forbearer named Maverick.

Maverick’s two siblings died at birth.

The lone survivor from a set of triplets, he was the first of a new population of a rare, endangered mutant species of sheep born at Bristol County Agricultural High School in 2011.

His future seemed bright. For a short period of time, however, the school was without a guard llama.

The school’s old llama died of cancer, and a replacement had yet to be found.

Large, woolly beasts watch over their smaller, woolly ancestors in the farmyards of Bristol Aggie.

Dusty is the school’s current resident llama. From his pasture, he watches over the farm’s shorter and less feisty residents.

The sheep population at Aggie produced 36 lambs in the past year. Of those, 18 are classified as pure-bred California Variegated Mutant, Blanchette said.

The breed, commonly referred to as CVM, is coveted by both wool and meat-lovers.

Their hides often exhibit unique color patterns.

Three students, all small animal majors — Victoria Stephenson of Middleboro, Kristen Raposa, 19, of New Bedford, and Lori Carlos, 18, of Berkley — each picked up a CVM lamb. Each lamb had its own pattern and its own personality. One at a time the critters bleated at each other, flashing their tongues and kicking at the girls.

Page 2 of 2 - Eidman reportedly spent the next 15 years developing the breed, keeping them all to himself. Ultimately, though, they were spread to a carefully chosen group of breeders.

Several years ago, Bristol Aggie faculty drove to Maine to pick up the school’s first CVM sheep.

“They’re extremely rare and are on the critically endangered registry,” Blanchette said in 2011, referencing the American Livestock Breeds Conservancy list, on which the breed was deemed “critical” because it had less than 200 annual registrations with the ALBC and less than 2,000 animals worldwide.

The lamb is still rare, but thanks to breeding programs like those at Bristol Aggie, the population is surviving.

The school is the lone registered CVM breeder in Massachusetts.

Generally, male lambs are sold at market, and some of each sex are sold for breeding. The school also sells their wool and turns the business transaction into an agri-business lesson.

Lambs are birthed in both spring and fall, so a new crop of students can learn from the experience each semester.

More than three years ago, Blanchette traveled to Maine to purchase the school’s first three Romeldale/CVM yearling ewes — Madge, Suzie Q and Gabby. Faculty later purchased a CVM ram from the Swiss Village Foundation, a private foundation based in Newport, R.I.

Madge was Maverick’s mother.

Since Maverick’s untimely death, Madge has given birth to five lambs.

Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.
