
Omaha Code School students celebrate the end of class with silly photobooth pictures at Friday’s graduation.

They haven’t mastered programming in 12 weeks, but 13 Omaha Code School students have learned enough to be ready for the real world, says instructor  Sumeet Jain .

It was the first batch of students to go through the city’s first coding school, and while there were no caps and gowns, Friday’s graduation ceremony was full of pomp and circumstance.

Hunt told the students they were on their way to building things that will enrich the world.

And students did share Friday.

Michael Todd , a former editor of HearNebraska.com, created a website scavenger hunt for local artists’ vinyl. Todd hid records at local businesses as a part of Unfound Sounds  and scavengers find them by following clues on the site. The monthly contest has already had a successful first run.

Jain said he built Unfound Sounds as a side project and ran with it.

Britt Woolf , a student with an architecture background, created Watch us Build , a website that creates animated gifs of a new building’s progress.

Norris built the hardware with wood, bottle dispensers you can find online, motors, an Arduino  controller and an app he built. He said he did some programming about ten years ago, but nothing nice like this.

“I’ve got an understanding of HTML and how the Web works now,” he said. “I know the language of the Web, and that’s nothing I would’ve known without these three or four months.

Jain also says his students are pre-screened to have an entrepreneurial mindset with lean methodology, a skill set that is highly desirable to the startup community.

While none of the students have jobs lined up, Jain said there’s been conversations with employers. Next session, he wants students to talk to employers earlier, because in four weeks they had already built Rails apps by themselves.

“I think getting exposure to employers and giving them a chance to see what they can do and get early critiques will be important,” he said.

Jain also thinks he can teach more next time around, building more apps, doing more client work.

The next Omaha Code School class begins July 28. Interface School, another Web development school in Omaha, graduates its first class June 12.

GO!
