
Share This Story!

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Four helicopters, two for transport and two for water bucket drops, were instrumental in fighting the Hunter Falls fire. Monday 40 firefighters were lifted to the fire, joining 80 taken in Sunday.

Containment of the fire that has burned about 760 acres jumped to 65 percent by Tuesday afternoon, up from only 5 percent on Monday.

Another 100 firefighters joined the effort in the rugged wilderness on Tuesday, when officials estimated about two-thirds of the blaze had been contained and projected full containment by Friday.

No homes are in danger and no major injuries have been reported, although one firefighter suffered a minor eye injury, said Elizabeth Kenna, spokeswoman for the Sierra Front Interagency Dispatch Center. Fire suppression costs already have reached $364,000.

Rain and snow falling in the Sierra on Tuesday was a welcome relief for crews trying to snuff out a wildfire on the edge of Reno, but it also brought new challenges in the steep, slippery, canyons northeast of Lake Tahoe that are prone to landslides.

Cooler temperatures and lighter winds on Monday helped 150 firefighters on the ground and four helicopters above begin to get the upper hand on the blaze that has burned more than a square mile since it started Saturday night.

Containment on the Hunter Falls Fire has increased to 65 percent from 47 percent earlier this morning, Sierra Front Wildfire Cooperators reported in their latest update.

Meanwhile, snow has been reported in both Incline Village and Truckee, so the precipitation and cooler weather may be boosting efforts to battle the fire that started Saturday night.

The fire, still listed at 760 acres, is burning in timber, grass and mountain brush.

There are four helicopters being used to dump water on hot spots and ferry fire personnel, Sierra Front reported. There are seven hand crews and 144 personnel total.

There is a mix of rain and snow falling on the Hunter Falls Fire today, National Weather Service meteorologist Scott McGuire said.

"Things are definitely good up there," McGuire said. "They're getting a nice, soaking rain up there today."

Winds will be 15 mph today with gusts to 25 mph, but with the rain and snow there's little chance for the flames to spread, McGuire said.

The fire is 47 percent contained at 760 acres and it is expected to be fully contained on Friday, the Sierra Front Wildfire Cooperators said in its latest update.

Cost of fighting the fire has reached $364,000.

There are now 258 personnel working on the fire, up more than 100 from Monday.

Crews will continue to build fire lines today while helicopters drop water on hot spots and ferry crews, Sierra Front said.

Trails and roads in the area have been closed.

Also, Bartley Ranch Regional Park is closed while fire personnel use it as their incident command post.

Hunter Falls Fire perimeter as mapped by the U.S. Forest Service.

The Hunter Falls Fire remains at 760 acres this morning and is 47 percent contained, Sierra Front Wildfire Cooperators said.

High humidity and up to a half inch of rain could help out today, the agency said in its morning update.

"That should have a positive effect on fire suppression efforts," Sierra Front spokeswoman Elizabeth Kenna said.

No structures are currently threatened. They have about 144 personnel on fire, including seven hand crews, and four helicopters. The helicopters continue to drop water on the fire as well as transport crews.

The fire is burning mostly in the Mount Rose Wilderness Area and moving northeast in the Hunter Creek drainage.

Investigators aren't sure how the fire started, but it likely was human-caused because there was no lightning in the area.

Forest Service spokesman Jon Stonelake told the Reno Gazette-Journal a camp fire was reported in the area around Hunter Creek late Saturday night, but it's unknown whether that contributed to the fire.

The Hunter Falls Fire is 760 acres and 47 percent contained, Sierra Front fire responders said.

Three helicopters dumped water on a wildfire burning on the edge of Reno on Monday as about 150 firefighters on the ground were pushing the flames back into the rugged wilderness along the Sierra's eastern front. No homes or structures were threatened.

A wildfire burning in the wilderness near Reno has scorched about a square mile of timber and mountain brush along the Sierra's eastern front but fire officials say no homes are in danger.

The latest information is that the Hunter Falls Fire is now 728 acres, Sierra Front Wildfire Cooperators reports. The increased size is due to better mapping, Sierra Front reports.

The fire is burning in timber, grass and mountain brush but no structures are threatened. The fire currently is primarily in the Mount Rose Wilderness area and is burning northeast in the Hunter Creek drainage.

Containment remains at 5 percent.

Four helicopters are being used on the fire, two to ferry firefighters and two to dump water, said Chris Ingram, Sierra Front air operations chief.

The helicopters are currently dumping Hunter Lake water but will switch to Truckee River water when they exhaust available Hunter Lake water.

Officials with the Reno-Tahoe International Airport do not expect any impact from the smoke on air travel in and out of Reno.

The Rim Fire near Yosemite last year put much more smoke in the Truckee Meadows air and there was possibly one day air travel was affected, airport spokesman Brian Kulpin said.

"There is no impact on us right now," Kulpin said.

It looks like winds will be a repeat of Sunday for the Hunter Falls fire and will pick up early this afternoon with gusts to 30 mph, National Weather Service meteorologist Scott McGuire said.

It's already raining in Lassen and Pershing counties and northern Washoe County and there's a chance it might rain this evening, McGuire said.

"The best chances for us for precipitation down here will be tonight into tomorrow," McGuire said. "We are seeing some showers pop up north of here. Maybe we'll be lucky and get them to come south and help out the fire."

Even if it doesn't rain, the weather will help out in another way: Tuesday's temperatures will be 10 degrees to 15 degrees cooler than normal, McGuire said. Tuesday is forecast to have a high of 61 with an overnight low of 48.

"After the system moves out, it will warm back up nicely," McGuire said. "It will be a nice weekend with highs in the low 80s."

The Hunter Falls fire remains 5 percent contained this morning with no containment date, Sierra Front Wildfire Cooperators spokeswoman Elizabeth Kenna said.

The fire is estimated to be 158 acres.

A Type 3 fire management team took over at 6 a.m., Kenna said. This is a team specially trained in fighting wildfires. There are five hand crews fighting the fire and about 150 people total.

The objectives are firefighter safety and limited the fire's spread, Kenna said.

They ask people to stay off trails in the area.

The fire stands at about 150 acres and 5 percent contained, Sierra Front fire responders said.

Close to 150 firefighters are battling the blaze. The fire's cause remains under investigation.

"The fire is primarily burning in the Mt. Rose Wilderness Area, moving northeast in the Hunter Creek drainage," Sierra Front said in a statement.

No homes are threatened.

The region's wildfire season is underway with the first significant Reno-area blaze of 2014 burning west of the community in terrain so rough that a helicopter was needed to get crews to the scene.

The Hunter Falls fire west of Reno was reported to the U.S. Forest Service about 11:30 p.m. Saturday, said Brian Reublinger, spokesman for Sierra Front fire responders and the Forest Service.

Jon Stonelake, U.S. Forest Service spokesman, said that a camp fire was reported in the area late Saturday night, but it's unknown whether that contributed to the wildfire that remains under investigation.

Reublinger said that crews reached the wildfire by sunrise Sunday.

Because of the terrain and remoteness of the area, fire engines could not immediately reach the scene, Reublinger said.

Instead, crews were flown by helicopter to the fire site because the area was inaccessible with the trucks, Reublinger said.

"We have one helicopter flying crews in, with about 20 people to each crew," he said.

Stonelake of the Forest Service said: "They're not just going to hike people in the rural area five or six mile in the middle of night... It was way back in the wilderness."

The fire stood at about 150 acres and 5 percent contained as of late Sunday night.

Crews are being hampered by rugged terrain in their battle against a 100-acre wildfire in the north end of the Mt. Rose Wilderness Area near Reno.

Sierra Front Interagency spokeswoman Elizabeth Kenna says one helicopter crew is dropping water on the blaze while another helicopter crew is taking firefighters to the Carson Range roadless area around Hunter Creek.

She says no structures are threatened, but the fire is only 5 percent contained.

The fire remains at an estimated 100 acres. No time is estimated for containment.

Crews are using helicopters equipped with buckets to help fight the fire. "The fire is currently inaccessible to engines due to roadless area," Sierra Front said in a statement.

The Hunter Falls fire is now 100 acres and there is no containment date, Sierra Front Wildfire Cooperators reports.

The fire is burning in timber in the Humboldt-Toiyabe National Forest and no structures are threatened.

They have two helicopters working on the incident. One is dumping water buckets and the other is ferrying crews to the scene, Sierra Front spokeswoman Elizabeth Kenna said.

The Slide Mountain Hot Shot crew is joining the Black Mountain and Silver State hot shot crews.

The area is remote can cannot be accessed by vehicle, Kenna said.

The fire is heading towards the Mt. Rose Wilderness Area.

Winds are expected to increase over the course of the day, Reno Fire Chief Michael Hernandez said in a statement.

If the Hunter Falls fire blows up, the Reno Fire Department is set up at Fire Station 11 on Mae Anne Avenue to assist.

"Should the fire get out of control, we're prepared to help manage it," Hernandez says.

Fire crews are waiting for permission from the U.S. Forest Service to use helicopters to drop buckets of water on land in the wilderness area west of Reno, Sierra Front fire spokesman Brian Reublinger said.

The Hunter Falls fire is now listed as 20 acres to 25 acres.

The Black Mountain and Silver State hot shot crews have been called up. More will be ordered, Reublinger said, but he did not know which ones.

"It is definitely in a remote location without any roads, so it will mostly be hand crews, Reublinger said.

Meanwhile, the Washoe County Sheriff's Office is closing trails in the area and evacuating hikers, spokesman Bob Harmon said.

They want to get everyone off the trails in the area, Harmon said. They ask that people who know hikers are on the trail to call them on cell phones if possible and have them leave. Otherwise, the sheriff's office will use search and rescue to get people to leave.

sources are being called in to fight it, Sierra Front spokesman Brian Reublinger said.

Known as the Hunter Falls fire, it is burning towards the top of a ridge, Reublinger said. He did not immediately know what additional resources were being called in.

The Black Mountain Hot Shots have arrived at an incident command center near Cabela's, Reublinger said. It's still not clear if they will hike in to the fire or be taken by helicopter.

One person is hiking up to check out a fire burning in the Hunter Lake area and another will be checking it out from the air, according to Brian Reublinger, a spokesman for the Sierra Front Wildfire Cooperators.

They hope to get the reconnaissance flight up by 10:10 a.m. to 10:14 a.m., Reublinger said.

Sierra Front is also sending the Black Mountain Hot Shot crew that will hike up or fly up the fire, Reublinger said.

The fire is putting up much smoke but is in a bowl area right now, he said. It is putting up so much smoke they can't even estimate the size.

As of 10 a.m. they had two fire personnel investigating the fire with the hot shot crew on the way. Reublinger acknowledged this was not a lot of personnel to have on the fire.

"We don't know what we have yet," Reublinger said. "We're always looking out for firefighter safety first. We always want to make sure we know what the fire is doing before we put the firefighters at risk."

The cause of the fire is not clear.

"I know we haven't had any lightning at all," Reublinger said.

They will set up an incident command center in the area of Cabela's in Verdi.

The fire burning near Hunter Lake.

There is a fire burning in the Hunter Lake area west of Reno.

The U.S. Forest Service has crews responding.

Sierra Front Wildfire Cooperators had no details and said a public information officer was on the way into the office to talk to the news media.
