
RIYADH — Cisco Saudi Arabia saw a strong turnout at its annual Girls in ICT Day held at its offices in Riyadh, with young women learning about the innovative technology-related careers of tomorrow.

The event is an annual day of activities organized by the International Telecommunications Union to create a global environment that empowers and encourages girls and young women to consider careers in the growing field of ICT.

At Cisco Riyadh offices, 27 girls and young women aged 18 to 22 learned from female role models about the vital role that ICT plays in employability and how its “Internet of Everything” technology will create the technology-related jobs of tomorrow.

The young women who attended the event were drawn from different universities across Riyadh including King Saud University, Prince Sultan University, Princess Noura Bint Abdulrahman University, Al-Yamamah University, Al-Imam Muhammad Bin Saud Islamic University and Alfaisal University.

Buthayna Al-Wehaibi, network consulting engineer at Cisco KSA, said: “Saudi Arabia has the high quality of education and supportive entrepreneurial environment that is fueling women’s participation in the country’s bright ICT future, especially with the country’s telecommunications sector facing a turning point in boosting speeds and unlocking the knowledge-based economy.

“The Internet of Everything (IoE) is the networked connection of people, process, data and things, with Cisco predicting 50 billion objects connected to the Internet by 2020.

Alanoud Al-Hudaib, another network consulting engineer at Cisco who was part of the team managing the event, said: “We were really delighted to have had such an intelligent group of young women with us at the event.

“We discussed different topics with them during the activity including the vision of the Internet of Everything, success stories of women working in technology and engineering, as well as introducing them to the Cisco’s TelePresence technology experience”.

The event also included a speech by the guest speaker Rasha Abu Alsaud, vice president of services risk and information security at NCB, who shared her experience with the attendees as a young woman working in the IT industry.

Alsaud also discussed the development of technology use in work and the threats of cybercrime and ways to prevent hacking.

During their visit to Cisco Riyadh offices, young women used Cisco’s collaboration platforms such as TelePresence to interact with fellow participants across the globe, female role models working within Cisco, its partners and customers.

Al-Wehaibi said: “At Cisco, we take our commitment to making ICT career opportunities open to all seriously.

Cisco has been involved in Girls in ICT Day since it was founded in 2010.

In the 2014 edition, Cisco hosted 2,500 young women at almost 80 of their worldwide offices and across 37 countries in Europe, the Middle East, Africa, and Russia.

- We call on all our readers and visitors to stay away from comments that are offensive or meaningful to a person or entity in any way.
