
If you’re in New York City over the next few weeks, you might notice some interesting photos in a church and subway stations near Washington Square, and public phone booths around Manhattan.

Andres Serrano joins  Here & Now’ s Jeremy Hobson to discuss his months-long project engaging with New York’s homeless population.

It's HERE AND NOW, and this note about our next conversation. It includes a term that some people may find offensive. It involves artist Andres Serrano and his new public exhibit called "Residents of New York" that opens today in New York City. And it is all around the city: in the subway, at a church, on phone booths. It's portraits of homeless men and women sitting on the ground, maybe with a change cup or wrapped in blankets.

Serrano is known for his earlier, controversial work that showed a crucifix in a pool of urine. It was called "Piss Christ." Andres Serrano joins us now from NPR in New York, and Andres, let's get to the photos that are out today. In one we see a man, Jason Brown, sitting on the ground with a blanket, thick ski gloves, looking right into the camera. And many of your subjects are looking right at us.

ANDRES SERRANO: Well, it is a personal level of engagement that I'm very conscious of, and I try to photograph people in such a way that it feels like, almost like I'm not there, it's just you and that person you're looking at without my presence.

SERRANO: Very easily. I walked around the streets of New York City. And, you know, it occurred to me back in October of last year that in walking around, I saw more homeless than ever. I decided to do this piece, a conceptual piece, and I bought the signs of the homeless that - the signs they used for asking for money.

And I would explain to people, I'm going to - you know, every sign is a story. I'm going to collect these signs to tell your story. That was back in October through November. And then, early - in early January, I decided to go back to the streets, and this time to photograph the homeless.

HOBSON: And this was not the first time you've done something like this. You did the same kind of thing a couple decades ago.

SERRANO: Well, 20 - over 20 years ago, I did a series called "Nomads," where I photographed the homeless people in the subways late at night. But there, it was different, because I had a backdrop. I had assistants. I had the flash. And so I put the homeless in the context of a studio portrait. And my inspiration for that was Edward Curtis and the portraits he did of Native Americans at the turn of the century.

This time, I decided to make the streets my studio, and instead of isolating them from their environment, I captured the environment, as well as the individuals.

HOBSON: Let's talk about some of the people that you met and that you photographed. One is Stephanie Green, a young homeless woman in her early 30s. She's a voracious reader.

SERRANO: Mm-hmm. You know, Stephanie is quite a case. And I was impressed by Stephanie because I had seen Stephanie for a long time on the streets of New York City, particularly in the summer, going around barefoot, dirty as can be. She looked like she just fell into a sewer. She was in rags. And so I saw her like that for about a year.

And then finally, in January, I saw Stephanie in a coat, and she looked totally transformed. She was very beautiful. She looked clean. And so that's how I took her photograph. And Stephanie is one of those people that says very few words. I mean, she barely says yes or no. But she is a case, you know.

HOBSON: There's another one, this is Red McMahon I'm looking at right now with Shelly Cornetta-McMahon. You photographed them in front of the Whole Foods on 14th Street. They're a husband and wife. But Red actually passed away recently. You spoke with him a couple weeks before.

SERRANO: Yes, actually, I had bought signs from them before. And so back in January, I saw them, and I went up to them, and I said, listen. This time, I'm not buying signs anymore. This time, I'm photographing people. Can I take your picture? And they say yes, of course. But as I was talking to him, I said to him, wow, your eyes are very yellow. And he said he had a liver problem, that he was getting medication for it.

And so I took the portrait, and then two weeks later, someone told me, you know, Red, that guy you photographed, he died.

SERRANO: It's a sad irony, you know, it's a sad thing, but a lot of people have to die sometimes before they get recognized, you know. It's very strange, because a friend of mine who saw the portrait I took of Red said to me, you know, I never liked that guy. I see him on the street all the time, but looking at your picture of him, I see him in a different light, and now I like him.

And then, two weeks later, I told her you know that man you said you didn't like at first, and now you like him, well, he's dead, you know. And she felt bad about that. But, you know, that's the case with the homeless, you know. They're on the streets. Most people don't even see them or recognize them or acknowledge them.

One thing that was very interesting is that, more than once, as I was photographing someone on the street, I would see that a passerby would come by and put money in their cup. And one girl that I was photographing, she said to me, you know, that man, he sees me every day, and he's never given me any money, but because you're taking my picture, he put a dollar in there.

To me, that meant that, you know, yeah, these people, it's all of a sudden, you recognize them as individuals. You're not paying attention to them, but the fact that I'm paying attention to them makes you pay attention to them and makes you want to do something.

HOBSON: How have your views about homeless people changed after going through this this time? This is the second time, as we said, that you've done a project like this.

SERRANO: Well, you know, I don't know if it's changed, but first of all, I felt like this year, last year, the - you know, I saw more homeless than ever. You know, and I don't know if it was a coincidence, but I felt it was like the end of the Bloomberg administration, and now Bloomberg was out. He didn't care about the homeless on the street, so he said let them come in, let them stay, you know.

So I saw more homeless than ever. And, you know, even though the homeless at - they're at an extreme level of poverty, you know, at the bottom, but still, you know, there's a lot of people not far away from that bottom, you know, that are struggling. A lot of Americans may not be homeless, but they're struggling.

HOBSON: I have to ask you, because people may know you for another one of your works, "Piss Christ," which was very controversial, and actually was destroyed a few years back. This is a very different project than that. Can you explain how somebody could do both of these things, I guess is my question.

SERRANO: Ah, it's very easy, first of all, because, you know, not only have I created "Piss Christ," I'm a Christian, you know, and I'm proud to be a Christian. So I don't feel I'm sacrilegious. On the contrary, I feel that as an artist and as a Christian, I have every right to use the symbols of the church. In fact, my dream is that someday Pope Francis will recognize me as an artist and even invite me to do something for the church. You know, I would love to do that.

SERRANO: I feel regrets about a lot of things, but not about "Piss Christ," no. In fact, I'm very proud of "Piss Christ," and I'll tell you why: There was a time when religious art, during the Renaissance and before, was the only important art in the world. It was the only art that mattered. Into the 18th, 19th century, religious art is no longer great art, you know? It's no longer in fashion.

So I feel like, in a way, I've reclaimed that territory as an artist, you know, and as a Christian artist with "Piss Christ," to say this is a contemporary religious work that is important.

HOBSON: But it offended a lot of people.

SERRANO: Well, the best art usually does, you know. It's complicated. It's meant to provoke, to challenge. When I was a child, reading about "Ulysses," the book by James Joyce, how it had been banned in this country years ago, and, you know, "Tropic of Cancer," Henry Miller's work. There's so many things that were once illegal to have in this country that you don't bat an eye about, you know. It's a forgotten story, no one's remembering it.

Yet "Piss Christ," 20 years after it was made, it still has that power to provoke, and I think that's an extraordinary thing for a piece to not be co-opted by the system, that it can be mainstream, and yet it could still have some provocation.

HOBSON: Artist and photographer Andres Serrano. His new art project, presented by More Art, displays photos of homeless men and women in New York City. Andres, thank you so much for coming in.

SERRANO: Thank you.

HOBSON: And we've got a slideshow of some of his work at hereandnow.org. Transcript provided by NPR, Copyright NPR.

I couldn’t care less about this person’s “work”…and I use that term loosely.  This person’s previous insulting stuff disqualifies him from being taken seriously.  It’s like asking Donald Sterling his opinion on the housing shortage.

Thanks for caring enough about Mr. Serrano to write about him.

I reccommend Mr. Serrano do a “Piss Muhammad” piece and accompany the piece on a tour of Muslim countries.

He is an “artists” who looks for media attention and only provokes those who won’t kill him and he stays true to that art.

He chuckles at around 4:27 in the interview when he talks about the man dying and then goes on to tell us about how great his art is. What a self-absorbed schmuck.

Hmmm…these photos seem rather flat to me.  Contrast them with the homeless portraits of Kevin McCollister for example, and you can see that Serrano really fails to engage with his subjects.  Yes, he sees them.  But he does not allow them to communicate through him.

listen, the average person knows as much about art as they do about how a radio works! they do not know what their looking at. try to learn something and keep your mouth shut! you have nothing to say worth listening to. Serrano’s style comes through every time in what he does. he compels the viewer to look at what we would normally turn away from. he seduces us into seeing what we want to ignore. i love this man and his work. he is a spiritual artist and a genius.

Serrano isn’t an artist, he is an egotistical attention seeker.  Heard the interview and no apologies for the blasphemous P-C work.  That says it all.
