
(CNN) -- The three-year war in Syria has claimed 162,402 lives, an opposition group said Monday, as the raging conflict shows no signs of abating.

The dead include 8,607 children, according to the the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights. It said the total numbers included civilians, military members, defected soldiers and foreign fighters, among others.

United Nations officials said they stopped updating their death toll in July because of lack of access and the inability to verify information from sources.

At the time, it said that well over 100,000 people, including many civilians, have been killed in the war pitting government forces against rebels seeking to end the rule of President Bashar al- Assad.

Mekdad: 'Chlorine gas never been used'

The political uprising against al-Assad's regime started with mostly peaceful protests in Daraa province in March 2011.

Syria responded with a ferocious crackdown against demonstrators and has consistently said it is battling armed terrorist groups as it targeted anti-government protesters.

Al-Assad, whose family has ruled Syria for more than four decades, succeeded his father in 2000 and won a second term in 2007.

Syria's next presidential election is scheduled for next month, and al-Assad has registered to run again.

The United Nations has asked his government to reconsider the election as the carnage mounts daily.

Jihadists have kidnapped over 140 Kurdish boys to "brainwash" them. But a few boys made a daring escape.

Reports that Syrian warplanes carried out a cross-border attack on Iraqi towns is further evidence of the blurring of the two countries' borders.

CNN's Atika Shubert speaks to a father whose teenage son joined the Jihad movement in Syria.

At the start of Syria's civil unrest, Omar would rally against the government alongside his schoolmates, later taking to the streets in his hometown of Salqin.

Atika Shubert looks at the rise of European jihadists traveling to Syria and whether they soon could join ISIS in Iraq.

The final stockpile of Syria's chemical weapons has been shipped out of the country, according to the OPCW, the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons.

The US isn't doing airstrikes in Iraq. Is there a vacuum for Syria and Iran to step in? CNN's Fareed Zakaria weighs in.

CNN's Nick Paton Walsh reports on Syrian rebels using underground explosions against the better-equipped regime.

CNN's Nick Paton Walsh returns to the besieged rebel areas of Aleppo, a pale skeleton of a city that has had the life bombed out of it.

Syria may be embroiled in a brutal three-year civil war, but that's not stopping the government from holding presidential elections.

CNN's Nick Paton Walsh meets an ISIS defector in hiding and gets a rare look into the group's recruitment process.

Over a thousand Syrian refugees have turned an abandoned shopping mall in Lebanon into makeshift living quarters.

What caught our experts' ears was as much about what he didn't address as much as what he did.

The three-year war in Syria has claimed 162,402 lives, an opposition group said Monday, as the raging conflict shows no signs of abating.

Official: The U.S. believes a jihadi featured in a suicide bombing video in Syria is Moner Mohammad Abu-Salha who grew up in Florida.

For the first time, Britain has convicted someone of a terrorism offense related to the Syrian civil war.
