
We have re-imagined our design in a bold new way. Before we roll it out for everyone, we are giving select readers an opportunity to try out the new design. We welcome your feedback.

We've removed you from the beta test of the new design.

Please note: if you clear your cookies you may be invited back to the beta. In order to prevent this from happening, please do not clear your SFGate.com cookies for the next 30 days.

Assemblyman Tim Donnelly was in a rush. After a campaign event in Bakersfield and a special Assembly session in Sacramento, the GOP candidate for governor was running way late for a speech at a San Jose restaurant.

No problem, though. The 50 or so folks who had been waiting anxiously for Donnelly's hard-core conservative message at 2:30 p.m. were still there three hours later when he hurried into the room. With waiters already starting to clear the remains of the drawn-out lunch, the burly, balding man with the close-cut goatee gave the audience what they wanted to hear.

While everyone wants clean water, state and federal rules on California water are "a diabolical scheme," Donnelly said.

"When you control the water, you control the people," he warned. "There's a little fish that has more rights than you, even though you were made in God's image."

Gov. Jerry Brown 's attempt to meet a federal court order to relieve state prison overcrowding by releasing some inmates early and shipping others to county jails is a dangerous plan that has to be stopped, Donnelly continued.

"When the government can drop violent criminals on the street and make you feel like a criminal because you buy a gun to defend yourself, that's ridiculous."

Donnelly's strong showing in polls - he's a solid No. 2 in a primary where the top two finishers advance - has brought warnings from the GOP establishment that a Brown-Donnelly face-off in November would be a disaster for California Republicans. Top-tier Republicans like former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush , 2012 presidential nominee Mitt Romney and former Gov. Pete Wilson have lined up behind a more moderate candidate, former Treasury official Neel Kashkari, to be the GOP choice.

Being more popular with California's conservatives and the Tea Party grass roots than with Republican Party leaders is not a problem for Donnelly.

"I could care less about parties," he told the room full of cheering supporters in San Jose. "They're not the answer, they're part of the problem. We the people are the answer."

The 48-year-old Donnelly, who lives in the tiny San Bernardino County mountain community of Twin Peaks, hasn't gone out of his way to make friends in Sacramento, and it shows. After two terms in the Assembly, his state Capitol office is a dark, narrow, L-shaped space shoved hard against the building's busy elevators. On one wall of the entryway is an oversize banner featuring a drawing of an old lever-action saddle gun and the words, "The Second protects the First."

Sitting behind a desk in his comfortably cluttered office on a recent morning, Donnelly said he's not bothered by where the Assembly leadership decided to stick him.

"We're on top of each other, and I like that," he said. "It's easy to communicate."

For Donnelly, politics is all about communication and the message he wants to get out.

A campaign handout puts it simply: "Anything that increases liberty and protects our right to live free, I will support, anything that oppresses our rights I will oppose."

Donnelly was born in Atlanta and grew up in Michigan, just outside Detroit. The third in a family of 14 children, he worked to pay his way through a private Christian high school and spent a year at the University of Michigan . In 1985, he nursed his battered Volkswagen convertible on the cross-country trip west, both for the beach and to attend UC Irvine.

He graduated with a degree in English, started a manufacturing business, married his wife, Rowena, and raised a family of five boys. It's a vision of the state he still cherishes, but one he's convinced is quickly disappearing.

"I want my state back," he said in an interview. "I want my sons to have the same chance I had to live the California dream without having to move to some other state to do it."

Donnelly appeared on the political scene in 2005 when he founded a California chapter of the Minutemen, a group that provided armed patrols of the Mexican border to stop would-be immigrants from crossing into the United States illegally.

"We weren't trying to literally stop people from crossing, but our push was to leverage the media attention to start a political conversation about illegal immigration," said Donnelly, who resigned from the group in 2006. "I was good at that."

Donnelly's time on the border also left him skeptical about the ability of political parties to deal with controversial, high-profile issues.

"The Republicans were happy to have cheap labor," he said of immigrants in the country illegally, "and the Democrats were happy to have cheap votes."

Hours after he was sworn into the Assembly in 2010, Donnelly proposed a bill to bring to California an Arizona immigration law that bans sanctuary cities, requires businesses to verify their employees are in the country legally, and bars public agencies from adopting policies limiting enforcement of federal immigration law.

It lost, setting a pattern for most of Donnelly's bills in an Assembly controlled by Democrats.

Donnelly has at least one claim to fame that other gubernatorial candidates can't match - a 2012 incident when he was detained for trying to carry a loaded handgun onto a Sacramento-bound plane at Ontario Airport . He said he forgot he had the gun in his carry-on bag and pleaded no contest to a misdemeanor weapons charge. He paid a $2,215 fine and was sentenced to three years' probation.

That didn't stop his pro-gun legislative efforts, however. Last month, Donnelly - who describes himself as "a conservative with a very strong libertarian bent" - introduced a bill to strip counties of their right to issue or deny concealed weapons permits and give statewide authority to the California Department of Justice .

"I am dedicated to restoring the Second Amendment freedoms we have lost and guaranteeing that gun-owning Californians can once again protect themselves," Donnelly says in one of his position papers.

Donnelly's stands on conservative hot-button issues like guns, immigration, the environment and abortion - he's been endorsed by the California ProLife Council as "a stalwart and committed supporter of the right to life" - along with his willingness to say exactly what he thinks at any time, have given him a reputation among GOP leaders as a loose cannon whose views could taint other Republican candidates if he's on the top of the ticket in November.

Donnelly dismisses those concerns, along with the mainstream Republican support for Kashkari, as an effort by the party's leaders to steer a more moderate political course.

Party leaders oppose him, Donnelly said, "because I got here without their help or their permission."

Strapped for campaign funds, Donnelly is trying to run a grassroots campaign in a state where pricey TV and radio ad campaigns rule the political scene. His travels around the state on his red, white and blue "Liberty Express" bus, speeches to local conservative groups and party organizations, and constant round of phone calls all are part of his effort to run for governor on the cheap, substituting a personal push for the money he hasn't been able to raise.

'Patriot, not politician'

The assemblyman is convinced his message will resonate with California conservatives tired of Republican candidates who aren't willing to pick a fight and stand up for what they believe in.

"His slogan, 'Patriot, not politician,' is something he really lives out," said Elissa Wadleigh of Santa Rosa, chairwoman of the Sonoma County Republican Party, which endorsed Donnelly. "He's willing to stand up for liberty and justice and believes what's right is right and what's wrong is wrong. That's just so appealing and refreshing."

Donnelly said he dropped plans to run for a third term in the Assembly in favor of a longshot bid to knock off Brown because the governor can make a difference in the state that no individual legislator can match.

"We've got to make California the most attractive place on Earth to raise a family, run a business and pursue some happiness," Donnelly said.

Confluence of factors means few in Napa will get paid out.

Billy Crystal's moving tribute to his late friend during Emmys.
