
The En Ka Fair was another huge success despite a touch of rain on Saturday morning that cancelled the annual parade that morning. Thankfully, by the afternoon, the skies cleared and rides opened.

WINCHESTER – Swim Winchester appears to be between a rock and a hard place, trying to find a site for a community swimming pool.

A site next to the high school was designated as a potential spot during the design phase for the high school rebuild project. But now it appears that, to be economically feasible, the pool may have to be larger than originally thought.

Since the high school site is between two immovable objects, the school and the railroad tracks, the group has been looking for an alternate site, the most attractive being Ciarcia Field. But, though more flexible than the high school site, this is a hard place to plan a pool.

The question of having a pool as part of the high school project itself came up briefly during community conversations about the renovation. There has been lingering disappointment that a pool was eliminated from the original building project because all the bids in 1969 came in over budget and the project had to be trimmed.

The idea of a community pool has recurred from time to time. The high school swim teams practice in rented space and cannot host home swim meets. Area pools reportedly have high initiation and memberships which are cost-prohibitive for many families.

Since the Educational Facilities Planning and Building Committee knew the current building reconstruction was going to be extraordinarily expensive and the state would not reimburse any part of a pool, it did not include a pool in the high school plans. But it did not rule out a privately funded pool being built on the site.

Swim Winchester was formed by a group of residents who decided to explore whether a pool could be built as a public-private partnership. After some research and community meetings, the group incorporated as a non-profit and fundraised $20,000 for a professional feasibility study which would set out needs and demographics and project capital costs, revenues, and expenses.

Swim Winchester would like to move into the conceptual design phase and begin fund-raising. First, they need a confirmed, appropriate site. They cannot design for an unknown site, and they cannot get contributions without a definite site.

Recently, President Catherine Curtis and board member Gary Coccoluto visited the School Committee seeking its input and guidance on locating the pool at Ciarcia Field.

Coccoluto reviewed the feasibility study by Counsilman Hunsaker, touching on projected memberships prices, the water space needed, lane utilization, and a projected recapture rate for a pool that meets community needs and can be supported by the community.

To move forward, he said, they have to know two things, what and where. Early concepts based on the study, he said, make it tough to fit the pool into the high school site, so they also started to think and talk with town staff and officials about where else a pool could happen.

Superintendent William McAlduff’s immediate concern was that a pool would take up valuable field space. If a pool could fit on the field, that would leave just two play fields. But, he added, if those fields were both turf and had lights, they could fit the use of three fields onto two due to the extended play time. His sense was that they would have to do a lot of work with the neighborhood.

Coccoluto said they could go back to the smaller facility but it would not recapture the expenses with revenues as well as the larger one. McAlduff also had concerns about locating the pool next to the building and the impact of losing a large number of parking spaces. Chris Nixon voiced concerns about backing up to the field house, in view of the stabilization measures being taken with the building, and also noted the need to leave space for a fire lane.

Cindy Bohne said she loves the concept of a pool, especially as high school students want more sports. Cautioning that they have to be mindful of the neighbors, she said that anything that might block the noise of the train or block light from the fields might be of interest to them. A pool could also bring business downtown on evenings and weekends.

She observed that a pool next to the high school would be high-school oriented whereas a pool on the field would be more community oriented.

McAlduff said they need input from the Recreation Department on the issue of taking field space and input on the culvert plan (the installation of a fourth culvert carrying river water under Ciarcia Field). He also asked if there were a plan to finalize field space on Ciarcia Field. Further, he said they need feedback from the neighborhood.

Curtis said that they did not want to meet with the neighborhood unless they knew the School Committee was on board with the site. She suggested that they need to sketch something out so people can visualize what it would look like.

McAlduff agreed with the need for visuals, as well as an understanding of the impact on parking, field space, and green space. Meanwhile, he said, they should also hear from the high school architects about putting the expanded pool next to the school building.

Other ideas that were floated included exploring a second floor over the pool as a town resource possibly used by the Recreation Department, putting solar arrays on the roof, or using the roof as a field.

The issue was left open, with both groups recognizing that finding the best site is difficult.

“This is Winchester,” Michael Schindelman said. “If you need land, it’s a challenge.” As a believer in the idea of a multi-age pool for the whole town, he encouraged Swim Winchester to look for a resolution of the challenges.

Posted in Winchester , Mobile on Monday, May 19, 2014 12:00 pm.

Welcome to the discussion.
