
The Czech Republic gives the lie to the idea that booze fuels crime.

Brown’s view of the world doesn’t always dominate public policy, but it’s frequently endorsed by expert opinion. The compilers of the Cardiff University report into violent crime trends , for example, suggest that the recent drop in violent crime is linked to a decline in alcohol consumption, which, they say, may be due to rising alcohol prices. They add that to reduce dangerous drinking further, the cost of booze should be jacked up even more.

But for Brown and his ilk, it is axiomatic that cheap booze drunk in large quantities must lead to crime and disruption. To test this viewpoint, it might be worth looking at a country where people drink quite a lot more than the British do, and see how they cope. In 2011, the Czech Republic came second on the World Health Organisation’s per-capita list of drinkers , and number one for the consumption of beer. And by quite a way. In addition, a half-litre of Pilsner costs around thirty crowns in the Czech Republic – which translates to about a pound a pint; it is literally cheaper than water. The bars in the Czech Republic also open and close when it suits them. By Brownian logic, this should mean constant fisticuffs in Wenceslas Square. However, the violent-crime figures are notably low. On the Global Peace Index , the Czech Republic comes in at number 13, out of 162 nations.

Of course, there are rules governing Czech alcohol consumption, and some of them are very strict. You cannot drink so much as a drop and then drive, for example. What’s more, while gun laws may be liberal, carrying a gun when drunk is against the law. Nevertheless, the attitude towards alcohol in the Czech Republic is not nearly as uptight as in the UK. Rob Cameron, who has been the BBC’s correspondent in the Czech Republic for 10 years, has said that while there are murmurings about the dangers of booze every now and again, most of the time people are relaxed about their reputation as champion beer drinkers. He suggests Czech people are also pretty relaxed when they drink it, rarely displaying any of the sort of aggression many health campaigners like to associate with alcohol. For young Czechs, alcohol is not really seen as a bad thing. Not only is ‘binge drinking’ not regarded as a problem, but there seems to be no word or phrase for it. ‘It would be quite difficult to translate that concept into Czech’, Cameron said.

In his 1945 essay, ‘In Defence of English Cooking’, Orwell wrote that Britain would be a decent place to visit if it wasn’t for our miserable Sundays and the difficulty of buying a drink. ‘Both of these are due to fanatical minorities who will need a lot of quelling’, he wrote.

Mr Brown will probably always be among us. That doesn’t mean he can’t or shouldn’t be quelled.

Gerald Heys is a writer based in Gloucestershire.

For permission to republish spiked articles, please contact Viv Regan .

© spiked Ltd 2000 - 2014. All rights reserved. See terms and conditions . spiked is not responsible for the content of any third-party websites.
