
Hagerstown Community College’s Pi Theta chapter was recently recognized as one of the top 100 chapters, of more than 1,200 international chapters, at the Phi Theta Kappa International Convention in Orlando, Fla.

This year’s convention was attended by more than 4,000 members from chapters around the world. Five members represented HCC’s Pi Theta chapter at the conference. Student representatives included Samantha Baldwin and Shannon Barry, both of Boonsboro; Allen Calvert of Rohrersville; and Michael Ecton and Tony Holweck, both of Hagerstown.

HCC’s chapter also received two awards for its “Honors in Action” project: the Distinguished Honors in Action Project Award and the Distinguished Theme Award for Honors in Action. Both awards recognize top chapters whose project entries demonstrate excellence in academic research, leadership roles, leadership development activities, service learning and collaboration.

For their Honors in Action project, students in HCC’s chapter wanted to better understand why some students are driven to succeed and others are content to “just slide by,” and the student psychology behind those decisions. PTK members surveyed students on campus to determine which groups of students “maintained a vision throughout the semester that correlated with their success.” Though their study, chapter members found that burnout was a major contributor to poor student performance and that successful students frequently set goals to keep themselves on track. Chapter members then began an advocacy and information campaign, reaching out to students during final exam weeks to offer information about campus resources and provide suggestions on how students could develop long-term goals and avoid burnout.

The Phi Theta Kappa Honor Society is the largest honor society in American higher education with 1,270 chapters on college campuses across the United States and in various other countries around the world.

More than 2.5 million students have been inducted since its founding in 1918, with approximately 125,000 students inducted annually.

To learn more about Phi Theta Kappa, go to www.ptk.org .

Posted in Education on Monday, May 19, 2014 10:34 am.

We're always interested in hearing about news in our community. Let us know what's going on!
