
May 20, 2014, 8 a.m.

TasRail says the loud  whistles are needed for  safety reasons.

Many North-West residents  are complaining  about being woken by the  new whistles in the early  hours.

"We've noted community  concerns and we will be  seeking a briefing from  TasRail on its discussions  with the National Rail  Safety Regulator on what  options there may be to  reduce the impact of rail  operations on residents," a  spokesperson for Infrastructure  Minister Rene  Hidding said.

TasRail is showing no inclination  to change train  running times despite a  wave of complaints from  residents.

Changing running times  to more sleep-friendly  hours was one suggestion  which arose from The Advocate's  coverage of the  issue.

However, TasRail said its  timetable was "based on a  range of commercial imperatives,  with no one  simple answer".

"Our customers have to  get their product around or  off the island, co-ordinate  with other freight forwarders,  shipping and  logistics and we need to  give them a reliable service  to ensure this happens," it  said.

"The investment in  TasRail, including the new  locos, is as a direct result of  Tasmania needing a strong  rail service to enable new  and existing business to  grow.

"These companies directly  and indirectly employ  many thousands of  Tasmanians across a range  of industries and are critical  to the economy.

"Meeting their needs, and  doing so safely, is TasRail's  core business."

Whistles are blown as  trains approach crossings.

There are many crossings  in and near major North- West population centres.

TasRail will end rail services  into Hobart after the  end of June, with its Brighton  terminal to be the  South's main freight hub.

With below rail infrastructure  improvements  and the new engines, it  expects journey times to  decrease from the current  level of slightly more than  24 hours return between  the North-West and South.

"In a practical sense,  what this means is an increase  in the average speed  for trains on our network,"  TasRail said.

"This has been factored  into our risk assessments  and the safety standards we  adhere to and are part of  the reason we use the horn  at level crossings."
