
Share This Story!

After a male and female were found dead in a parking lot, troopers are investigating.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Investigators watch as the victims vehicles are loaded on to a tow truck Monday morning in Selbyville.

Edwards Watkins Sr., 63, and Robin Watkins, 53, were found dead in a parking lot near Selbyville.

Troopers are investigating the incident.

A husband and wife were found dead Monday morning in the Bayview Estates community east of Selbyville, and state police say it appears the husband shot his wife and then turned a gun on himself.

The two were found on the ground in the rear parking lot of the community's clubhouse about 5:50 a.m., Cpl. John Day of the Delaware State Police said. Police said late Monday they were Edward Watkins Sr., 63, and Robin Watkins, 53. They resided together in Bishopville.

Delaware State police say a man and a woman were found dead Monday morning in the Bayview Estates community east of Selbyville.

Both were pronounced dead on the scene.

Delaware State police say a man and a woman were found dead Monday morning in the Bayview Estates community east of Selbyville.

Day said a preliminary police investigation shows the couple drove separately to the clubhouse late Sunday evening.

"The male shot the female twice and then shot himself," Day said Monday afternoon. Police recovered a handgun from the crime scene.

A tow truck summoned by police towed away a Kia Sorrento SUV and a Honda Ridgeline pickup truck from the parking lot behind the clubhouse.

Streaks of blood could be seen on the rear driver's-side door of the Kia. Both vehicles displayed specialty Maryland license plates that only current or former law enforcement officers belonging to the Fraternal Order of Police Maryland State Lodge can obtain.

Bill McCallops, a homeowner in the neighborhood several miles outside of Selbyville, said he only knew something was wrong when he noticed police cars at the clubhouse, which is across the street from his home.

"If it was a gunshot, I didn't hear it. And the dog didn't make any noise during the night," McCallops said.

Detectives remained on the scene investigating until about 11 a.m. Once the vehicles were towed away, a Roxana Fire Company crew hosed down the parking lot with water as neighbors looked on.
