
Following a 1968 constitutional change that allowed Pennsylvania’s governor to serve a second, consecutive term, no elected incumbent has failed to win re-election. That tends to discourage top-tier challengers and attract long shots.

Not one polled above 40 percent in seeking to unseat an incumbent governor.

This year, with polls showing a majority of Pennsylvanians does not believe Corbett deserves another four years in Harrisburg, the line-up of Democratic challengers is impressive. All are accomplished, articulate and able to lead Pennsylvania. And they generally agree on the major issues.

Democratic voters who support a severance tax on the Marcellus Shale industry, tighter regulation of gas drillers, a restoration of state funding for education, marriage equality and an expansion of Medicaid under the Affordable Care Act could vote confidently for any one of them.

The deciding factor, as we see it, lies in which candidate is most likely to be able to steer that agenda through the General Assembly, which is controlled by Republicans now and could remain so after the November General Election.

The only Democratic candidate with a track record in that regard is U.S. Rep. Allyson Schwartz, who served 14 years in the state Senate before winning a Congressional seat representing a largely working-class district covering Northeast Philadelphia and adjacent suburbs.

Schwartz was a leading sponsor of the Children’s Health Insurance Program while serving in Harrisburg in 1992. The undeniably successful program, which provides free or affordable insurance coverage for children in lower- income families who do not qualify for Medicaid, was used as a model for a national program.

She has been a staunch supporter of the Affordable Care Act and other legislation aimed at bettering the lives of her constituents and all working Americans.

In Editorial Board interviews with the four candidates, we found Schwartz to have the deepest understanding of the issues in the gubernatorial race and the most realistic approach to the negotiations and compromises involved in turning campaign positions into legislation.

And unlike her three opponents, Schwartz relied more on the policies she would pursue as governor rather than on her own personal history in stating her case for the Democratic nomination.

We believe Schwartz has the experience and qualifications to present the Democrats’ strongest case in the November General Election.

To comment you must first create a profile and sign-in with a verified DISQUS account or social network ID. Sign up here.
