
After years of complaints by residents the Environment Protection Authority has identified the dominant sources of odour coming from the Rutherford Industrial Estate.

Residents have complained for years about the stench coming from the Industrial Estate with the State Government committing $400,000 to investigate the problem.

The Environment Protection Authority says it has finalised its Rutherford Odour Investigation Project and is set to issue prevention notices to two companies, the Fulton Hogan Asphalt plant and Wax Converters.

Both have been identified as the dominant odour sources.

The notices require the companies to identify actions needed to minimise odour generation and provide a report to the EPA within 3 months.

The EPA is also implementing a regulatory program to ensure the pollution control equipment at the Truegain and Transpacific Industrial waste oil refineries at the estate are operating effectively at all times.

A Rutherford retail worker, who was among a group of workers recently overcome by toxic fumes from a nearby industrial estate, says it has taken too long for authorities to act on the persistent odours.

Spotlight supervisor, Elizabeth Datson says the fumes earlier this month were so powerful her eyes were burning and a fellow staff member had to be hospitalised.

"I think that it's a bit rough that it's taken this long," she said.

"Since this has happened a lot of people have approached my boss and said, yes, we've been noticing it for a long time.

"You know, like we get a lot of elderly people in Spotlight, and people with young children and you just think, oh my god, I hope they're not breathing in something."

If you have inside knowledge of a topic in the news, contact the ABC .

An aid worker becomes a little girl's sole guardian after Ebola wipes out a family in Sierra Leone.

This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.
