
A mid north coast anti coal seam gas group says AGL can expect community resistance at the same level as Bentley if it decides to go ahead with exploratory wells.

The Manning Clean Water Action Group  says the government's backdown, where it suspended Metgasco's exploration licence near Lismore, should have AGL worried.

President Chris Sheed said the move shows the Office of Coal Seam Gas is serious about enforcing compliance and AGL does not have a social licence in Gloucester.

"I think anytime where you have strong community opposition to a project that project cannot be said to have a social licence," he said.

"There is some scientific data on social licence which is sort of a hierarchy of community acceptance.

"Where you have active protests there is really no social licence as has been very clearly demonstrated at Bentley."

Mr Sheed said any attempt by the AGL on four approved test wells will be met by resistance similar to that at Bentley.

He said groups have pledged to blockade drilling activity.

"A number of groups have committed to taking non-violent direct action in the event that the state government grants approval to AGL to start fracking the four wells for which they have sought approval to frack," he said.

"It is highly likely that Gloucester will become a focus of anti coal seam gas activity because it is one of the icons that we do not want to see destroyed."

In a statement, a spokeswoman for AGL said the company has worked hard to regularly consult with the community, and respond to any concerns raised.

"In Gloucester, our local employees live and work in the community - they are part of local clubs and contribute to the local economy," she said.

"The AGL team is committed to engaging with the local community, and in addition to daily interaction with local families and businesses, has conducted 30 community information sessions, attended local events, held site tours and barbeques, provided 48 newsletters to the community and frequently door knocked residents."

The spokesperson said the company is actively seeking the community's feedback on its operations through a range of initiatives.

"In addition to face-to-face community consultation, AGL launched the Your Say AGL portal where we share information with the community each day and encourage feedback, questions and comments," she said.

"AGL is also part of Gloucester's Community Consultative Committee (Triple C) and the newly established Gloucester Dialogue.

"We understand that people have questions about our operations and we welcome discussion so we can be aware of and act on community concerns.

If you have inside knowledge of a topic in the news, contact the ABC .

An aid worker becomes a little girl's sole guardian after Ebola wipes out a family in Sierra Leone.

This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.
