
Russia has so far refrained from anything more than warnings on the West's violation of WTO regulations in applying sanctions against some Russian banks, Russian minister of economic development told the Rossiya 24 TV channel.

"During the previous meeting of the WTO General Council we saw attempts of our European and US counterparts to speak about some sectoral sanctions against Russia, which would imply a politically motivated limitation of export."

"And this is a direct violation of the WTO foundations," said Russian Minister of Economic Development Alexei Ulyukaev.

He assured that if this verbal course became practical, Russia would be ready to apply all WTO instruments to counter such attempts. So far, Russia has warned that "this is an inappropriate practice that should be excluded from the international economic relations."

Russia's stance on this issue was well understood by Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation countries who expressed their support during May 17-18 meeting of APEC trade ministers.

On March 20, the US Department of Treasury introduced sanctions against some Russian individuals and organizations, including four banks: Kovalchuk's Rossiya, Rossiya's Sobinbank, SMP Bank and InvestCapitalBank, the latter two controlled by the Rotenberg brothers.

Czech, Hungarian and Slovak leaders are accusing the EU west bloc of hypocrisy in regard to Russia during the crisis in Ukraine. Eastern Europe refuses to get more economic damage which could be inflicted by wider sanctions.

While Eastern Europe undergoes an economic crisis, the West continues on dealing with Russian companies even as they threaten Russia with more sanctions. "It is hypocritical," Slovak Prime Minister Robert Fico said at a conference today in Bratislava, the nation's capital.

His Czech and Hungarian counterparts, Bohuslav Sobotka and Viktor Orban, said they don't want to lose out on business opportunities.

"We are talking about solidarity here and France is selling warships to Russia," Fico said at a Globsec security conference. "We are talking about how to help Ukraine with its energy security and the very same day we were taking fundamental decisions at the European Council," while Russian gas exporter OAO Gazprom "signed a contract on South Stream," a pipeline, "with German, French and Italian companies."

Naturally, Polish Premier Donald Tusk struck a different tone, saying the EU must show unity and assume its costs.

All rights reserved.
