
Nancy Percival basked in the glow of Walmart, like a planet orbiting the sun.

Her small shop in St. Anthony Village thrived because it was near the giant retailer, drawing thousands of customers a day.

But when the Walmart closed April 8, her business went dark.

"I can't do this anymore," groaned Percival, who is shutting down Nancy's Nifty Thrifty after operating the store in various locations for six years. "I have tapped my life savings, my retirement and my son's college fund."

As more anchors of malls close or change hands -- such as the 18 Rainbow grocery stores whose sale was announced earlier this month -- communities are dealing with the ups and downs of the "big box" halo effect.

"It's symbiosis," said Mark Bergen, marketing professor for the Carlson School of Management at the University of Minnesota.

When anchors close, they have no obligation to help the businesses that depended on them. "For those businesses," Bergen said, "I would just say caveat emptor," or buyer beware.

Bergen said big-box retailers are celebrated when they open because they create a surrounding community of stores. The shopping area becomes a destination that benefits every business, he said, as customers see the shops and impulsively drop in.

"I might go to a mall and eat at McDonald's. But I would never drive there just for the McDonald's," he said.

Small shops love being close to the big stores.

"Do we benefit? Absolutely," said Amanda Swanson, manager of the European Wax Center, a new shop near the 3-year-old SuperTarget in Woodbury. "At least 50 to 75 percent of our new guests say they have seen us when they were going to Target."

In Woodbury, a Walmart helped revive the flagging Woodbury Commons mall and drew new businesses such as Clothes Mentor, which sells used clothing for women.

"Yes, Walmart traffic helps our business," said owner Mark Hoon. He said the anchor store created a new business community -- but not for everyone.

Businesses don't survive if they try to compete with Walmart. "If you do that, you are in for a rude awakening," Hoon said.

Walmart spokeswoman Delia Garcia said typical Walmart neighbors are flower shops, dry cleaners, UPS stores, restaurants and other niche retailers. "Walmart provides great locations for services," she said.

Businesses can continue, if they have developed a base of loyal customers.

One of two St. Anthony Village Wine and Liquor stores, for example, is near the empty Walmart building. But operations manager Mike Larson says business has not been hurt because the stores have a monopoly on liquor sales and most of the customers are regulars.

"I think most people know we are here," he said.

Another reason anchor-dependent stores survive is that their rent usually drops. Cottage Grove City Administrator Ryan Schroeder said many small businesses have leases that assume the presence of an anchor store, and they pay less if the anchor closes.

But the closing of a big box can mean hardship for the neighborhood -- because it is a very public sign of stress. The shuttered stores and their vast parking lots look desolate.

"Why would you come here?" said Mike Thoms, St. Paul Park, emerging from a barber shop in a troubled mall in Cottage Grove.

He looked at the Home Depot that closed in 2008, then at the Rainbow, which is about to be sold or closed. In front of them were empty acres of asphalt.

"This looks dumpy," Thoms said. "It's a barren wasteland."

The vacancies can trigger a domino effect.

"It can leave the impression with the marketplace that this is a struggling neighborhood," said Schroeder said. But that might not be true -- chain stores like Home Depot and Rainbow are often closed not because of local sales but because of their corporate owners' difficulties.

In St. Anthony, the Walmart in the Silver Lake Village development was apparently thriving, but the company closed it when they opened a larger store three miles away in Roseville.

City Administrator Mark Casey said the property owner is highly motivated to find a new tenant because the vacancy affects its other properties in the development. But the effort is complicated by the company's legal agreement with Walmart, which restricts what kinds of businesses can move in for the next three years.

Casey said the owner, Inland Commercial Property Management, is negotiating to shorten that time frame. Inland officials did not return phone messages left last week. .

Walmart spokeswoman Garcia said Walmart or the property managers might sublease the property. "It could be a church, a church school or a temporary hiring center," she said.

Casey is confident the building will be occupied soon.

Everything else in the neighborhood -- apartments, a lake, the walkable small-town-style shopping area -- has been recently updated.

"In real estate, it's all location, location, location. And we do feel that that location is esthetically pleasing and has good synergy with Silver Lake Village," Casey said.

After only a few weeks, the Walmart-shaped hole was hurting some of its neighbors. Workers in three nearby businesses said business had dropped, although they didn't want to be identified.

Thrift store owner Percival isn't afraid to speak out, because she has nothing to lose.

Last week, she prepared for the demise of Nifty Thrifty, marking everything 60 percent off. But without the Walmart, she wasn't even optimistic about her going-out-of-business sale.

"If everything in the store was $1," she said, "people still would not come."

Bob Shaw can be reached at 651-228-5433. Follow him at twitter.com/BshawPP .
