
The Association of Cyprus Banks has issued a warning for all bank customers in relation to Phishing attacks or fraudsters attempting to steal their personal data over the phone, email and internet.

Phishing is a type of internet fraud that seeks to acquire a user’s credentials by deception. It includes theft of passwords, credit card numbers, bank account details and other confidential information. The announcement said that in Cyprus, fraudsters call people who have bank accounts and pretend that they are bank employees calling to confirm their clients’ bank account number, password, ID details and other personal data.

Fraudsters also send fake emails, pretending to be the bank of the recipient in order to convince them to divulge their personal data. They come up with various reasons for sending the email such as security reasons, fraud, renewal of their data and other.

If recipients press on the link, they are then redirected to a page where they have to enter their access codes which they use to access online banking services.

“If someone falls victim to fraud it usually means that fraudsters have managed to gain access to their bank account and steal their money transferring sums to their own account in Cyprus or abroad,” said the announcement.

The Association said that in the case that a client has revealed their password and realised they have fallen victim to fraud, they should immediately notify their bank to change their access codes.

The Association emphasised that all banks in Cyprus and all professional bank organisations around the world will never call or send messages to their clients asking them to reveal their personal details and provide access codes to online banking services.

The only messages that banks send their customers involve information about their services, products or special offers. They also mentioned that access to online banking services should be attempted only through the official website of each bank. Customers should not trust other similar websites or reveal their personal information such as access codes to such websites.

Customers can receive more information about security issues from their bank’s website or by calling their local bank.
