
Recently, hundreds of climate scientists issued dire warnings about climate change in their third National Climate Assessment.

An article in a recent State Journal has more warnings. Two studies predict sea levels will rise up to 12 feet within a few hundred years because the West Antarctic Ice Sheet is collapsing from warming waters. One NASA scientist called it "unstoppable."

That echoes a more ominous warning by another NASA climate scientist on the Keystone XL pipeline. NASA’s Dr. James Hansen famously warned that if we fully developed the Canadian tar sands it was "game over" for our climate.

U.S. Sens. Ron Johnson and Tammy Baldwin need to put a federal tax on carbon energy. That would do what all these warnings from climate scientists have not done -- cut carbon dioxide emissions.

Copyright 2014 madison.com. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

I am in a hurray so just a couple of points.

You said, "I am in China right now and I can tell you that they do not "need" us for much other than as the worlds best consumers."

That's my point.  China's carbon footprint is growing because of our demand for their products.  If China were trying to make it as a consumer economy rather than as a producer/exporter economy, their carbon footprint would be substantially less.  So place the same carbon tax we would place on our products on the goods imported from China.  Do this until China complies with goals to reduce emissions.  Yes it is more complicated than just snapping a finger, but it can be done.

I would argue that much of the projected world wide growth in co2 emissions comes from consumer demand in the west and not from consumer demand in the developing nations.  We can use that power to enforce our will.

I would also argue that our own domestically produced goods are disadvantaged by the fact that companies naturally gravitate to low regulation states where products can be produced without having to factor the cost of negative externalities into consumer prices.  Imposing a carbon tax on goods produced in low regulation states will level the playing field and offer advantages to domestic manufacturers.  Keep those taxes in place until the nations comply with reduction goals.

I should think that developing nations would jump at the opportunity.  Foreign investors wouldn't be polluting the host nation just so western demand can be sated. And the host nation would be building world class clean manufacturing at the same time.  Encouraging where possible and forcing where necessary would create a level playing field.  It is a win win all around.

Enjoy China.  Never been there myself.

I will wait patiently for your response.  No need to hurry.  I wouldn't expect you to pay the higher data rates just so you can engage in esoteric discussions with the likes of me .  Then again they maybe data rates are cheaper in China, I don't know.  Enjoy your time.

Long hard journeys start with a clear understanding of the destination and the plan to get there.  We need agreement or it all falls apart before it begins.  As renewables drive the cost of electricity higher or manufacturing takes a hit, as do consumers.  You may get your "rebate" from a carbon tax, but everything you purchase that is made domestically costs more.  Less jobs, more imports, lower GDP, higher unemployment.

What is the alternative?  I told you multiple times, natural gas as an intermediary and then nuclear.  Global discussions on population control.

There is nothing self serving in my statements, I present only what is happening.  Emerging nations are using their natural resources, coal, to improve their standard of living.  The rates of increase dwarf any reductions we, G7 countries, can make.  That is the reality.  If you ask them, the think that the immediate is more important than very long term climate change.

"Cause lord knows, the third world can't build their power plants and expand their carbon footprint without out the help of those who already profit from spreading the cancer."

The lord knows that is a false statement.  I am in China right now and I can tell you that they do not "need" us for much other than as the worlds best consumers.  They build either with or without our technology.  Same for India.

You do not advance the cause without having a clear understanding of the magnitude of the problem.  The real deniers are those that advocate for solutions that fix nothing and give utopian outcomes.

Understanding the science and the engineering of the current problem is the first step.  Not a carbon tax redistribution of wealth.

The GAO cannot account for 10% of all cash it takes in.  Waste just gets bigger as government steals more.  The sick will stay sick, poor as poor and nothing solved, except PACS and lobbys thrive.

Hope you had a good bikie ride!

Your comments appear to be quite well thought out.  Good job on that.

But you seemed to have sidestepped some of my comments below.

"It wasn’t too long ago when we eliminated fluoro carbons from spray cans as they were destroying our ozone layer. "

"If you have travelled to China you would get a first hand glimpse of air pollution."

Since the Chinese Government is known for not sharing much truth, we don't really know how the health of the Chinese has been affected, at least not on a scientific basis.  But I do believe we can agree people are dying and there will be a considerable increase in lung diseases.

"If you would see what is happening in the Amazon it would make you wonder how much more trees can we cut before the effect will be almost irreversible.  Nature, in most instances has the wonderful ability to "balance" itself over time.  But when sudden catastrophic events occur, climate changes are sudden and usually disastrous.  Since we really don't have the experience of what a slow dissolution of a balanced climate is, we are left up to educatued guessing.  Unfortunately, that leaves the door open for all kinds of people with nefarious ideas  to enter into the fight.  Sad!

@truthzeeker (below);

"From your statement I believe you are not in favor of addressing climate change."

Believe it or not, after watching "Too Hot Not Too Handle" ~ 2006 I was, if not a "true believer," someone who questioned my faith.

Then I read minor rumblings, well below the MSM radar, that there was another side to it.

Long story short, I can see how someone would conclude (as did Mother Gaia Dr. James Lovelock) that ALL evidence points to us being warmed to death; if they limit their sources.

"An Inconvenient Truth" the Waramlita Alarmacist's virtual 10 Commandments, is riddled with ascientific errors and can't be shown in the U.K. without 9 disclaimers.

I revisited Laurie David's schlockumentary a few years later only to recognize those interviewed as well-represented in CLIMATE CRIMINAL circles.

David incidentally has been cited not just once, but twice, for violating the Wetlands Protection Act.

Don't get me started on Fat Albert.  And then there's all that secrecy, research fraud, data manipulation, "settled science" stuff.

The Kyoto Accord?  The country that leads the known Universe in per capita reductions/smallest increases is a non-signatory; you'll never guess who it is.

The Rio Summit  (1992) is when there began a seismic shift in the U.N.'s priorities, moving from improving the condition of Humanity.

In spite of doing such a bang up job with that, they saw the future of pushing Global Warming as a shakedown/wealth redistributionist artist's absofreakinlute wet dream.

Do a little independent reading about the machinations of the UNIPCC, its Chair (RR Engineer Rajendra Pachauri), why at whose behest he became Chair, the errors left in the Assessment Reports & the findings that have been left out.

See where GSTs are in relation to Dr. James Hansen's wildly optimistic Scenario "C."

Or what the "97 % Consensus" really means.

"(The) study was done by Margaret Zimmerman, who sent the survey to 10,257 Earth Scientists.

"Of those, 3,146 responded.

"Of those, Ms. Zimmerman excluded all but 77.

"That fact alone should have your journalistic instincts on high alert. But it gets worse.

I ask those who believe we're beyond the point of safe return the same question, to which I've yet to receive an answer.

"What have you done, what are you doing, and what will you do going forward to prevent us from burning to a crisp?"

I'd be more than happy to answer that myself, and will later, but believe it or not, it's time for me to get on my BIKIE.

From your statement I believe you are not in favor of addressing climate change.  Even though a preponderance of scientists seem to feel that it is inevitable that we are going to “hit the wall’ in the future with serious weather disruptions which will affect our everyday lives, you seem unimpressed about the subject.  The Kyoto protocol which involved close to two hundred nations apparently is meaningless.

@truthzeeker;

"On the other side we have the climate changers.....and what stake do they have in this?"

The serious money isn't in the science, it's in the solutions.

The Chicago Climate Exchange closed quietly after being unable to fulfill the one reason for its existence, generate literally Trillion$ (that's with a "T!") to line the pockets of Gucci-slippered Carbon Traders & savvy, rent-seeking corporations.

Its principals were a veritable Who's Who of well-heeled career Lefties that included, but wasn't limited to): Fat Albert, George Soros, Maurice Strong, Frank Raines, the Lefty Foundations, and a former State of IL Senator you may have hard of.

I advocate for trying to convince the patient to take the steps that might stem the tide and buy her/him some time while we search for a cure.  You throw up your hands and say there is nothing we can do.  There is no hope.  Not only that, you take to the net and actively try and convince everyone else to do nothing.  You go even further and tell the patient to merrily continue engaging in behaviors that we know will cause the cancer to spread more quickly.

You not only talk about how the G7 can't stop the advance of global warming you make it sound as though it would be morally repugnant to stop the cancer's advance because third world countries are clamoring for the higher standard of living that comes with the cancer.  I find this a curious if not self serving argument.

It's almost as if you believe that the industrialized world has an altruistic responsibility to spread the cancer of global warming.  Cause lord knows, the third world can't build their power plants and expand their carbon footprint without out the help of those who already profit from spreading the cancer.

Good question.

The sheep will sleep easy at night knowing they "did something".  A big fear gone, their place in the world secure.  The barbarians at the gate have been thwarted.  Except it is a big lie, the problem is huge and the solution painful.

You are missing the point completely.

In your example of terminal cancer.

YOU are advocating lying to the patient, telling them they have the cancer, giving them a couple of aspirins and sending them home to get better.  Then when the patient calls saying they are feeling worse, you tell them to take more aspirin.

I am at least being honest about the solution if we accept that the problem is man made global warming.  A "revenue neutral carbon tax" is the aspirin and it is infuriating to me that anyone can suggest that the solution to this problem is as easy as charging more for energy use, but no worries, you will get your money back and the only ones to pay will be the "evil" oil companies.

If you believe the science behind global warming then you also have to believe the science behind the solution.  The rise in GHG emissions will continue unabated regardless of any actions we take.  Not my opinion, fact.

The solution to manmade climate change is painful.  It did not happen overnight and the solution will not come overnight.  GHG's will continue to rise thru at least 2050 and push CO2 concentrations well past 500ppm. Slowing the rate of growth in a meaningful way would require a massive investment in global nuclear energy and an agreement on zero population growth globally, with a reduction in global population longer term.  Very harsh and filled with dangers of its own.  In other words, there is no free ride.

The odds of the planet agreeing to the required global solutions are about zero.   We can lie to ourselves about this all we want but emerging nations, where the BULK of the population resides, are going to provide improved standards of living for their people regardless of the long term global consequences.  If they don't their governments will be replaced with ones that will.  Their people want better standards of living and they look to the West as the standard.  That means dirty air and lots of coal because that's what they have.

An "aspirin" will not cure the patient.

When it comes to global climate change, the persistent policy prescriptions of conservatives remind me of a story about faith.  It is called "God will Save Me"

A terrible storm came into a town and local officials sent out an emergency warning that the riverbanks would soon overflow and flood the nearby homes. They ordered everyone in the town to evacuate immediately.

The flood waters rose higher and higher and the man had to climb up to his rooftop.

Shortly after, the house broke up and the floodwaters swept the man away and he drowned.

From your persistent posts on the matter it would appear that you would recommend doing nothing.

When it comes to the cancer of global climate change, that is exactly the kind of Darwinian policy prescription you persistently recommend.

The easiest way to address this is to accept that "climate_____ (fill in blank, cooling, warming, changing) and then take a tough look at what can be done.

At the end of that analysis you will come to the only conclusion possible and that is there is very little we can do to mitigate greenhouse gas emissions sufficiently to make a measurable difference.

We have no substitutes globally for fossil fuels.  Renewables are nice, have a niche, but are not the answer by a long shot to reducing emissions.  Behind every wind generator/solar panel you will find a fossil fuel generating source picking up the slack when the wind doesn't blow and the sun doesn't shine.

EIA projects world energy consumption will increase 56% by 2040.  Most all of that increase will be in non-OECD countries and the fuel will be coal.

The The United Nations’ Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s (IPCC) says we have to lower global emissions by 80% to reverse climate whatever.

The Citizens Climate Lobby produced a wish list with varying Carbon Tax amounts.  At a draconian $200/Ton, by 2033 we could reduce emissions in the US by 35%, and then that number goes down.  By their own report manufacturing shrinks even further than it already has.  Service jobs become king.

Do the math.

China produced 3.2 Billion tons of Coal in 2012, the 13th year for record production.  That number represents almost the production of ALL COUNTRIES in the rest of the world combined.  Four times as much as the US.  And guess what?  13 will be another record and this doesn't even take into account what the rest of the emerging countries are doing.

If anyone is really serious about this then they need to be promoting Global Population Control and Nuclear Energy.  That's it.  Nothing else accomplishes the goal and that doesn't solve the problem but it does reduce the rates of increase.  Anyone who promotes things like carbon taxes, wind generators and solar panels as a first line response to climate whatever is the REAL DENIER.

Don't believe me?  Run the climate model yourself, you can find the MAGICC/SCENGEN model here.

Read the UN, IEA reports on energy production, consumption and fuel types.  Climate change advocates are betting you won't, they want to sell you an agenda that has nothing to do with climate whatever.

If you really want to ponder climate whatever, look up Solar Minimums.

Yes waste on caring for sick old people, sick poor people, sick veterans, and 'defense'.  That is 75% of government spending.

Taxing Carbon is good for the environment and the deficit.

Taxing junk food is better, good for the deficit and health budget.

@truthzeeker;

Speaking of the veritably teetering on extinction Polar Bears.

The Warmalista Alarmicists (WWF, etc.) have been actively fundraising on what they claim are the "rapidly disappearing before our eyes if you don't give now and give generously" poster child for Global Warming, Ursus Maritimus.

Hint:  Do yourself a favor and don't quote "An Inconvenient Truth" or the WWF.

Sort of reminds you of when Newton talked about the invisible force of Gravity.  Or when some scientist stated that the earth was round.  Or when some scientist said the earth revolved around the sun.  GDHM,  I think you are spinning some truths in hope that some ignorant person will believe your unfounded comments.

Could you please site your sources that the polar bears are starving because the breathing holes of the seals have frozen?  This is counter intuitive to what all other reports have been saying......the Arctic ice shelf has been shrinking for many years.  If that is the case then it would not make any sense that the breathing holes of the seals would be freezing shut.

Some years ago, I spent a month in Alaska and was amazed at how the glaciers have retreated over the past 50 years.  I wonder if the ground under them is warming up?  Maybe you could help me on explaining why that is happening,

Gotch,

My bad, my friend.  I had the audacity to write some inconvenient truths and your post was just collateral damage, a two-fer , or four-fer, for the mods, as it were.

But all things being equal, ... which they are not, you still had me in stitches this morning with your hashtag diplomacy.  #benditlikebirkenstock got my milk snortgargled through through my nose.  Am forwarding you the bill for computer keyboard clean-up.

Having both the gold and wisdom of Solomon, you can easily afford it.

Yeah, I've done some hard-time, myseff.  I ain't afraid of nothing.  I do, however, take Good Dog's advice. I don't sweat the petty stuff and don't pet the sweaty stuff.

Woofda!

@GDHM;

They spiked my last reply to your 1st comment; start the timer on this one.

They couldn't handle the truth as told by former UNIPCC Lead Author Dr. Richard Tol & renowned Swedish scientist Professor Lennart Bengtsson of Reading University.

They paid dearly for their blaspheme against the 'settled science' put forth by those that tithe to the Church Of Global Warming.

Seems some Climate Scientists are more equal than others!

WoofDah!

Chicken Little was in the woods one day, napping, when an acorn fell on her head and woke her up.   It scared the crap out of her.  She shook so hard, half her feathers fell out.  She assumed that glassy lockstep liberal lemming-like, true-believer zealot 1000 yard stare.

Along the way she met Henny Penny, Ducky Lucky, Goosey Lucy, Turkey Lurkey and Foxy Loxy, (played by da Gotch, star of stage and screen, for which he was nominated a Slimy).

Foxy Loxy smiled and said, "Hey, babycakes, why you shaking those fine tail feathers on such a good day, girrrrl, and where are you all headed in such a hurry?"

Chicken Little clucked, "We're off to see the king.... the sky is falling!"

"Chill, baby chicken.  How exactly do you know the sky is falling." Foxy asked.

"I saw it with my own eyes and heard it with my own ears, and part of it fell on my head."

the others, Ducky Lucky, Goosey Lucy and Turkey Lurkey bobble-headed in agreement.

"I see", said Foxy Loxy, as he picked up his hammer and saw, "follow me, and I'll show you the way to the king." They followed Foxy Loxy straight to his den.  They never got to tell the king the sky was falling.  But with such big ears he has, ... I'm sure he's heard all about it.

After a heating season we are not yet out of, this claim is still being made.

Tax, tax, tax.  More cash for government to waste, is no ones answer to anything, even it it were true.

So you want a carbon tax.  And you think you will be compensated for the higher cost of energy via the carbon tax.

This is a teachable moment so listen up.

• Plants, through the process of photosynthesis take in carbon dioxide as a necessity for making glucose. And as a by-product they release oxygen.  The animals take in that oxygen and release carbon dioxide for the plants. So plant more plants to scrub carbon dioxide out of the air.

• Mankind’s emissions of fossil carbon and the resulting increase in temperature could prove to be our salvation from the next ice age. According to new research from the University of Gothenburg, Sweden, the current increase in the extent of peatland is having the opposite effect.

• Whats next a carbon tax on mankind?  Why not?  The amount of carbon dioxide given off by humans in their life time is huge.

Wow. And I thought that I was the ignorant one.

In the deep dark dank den was found former UNIPCC Lead Author Dr. Richard Tol & renowned Swedish scientist Professor Lennart Bengtsson of Reading University.

They've paid dearly for their blaspheme against the 'settled science' precepts put forth by those that tithe to the Church Of Global Warming.

GREENIE MEANIES swarm and engulf those that dare cast a shadow of a doubt by insisting that the debate is, in fact, NOT over..

Refusing to ignore that skepticism is one of THE primary aspects of scientific inquiry and far more discovery is made when departing from CONSENSUS (CON US for short) than adhering unquestioningly to it did them in and sealed their fate.

These sequestered skeptics possess a part of the anatomy that is anathema to GLOBAL WARMING INC; a spine.

In unrelated news, record icebreaking activity on the Great Lakes finally winding down.

WoofDah!

Yes , we must make crazy Gore a billionaire ! His investments in the cap are languishing since the fraud of  global warming research was exposed . The greatest polluter at this time is China ,and they are NOT interested in the caps . The left wing claim of US pollution is based upon per capita , China , India ,and Russia are much greater polluters and  are not part of any caps. This is all about increasing TAXES for Obama to waste !  Who is stupid enough to believe ANYTHING that the administration promotes? The Artic has so much ice that the polar bears are starving because the breathing holes of the seals have frozen . The Antartica shelf has been INCREASING for years , its time for a melting to maintain its viability.. Gov grants for the studies require the results to support the gov crazies.

Username & Password Required!
