
KUWAIT CITY, May 19: The Legislative Committee of the National Assembly has given the nod for the revision every three years the salaries of contract workers in the government sector based on the cost of living. The issue has now been referred to the Human Resources Development Committee, reports Al-Anba daily.

Chairman of the committee Mubarak Al-Harees said the committee has approved the amendment of the law of the Kuwait Investment Authority, especially the issue related to the tenure of the board of directors to be 3 years instead of 4 year and one-time only. He said the committee also agreed on a draft law on the establishment of a health fund for athletes and that the issue has been referred to the Committee on Youth and Sports.

The draft law is related to the compensations that will be given to players in case of any injury and the manner of treatment. He said the committee approved the draft law on the reorganization of the Kuwaiti Fund for Arab Economic Development. He pointed out the amendment is aimed at transforming the operations of the Kuwait Fund to Islamic Sharia, and the appointment of a Sharia Supervisory Board to check on the legality of the members of the Fund. Moreover, he said, the tenure of the Director-General and Board of Directors will be three years. He said the committee also agreed on a draft law on the amendment of some articles of Law No. 23 of 1968 related to the Police Force system.

Meanwhile, the Chairman of the Media Committee for the Kuwaiti Society to Follow-up Parliamentary Performance Faisal Al-Harbi affirmed that the resignations of the five MPs represent a dangerous curve in the path of not only the current parliament but also general Kuwaiti political future, reports Al-Seyassah daily.

He elaborated that the MPs resigned under special circumstances over some issues that raise suspicions, starting from the multi millions deposits issue to the cancellation of the interpellation against the Prime Minister, which created tension and aggravated the distrust towards the parliamentary presidency that is being accused of lacking neutrality when discussing crucial issues.

Meanwhile, MP Hamad Al-Harshani affirmed that some former MPs are urging people to gather at Erada Square in case the parliamentary by-elections are held, indicating that such calls are aimed to destabilize the country and provoke a coup against the power through the violation of the Constitution. Requesting people to be cautious, MP Al-Harshani said, “Kuwait is fortunately under the protection of its loyal citizens who will defend the country and the ruling family from any evil conspiracy”.

He assured that more projects to serve the people will be achieved, affirming that the parliamentary work will not be discontinued during the summer season. In addition, the Rapporteur of Parliament’s Finance Committee MP Mohammad Al-Jabri indicated the need for the parliamentary by-elections to be held prior to Ramadan month to fill the positions of the five resigned lawmakers so that the number of voters will be as many as possible, reports Al-Rai daily. He urged for a governmental change to include efficient and qualified elements, who can realize many achievements with the cooperation of the Prime Minister. MPAl-Jabri insisted that the interpellation of the Prime Minister, which led to the resignations of five MPs, was deliberately presented in an unconstitutional manner with the aim of placing the National Assembly in an embarrassing position.
