
Dick Leonard practiced journalism in Wisconsin during an era when newspapers were big and bold and competitive. And, with Leonard at the helm, the Milwaukee Journal was something rare: a dominant paper that was also a quality paper.

Leonard, who died Sunday at age 92, believed in getting the news but he also believed in providing perspective, and leadership.

Leonard sent the paper’s staff to every corner of Milwaukee and to every corner of Wisconsin. But he did not stop there.

He sent reporters across the country and around the world. They did not merely go for bylines from distant locations; they went looking for stories that others missed and asking questions that others forgot. In the late 1960s and early 1970s, as his editorship was taking shape, Journal reporters and photographers went to Vietnam, where they provided a sense of the war that informed the state’s critical response.

That was controversial, and the Journal had its critics, who disapproved of the paper’s pointed news reports and even more pointed editorials.

But Leonard rose through the reporting and editing ranks during the Joe McCarthy years. Often reporting at the side of The Capital Times’ John Patrick Hunter in the days when the reckless senator would publicly condemn journalists who challenged his facts and his tactics, Leonard could take the hits. Like Hunter, his strategy was to get the story right and then stick by it, no matter how much vitriol the political hucksters threw his way.

Leonard’s great strength was that he knew Milwaukee and Wisconsin. He was confident that the people could handle the truth — and that they would respond appropriately.

Under Leonard, the Journal gained international acclaim. Back in the days when national magazines and commentators named the best daily newspapers in the United States, the Journal invariably made the list.

Leonard, whose editorship extended for 18 years starting in 1967, retired long ago. Yet he remained highly engaged in his later years, standing strong for an old-school faith in the vital importance of an engaged and unrelenting journalism to speak truth to power.

Copyright 2014 madison.com. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

As Jack Nicholson said: "You can't handle the truth"!

I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site consitutes agreement to it's user agreement & privacy policy.

Username & Password Required!
