
On Friday 23rd May at 6.30pm the Watoto Children’s choir from Uganda will be doing a FREE open air concert on Ditchling village green ( behind the church ) supported by The Mac’s Organic Free Range egg farm.

Danny Mac is helping on a egg farm project for Watoto who rescue abandoned children, give them a home, school and future, and has been out to Uganda twice in the last 9 months to help them run the farm, meet the kids and look after the 8000 hens they have, which is far from easy with all the problems they face.

You can follow his blog on The Mac’s farm facebook page or go to the website www.themacsfarm.co.uk it makes very interesting and funny reading.

The Mac’s are delighted to be able to welcome the choir to Ditchling and are putting them up on the farm, and in host homes around the village for the weekend.

Everyone is welcome to the concert, just bring your chairs and picnics. Arrive early as parking can be difficult in Ditchling, we are offering parking on the farm to help, which is only a 5-10 min walk away.

The Mum’s of Ditchling will be selling Tea and homemade cakes afterwards in the barn to help raise some extra  money, and the Watoto Auntie’s sell merchandise, CD’s and books as well as offering sponsorship for the children.

Come along and meet the children and hear their stories, you will leave smiling from head to toe.

Report and picture conttributed by The Mac’s Farm.

Get your favourite newspaper at a great low price.

Call us on 0844 292 0216 or click here to start your subscription today!

© 2014 Johnston Publishing Ltd.

This website and its associated newspaper adheres to the Press Complaints Commission’s Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion, then contact the Editor by clicking here .

If you remain dissatisfied with the response provided then you can contact the PCC by clicking here .

Mid Sussex Times provides news, events and sport features from the Haywards Heath area. For the best up to date information relating to Haywards Heath and the surrounding areas visit us at Mid Sussex Times regularly or bookmark this page.

For you to enjoy all the features of this website Mid Sussex Times requires permission to use cookies.

Cookies are small data files which are sent to your browser (Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome etc) from a website you visit. They are stored on your electronic device.

This is a type of cookie which is collected by Adobe Flash media player (it is also called a Local Shared Object) - a piece of software you may already have on your electronic device to help you watch online videos and listen to podcasts.

Yes there are a number of options available, you can set your browser either to reject all cookies, to allow only "trusted" sites to set them, or to only accept them from the site you are currently on.

However, please note - if you block/delete all cookies, some features of our websites, such as remembering your login details, or the site branding for your local newspaper may not function as a result.

A tool used by some of our advertisers to target adverts to you based on pages you have visited in the past. To opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

Our sites contain advertising from Google; these use cookies to ensure you get adverts relevant to you. You can tailor the type of ads you receive by visiting here or to opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

This is used to help us identify unique visitors to our websites. This data is anonymous and we cannot use this to uniquely identify individuals and their usage of the sites.

This comes from our ad serving technology and is used to track how many times you have seen a particular ad on our sites, so that you don't just see one advert but an even spread. This information is not used by us for any other type of audience recording or monitoring.

ComScore monitor and externally verify our site traffic data for use within the advertising industry. Any data collected is anonymous statistical data and cannot be traced back to an individual.

Our Classified websites (Photos, Motors, Jobs and Property Today) use cookies to ensure you get the correct local newspaper branding and content when you visit them. These cookies store no personally identifiable information.

We use Grapeshot as a contextual targeting technology, allowing us to create custom groups of stories outside out of our usual site navigation. Grapeshot stores the categories of story you have been exposed to. Their privacy policy and opt out option can be accessed here.

Our partner for Newspaper subscriptions online stores data from the forms you complete in these to increase the usability of the site and enhance user experience.

Add This provides the social networking widget found in many of our pages. This widget gives you the tools to bookmark our websites, blog, share, tweet and email our content to a friend.
