
GEORGE TOWN - DAP secretary-general Lim Guan Eng condemned a Malay daily for demeaning DAP Teluk Intan parliamentary seat aspirant Dyana Sofya Mohd Daud.

Lim lashed out at the publication, Mingguan Malaysia in its article last Sunday aimed at undermining the image of Dyana and described the content as uncouthed.

"The words used in the article are seditious in nature and the harmful words were directed to her because she is a girl.

"Dyana will not be cowed by the article and but will continue fighting for justice and democracy in the country," he said.

He was commenting on the report which allegedly stated that DAP was behind the spread of a picture purportedly depicting the 27-year-old candidate in a bikini.

"I am making myself clear that the person in the picture was definitely not Dyana Sofya but a Philippine actress," Lim said.

He also said there was no basis to associate his father, DAP supremo and Gelang Patah member of parliament Lim Kit Siang in the distribution of the image.

Lim, who is also Penang chief minister, said the party had enough of repeated verbal attacks from the daily and it was unbecoming for the publication to fabricate the report.

He was speaking to the media after attending the opening day of the state legislative assembly sitting.

Komentar yang diutarakan melalui laman sosial ini adalah milik peribadi dan tanggungjawab pemilik akaun laman sosial ini. Malaysia Chronicle tidak bertanggungjawab diatas segala komentar yang disiarkan dibawah. Para komentar dinasihatkan bertanggungjawab dalam menulis dan elakkan komentar berbaur perkauman, seksis, serangan peribadi, lucah ataupun menghina.

Komentar yang berbentuk "drama bersiri", yakni salin & tampal artikel pihak ketiga secara bersiri ataupun komentar yang keluar tajuk juga ditegah dan akan dianggap sebagai penyalahgunaan kemudahan komentar ini.

Harap maklum bahawa anda perlu log-masuk melalui Facebook, Yahoo, MSN atau akaun sosial media yang disediakan untuk meninggalkan komentar. Juga maklum bahawa terpulang kepada jalur-lebar di kawasan-kawasan tertentu, komentar anda mungkin tidak akan disiarkan dengan serta-merta.
