
Some of southeast Wisconsin's most successful students are in a classroom environment that most might not expect.

They're car thieves, armed robbers and worse. But the Milwaukee County Accountability Program, M-CAP, is transforming troubled teens into successful learners.

Classes are held inside the Vel Phillips Justice Center. While WISN 12 News can't use their real names, students like 15-year-old James entered the program after breaking into someone's home. He will leave the program by breaking open a book for the first time in his life.

Unable to read when he entered the program, he has now has 10 titles under his belt. Fellow students Michael and TJ have read 93 and 102 books respectively since entering the program.

"They know they've done something," Principal Michael Mahoney said. "That kind of success is authentic. It's real and I think it's the beginning of them moving forward."

The program can last up to six months for the students, and as a captive audience the have little more to do that read or do school work.

Teresa Chmielewski instructs some of the teens through the Wauwatosa School District's online virtual school. She said that the credits earned in the program can transfer to a traditional high school once they are released.

"For some of these kids, it's a big thing," she said. "It gives them a boost of self-esteem. They now know that they can do the work."

M-CAP provide classes for both male and female students.

Holly Hill teaches some of the female students and says that while the girls may be enrolled for shorter times and for lesser crimes, they are also making major strides in reading levels.

While the increase in reading levels is significant, the best measure of success may be response reporter Kent Wainscott received to this question: "How many of you think you'll be back in the system again?"

Not a single hand was raised.

"I'm going to prove everybody wrong," Michael said. "I'm just going to show everybody that I can do something better with my life."

The teachers and students know if won't be easy to turn things around and succeed on the outside, but all agree the program is providing a strong foundation for success.

The M-CAP program has been around less than two years, so there's no long-term measure of its impact, but long-time teachers said the new, intense reading program and coursework with credits are helping the young offenders get back into school and hopefully on the right path.

After the teens get out there's a lot of follow-up.

The views expressed are not those of this site, this station or its affiliated companies. By posting your comments you agree to accept our terms of use.

"Breaking Bad" is in blue heaven.
