
Share This Story!

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

The Tea Party Patriots Citizens Fund today filed a supplement to their FEC complaint over a loan granted to a pro-Cochran Super PAC.

TPPCF originally filed the complaint with the Federal Elections Commission saying Trustmark National Bank had illegally granted an unsecured loan to Mississippi Conservatives PAC. Brian Perry, director of Mississippi Conservatives PAC, said that the $250,000 loan was secured with a certificate of deposit and that they had filed the appropriate paperwork with the FEC. However, the confusion came because they marked the loan as not secured on another report. They have since amended that report to reflect the loan as secured.

In their amended complaint, TPPCF argues that Mississippi Conservatives PAC violated FEC regulations by "failing to disclose the identity of the source of the guarantor of the $250,000 loan to the PAC, for filing deliberately false FEC reports, for Trustmark National Bank's illegal contribution to the PAC."

Despite apparent claims by Trustmark executives that whoever owns the certificate of deposit is not a guarantor of the loan, TPPCF argues that under FEC regulations they would be considered a guarantor. Guarantors must be listed on FEC reports detailing loans as cash receipts for a campaign. Perry declined to reveal the owner of the CD .

"First they refused to disclose collateral," TPPCF Counsel Cleta Mitchell said. "Now they refuse to disclose whose cash backs this 'loan.' Mississippi Conservatives and their Establishment backers continue to flout the law. But we will not stop until we get the truth."

Mitchell called attack ads from Mississippi Conservatives PAC as being "illegally funded under federal campaign-finance laws."

On Friday, Mississippi Conservatives PAC filed an independent expenditure report with the FEC showing that they purchased an additional $380,000 worth of advertising for TV and radio. The filing says the media will be anti-McDaniel advertising.
