
Your Post Has Been Launched!

Fabulous! Don't forget to share with your friends on Twitter and Facebook.

Karen Handel’s surge in advance of Tuesday’s GOP primary has stunned some Republicans in the state. “I have been underestimated my whole life,” Handel says.

ATLANTA — The Republican primary for Georgia’s Senate seat has been long and grueling, pitting seven candidates against one another in an unpredictable race.

But before voters even head to the polls on Tuesday, Karen Handel is already acting like a winner.

The former Georgia secretary of state has surged in recent weeks despite a significant cash disadvantage, a lack of paid media, and a number of political foes stemming from her brutal 2010 gubernatorial runoff with Georgia’s current governor, Nathan Deal. Now she’s vying for one of two spots in July’s runoff primary vote. Her come-from-behind campaign has surprised many Republicans in the state — almost everyone, in fact — except for maybe Handel herself.

That sort of appeal has worked. Handel, who most recently was an executive at the Susan G. Komen Foundation, boasts fervent supporters who are ferociously loyal to her. And she’s secured key endorsements from the conservatives like Erickson, Sarah Palin, and Rick Santorum.

Handel is deeply conservative and her positions on abortion, immigration, and the economy don’t differ wildly from Reps. Paul Broun or Phil Gingrey, two of the most conservative candidates in the seven-person field. She wants to repeal the 16th Amendment in favor of a flat tax and opposes any kind of “amnesty” for illegal immigrants. But her allies say that she’s a better messenger on these positions.

She’s quick to mention her conservative credentials and tie them to her life story: Handel left an abusive home at the age of 17, worked minimum-wage jobs, and never graduated college. When a video leaked of one of her main opponents, businessman David Perdue, disparaging her as a just a “high school graduate,” the Handel campaign pounced and never let go, seeing a further opportunity to talk up her life story as a significant advantage.

“Just look where I am today,” she added.

Polling shows the likely outcome of Tuesday’s primary will pit Perdue — the front-runner — against either Handel or Rep. Jack Kingston in a July runoff. Turnout for the primary will likely be extremely low, which Handel believes will be to her advantage.

Indeed, it’s tough to find a Republican in Georgia that doesn’t have strong feelings about Handel. Her opponents, like Perdue, have criticized her for leaving two elected offices to run for higher posts, arguing to Politico she’s put “self-interest over the interests in serving the constituents.” And her tense relationship with Deal has contributed to her difficulties raising money in the state, several Georgia Republican sources said.

Republican consultant Chip Lake, who resigned from the Gingrey campaign earlier this year, called Handel’s race with Deal “very spirited” and much of the Georgia Republican animosity toward her stems from her willingness to battle it out and anger party leaders.

“She really is the only one in this race that doesn’t have anything to lose,” he added.

Republicans worried initially that, because of the crowded primary field, the state might nominate gaffe-prone Gingrey (who once said Todd Akin was partially right about rape) or Broun (who has called evolution “lies straight from the pit of hell”). Neither man looks likely to do well on Tuesday, and a significant number of tea party and conservative supporters have turned to Handel instead.

Democrats charge that no matter who comes out of the primary, the runoff will only push the candidates further to the right. A Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee memo argues that candidate Michelle Nunn is “positioned to beat anyone” who emerges from the primary. The memo also not-so-subtly hints at a likely general election attack on Handel, focused in part on her tenure at the Komen Foundation, when she pushed the organization to stop giving money to Planned Parenthood and resigned after the foundation reversed that decision.

“[H]er explosive tenure at Susan G. Komen cost the organization $77 million and severely hurt the organization’s ability to deliver for Americans affected by breast cancer,” it reads.

Democrats will undoubtedly use Handel’s time at Komen against her as part of a larger “war on women” message that will be employed in several key battleground states. However, Handel is convinced just by virtue of being a woman, she is better suited than anyone to take on Nunn.

Handel’s resignation from the Komen foundation turned her into a hero among anti-abortion activists and earned her a healthy amount of respect from the party, even from many of her critics.

Handel also played down the animosity between herself and Deal, saying that if she gets the nomination, the two would work together for the good of Georgia Republicans.

“Whether you like Karen Handel or not I think everybody has got to agree that she has exceeded expectations of what most people thought would happen in this race,” he said.

Supporters here on Sunday were nervous, but extremely optimistic that Handel would secure a spot in the runoff, promising to make phone calls and knock on as many doors as they could before Tuesday’s election.

I know, right? And there’s more where that came from.

Oops! It looks like you've already voted..

Sorry, you can only react up to three times.

Note: once you save these links, they will no longer update automatically.

1.

2.

3.

4.

Note: once you save these links, they will no longer update automatically.

1.

2.

3.

4.

Hey! This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.

Don't forget to share! Want to add another one? Go for it!

This cannot be undone.

BuzzFeed is currently working with select partners to help them track what’s hot on their sites using the same advanced social tracking and analytics tools used on BuzzFeed.com.

Hey, I saw this on BuzzFeed and thought of you.

Your email has been sent!

Oops! We had a problem sending your message. Please try again later.

Great! You'll get your first email soon.

Thanks for sharing.

Please try again later.
