
May 20, 2014: “The Monuments Men” (Same day as DVD), Rated PG-13.

Based on the true story of the greatest treasure hunt in history, "The Monuments Men" (directed and co-written by George Clooney, who also stars in the film) is an action-thriller focusing on an unlikely World War II platoon, tasked by FDR with going into Germany to rescue artistic masterpieces from Nazi thieves and returning them to their rightful owners. It would be an impossible mission: with the art trapped behind enemy lines, and with the German army under orders to destroy everything as the Reich fell, how could these guys — seven museum directors, curators, and art historians, all more familiar with Michelangelo than the M-1 — possibly hope to succeed? But as the Monuments Men, as they were called, found themselves in a race against time to avoid the destruction of 1,000 years of culture, they would risk their lives to protect and defend mankind’s greatest achievements. Also starring Matt Damon, Bill Murray, John Goodman, Bob Balaban, Cate Blanchett, Hugh Bonneville and Jean Dujardin.

May 20, 2014: “About Last Night” (Same day as DVD), Rated R.

In this comedy remake of the 1986 movie "About Last Night," Bernie (played by Kevin Hart) and Joan (played by Regina Hall) are two fiery flirters who are passionate about everything from hookups to breakups. When he sets up his best friend, Danny (played by Michael Ealy), with her roommate, Debbie (played by Joy Bryant), the sparks soon fly as they try to navigate the relationship minefields from the bar to the bedroom.

May 20, 2014: “3 Days to Kill” (Same day as DVD; weeks before Netflix), Rated PG-13.

In this action thriller (directed by McG), Kevin Costner is a dangerous international spy, who is determined to give up his high stakes life to finally build a closer relationship with his estranged wife and daughter, whom he's previously kept at arm's length to keep out of danger. But first, he must complete one last mission — even if it means juggling the two toughest assignments yet: hunting down the world’s most ruthless terrorist and looking after his teenage daughter for the first time in ten years, while his wife is out of town. Also starring Amber Heard, Hailee Steinfeld and Connie Nielsen.

May 20, 2014: “Pompeii” (Same day as DVD), Rated PG-13.

Set in 79 A.D., "Pompeii" tells the epic story of Milo (played by Kit Harington), a slave turned invincible gladiator, who finds himself in a race against time to save his true love Cassia (played by Emily Browning), the beautiful daughter of a wealthy merchant who has been unwillingly betrothed to a corrupt Roman Senator (played by Kiefer Sutherland). As Mount Vesuvius erupts in a torrent of blazing lava, Milo must fight his way out of the arena in order to save his beloved as the once magnificent Pompeii crumbles around him. Also starring Carrie-Anne Moss, Adewale Akinnuoye-Agbaje, Jessica Lucas and Jared Harris.

May 20, 2014: “Vampire Academy” (Same day as DVD), Rated PG-13.

Based on the young-adult novel series by Richelle Mead, "Vampire Academy" is a story about 17-year-old Rose Hathaway (played by Zoey Deutch), a Dhampir (half-human half-vampire) and her royal best friend. Lissa Dragomir (played by Lucy Fry), who is part of a race of peaceful, mortal vampires called Moroi. Rose and Lissa attend a boarding school called St. Vladimir's Academy, where secrets are kept and romantic entanglements ensue, including Rose's attraction to her Russian mentor, Dmitri Belikov (played by Danila Koslovsky). Also starring Dominic Sherwood, Gabriel Byrne, Joely Richardson, Olga Kurylenko, Claire Foy, Cameron Monaghan, Sami Gayle and Sarah Hyland.

May 20, 2014: “In Secret” (Same day as DVD), Rated R.

The drama "In Secret" (previously titled "Thérèse" based on Émile Zola's novel "Thérèse Raquin") is a tale of obsessive love that turns to crime and revenge in the lower depths of 1860s Paris. Thérèse (played by Elizabeth Olsen) is a ravishing but sexually repressed young woman trapped in a loveless marriage to her sickly cousin Camille (played by Tom Felton), in a union that was arranged by her domineering aunt Madame Raquin (played by Jessica Lange). But when Thérèse meets Camille's childhood friend Laurent (played by Oscar Isaac), everything changes. What begins as an illicit, clandestine affair between Thérèse and Laurent will unravel into a shocking set of circumstances for everyone.

May 20, 2014: “Enemy” (Weeks before DVD, Netflix and Redbox releases), Rated R.

Jake Gyllenhaal reteams with his "Prisoners" director, Denis Villeneuve, in this surreal psychological thriller. Adam Bell (played by Gyllenhaal) is a glum, disheveled history professor, who seems disinterested even his beautiful girlfriend, Mary (played by Mélanie Laurent). Watching a movie on the recommendation of a colleague, Adam spots his double, a bit-part actor named Anthony Clair, and decides to track him down. The identical men meet and their lives become bizarrely and irrevocably intertwined. Also starring Sarah Gadon, and Isabella Rossellini.

May 20, 2014: “The Big Ask” (Before theatrical release), Rated TV-MA.

A dark comedy about three couples who head to the desert to help their friend Andrew heal from the loss of his mother. The friends plan a week of laughter and rejuvenation. Andrew plans a therapeutic orgy. Statting Gillian Jacobs, Zachary Knighton, David Krumholtz, Melanie Lynskey, Ahna O'Reilly, Jason Ritter, with Dale Dickey, French Stewart and Ned Beatty.

The documentary "Kids for Cash" is a riveting look behind the notorious judicial scandal that rocked the nation. Beyond the millions paid and high stakes corruption, "Kids for Cash" exposes a shocking American secret. In the wake of the shootings at Columbine, a small town celebrates a charismatic judge who is hell-bent on keeping kids in line — until one parent dares to question the motives behind his brand of justice. This real-life thriller reveals the untold stories of the masterminds at the center of the scandal and the chilling aftermath of lives destroyed in the process.

It’s the near future, and Memo Cruz lives on a farm in the small Mexican village of Santa Ana Del Rio. Driven by feelings of guilt over his father's mysterious death and a need to earn money for his family, Memo heads to a border city. On the way he meets a beautiful bio-journalist named Luz. and she helps him get a job in one of the high-tech factories. But none of it was what he dreamed. And after falling for Luz, Memo learns that she’s been selling her memories of their time together. But when one of Luz’s readers crosses the border to find them, the three hatch a dangerous plan that will change their lives — maybe even change the world — forever. Starring Luis Fernando Pena, Leonor Varela and Jacob Vargas.

Originally titled "OXV: The Manual" for its release outside North America, this movie (written and directed by Darren Paul Fisher) is a left-field romance set in a "not quite here-and-now" world. Starring Daniel Fraser, Eleanor Wyld and Owen Pugh.

"The Next Black" is a documentary film focused on the designers, innovators and leaders that are shaping the future of what we will be wearing. This is not a film about what’s new, it’s about what’s next. Companies featured in the movie include Adidas, Patagonia, StudioXO and Yeh Group.

May 23, 2014: “Cold in July” (Same day as theatrical release), Rated R.

While investigating noises in his house one balmy Texas night in 1989, Richard Dane (played by Michael C. Hall) puts a bullet in the brain of low-life burglar identified as Freddy Russell. Although he’s hailed as a small-town hero, Dane soon finds himself fearing for his family’s safety when Freddy’s ex-con father, Ben (played by Sam Shepard), rolls into town, hell-bent on revenge.

May 23, 2014: “The Angriest Man in Brooklyn” (Same day as theatrical release), Rated R.

Some people have bad days. Henry Altmann (played by Robin Williams) has one every day. Always unhappy and angry at the world including everyone in it, Henry sits impatiently at the doctor’s office when he is finally seen by Dr. Sharon Gill (played by Mila Kunis).  Sharon, who is enduring her own bad day, reveals that Henry has a brain aneurysm. This news makes Henry even angrier, yelling at Sharon he demands to know how much time he has left. Faced with Henry’s anger and insults, Sharon abruptly tells him he has only 90 minutes. Shocked and reeling by this news, Henry storms out of the office leaving Sharon stunned by what she has just done in a lapse of judgment. As Sharon goes on a city-wide search, Henry struggles with his diagnosis, determined to make amends with everyone he has hurt in his life.

A drama based on Jimi Hendrix's pre-fame years.

Check out this interview video of the stars from the movie "The Other Woman."

Richard Roeper reviews 'If I Stay' starring Chloë Grace Moretz.
