
Some radically different methods, ingredients and technologies have been used to make beer over the centuries. One of the more unusual types of beer that has endured is Leipzig-style gose, or simply gose (pronounced "go-za" or "goes-uh"). A fairly old style, gose beer is sour and -- surprisingly -- salty.

It's traditionally made with a mix of barley and 50 percent or more wheat. It's brewed with both yeast and lactobacillus (lactic bacteria), along with coriander and, traditionally, the brewing water is also lightly salted. It's thought to have originated in Saxony, near the German city of Leipzig.

The German Beer Institute describes gose as having "a medium, pétillant effervescence" with a mild, subdued nose, no hops notes and "an almost sour spiciness overlaid by a complex array of banana, green apple, dried apricot, zest and coriander. ... The brew's unique saline characteristics are particularly prominent in the dry finish."

There aren't a lot of modern examples around, but Boonville's Anderson Valley Brewing Co. has not only released its own gose, but they've even put it in a can. With just 4.2 percent alcohol by volume, the colorfully named beer -- The Kimmie, The Yink and The Holy Gose -- is part of the brewing company's Highway 128 Session Series.

Brewmaster Fal Allen ﻿was happy to regale me with the tale of the brew's inspiration and origin. Allen was actually trying to make a sour mash beer, but because you leave the mash out overnight, it's hard to control and get consistent results. Looking for an alternative, Allen's team read about gose and decided to try making a kettle sour version. After they mashed off at 175 degrees, effectively sterilizing it, they covered the mixture with a blanket of inert argon gas and let it cool. They pitched the lactobacillus so they could better control the sourness, waited until it reached the right pH, then boiled it -- and, he says, "Boom, you're done."

Unlike the traditional versions popular in Leipzig, Anderson Valley adds lactic acid bacteria to the kettle before boiling, to produce that clean, sour lactic tartness, followed by additions of coriander, sea salt and their proprietary yeast strain into the fermentation tank. To get the salt right, they experimented by dosing the base beer with varying amounts, ranging from none to a lot, before deciding on "medium." Traditional gose might have used salty brewing water, but Allen says adding it after fermentation allows more control.

"It has quickly become one of our favorite beers," he says. "Flavors of guava and peach mingle with a light mineral aroma that leads to a dry, effervescent finish reminiscent of a fresh sea breeze. The salt content is lower than other interpretations of the style and complements the lemon sourness and earthy wood undertones, adding to the complexity."

If you're wondering about that name, the brewery's being cagey about it. Like most of their beer names, it's in Boontling, the unique Anderson Valley dialect -- a mixture of other languages, including Scottish Gaelic, Irish, Pomoan and Spanish, invented in the late 1800s. The dialect became popular in the Anderson Valley in the early 20th century, and has more than 1,000 unique words and phrases. There are just 700 people in Boonville today, so the language has become a fairly esoteric, fading jargon.

Using Charles C. Adams' 1971 dictionary, "Boontling: an American Lingo," I discovered that a "kimmie" is a man and a "yink" is a young man. Allen confirmed my guess that the name is a play on the Christian trinity: the father, the son and the holy ghost.

The gose style is uncommon, but there are a few out there, including Golden Gate Gose by San Francisco's Almanac Beer Co. It's a little funkier than Anderson Valley's but not quite as sour. If you venture toward Santa Barbara, Goleta's Hollister Brewing brewpub makes a nice example, Tiny Bubbles. In Portland, Oregon, Cascade Brewing makes a gose for each season, including a Cascade Summer Gose.

You might think a sour, salty, old-fashioned beer wouldn't be a refreshing choice for summer, but it's low in alcohol and the full, tart flavors cut through the heat quite nicely. Give a gose a go.
