
The re-election campaign of Second District Supervisor Janet Wolf announced that since the close of the last campaign finance report, her opponent, Roger Aceves, has received more than $242,000 in large donations, as shown on recently filed campaign finance statements.

“It is important that the residents of the Second District are aware of the unprecedented amount of money that big oil companies and major development interests are spending in their effort to remove me from the Board of Supervisors,” Wolf said.

Aceves has supported relaxed air quality standards for oil development projects, and has a record that shows he will reduce regulations to encourage growth and development.

“There is a lot at stake in this election, the future of our county really lies in the balance," Wold said. "I recently voted to require that Santa Maria Energy’s project to drill 136 new wells in Orcutt live up to our air quality standards. In recent months, that one company has invested over $42,000 in my opponent’s campaign, in the hope that he will be the decision maker when they bring their proposal for up to 7,000 new wells to the county.

“The residents of the Second District know that I care deeply about their health and welfare, and that I will  fight to protect our residents, our community and our environment. I will continue to advocate for sound planning principals to reduce traffic congestion, while improving our roads, protecting our open space and agricultural lands."

Election Day is June 3.

You are an important ally in our mission to deliver clear, objective, high-quality professional news reporting for Santa Barbara, Goleta and the rest of Santa Barbara County. Join the Hawks Club today to help keep Noozhawk soaring.

We offer four membership levels: $5 a month, $10 a month, $25 a month or $1 a week. Payments can be made through PayPal below, or click here for information on other options.

Thank you for your vital support.

Subscribe to Noozhawk's A.M. Report, our free e-Bulletin sent out every day at 4:15 a.m. with Noozhawk's top stories, hand-picked by the editors.

Noozhawk is a founding member of the national Authentically Local project for independent online media.
