
BENNINGTON - CrossFit gym of Bennington, 190 North St., held a cornhole tournament on Saturday to raise money for Second Chance Animal Shelter of Shaftsbury.

CrossFit owners Kitsia Sausville and her husband decided they wanted to host an event to connect with the community. Sausville adopted a pit bull named Athena from Second Chance, 6779 Vt. Route 7A, last summer. "Pets are a big part of my life, and I want to be able to give back to Second Chance if I can," she said.

Sausville has held two cornhole tournaments in the past to raise money for CrossFit's barbell club, which she said was overwhelmingly successful. "We are happy to fundraise for any local groups to give back to the community, but this one particularly I sought out because animals are important to me."

Second Chance employees showed up to the tournament to make their support known and accept additional donations. They spoke with tournament participants about the shelter's functions, and allowed people to look through a book of dogs up for adoption with available adoption applications.

The shelter houses up to 14 dogs at a time, which are given to them by Bennington Animal Control when they are unable to place a canine back with its original family.

"We reach out to whoever we can and definitely like help from whoever is willing to get our animals adopted as quickly as possible," said Second Chance Animal Care Technician Karen Marcoux. "We don't like seeing them in the cages. We don't like them sitting there for too long."

Due to a low turnout on Saturday, CrossFit is planning an all day cornhole-game fundraiser for Second Chance on June 28 . There will be a family tournament from 1 to 4 p.m. and an adult tournament from 4 to 6 p.m., in which a prize will be held for the winning team.

Welcome to your discussion forum: Verified accounts are now required for immediate posting. Please verify your e-mail address in Disqus, or sign in with your social networking account. You may also post using your e-mail address (which will remain private), but those posts will first need to be approved by the moderator. Comments made here are the sole responsibility of the person posting them; these comments do not reflect the opinion or approval of the Bennington Banner. This forum encourages open, honest, respectful and insightful discussions; there is no need to be offensive. Read our guidelines.
