
Kathleen O’Toole is professing to welcome a feature that often frustrates and even flummoxes public sector managers, educators and even cathedral deans, newly arrived in Seattle: Ours is a city where everyone gets consulted about everything.

O’Toole had worked as Boston police commissioner, and helped reformed Ireland’s national police force, and was settled into consulting. But comfortable circumstances did not make her comfortable.

O’Toole identifies Seattle as a city of innovation. So, when word of the SPD chief opening got out — a department that’s had three chiefs in a year, and is under a Justice Department consent decree to reform — O’Toole called up ex-Pasadena, Calif., police chief Bernard Melekian.  Melekian has been advising Mayor Ed Murray on law enforcement and public safety.

O’Toole will be the first woman to serve as Seattle police chief. She has a police background dating to 1979, and a resume that ranged from serving as a Justice Department monitor to teaching constitutional law at Boston’s police academy.

She speaks in managerial terms, but directly and with demonstrably greater self-assurance than Chief John Diaz, who retired in May of last year, or the controversy-dogged Bailey.

O’Toole pledged that she will have whistleblowers’ backs, often not the case in recent Seattle Police Department history. She pledged to have “zero tolerance” for those who would obstruct or undermine colleagues who have the integrity to report malfeasance or misconduct.

Murray interviewed O’Toole for the job, but O’Toole was also sizing up Murray.

It is a given that the personal relationship of mayor-police chief is vital to the success of each.

“I think the mayor is looking forward to being mayor: He has a city to run,” O’Toole said. She said, in an understatement, that ongoing travails of the SPD have become a “huge distraction” for Murray as his new administration has tried to grapple with other challenges.

She will be out in the community, but not in the manner of some limelight-loving police chiefs.

“I don’t want it to be about me: It should be about the organization and how well it is working,”  O’Toole said.

Interesting to note: Seattle is an increasingly diverse city. But three of the city’s principal government actors — Murray, U.S. Attorney Jenny Durkan and O’Toole — will be Irish Americans.

Browse previous blog posts by month and year of entry. You'll see all the posts for that time period.

Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
