
NEW YORK — The ground-breaking gift of a senior Iranian cleric to the worldwide Baha’i community is beginning to stir a global conversation about religious co-existence and freedom of religion.

More statements of support for the actions and words of Ayatollah Abdol-Hamid Masoumi-Tehrani have been issued in the United Kingdom and India, and other prominent individuals are offering comments in the Netherlands, Spain, and the United States.

The response comes after Ayatollah Tehrani bravely gave to the Baha’is of the world a calligraphic rendering of Baha’i sacred verses, along with a plea for religious “co-existence”.

In the United Kingdom, Catholic Archbishop Kevin McDonald said in a statement on Thursday: “In interreligious relations it is vital that adherents of different religions come to understand each other more deeply and more sympathetically. This development within the Iranian context is therefore particularly significant and welcome.” Archbishop McDonald is director of the Office for Interreligious Relations of the Catholic Bishops’ Conference of England and Wales.

“Within the last few years it has become increasingly apparent that one of the most important rights to preserve is that of religious freedom, yet many across the world remain persecuted for their beliefs and are denied that very basic right,” said Bishop Angaelos. “As Christians we believe that God created individuals with a freedom to choose and practice their personal religion and belief, and viewing this as an essential gift we continue to advocate for all who are entitled to this,” he said.

In the Netherlands, prominent journalist and Middle East affairs expert Eildert Mulder has published a column in the newspaper Trouw extolling Ayatollah Tehrani’s action and calling him an “advocate for real freedom of religion or belief”. Ayatollah Tehrani’s gift was a “striking” action aimed at promoting tolerance between the different religions, he said.

In India, Soli Sorabjee, the country’s former Attorney General, and Amitabh Behar, a noted civil society activist, both discussed Ayatollah Tehrani’s actions in terms of minority rights.

Mr. Sorabjee called Ayatollah Tehrani’s words and deeds “courageous” in a land where “minorities have been suffering human rights violations” and discrimination.

“This senior cleric has indeed articulated constructive and principled voice of commitment to religious tolerance and respect for human dignity which is the dire need in the conflict-ridden societies in many nations and states,” said Mr. Sorabjee.

In Spain, representatives of the humanist movement Comunidad del Mensaje de Silo de Alcala de Henares wrote an open letter to the Iranian Embassy in Spain, praising Ayatollah Tehrani and calling for greater religious tolerance.

“It is clear that from a people in whom Poetry is a value and a perspective on life, one could not hope for more than an act as brave as that which has been done, recognizing universal human values such as equality and respect, regardless of what religion one professes,” wrote Fernando Montalban, Mabel Naya and Marisol Gonzalez.

In the United States, the FaithStreet website published  an article by Michael Karlberg , a professor at Western Washington University who has a special interest in constructive resilience, on its OnFaith blog that linked Ayatollah Tehrani’s actions to a list of others who have acted courageously in support of human rights and tolerance.

Ayatollah Tehrani’s gift was  announced on April 7, 2014  when he posted an image of an illuminated calligraphic work quoting several verses from Baha’u’llah’s Kitab-i-Aqdas, the “Most Holy Book”.

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
