
Joseph Balboni, Police Commission chairman of Wolfeboro, confirmed to CNN that he received a resignation email from Robert Copeland.

"Dear Commission Chairman Balboni, I resign," wrote Copeland in the email.

Last Thursday, Copeland, 82, sat with his arms crossed at a packed town meeting while a crowd of angry residents in the predominantly white town called for his resignation.

Copeland acknowledged in an email to his fellow police commissioners that he used the racial slur to describe Obama.

Jane O'Toole, who moved to Wolfeboro four months ago, said she overheard Copeland use the word at a restaurant in March.

"It's not like I was eavesdropping. Mr. Copeland was being very loud," O'Toole told CNN affiliate WMUR.

She wrote to the town manager about the incident, and Copeland replied with a letter to O'Toole.

"I believe I did use the 'N' word in reference to the current occupant of the Whitehouse (sic)," Copeland wrote. "For this, I do not apologize - he meets and exceeds my criteria for such."

Copeland was one of three members of the police commission, which hires, fires and disciplines officers and sets their salaries.

Two months ago he ran unopposed for re-election and secured another three-year term.

Wolfeboro, located in the scenic Lakes Region in the central part of New Hampshire, has around 20 African-American residents among its population of 6,300. The town was often a dateline in news reports during the 2012 presidential election, with GOP Mitt Romney spending time with family and campaign aides at his vacation home on Lake Winnipesaukee.

Last time I checked, I hear black people saying the N-word all the time.

Swirling, swirling down the politically correct drain. You will never get the utopia you desire, kids. It's all a mirage.

Just another angry old fossil left over from a bygone era, don't worry he doesn't have much longer in this life.

R.J.

I'm curious to know how many people defending him on their keyboards would be his champion sitting at a desk across from a person of color who is glad an unrepentant racist got put in his place.

So true.  A better more accurate description would've been incompetent, socialist, elitist, compulsive lying piece of dung.

The blind ignorant hate being constantly fed by the Right wing media has to stop.

That's right, blame the messenger.  How typical.

So, you find nothing wrong with a man whose job it is to uphold the law equally and fairly having an extreme bias towards one segment of the population?    I wonder, if that police commissioner was in your town, and had a bias against you, would you feel you were getting a fair shake from him?  Lie and tell me you would.

Good glad to see it.  Most of us know that is the only reason that the President of the United States is so hated.

He's 82, very old-school and not about to change but certainly he neede to go. No place for this kind of behavior.

Life goes on regardless of what this guy said. People should learn from this guy and not apologize so easily because of media intimidation. Its not like he killed somebody.

Those claiming freedom of speech refuse to understand, he did HAVE and STILL HAS freedom of speech. After all he is not in jail and is not going to prison. "Freedom of Speech" does not have anything to do with "Freedom of Repercussion". He had and has his rights, but everyone else did as well when they choose to force his resignation.

Can't wait until these older generations become inactive in our government.  Even when Obama lied to the American people.... it still doesn't merit being ignorant and calling someone names.

He just said what a lot of other people have been thinking and continue to think ever since Obama hit the national stage.  To convince themselves that they're not racist, they invent excuses to fit their preconceived thoughts on why they don't like him.

There will always be people like Robert Copeland and it's not specific to race, color or creed. Bigots/racists exits in all walk of life...unfortunately. Most, however are not elcted officials.

He should being slurring the "White House Occupant" because he is a terrible president... not because of his pigmentation.
