
Europe boasted some low-cost countries and plenty of video game talent, including designers and programmers, which Mr. Donovan feared Moncton lacked. In the end, however, he chose Moncton, where he has lived since 2000.

His four-person team quickly grew to six, then eight, and, within a year, 25. Revenue, he said, continually doubled year-over-year. In nine years, Gogii Games has produced 70 games, including the first video game based on the Archie comics.

What explains the company’s steady growth? Mr. Donovan points, in part, to his decision to base Gogii in Moncton. “You can get smart people for less money,” he said during an interview in his downtown Moncton office, which is decorated with numerous statues of cartoon and movie characters, including Superman, Batman and Yoda.

Mr. Donovan travels to San Francisco — the hub of mobile technology — every couple months. During a visit to the Bay Area in March, he looked at some office space.

Moncton, population 145,000, is gaining a reputation as a business-friendly city. In March, KPMG’s Competitive Alternatives 2014 report ranked the city as the most competitive in Canada for doing business. It is Moncton’s second straight year in the top spot. Charlottetown placed second. In all, Atlantic Canadian cities took four of the top five spots.

Moncton’s consistent results in the annual KPMG report can be attributed to a combination of factors, said Frédéric Gionet,  a senior market analyst with Enterprise Greater Moncton, an economic development agency. “We’re a small city but we have big city infrastructure,” he explained.

Tech entrepreneur Dan Martell moved to California in 2008 after selling Spheric Technologies Inc., a social media company he started in Moncton. In Silicon Valley he launched and later sold Flowtown.

Mr. Martell opted to base his newest startup, Clarity, back in his home city after realizing he could secure software developers for half the cost. Clarity allows entrepreneurs to connect by phone with thousands of experts and mentors. A recent addition, Clarity Live, allows small groups of users to video conference with those experts.

Since its launch in 2012, the company has secured 40,000 experts and connected more than 200,000 calls across at least 47 countries. In December 2012, Clarity received $1.6-million in funding. The cash was secured from top-tier investors, including Mark Cuban, Boris Wertz (co-founder of AbeBooks), and Baseline Ventures (which backed Instagram and Twitter).

Gogii Games Mr. Donovan recalls the recent industry shift that nearly killed his company. Late last year, the video game industry shifted further into mobile technology. It was a quick transition, occurring over the span of a single quarter.

He blames the “Candy Crush effect.” The wild success of free games helped push gaming further into mobile. As a result, his company’s retail business “died” in just six months. Revenue fell to about $100,000 a month, from $600,000. Mr. Donovan was forced to cut his workforce to 20, from 50.

“I’ve been in the video game industry since 1995 and I’ve never seen a shift like this,” he said.

When retail business tanked, Mr. Donovan said he was able to adjust his costs quickly, largely because of the location.

“If I was in New York, Chicago, San Francisco or London, I wouldn’t have been able to adapt. Because I’m in Moncton, I was able to scale down significantly, but not shut down,” he said.
