
HONEY GROVE - Tuscarora Township residents have more than 200 reasons to be proud of their community, and all of them served in the United States military. That service will be recognized at 1 p.m. on May 24, during a dedication ceremony for the township's new memorial wall in Honey Grove.

Township Supervisors Dave Shetron, Barry Milliken and Jim Fitzgerald, Secretary Ginger Best, Sharon Milliken and Joyce Eaton formed a committee about two years ago after an incident with a veteran made a less-than-favorable impression on Best.

Best said when the township bought the church building that now houses the township office, there was an honor roll there with veterans' names on it. It was in poor condition and the supervisors had discussed building a memorial but hadn't done anything about it at that point.

LEFT:?Dave Shetron, left, and Barry Milliken, place the names of veterans from Tuscarora Township on the brick wall of the new Veterans Memorial Wall in Honey Grove.

The new Veterans Memorial Wall is almost complete at the Tuscarora Township office in Honey Grove. The wall will feature the names of veterans from the township. A dedication ceremony is planed for 1 p.m. on May 24.

But when one of the local veterans, George Allen, came to have his picture taken with his granddaughter and the honor roll, the tribute had fallen over.

"We had to literally pick it up off the ground," Best said. "I never wanted to have to do that with a veteran again. Never. It just broke my heart."

That was the last straw, but the group didn't know where to start. The township owned the ground, but the land was sloped and would need to be leveled to place any sort of monument. There was also the question of funding - who would pay for such a project? At a cost of more than $23,000 in concrete and plaques alone, it was clear that funds would need to be raised before any construction could begin.

So the group put the word out in the community, asking businesses and residents if they would contribute to the cause.

"People heard about it and gave," Fitzgerald said.

A flag and pole were donated, as well as the landscaping labor and, equally as important, all of the cash needed.

"The community has backed us 100 percent," Best said, adding that donations were received from as far away as Alabama and numerous volunteers put in too many hours to count.

Donors and volunteers will be recognized at the dedication ceremony.

Milliken emphasized that no taxpayer money was used for the project.

"There was a big misconception over that," he said.

The memorial is a three-sided wall a little more than eight feet high, on which plaques with veterans' names and branches of service on them were affixed.

Milliken said the old honor roll only listed veterans from World War II and no one ever updated it. The committee wanted to make sure all township veterans - past, current and future - had the opportunity to be recognized.

"It's a little bit bigger than what we have use for now, but we built it so that we could have space for future names of veterans," Best said.

Best said every effort was made to include the name of each veteran in Tuscarora Township.

"If we have missed any veteran in our township, we apologize for that and it would be greatly appreciated if someone would call us and fill out the paperwork so that we could put that veteran's name on the wall," she said.

The ceremony will include speeches from two veterans, a 21-gun salute by the Juniata County Veterans Council and a patriotic musical performance. The Honor Guard will raise the flag.

Anyone attending the ceremony should bring a chair.

"It came out very beautiful and I feel it's going to honor our veterans the way they should be," Shetron said.

The memorial is near and dear to the township supervisors; each of them has family members who are or were veterans. To them, the wall represents brothers, fathers and sons.

"As a group, we thought it was proper to honor all of our veterans," Milliken said. "I don't think they get the honor they deserve."

"There's a lot of good guys out there that just aren't recognized," said Fitzgerald, a veteran himself.

Best said the memorial gives her a sense of great pride.

"To me, this is the greatest thing our township has ever done," she said. "They deserve every appreciation we can give them."
