
Millions of voters will head for the polls later this week to select  Euro MPs – including the Greeks, whose financial woes have been among the deepest in the eurozone.

But Barry Norris, manager of the Argonaut Absolute Return Fund, believes that despite the country’s troubles, Greece is the word for investors with eyes on making money from Europe.

There are strong signs, he says, that Greece is emerging from recession and in better shape than some countries.

Norris says ‘proper austerity’, while painful for the huge numbers of unemployed and for those forced to take pay cuts of up to 25 per cent, has worked wonders for Greek businesses. He believes tourism could soon benefit from the country’s more relaxed development rules.

‘They used to be snobby about developing their islands, unlike the Spanish,’ he says. The development of Piraeus’s port bordering Athens into the biggest container port in Greece is likely to provide a welcome boost.

Norris believes the growth in European economies will come from their domestic markets. He says: ‘I think southern Europe will grow faster than the north.’ This explains why a third of the fund is invested in the PIIGS countries – Portugal, Italy, Ireland, Greece and Spain, which suffered heavily in the recession. However, the fund’s balance changes often.

Financial firms account for the biggest chunk by sector at 20 per cent, with shares such as Piraeus Bank favoured by Norris. ‘It has been aggressively cutting costs and shutting branches,’ he says.

Jason Hollands of broker Bestinvest likes the fund, which aims to deliver total returns of  8 per cent to 10 per cent a year by investing in European firms and also by going short – taking bets –on those they think will perform poorly.

This has dramatically cut the fund’s volatility.

But he believes investors keen on Europe might prefer Argonaut European Alpha, also run by Norris. Though much more volatile, it should perform better in rising markets, Hollands says.

The comments below have not been moderated.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

By posting your comment you agree to our house rules .

Find out how much a regular monthly savings scheme could make me.

Calculate how much a lump sum investment could be worth.
