
BRADFORD — Bradford School District officials are struggling to keep the local grade school open in the face of continuing enrollment declines that are part of a larger and longstanding pattern of regional population loss.

The district in the northeast corner of Stark County deactivated its high school 14 years ago, and is now poised to cut teachers and combine grades during some instructional periods in the grade school in the coming year.

It’s a response to population shifts that have seen the district’s overall enrollment in grades pre-K through 12 fall by nearly 40 percent in six years, from 370 in 2008 to an expected 226 for 2014-15, according to figures provided by Superintendent Dr. Elin Lotspeich in a recent interview.

And the most striking statistics — and perhaps the most ominous — are in the lowest grades.

High school students since 2000 have been “tuitioned out” to the neighboring districts of Bureau Valley, Henry-Senachwine, and Stark County. There will be 84 of them next year, which means only 142 students in the two buildings that serve grades through 8.

“Our kindergarten class will have five kids next year,” Lotspeich noted.

Stark County as a whole offers a vivid illustration of the long history of population decline seen in many rural areas. Since peaking at 11,207 residents in 1880, the county has fallen steadily to 5,956 in the 2010 census.

That trend has also affected the larger Stark County District 100. The Wyoming-based district has seen its enrollment drop by about 20 percent since 1994, from 984 to 791, said Superintendent Jerry Klooster.

To reflect the smaller student body, Bradford will be eliminating two teaching positions for the coming year, based on qualifications and seniority, Lotspeich said. A  librarian will be reduced to half-time.

A Title I reading specialist also was discharged at a recent board meeting. But that is a common step in the spring with specialized positions, and is not expected to be permanent.

“That person will be called back,” Lotspeich said.

With the smaller staff, there will be limited situations in which two grades share instructional periods. For instance, grades 3 and 4 will be together for an hour and a half each day for physical education and one other class, and the tiny kindergarten class will share PE and perhaps other time with first-graders, Lotspeich said.

But the combined periods will involve special classes such as PE, art, and music — not the Common Core courses — and will only affect part of each day, Lotspeich emphasized.

Page 2 of 2 - Teachers and some community members have taken issue with the changes. The School Board heard complaints at a recent meeting about the lack of wider input into the decisions.

“Why were we not consulted? We are the ones in the trenches, use our expertise,” said teacher Becki Hoffert.

Board President Tanya Walker said discussions of the issue have taken place for years, and many options have been considered.

Consolidation is widely seen as unacceptable, as is common in communities that want to keep their local schools, said Lotspeich.

Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.

Your privacy is important, read our privacy policy.

Original content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted.
