
The President said that the Greek Cypriot side after “long, strenuous and persistent efforts has managed to get Turkey engaged in the new round of talks that should end the unacceptable status quo”.

The Government will not allow the upgrade of the illegal regime in the turkish - occupied Cyprus, President Anastasiades stressed on Sunday, ahead of the US Vice President`s visit to Cyprus.

In a speech during a memorial service, the President said that the Greek Cypriot side will react to any such attempt.

US Vice President`s visit to Cyprus does not aim at upgrading the illegal regime but to contribute to the ongoing peace talks to solve the Cyprus issue, by putting pressure on Turkey and the illegal regime to realise that is time for their words to be turned into deeds, Anastasiades noted.

He also said that the Greek Cypriot side`s proposal on the return of Famagusta is “sufficiently balanced and those who are willing to solve the Cyprus issue must respond accordingly”.

“If for simple confidence building measures we are faced with such an obstructionist and unacceptable behaviour, you can realise how many difficulties we encounter at the negotiating table” he added.

The President said that the Greek Cypriot side after “long, strenuous and persistent efforts has managed to get Turkey engaged in the new round of talks that should end the unacceptable status quo”.

We seek levers of pressure to achieve solution of the Cyprus problem and we give fights, in the UN, Europe and major powers to influence Turkey, without undermining traditional relations with other big countries, he added.

Anastasiades stressed that Cyprus` geostrategic role has been upgraded, pointing out that this geostrategic significance of the country must be taken advantage of to bend Turkey`s intransigence.

“I would like to reassure everyone that we will not allow the upgrade of the illegal regime” the President said, noting that the Greek Cypriot side “will react accordingly to any such attempt”.
