
ŠABAC, OBRENOVAC --  Local authorities in the town of Šabac, in western Serbia, on Monday announced that two more people had lost their lives in the floods.

The victims were found in Mrđenovac and Krupanj, and according to the Šabac administration, "most likely perished because they did not adhere to the evacuation order."

Later in the day authorities said the death toll in the town of Obrenovac now stood at 13.

On Sunday, 12 deaths were confirmed in Obrenovac and 17 overall in the worst flooding that hit Serbia in over a century.

According to Interior Minister Nebojša Stefanović, six of the victims in Obrenovac drowned, while seven died of natural causes.

Because of a flood wave and an expected rise in the water level of the nearby Sava River, urgent and complete evacuation of Obrenovac was ordered on Monday afternoon. Hours later, it was announced that the river burst a sandbag barrier in three locations, but that evacuations were proceeding as planned and that there was "no need to panic."

The town was last week devastated by the flooding Kolubara River, whose waters had in the meantime started to recede.

Also on Monday afternoon, evacuation was ongoing of some 8,500 people from the villages near the town of Šabac along the Sava.

Serbian Army chief General Ljubiša Diković, who coordinates the emergency HQ in Šabac, ordered the evacuation on Monday morning.

"The water level around Šabac is receding, but that does not mean the danger is over. The embankments are full of water and there is a real danger that they will break. We had a very difficult situation last night near Červentija, repaired successfully for the time being by 500 soldiers who prevented the water from flooding and creating a catastrophe from the mouth of the Drina River down toward Šabac," Diković said.

A decision was also made not to allow citizens to participate in building the defenses after 20:00 CET, but to leave this work to the troops and the police. At the same time, private vehicles have been banned from the zone.

"The citizens have been informed that if they hear the evacuation signal, they should start moving left and right away from the embankments, and leave material goods behind," said Diković.

While the danger of the Sava River bursting its banks remains real, said the crisis HQ, this has not happened yet and there is "no reason to panic."

Landslide "moves mountain"

General Ljubiša Diković ordered the evacuation near Šabac for preventative reasons, Chief of the MUP Emergency Situations Sector Predrag Marić said on Monday.

The critical situation is also in the small town of Mali Zvornik, western Serbia, where a major landslide occurred as "an entire mountain started moving toward the Drina River", Marić said to the Belgrade-based broadcaster Pink.

Because of this, a danger arose that a natural dam could be created and divert the Drina toward Mali Zvornik, but fortunately the entire process slowed down, Marić stressed.

He said that a new flood surge is expected to arrive on Wednesday from Croatia, adding that there are plans for flood defenses.

"The biggest job lies ahead of us - to ensure that life gets back to normal once the immediate danger is behind us," Maric said.

He voiced hope that the enthusiasm of young people and other volunteers would not dampen in the next several months, noting that every man is vital in efforts to restore Serbia to the situation before the flooding.

OBRENOVAC -- Prime Minister Aleksandar Vučić told foreign reporters on Monday that 13 dead bodies have been found so far in the town of Obrenovac near Belgrade.

BELGRADE -- Defense Minister Bratislav Gašić has thanked Austria's government for quickly deploying personnel that helped evacuate people from flooded areas in Serbia.

KRUPANJ -- Serbian President Tomislav Nikolić on Monday visited Krupanj, a municipality in western Serbia that has been hard-hit by floods which also killed one resident.

BELGRADE --  Serbia can count on EUR 1 billion worth of aid from the European Union Solidarity Fund in dealing with the long-term consequences of the catastrophic floods.

BELGRADE -- Serbian President Tomislav Nikolić on Monday sent a convoy of humanitarian aid to the places in Serbia most affected by the severe flooding.

BELGRADE -- The first part of a humanitarian aid shipment sent by the United Nations arrived in Belgrade late last night, the Ministry of the Interior (MUP) said.

MOSCOW, BELGRADE -- Russia has sent a relief cargo to Serbia hit by heavy floods, a spokesperson for the Russian Emergency Situations Ministry has told Itar-Tass.

Belgrade, Moscow -- A helicopter of the EU mission in Kosovo, EULEX, sent to assist in rescue efforts in flood-hit Serbia landed in Belgrade on Sunday.

BELGRADE -- The bodies of 12 flood victims have been recovered in the town of Obrenovac, but it is feared the number of those who perished in higher, says Aleksandar Vučić.

BELGRADE -- Serbia has been affected by "millennial waters" PM Aleksandar Vučić said on Sunday as he chaired an emergency HQ set up to deal with the catastrophic floods.

BELGRADE -- People cannot return to their homes in Obrenovac because there are still no conditions for that, while the rumors about the number of victims are false.

BELGRADE -- The intense fight to save lives continued on Saturday, as the situation is the most critical in the completely flooded Belgrade municipality of Obrenovac.

BELGRADE -- Ivica Dačić has said that Serbia now above all needs assistance in equipment, along with rescue teams to save the affected towns and their residents.

BELGRADE -- The flood-hit areas of Obrenovac and Barič near Belgrade, Sremska Mitrovica in the north and Krupanj and Šabac in western Serbia remain the most critical.

BELGRADE -- Foreign Minister Ivica Dačić on Saturday expressed his gratitude "to all the countries and the EU" for the help they provided to the flood-stricken Serbia.

BELGRADE, ŠABAC -- The bodies of those who perished in the flood in Obrenovac are being recovered on Saturday, MUP Emergency Sector chief Predrag Marić has said.

BELGRADE -- Prime Minister Aleksandar Vučić late on Friday described the situation in Serbia, struck by severe flooding, as "catastrophic."

MOSCOW -- Russian Emergency Situations Minister Vladimir Puchkov has announced that his country had launched a large-scale humanitarian operation to help Serbia.

BELGRADE -- More than 7,618 people have been evacuated in Serbia in the past two days as the country battles severe flooding, the Interior Ministry has announced.

B92 is an environmentally responsible organisation.
