
ASU's 2014 veteran graduates gather on the steps of Old Main following a reception where the ASU Alumni Veterans Chapter presented them with colorful stoles for each branch of the military.

Their many stories of sacrifice date from World War I in France to as recent as 2013 in Afghanistan. All of them were Arizona State University alumni and all of them gave their lives while in service to the United States. All of them also died while on active duty with a branch of America’s military – except for one.

“Joe Mittendorf was a civilian contractor working with the military on Wake Island when the Japanese captured it early during World War II,” said Jim Geiser, secretary of the ASU Alumni Veterans Chapter and a retired U.S. Marine Major who has researched family genealogy as a hobby for 20 years. “The Japanese shipped the captured Marines off to Japan but kept the civilian contractors on the island to work for them.

Since formation of the Veterans Chapter three years ago, Geiser has been researching ASU alumni who qualify for its “In Memoriam” list of those who gave the ultimate sacrifice for our country. He explained the two criteria: The deceased veterans had to be registered at ASU as a student, according to the university’s records department, and they had to have died while on active duty serving in the U.S. military.

One ASU veteran on the list was a victim of one of the worst disasters to befall American military women during World War II. Private First Class Tony Pearl Roomsburg was among nearly 20 Women’s Army Corps (WAC) members on an Army Air Force transport plane that crashed in Africa, killing everyone on board. A native Arizonan, Roomsburg graduated from Arizona State Teachers’ College in 1942 to become an elementary school teacher. She had enlisted as a WAC when tragedy struck in 1945, making her one of the first female overseas casualties of the war.

According to Geiser, another unusual story belonged to Staff Sergeant Jack Trimble who had attended ASU and ended up crashing his airplane two miles west of the Tempe campus in 1949. Trimble was flying a training mission when apparently one of the wings fell off his airplane causing it to plunge to the ground near Baseline Road and 53rd Street. Trimble was killed.

Professor Mark von Hagen, director for ASU's new Office of Veteran and Military Academic Engagement , said sharing the stories of all ASU student veterans is important. Von Hagen serves on the faculties of global studies in the School of Politics and Global Studies and history in the School of Historical, Philosophical and Religious Studies in the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences . As a historian, von Hagen works with students to capture oral histories of living veterans from America’s most recent conflicts.

“I think the more our ASU students know about their colleagues, their contemporaries and what they lived through in those wars, the better it is for all of us,” von Hagen said. “Students should know what America has put our veterans through and how difficult it can be for them to make the transition back to school.

For today’s student veterans, the In Memoriam commemoration of ASU alumni who served their country and never came home underscores the military lineage of the university, said Steven Borden, director of ASU’s Pat Tillman Veterans Center and retired U.S. Navy Captain.

ASU first honored its veterans when it dedicated its iconic Memorial Union on the Tempe campus in 1956. An inside plaque near the north entrance states that the building serves as a living memorial for those who have courageously served our country in the military services. The In Memoriam list is the “perfect adjunct” to the MU, said David Lucier, past president of ASU Alumni Veterans Chapter and veteran of the U.S. Army 5th Special Forces Group.
