
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

LAKEWOOD, Ohio -- Here is a look at some upcoming activities and recent community events in the city.

Cleveland Orchestra: The Cleveland Orchestra and the Lakewood community are joining together to present The Cleveland Orchestra at home in Lakewood , a neighborhood residency. Numerous programs are taking place this week. Orchestra musicians will perform Tuesday at 1:30 p.m. at the Barton Senior Center, 14300 Detroit Ave.; Wednesday at 6 p.m. at the deck at Pier W Restaurant, 12700 Lake Ave.; Thursday at noon at Lakewood Hospital, 14519 Detroit Ave.; Friday at 6 p.m. at Vosh Nightclub, 1414 Riverside Drive, and Friday at 8 p.m. at Mahall's bowling alley, 13200 Madison, Ave. The performances are free and open to the public. The full orchestra will perform Saturday, May 24, at Lakewood Civic auditorium, but tickets have all been distributed for that event.

Bike to school: Harding and Garfield middle schools in Lakewood will celebrate National Bike to School Day on Wednesday by encouraging students to ride their bicycles to school. More than 200 middle school students are expected to ride their bikes, along with parents, teachers and community leaders. Bike-to-School Day is presented by Bike Lakewood with assistance from the schools and city. Kids, parents and community leaders are expected to arrive at the school about 7:15 a.m. on their bikes. The city of Lakewood has posted details and safety tips on its website.

Architect community meetings: The Lakewood school district has scheduled a second round of community meetings for the three elementary schools to be rebuilt beginning this fall. Architect Rodwell King will give updates on the design and transition process. The dates are: Lincoln, Wednesday, May 21, 6:30 p.m.;

Roosevelt, Tuesday, June 3, 7 p.m., and Grant, Wednesday, June 4, 7 p.m. The Lakewood school district posted information on its website.

Check here if you do not want to receive additional email offers and information.

We look forward to sharing with you some of the great content found on cleveland.com.  To view and subscribe to any of our other newsletters, please click here .

cleveland.com is powered by Plain Dealer Publishing Co. and Northeast Ohio Media Group. All rights reserved ( About Us ).

The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Northeast Ohio Media Group LLC.

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
