
You can be forgiven if your favorite animal isn’t a frog or a toad.

In our neck of the woods, they’re usually small and elusive, and that’s when the weather’s nice. They spend most of the winter underwater, underground or frozen and waiting for springtime to thaw them out.

“They’re really cryptic,” said Wendy Estes-Zumpf, a zoologist with the Wyoming Natural Diversity Database.

Amphibians spend the first part of their lives in the water, often as tadpoles. They later undergo a metamorphosis and spend much of their adult lives on land. They’re notoriously difficult to survey because many conditions have to be right for a person to even spot one.

As a result, it’s difficult for scientists to keep tabs on the condition of Wyoming’s amphibians, which include five species of frogs, six toad species and the Western tiger salamander.

“We don’t know how populations are doing throughout the state,” Estes-Zumpf said.

Scientists do know, however, that amphibian populations are in decline around the world. In the Rocky Mountain region, a new program is designed to enlist the help of laypeople in tracking amphibian populations so scientists will have more information about their status.

The Rocky Mountain Amphibian Project was launched last month and operates in the Medicine Bow-Routt National Forests and the Bridger-Teton National Forest. The project invites people to adopt catchments and monitor them at least once a summer for amphibian activity.

A catchment is a set of ponds or streams that could make good amphibian habitat.

“We will collect data to look at population trends in amphibian species in Wyoming so that land managers and agency biologists can prioritize their conservation efforts based on scientific evidence,” said Brenna Marsicek, project coordinator for the University of Wyoming Berry Biodiversity Conservation Center, in a news release.

Volunteers will receive a kit with survey equipment that includes an identification guide, dip net, thermometer, pH strips, and swabs and vials for testing for chytrid, a disease-causing fungus that can infect and kill amphibians.

Volunteers, working in pairs or groups, will also receive training in a standardized survey method in which they sweep meadows and shorelines in a zig-zag pattern and then pause to take the water and air temperature.

“It’s not too difficult, but you do need to follow directions really well,” Estes-Zumpf said.

Catchments to be surveyed were chosen at random from a group of areas across the national forest that had potential amphibian habitat. They’re mostly within a few kilometers of a road or near a trail for easier access.

However, observers might have to navigate to the correct spot, hike through difficult terrain and wade through swampy areas.

Estes-Zumpf said outdoor enthusiasts are the target group. So far, the response has been good.

“I think people will have a lot of fun doing this. It makes you feel like a kid again,” she said.

In the Pole Mountain area, observers could spot the northern leopard frog or boreal chorus frog. In the Snowy Range and Sierra Madres, wood frogs and chorus frogs could be present. Boreal chorus frogs, which are about an inch long, are the most common amphibian in the state.

The Rocky Mountain Amphibian Project grew out of collaboration between the Wyoming Natural Diversity Database and Wyoming Game and Fish Department, both of which work to gather information about Wyoming wildlife, Estes-Zumpf said. The database, which operates as a research unit of UW, tracks rare and sensitive plants, animals and ecosystems in the state.

The amphibian project has a number of partners across the region, from the U.S. Forest Service and UW Biodiversity Institute to Boy Scouts of America.

 “It’s a huge collaborative effort that’s been going on for several years to get it to this point,” Estes-Zumpf said.

Besides monitoring, the Rocky Mountain Amphibian Project is also a tool for education about the unique lives of amphibians and their habitat needs, Estes-Zumpf said.

Program organizers are hoping all available catchments will be adopted by May 30. Surveys should be conducted during the summer.

“When you start to talk to people about amphibians, they get really excited. And they should — they’re amazing creatures,” Estes-Zumpf said.

For more information about the Rocky Mountain Amphibian Project or to adopt a catchment, go to www.toadtrackers.org . Volunteers can attend one of two local training sessions or watch a training video online.

The Boomerang is a community newspaper.  We encourage comments however posts that contain obscene, vulgar, lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language will not be tolerated. Comments containing links, including third-party links, must be approved before they are published. The comments posted are not necessarily those of the Laramie Boomerang. If you have complaints, questions, or just feedback, please contact us .
