
After more than 20 years of a grappled existence, Community Radio Stations in Zambia are said to be ferrying water in a cup to the sea. The indistinct definition of community radio in itself is a reference point to a huge mountain the stations have to climb for their sustainability.

That Community Radio stations are crucially needed in our society is not debatable! They can be a true reflection of media freedom and objective reporting; making themselves relatively more relevant to the local people.

They are critical instruments for local empowerment – bringing information and enlightenment to the very door steps of the people who might have been alienated from national development paths.

The 1994 Rwandan Genocide and the current ethnic atrocities in South Sudan speak to the huge inherent potential in community radio to coerce social consciousness. Politicians know this and seize the opportunities! It is a power that can be destructive if it is not protected from abuse power.

In a market-driven world, community radio expands audiences to manufacturers, distributors, service providers and suppliers of mostly, agriculture-related products.

This is due to the fact that most community radio stations in Zambia exist in rural areas of predominantly peasant farmers; isolated from the commercial business world.

Against the foregoing, community radio exists in areas where very little community participation does guarantee the technical and economic survival of the stations.

If the term Community Radio has to be genuinely applicable, the radio stations have to be owned and managed, to a larger extent by the community; of the community and for the community.

However, it is this ownership issue posing the greatest challenge for most community radio stations in Zambia – or supposedly community radio stations.

Locked up in an ownership triangle of the community, by the community and for the community, these stations cannot survive for the logical reason that communities are too poor to run, more, so to own the station.

Whether this is a mere perception that station proprietors have created for themselves to justify the alienation of the communities remains to be understood. Yet the stations should still be identified with the label of community.

If these stations do not outsource for their continuous survival, they soon go into extinction. They need to pay for broadcasting license in a nebulous broadcasting policy environment – it does not matter whether it is a test or full transmission being aired!

They have to pay for electricity and the broadcasting machinery consuming the power; all at the expense of the fact that the communities themselves have very little economic and political power to safeguard the sustainability of their assumed radio station. With outsourcing being the inevitable survival mechanism, there emerges a different pattern of ownership, control, vision, editorial policy and overall management of the stations which consequently alienates the community from the station.

Community Radio stations have very little professional capacity to package information into informative programming notwithstanding the fact that they daily sit on issues with a high news-value within the communities.

They depend on voluntary community workers playing music all day long; interrupted by intervals of announcements! Consequently, community radio stations have become juke boxes of music DJs rather communication stations practicing Journalism.

The business world would prefer to place adverts and sponsored programs on the national broadcaster because of its nation-wide broadcasting coverage – value for money of course! The struggling community radio stations in the 21st Century seem to have no choice but to outsource; venturing into partnerships with the private sector as a way of innovating their way out of extinction.

The author is a freelance writer.

Basic HTML code is allowed.
