
Plans to move Jefferson County's male community corrections program facility to a site near Jefferson County Fairgrounds are still in the preliminary stages, but some residents who live near the proposed site are final in their decision not to support them.

"We don't even want to have that conversation," Amy Sears, a resident who lives in Mesa View Estates, said about a June 25 community meeting on the county proposal.

In the two weeks since the county contacted them, members of the Mesa View Estates, Sixth Avenue West and other neighborhood groups have formed the Coalition for a Safe Fairgrounds , which says its goal is to ensure "the Jefferson County Fairgrounds are safe from felons."

The proposed site is owned by Goltra Castings Company, which operates a foundry business there, and borders the west side of Jefferson County Fairgrounds. The property owners do not want to sell but have offered a 40-year lease with two 15-year extension options. No final agreement has been reached.

The community corrections program houses male  parolees, providing them job training and placement services, and is currently  in Lakewood in the New York Building on Kendall Street, next to the Rocky Mountain College of Art & Design.

The New York Building dates to the early 1900s and is in need of improvements. The cost of updating it, coupled with the city of Lakewood's desire to redevelop the area into an arts district, prompted the county in 2013 to begin looking for a new location.

Ralph Schell, the Jefferson County administrator tasked with finding possible sites, said the facility needs to be near public transportation in order to get residents, who do not have driver's licenses, to their jobs.

With the Wide Acres site, the county may have fallen short in getting the information out to nearby residents soon enough and "it got a little too political too quickly," Schell said.

That is why county commissioners and corrections program representatives toured city council meetings in Arvada, Westminster and Golden last fall with a overview presentation of the program, and Schell reached out to homeowners associations a couple of weeks ago to discuss the best way to reach and inform a broad spectrum of residents.

"There is a large gap between perception and reality," he said. "I know people have concerns, but a lot of the concerns expressed have not been examples of what has happened at the current location."

Cici Kesler works for a company that has managed the Mesa View Estates homeowner's association for many years. She said she has concerns about the facility being near the fairgrounds where teenage Westernaires practice and family-friendly events are held.

"It's a tough spot for (the county), but they've really got to give this a thought," she said.

Carolyn Goltra, whose family owns the land, said she understands the concerns but thinks the program is a good thing. Goltra has employed participants of such programs for years.

"I understand fear when you don't really know what is going to happen," she said, adding that Goltra Castings will lease the land as long as neighbors are OK with it.

She said her experience with the "second-chance" programs for former inmates has been positive.

"They are really hard workers," she said. "The guys are great who work at our plant. Anyone we've worked with are people who are looking to make a living wage and really get back on their feet."

Jefferson County will host a community meeting to present information on its community corrections program and answer questions at 6:30 p.m. June 25 at Jefferson County Fairgrounds, 15200 W. 6th Ave.

We reserve the right to remove any comment we feel is spammy, NSFW, defamatory, rude, or reckless to the community.

We expect everyone to be respectful of other commenters. It's fine to have differences of opinion, but there's no need to act like a jerk.

Use your own words (don't copy and paste from elsewhere), be honest and don't pretend to be someone (or something) you're not.
