
The USD No. 480 Board of Education will be conducting its regular meeting tonight, the first one after graduation, and the board will focus on its customary business.

Tonight’s agenda will begin with a report from superintendent of schools Paul Larkin about several items, including new positions, which will involve the switching around of some teachers and, according to Larkin, won’t involve the hiring of additional staff.

Larkin will also be talking about recent graduates of Ivanhoe Love’s truancy court.

“This program continues to be very strong, and I am pleased with the work Ivanhoe and his officers are doing,” Larkin said in the agenda packet.

There will be the usual reports from the deputy superintendent, the director of business, director of special education and the director of federal programs.

There will be several items under the New Business section, including a new resolution regarding the issuance, sale and delivery of refunding and improvement bonds for the district regarding the recently passed bond issue.

The business department is updating to Adobe Photoshop CS5 and Microsoft Office 2010 which will require new textbooks, which will be purchased from Cengage Learning.

Jenease Thatcher of Seward County Community College/Area Technical School will be present to share information concerning the Liberal “Learning” Jet. The Mid America Air Museum Foundation is interested in establishing a copartnership with USD 480 to help students with certain math and science concepts.

The board will also be asked to approve several new positions, including a new nursing position for the 2014-15 school year, a new school resource officer position and an additional speech and language paraprofessional to assist with students’ daily speech.

Some equipment replacement will also be up for discussion at the meeting, including the replacement of five copiers  at  Liberal High School, South Middle School, Cottonwood Intermediate and Washington Elementary.

The High Plains Daily Leader and Southwest Daily Times are published Sunday through Friday and reaches homes throughout the Liberal, Kansas retail trade zone. The Leader & Times is the official newspaper of Seward County, USD No. 480, USD No. 483 and the cities of Liberal and Kismet.  The Leader & Times is a member of the Liberal Chamber of Commerce, the Kansas Press Association, the National Newspaper Association and the Associated Press.
