
CIVILIAN prosecutor Rosanna Doolan had a “brain-snap’’ when she allegedly reopened a court case and lied to a magistrate in order to secure a reduced penalty for her boyfriend.

Doolan, 33, pleaded not guilty in the Brisbane District Court yesterday to two counts of misconduct in public office with intent to dishonestly gain a benefit for then-lover Dax Roep on May 28-29, 2012.

Crown prosecutor Phil McCarthy told the jury Mr Roep was charged with assault after allegedly slapping a woman on September 5, 2011.

He said Mr Roep was fined and ordered to pay compensation after submissions from prosecutor Bob Falconer at the Southport Magistrates Court on May 29, 2012.

Mr Roep, who pleaded guilty, was represented by lawyer Jodi Allen at the hearing.

Mr McCarthy said Doolan ran into Ms Allen after the hearing and told her she would “find Mr Falconer and reopen the sentence’’.

He said Mr Roep would tell the jury Doolan appeared angry on learning of the result and told them “Bob had f...ed up’’.

Mr McCarthy said Mr Falconer was confronted by Doolan outside court and she told him he made a mistake.

The jury heard Mr Falconer told Doolan to “stay out of it’’ when she threatened to have the sentence reopened.

Doolan allegedly told Ms Allen she had permission from Mr Falconer to reopen the sentence and told her Mr Falconer would not appear as he needed to phone his disabled son.

She allegedly told the magistrate the factual basis of the assault by Mr Roep was a push to the right shoulder.

Doolan allegedly left a message on Ms Allen’s phone saying “I wish I didn’t have a brain snap’’.

The jury was told the magistrate subsequently reduced the amount of compensation paid by Mr Roep.

Mr Falconer reported the incident that day and Doolan was asked to leave the office, the jury was told.

“The Crown contends these actions of Ms Doolan were actions intended to dishonestly gain a benefit for Mr Roep,’’ Mr McCarthy said.

The trial before Judge Brian Devereaux QC continues.
