
This past week Russellville and the entire Arkansas River Valley experienced a population increase as the Bassmaster Elite Series rolled into town for one of their tour stops throughout the year.

Bass fishing is big business and when you get the best anglers in the country on your home lake the tourism dollars see a huge increase and local businesses benefit as fans and anglers spend a part of their year in our fair city.

As a kid, professional fishing was always a dream of mine, although I believe I am a fairly decent fisherman, I realize each and every time I get to be around the true professionals just how good they are. My association with Wilkins Brothers Outdoors and Tackle Center has opened many doors through the years and also allowed me to meet and become good friends with several professional anglers.

We have been fortunate to be around several of the best anglers in the country and many have made appearances for us locally. This past week Shaw Grigsby stopped in the store and did a met and greet, which is always great for the fans.

Grigsby who also famous for his television fishing show along with Roland Martin and Bill Dance were all must see television for this angler when I was a kid and even now as I am a bit older!

The fishing life looks like it is all fun and games, but the hard truth is that each and every week these guys are expected to perform at the top of their game.

Each week professional anglers travel to tournaments from coast to coast with one major objective, which is simply to catch fish, but there is also a lot more involved in a professional fishermen’s job. The idea is to have a good tournament, catch lots of fish, hopefully pick up a paycheck, and then move on to the next event.

Sounds kind of glamorous, but for those who do it as their sole means of making a living and providing for their families it is a lot of hard work. For the guys who have lots of success such as the world famous (KVD) Kevin Van Dam, you are fortunate to be able to do commercials and other gigs that help with your income and expenses, but for the guys at the bottom of the standings sometimes fishing next week is dependent on what they did the week before.

To the casual observer, we envision fishing as something to do after work or maybe even a tournament or two of our own on the weekend. This is not the case for the best of the best. It is hopping from motel to motel and fishing from daylight to dark. It can be fun, but it is still a job requiring long hours and lots of work.

When tournament anglers are not fishing they are preparing to fish. Packing gear, rigging tackle, taking care of personal business, laundry, fixing problems, and lots of travel and planning are just a few of the daily activities of a professional fisherman.

At the professional level each angler has sponsors. Some more than others, but each requires anglers to put in time working for them in return for their sponsorship. Speaking engagements, seminars, and working trade shows and vendor’s tents are just a few of the obligations anglers have.

Other examples of how professional anglers give back to the community include public appearances, hospital visits and putting on fishing clinics for anglers of all ages.

Hopefully, sometime this past weekend, you had a chance to get out and see some of the anglers and support your favorites. Having the Bassmaster’s here is a definite boon for all involved and in the future lake Dardanelle will return as a regular stop for the best of the best.

The Courier - Your Messenger for the River Valley in Russellville, AR.
