
IRON MOUNTAIN - Iron River native businessman and political activist Donald Hooper will be the featured speaker at the American's For Constitutional Enforcement's (ACE) May community-wide meeting Tuesday at Recreation Lanes in Iron Mountain.

Hooper has been involved in local and regional political issues for many years and was a three-time candidate for congress from Michigan's first congressional district. After witnessing the congress and administration trample on the rights of American citizens, Hooper decided to throw his hat in the political ring running four times for the northern Michigan seat beginning in 2002.

Hooper served his country with the Aviation Engineers for 3 1/2 years during the Korean conflict and was honorably discharged.

Founder/owner/operator and CEO of D.H. Transfer Inc., Hooper operated the trucking company with up to 21 semi-tractor trailer units and employed up to 24 employees.

Hooper co-founded the first deep water search and rescue group in Michigan recovering victims of drowning in pits, lakes and rivers long before the Michigan State Police formed their current rescue group.

Hooper is a supporter of the Constitutional form of government and is concerned about the many abuses that are being imposed on it and will give his take on what can be done to hold elected officials responsible for their actions.

ACE is an non-partisan organization that was founded in Iron Mountain in 1998 to educate the public, governmental officials and office holders as to the history, provisions and protections of the Constitution.

"History proves that when our government ignores or side-steps the provisions of the Constitution, we can be easily oppressed and our rights taken from us," said ACE President Lee Guizzetti. "It is through programs such as this that we put on that will help to equip us with the tools to keep our government and elected officials in line."

The monthly ACE programs are open to the public, without charge, and begin with a social time at 5:30 p.m. with an optional dinner at 6 p.m. It will feature Irish stew, beverage and desert. Cost of the meal is $7 and reservations are required by calling Joe Testolin at 906-282-9200.

The program will begin at 7. p.m.
