
Share It.

"War Ink" is a proposed multimedia exhibit that will feature 30 veterans from throughout the state. The stories surrounding their tattoos will be recorded by the StoryCorps Military Voices Initiative, a nationally acclaimed platform for veterans, service members and military families to share their stories. The project seeks to honor the voices of veterans, amplify their experiences and let them know the nation is listening.

"The Placer County Library is excited to be involved in such a dynamic and innovative effort. Our thanks to the Contra Costa County Library for inviting us to participate," explained Placer County Director of Library Services Mary George.

"Our community is home to many veterans who have served in the Iraq and Afghanistan wars. It is my hope that local veterans will come forward to tell their stories through 'War Ink.' I'm both curious and excited to view the art of each tattoo and connect the Placer County community to the unique stories of our veterans."

The initiative is an opportunity for veterans to tell how their tattoo art serves as reminders of experiences they and the people they served with had in Iraq and Afghanistan. Organizers noted that veterans often have tattoos that celebrate their service by depicting what they choose to remember.

For "War Ink," tattoos will be photographed by Shaun Roberts, a San Francisco-based photographer whose work has been featured in various magazines.

The Placer County Library will display "War Ink" at www.placer.ca.gov/library beginning on Veterans Day, which will be observed on Tuesday, Nov. 11 this year.

"War Ink" is being organized by an ever-growing collaborative that includes nationally renowned StoryCorps; grant-makers Cal Humanities and the Pacific Library Partnership; and many of the state's library systems.

"We are delighted to be partnering with Contra Costa County Library to celebrate the diverse and vibrant stories of California's veteran and military community," said StoryCorps Founder and President Dave Isay. "In doing so, we remind one another of our shared humanity, strengthen and build the connections between people, teach the value of listening, and weave into the fabric of our culture the understanding that every life matters."

"War Ink" was made possible through two grants awarded to the Contra Costa County Library.

Cal Humanities, an independent nonprofit state partner of the National Endowment for the Humanities, first saw the potential of the project and awarded the library a $10,000 Community Stories Grant to supplement the commitment of StoryCorps to record the stories of 18 veterans for its Military Voices Initiative.

Multiple Sclerosis Becomes Counselor's Asset During most of the '70s, Kathe Skinner, now a 65-year-old licensed marriage family therapist in Colorado Springs, Colorado, couldn't figure out what was wrong with her body.

8 Arrested in Roseville Police Drug and ID Theft Operation Roseville Police detectives, following up on a Roseville drug case, searched a home in Sacramento and found evidence of methamphetamine sales and identity theft involving scores of victims.

Placer County Republican Party Announces Endorsements The Placer County Republican Party has announced the following endorsements in local races for the November 2014 election.

Federal Subpoena Served to Placer County Sheriff's Office The Placer County Sheriff's Office has received several inquiries about employee internal investigations and a federal subpoena.

Bill to Help Disabled Veterans Heads to Governor A proposal sponsored by George Runner to protect California's disabled veterans cleared the Assembly this week with unanimous, bipartisan support, and now awaits action by Governor Jerry Brown.

Sierra College Supports Former Foster Youth Rocklin, CA- - As the school year begins, Sierra College is taking an extra step to ensure that one group of students gets off to a good start.

Roseville Chamber Events September 2014 Roseville, CA -- The Roseville Chamber of Commerce featured events for the month of September 2014.
