
Family owned and Indiana-based Salin Bank & Trust Company today  announced that Amy Counts has joined Salin Bank as Vice President,  Business Development Officer for the Columbus, Bartholomew County and  Johnson County communities.

Counts has built an impressive career in the banking industry,  establishing an area of specialization that includes business lending,  SBA lending, treasury management, investments and merchant services.

Beginning in 2001, Counts served as a Commercial Sales Assistant for  Union Federal Bank, followed by positions as a Commercial Underwriter at  Old National Bank and Assistant Vice President, Business Banker, at  Huntington National Bank.

Counts’ most recent position was with BMO Harris Bank as a Small  Business Banker. In that role, Counts’ responsibilities included  sourcing new business, working closely with underwriting partners and  documentation specialists to see loans through from start to finish, and  educating branch partners on the loan process, underwriting questions  and various banking products.

In her new position with Salin Bank, Counts will be responsible for  growing the bank’s business banking segment and working closely with  businesses around Columbus and Indianapolis to find solutions for their  banking needs.

“As an independent community bank, Salin Bank is committed to bringing  the best-trained people on board as part of our team to reach out to our  business customers. Amy’s previous business banking experience, her  underwriting experience, treasury management knowledge and commitment to  the local community will be great assets to our business clients,” Salin  Bank’s Whelan notes.

Counts is a graduate of the Kelly School of Business at Indiana  University and has a Bachelor’s of Science degree, with a concentration  in Finance.

Salin Bank & Trust Company is one of Indiana’s largest family owned  community banks, with more than $750 million in assets. Salin Bank & Trust Company operates 21 banking center locations in 10 Indiana  counties serving Columbus, Delphi, Edinburgh, Flora, Fort Wayne,  Galveston, Gas City, Kokomo, Lafayette, Logansport, Marion, West  Lafayette, Fishers and Indianapolis. Recently, the bank has expanded its  business lending efforts in Johnson, Monroe and Bartholomew Counties.
