
Vodafone Romania launched its first local initiative as part of its Firsts programme as well as a contest through Vodafone Group's international competition 'Pitch your First' which was launched in ten countries. The Vodafone Firsts programme takes Romanian blogger and cook Adrian Hadean on a tour across Romania to discover the best food recipes from each of the country's regions. A mobile app called 'Taste of Romania', which will be released following the tour, will include the blogger's collected recipes. The blogger will take the tour in June and will share his recipes and stories through social media. The app will be available to all the customers, including tourists who visit Romania and are using roaming services.

Vodafone Romania also invited customers who want to joint Vodafone Group's 'Pitch Your First' contest to register at www.firsts.com between 14 May and 15 August by filling in an online form. The ten finalists in Romania will be announced on 3 October. The prize will consist in financial support for the implementation of the winner's project as well the production of a documentary movie that will be promote on all social media channels of Vodafone Romania as well as on www.firsts.com.

We welcome comments that add value to the discussion. We attempt to block comments that use offensive language or appear to be spam, and our editors frequently review the comments to ensure they are appropriate. If you see a comment that you believe is inappropriate to the discussion, you can bring it to our attention by using the report abuse links. As the comments are written and submitted by visitors of the Telecompaper website, they in no way represent the opinion of Telecompaper.

We have been keeping professionals in the telecoms industry up-to-date since 2000. Telecompaper is a well respected, independent research and publishing company focussed on the telecommunications industry.

© 2000 - 2014 Telecom.paper BV. All rights reserved.                     Telecompaper is a trademark of Telecom.paper BV. No part of this site can be reproduced without                      the expressed permission of Telecom.paper BV. Our General Terms and Conditions can be found here .
