
World's largest soup maker Campbell Soup Co. ( CPB : Quote ) posted higher third-quarter reported earnings from continuing operations of $184 million, or $0.58 per share, compared with $169 million, or $0.53 per share, in the prior-year quarter.

In the recent quarter, the firm said it recognized a pre-tax pension settlement charge of $18 million associated with a U.S. pension plan. The settlement charge resulted from the level of lump sum distributions from the plan's assets in 2014, mainly due to the closure of the Sacramento facility. Excluding items impacting comparability in both periods, adjusted earnings from continuing operations amounted to $195 million, or $0.62 per share.

On average, 15 analysts polled by Thomson Reuters expected earnings per share of $0.59 for the quarter. Analysts' estimates typically exclude one-time items.

For the quarter, net sales came in at $1.97 billion, versus the prior-year figure of $1.96 billion. Analysts estimated revenues of $2.00 billion for the quarter.

Campbell's President and Chief Executive, said, "While we delivered growth in third-quarter earnings, our organic sales growth of 1 percent reflected mixed performance and fell short of our expectations."

Looking ahead, the company has revised its fiscal 2014 guidance, now expecting sales from continuing operations to grow nearly 3 percent in the current fiscal year, compared with the prior range of 4 to 5 percent. Full-year growth in adjusted EBIT is likely to be at the low end of the previously forecast range of 4 to 6 percent. Full-year adjusted earnings per share are expected to be at the low end of the previously announced guidance of 2 to 4 percent, or $2.53 to $2.58 per share. Analysts project annual earnings of $2.53 per share.

Stay informed with our FREE daily Newsletters and real-time breaking News Alerts.                   Sign up to receive the latest information on business news, health, technology,                  biotech, market analysis, currency trading and more.
