
Share This Story!

Judge concludes mother and daughter illegally tripped trap to capture black bear in tahoe.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Defense attorney Bradley Paul Elley confers during an April 23 trial with Season Morrison, center, and her mother Cheryl Morrison. The two women were found guilty Monday of tamerping with a trap set to nab a problem bear in Incline Village.

A mother and daughter were found guilty Monday of tampering with a bear trap in the first such case prosecuted by Nevada authorities.

Incline Justice Court Judge E. Alan Tiras concluded Cheryl Ann Morrison, 63, of Truckee and Season Morrison, 35, of Reno were guilty of obstructing or interfering with an officer of the Nevada Department of Wildlife and of tampering with a vehicle. Fines of up to $1,500 could be imposed for each misdemeanor offense, with no sentencing date yet set.

During a day-long trial April 23 in Incline Village, the two women admitted to deliberating tripping a bear trap set to capture a problem-causing black bear last Oct. 9, but said they did so because they thought state wildlife officials had set the trap illegally.

In his six-page ruling, Tiras rejected the argument presented by the Morrisons and their attorney, concluding the law cited by the defense that makes setting steel traps within 200 feet of a public road was written to target leg traps used to catch small fur-bearing mammals, which are "very different" than the large culvert-style traps used to capture bears.

The Morrisons, along with a third, unidentified woman, were captured tampering with the trap set outside an Incline Village home on video from a motion-activated camera placed near the trap by Department of Wildlife bear biologist Carl Lackey.

The women were later identified by, among other things, Facebook postings regarding the incident.

The incident occurred during a year of mounting conflicts between people and trash-raiding black bears, with some critics insisting the Department of Wildlife is killing too many bears. State officials counter they're having increasing trouble doing their job because people are interfering with efforts to capture problem bears, including by tampering with bear traps.
