
HOMEWOOD | The South Suburban Humane Society honored Village President Rich Hofeld for his efforts with homeless pets.

Hofeld estimates he and his wife, Marilyn, have rescued 15 dogs over the past 30 years.

Hofeld almost always gets his dogs from shelters and uses petfinder.com to locate black Labradors, which are his preferred type of pooch.

He described what he referred to as "black dog syndrome."

"People are afraid of black dogs and they're less likely to be adopted than others," Hofeld said. "So I always make it a point, whenever possible, to adopt a black dog."

He also prefers to take in female dogs.

"Because girls are smarter than boys, like in all species," Hofeld said.

Hofeld has driven as far as Detroit to look at a dog.

Just this month, he drove to Springfield to pick up another black Lab, Annie. She has company with the Hofelds' other two black Labs, Lori and Ruby.

The couple has had as many as four dogs at once.

"The limit in Homewood is four per household and my wife has threatened that she will come to a board meeting and complain if I try to get a fifth one," Hofeld said.

Probably the toughest experience the Hofelds have had with a dog was when they took in one named Holly, who was rescued in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina.

"They found her in Holly Beach, La., which was obliterated by the storm," Hofeld said.

He said his wife loved the dog, but that Holly would bite and one time caused him to break his arm when she ran into him.

"For a black dog to be mean is unusual," Hofeld said.

He said his other dogs would go nowhere near Holly.

"But she'd been through Hurricane Katrina, so who knew what all she'd been through," Hofeld said.

He said the sad part about adopting Labradors is they tend to only live about 12 years.

"It's the biggest void when your dog is gone and you come home and you're used to that dog being there," Hofeld said.

Emily Klehm, CEO of the South Suburban Humane Society, said Hofeld was given the Community Animal Advocate Award at the society's annual gala last month because of the difference he has made in the lives of homeless animals.

"He is a longtime advocate of rescue and adoption," Klehm said.

She said the award is also recognition for Homewood being a pet-friendly place.

"The village of Homewood is just one of the best places to have a dog in the south suburbs," Klehm said. "There's a really well-known dog park."

She said Homewood also gives a discount on tags if owners can prove a dog or cat was rescued and adopted.

The village also holds a Dog Days of Summer event in August that includes a Pooch Parade.

Proceeds from the sale of chili at the village's Fall Festival last year went to the South Suburban Humane Society.

Copyright 2014 nwitimes.com. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Username & Password Required!
