
Internal bickering and disputes are endemic in the political arena of which the NPF party is no stranger to. For the best interest of the party, a concerned Noke has always donned the role of a mediator and saw to it that differences are amicably resolved.

When the regional party in 2002 nearly faced a split after differences arose over the change of a ‘letter’ in the party’s nomenclature- from NPC to NPF, Noke intervened and did what he did best-save the party.

 “There have been enough situations when the NPF party was on the verge of division, but it survived because of me,” the veteran politician said.

And unlike the sorts of politicians changing party allegiance like a chameleon would change its color, Noke, who joined active politics in 1974 by contesting from 43 Tapi Assembly Constituency under UDF and re-elected seven times thereafter, has never wavered.

“I am a Naga and I am no opportunist. My foremost loyalty lies with the well being of the party for which I have dedicated four decades,” the regional strongman in his quiet unassuming manner said.

It is this allegiance and the concern that him joining the race for the Chief Minister’s chair could lead to disintegration of the party that made Noke put on the brakes and opt out of the race. “I withdrew from contesting for the CM’s post in the greater interest of the NPF party. I did not want to see further division among the members,” he said.

Noke further clarified that contrary to what had appeared in the media, Chief Minister, Neiphiu Rio never approached him personally on the issue. “In the last hour, he (Rio) sent some legislators to enquire if I was interested in the post of the chief minister.  As said earlier, I declined because I did not want to bring dissention to the NPF camp” – which is not a complaint but simple truth offered with a shrug.

On the question of capability, Noke shot back whether his 40 years of service to the Nagas is not proof enough. Citing some of his achievements, Noke said it was during his tenure as an elected representative under the chief minister-ship of Vamozu Phesao (NPC government) that policies like LADF, MLA/Minister quota, ex MLA pension, old age pensions were introduced.

Apart from being the longest serving politician under the regional party, Noke has also another record of sorts. He is the first man from the Konyak community (read un-administered part of the Konyak region) to attend school in the year 1952 and the first to pass matric- in 1967 from Sibsagar after which he went on to pursue higher studies.

At 78, for Noke, the question of retirement is not a question. He says,“I will run the next time and the time after that,” as he light up the whole room with his grin.
