
Parliament is preparing a new bomb under the investment policy of the government.

"The engine of the Kyrgyz economy is the mining industry," the Deputy Prime Minister Valery Dil stated recently. - The government's task - to maintain the momentum of the last year. The world economic crisis, that began in 2008, continues, and prices for production of mining and metallurgical production are falling. But we will carry out the work on the basis of the strategic development program until 2017. This is a very ambitious program, and, first of all, we need political stability."

Valery Dil, in fact, voiced the view that his immediate supervisor - the Prime Minister Dzhoomart Otorbayev, shares. For a long time, the latter was responsible for attracting investments in the economy. It was assumed that with his appointment in the premiere post, business climate in the country will improve. And, of course, in no small measure, thanks to the support of legislators. Recall, Otorbayev is "protégé" of Ata Meken faction. However, it seems the goals of the premiere differ significantly with vision of realities of Omurbek Tekebayev and his party colleagues.

Realities in Kyrgyzstan have been in such poor condition from olden times. In fact, in the country, despite the available significant reserves of natural resources, the only budget-profitable enterprise remains only Kumtor gold mine. Alas, but Kyrgyzstan yet failed to run mining of precious or other metals. In no small part, thanks anti-investment moods and as in the field so in the parliament, whose members often populist considerations support rallies from populists considerations.

What is the result? Everywhere, wherever investors try to come, they face considerable resistance of the local population. The latter is convinced: development of natural resources will inevitably lead to environmental disaster. The government, in turn, still fails to persuade the villagers. Such a situation was observed in the south, and now it happens in the north. The last example - a protest in Talas province, where the population made investors stop exploration of the gold deposit. And at the time no one else started the latest development yet. Demonstrators beat police officers on the quiet. And the authorities, instead of restoring the order, chose to raise their hands, thereby, giving a curious message. From now on, judging by the reaction of the government, citizens can safely block roads, attack security forces and destroy the property of private companies without fear of liability. Moreover, the same parliament is going to confer this right to them.

Representatives of Ata -Zhurt faction believe that mining can and should be prohibited on demand of locals. The MP Dastanbek Dzhumabekov even proposed to introduce a similar norm to the Law "On Subsoil". Obviously, this news will cause a holiday in Saruu village. Against all expectations!

 However, it is likely that such a rule will apply to all except the ill-fated Kumtor. The last one is in a special account of not only Ata- Zhurt, but also Ata Meken factions. Not without purpose Tekebayev made ​​introduction a norm to the Criminal Code, according to which suspension of this venture will be a criminal offense. The personnel lost the right to strike. The amendment itself contradicts the Constitution, but do lawmakers care about it? Especially Ata Meken faction has launched a new, no less than amazing one.

Omurbek Tekebayev suggested obliging mining companies to pay higher fees for environmental industrial waste. Under the recent legislation, he understands mountain dumps. That is an empty rock that is stored next to mine. He believes that it is a threat to the environment, therefore, proposes to increase the fees by several times.

Omurbek Tekebayev, of course, is not too professional in ecology, mining and related terminology. He is not a geologist, biologist yet, but honored lawyer. However, perhaps, unwittingly, he planted a bomb under development of the most promising fields, although he claims that assumes only Kumtor.

"We have registered in the bill that these payments should be carried out by enterprises that are located 2,000 meters above sea level," Tekebayev stated. "This category includes only the Kumtor, and I do not deny that the bill was written for this enterprise."

How Otorbayev's government will work with such a "support" - a mystery. But, perhaps, this is the main parliamentary intrigue: to create such conditions, under which any prime minister can be removed for nothing. You'll see, he will be obedient.

«The cow, of course, hasn’t died yet, but not alive already».

«Soon it comes to the absurd: we start giving orders protocol to call each other».

The Vice Prime Minister Valery Dil, speaking at a conference on preparation for the heating season on July 23, 2014.
