
Some parents from Christiansburg are breathing a sigh of relief after the Virginia Department of Transportation gave the green light on a proposed change to one of the park and ride lots in the area.

Citizens had three minutes to talk about any issues or projects they wanted to push forward.

One group of parents and citizens from Christiansburg came prepared with police reports, pictures and letters from other parents regarding the park and ride, but those documents were never presented to the board.

"I was so surprised and relieved and we all started crying,” said parent Tracey Hurst. “We all got so emotional. I just can't believe all of the work we have put in has finally paid off."

The auditorium was filled with screams, cheers and tears early on in the night.

"I know I bug people to death, but sometimes that's what it takes,” said Sherri Blevins.

VDOT’s Transportation Board announced at the start of the public hearing that it will move the Christiansburg Park and Ride to a new location.

"We know it’s not going to change over a day,” said Blevins. “It’s going to take a year, so we will still be vigilant and advocate to keep our kids safe."

Blevins is just one of many parents who have spent the past year and a half fighting against the lot located right off of Interstate 81 and across from Falling Branch Elementary School.

A few years ago, VDOT turned the commuter lot into a park and ride and that's when people said the problems started.

"It wasn't until it became a real transit hub for MegaBus,” said Falling Branch Elementary School Principal Julie Vanidestine.

Vanidestine said riders would get off the bus and come on to school grounds. Some of the problems got so bad that law enforcement was called in to help.

Parents said the situation was anything but safe and that’s why they wrote to state leaders and VDOT to get it moved.

Those parents finally got what they wanted Monday night.

“The school is not going to have to continue to worry,” said Blevins.”It means they can focus on what they need to do."

VDOT hopes to start construction in a year. No word yet on how much it will cost, but the board said it has the money to do the project.

Citizens and state leaders also voiced concerns over Route 220, portions of Interstate 81 and the passenger rail project.

No email address was supplied by .                                 To complete your registration on this site, please supply an address.

Please confirm or modify the email address to which you will have subscription offers sent.

For a more personalized experience, please supply the following optional information.
