
INDIANAPOLIS - The cause of Thursday night's apartment explosion is still a mystery, however investigators doubt anything criminal occurred at the Pangea Riverside Apartments.

They are still waiting to get into the damaged building while residents are being to move out. For some, that that's not as easy as it sounds.

Contractors worked through the weekend stabilizing and closing up the heavily damaged building. But Indianapolis fire and police department investigators have yet to take a step inside.  They are waiting for insurance and other private investigators to join them.   IFD public information officer Capt. Rita Reith explained,  "Everybody is curious to know what happened. At this point they really don't have any idea although they are just looking at accidental causes."

Reith went on to say investigators don't believe there was any criminal activity.

The Thursday night explosion blew the townhouse apartment wide open.  Neighbors saw a huge fire ball.  Two people, a man and woman, inside the apartment were critically burned. In the neighboring apartment Pia Corbin smelled something like rotten eggs.  She went to bed.  The blast work her up.  Corbin described what happened next. "My daughter kicked in the door.  She reached for me and said come on mom." She ran out with nothing.  No cash, no car keys, no clothes.  "I at least want to get the things I need to live and I can't " she said with quiet frustration.

Managers of the Pangea Apartments placed residents in hotels but now say it's time for them to move into other apartments.  The company owns several complexes in the area.  Only residents of the undamaged part of the building can get their belongings Brian Champion said he found out this morning.   "I'm supposed to move my stuff right now.  I don't have nobody to help me." he said  "I can't move by myself, so what am I supposed to do."

Pia Corbin doesn't know what she'll do. It may be days before she can retrieve her car keys and wallet. She thought, than quietly said "Each day it becomes more real to me, the seriousness of if all. We are doing the best we can do."

Numerous messages and requests for information left with the apartment complex managers and corporate headquarters have not been returned. Citizens Gas told Eyewitness News Monday night they did detect a small gas leak last Friday at a meter on the building next to the one that exploded. But the utility says it was a non-explosive leak and was so minor it was only detectable by special sensors. No one could smell the leak.

At last report, the two people injured, both of them Marian University students, were in good condition.

Miley Cyrus gave up her acceptance speech for the biggest award at the 2014 MTV VMAs to bring the nation's homeless, runaway and disenfranchised youth into the spotlight.
