
The emergency room of Flint River Community Hospital sits closed April 25 in Montezuma, Georgia. Analysts say that rural hospitals are struggling nationally because they typically serve small populations of customers more likely to be older, uninsured or enrolled in government health care programs that do not fully pay their bills.

MONTEZUMA, Ga. (AP)  — As rural hospitals struggle, Georgia is letting stand-alone emergency rooms treat people in the countryside who would otherwise have to drive far away when they break an arm, need stitches or have a baby.

The state agency that licenses medical facilities changed its rules this year to allow a rural hospital that’s failing or has already closed in the last year to scale back its operations and reopen as a freestanding emergency room. Before, emergency departments were only allowed at full-service hospitals that fulfilled criteria including having inpatient beds and other expensive requirements.

Many other states already allow stand-alone emergency rooms, but health care analysts say they aren’t aware of the model being pushed as a way to keep struggling rural hospitals from going under. Among the hundreds of stand-alone ERs operating elsewhere, many are in affluent suburban areas where patients can afford to pay the higher bills.

Moody’s Investors Service predicts hospital revenues will drop as government payments decrease, fewer patients are held overnight and private insurance plans pay less. Its analyst said more patients are choosing high-deductible plans. Those plans could discourage people from seeking pricey care and raise the risk they won’t be able to afford their hospital bills. While all hospitals face these problems, small hospitals have the least cash as protection.

About half of all states, including Georgia, have refused to expand Medicaid under President Barack Obama’s health care law, further adding to the pressure on hospitals.

“While Medicaid doesn’t pay as well as other payers, it’s better than nothing,” said Jennifer Ewing, a Moody’s analyst.

Flint River Hospital had reported for years that it was saddled with unpaid bills and that it was underpaid by government-run insurance programs for the poor and elderly. It closed its emergency room last year, the only one in the county.

Among the new requirements for scaled-back ERs in Georgia, the facilities would have to offer 24-hour care and treat all uninsured patients. They could be no more than 35 miles from a full-service hospital. They would be required to have agreements explaining how they would transfer patients who need more intensive help to a hospital.

James recently drove her friend, Delois Smith, to the nearest hospital after Smith suffered a stroke. Smith does not own a car and hesitates to call for an ambulance since has no health insurance. She wants the old emergency room back.

“They closed it down last year and it was like, ‘Where are we going now?”’ Smith said.

The CEO of Flint River Hospital, Michael Patterson, said he will explore whether the new rules could allow the re-opening a scaled-back ER. He started working there after the ER shutdown.

A consultant who has studied freestanding emergency rooms, Dr. Ron Hellstern, said they might work in rural areas if the small emergency rooms arrange a business partnership with a larger regional hospital. A large hospital might subsidize losses at a rural emergency room if the ER generated lucrative medical referrals for the big hospital. But Hellstern said downsizing hospitals into emergency rooms is one of many regulatory and legal tactics that political leaders use to shift around the cost of indigent care.

“It keeps us as a society from actually recognizing the magnitude of our generosity and what its impact on society is,” he said.

Still, officials in Macon County want alternatives. The head of the county’s development authority, Jimmy Davis, helped draft a financing plan for doctors interested in opening a practice that could treat a handful of patients overnight. It remains unclear whether that facility might fit under the new rules.

Having an emergency room helped bring a manufacturer to the job-starved county before the recession. He worries what will happen the next time a potential employer asks whether there’s a nearby emergency room.

“If you’re competing with another community they’ll go down their list, they’ll go to another community,” Davis said.

Posted in National news on Monday, May 19, 2014 9:43 am.

Casa Grande Valley Newspapers Inc. is part of Kramer Publications.   Member of the Arizona Newspapers Association, Newspaper Association of America and National Newspaper Association. © Copyright 2014, trivalleycentral.com , Casa Grande, AZ Casa Grande Valley Newspapers Inc.
