
Local people and supporters of the Grow Heathrow campaigners have blocked the entrance to the squatted old nurseries and are awaiting the arrival of baliffs.

Silvana Lanzetta shows you how to create homemade pasta with no need for a machine. Do try this at home!

Voters in Harrow met the Home Secretary Theresa May this morning as the Conservatives ready themselves for Thursday's elections.

The political heavyweight was joined by Tory council leader Susan Hall and Rayners Lane Conservative candidates Joyce Nickolay, John Nickolay and Lesline Lawson, who discussed Harrow's Neighbourhood Champions scheme, tackling beds in sheds and immigration policy.

Ms Hall said: "We're very grateful to the Home Secretary for coming, and for showing an interest in some of the exciting projects we have in Harrow."

Mrs May's visit comes after the Mayor of London Boris Johnson and Prime Minister David Cameron had an eventful trip to Harrow last week .

Ms Hall added: "She was particularly interested in our decision to have the whole borough heat-mapped, to help identify illegal beds in sheds developments and cannabis factories.

Join us on social media.

For the latest local news straight to your Twitter, Facebook feed or e-mail inbox.

Advertise with getwestlondon.co.uk, Ealing Gazette, Harrow Observer, Uxbridge Gazette, Hounslow Chronicle and Fulham & Hammersmith Chronicle.

getwestlondon.co.uk and the Ealing Gazette, Harrow Observer, Uxbridge Gazette, Hounslow Chronicle and Fulham & Hammersmith Chronicle are part of Trinity Mirror Southern, offering you unique access to our audience across the region online and in print.

We reach over 385,918* unique users a month with dedicated coverage of West London and the surrounding areas.

Over 78% of our visitors**, who view an average of 1,117,727* page impressions every month, are in the desirable ABC1 socio-economic groups.

We are part of Trinity Mirror Southern, offering you unique access to our audience across the region online and in print.

Kim is editorial director for our group of newspapers and websites covering communities from Buckinghamshire to Westminster.

She has held senior roles in newspapers and radio in London, Surrey, Berkshire, Buckinghamshire and Hampshire over many years.

"I want to engage with people whenever I can. Please contact me with any comments about our newspapers and websites or to discuss any issues you think we can help with."
