
President of Nigeria Society of Engineers (NSE), Mr Ademola Olorunfemi, has blamed the limited growth of the manufacturing sector in Nigeria to absence of functional steel industry in the country.

He also said that the problem had continued to stall rapid development of skill and technology required to drive industrial growth.

Olorunfemi, fielding questions from newsmen in Abuja on Friday, said that the development of iron and steel was a key ingredient in the industrialisation and development of infrastructure.

He said that the steel sector in developed economies is the highest employer of labour and it is treated as a strategic because of the positive multiplier effect of its employment.

"Despite the abundance of natural raw materials such as limestone, ore and coal required for the production of primary steel, Nigeria’s iron and steel sector remains comatose, having only a negligible local production.

"It experiences low return on investment and is heavily dependent on importation of steel. It is troubling that the nation continues to moan under the enormous burden of employment but spends N500 billion annually on steel importations," he said.

He, therefore, called of the federal government to urgently formulate an iron and steel development agenda.

The president said there was an urgent need to revamp the moribund inland rolling mills in Jos and Katsina as well as the Delta Steel Company, Aladja.

He said it was also imperative for the government to resolve the problems with the concession issues of Ajaokuta Steel Company and the National Iron Ore Mining Company at Itakpe.

He commended President Goodluck Jonathan’s desire for rapid economic development through the launching of Nigeria Industrial Revolution Plan (NIRP) and Nation Enterprises Development Programme (NEDEP).

Olorunfemi said unbundling and diversifications of NITEL, NNPC, NIGERDOCK and PHCN should be done in the steel sector.

"Having presented the prevalent perspective in our march for steel development, we are now in a most critical period and further delay would, without doubt, benefit only fraudulent few’’, he said.

Please leave your comment below. Your name will appear next to your comment. We'll also keep you updated by email whenever someone else comments on this page. Your comment will appear on this page once it has been approved by a moderator.

Please enter some keywords that you'd like to search for. Your results will be displayed below.

THISDAYLIVE cares about you, help us to report better!
