
Last Modified: Monday, May 19, 2014 at 8:32 p.m.

Brunswick County Commissioners plan to wait for a detailed listing of beach communities' and county schools' needs before deciding how to proceed after a proposed measure to increase the sales tax failed May 6.

If the referendum had passed, it would have allowed commissioners to raise the county's sales tax by a quarter of a cent – from 6.75 cents to 7 cents per dollar.

The increase was slated to raise about $3 million a year to be split between school and beach projects.

"Our focus has been on the budget," said Commissioners' Vice Chairman Scott Phillips after the board's regularly scheduled meeting Tuesday. Commissioners will hold a budget workshop at 9 a.m. Tuesday and hold a public hearing June 6 before the beginning of the fiscal year on July 1.

Commissioners' Chairman Phil Norris said after the meeting he is disappointed the referendum to allow the board to raise the sales tax didn't pass.

"But I think we did the right thing by putting it up to voters," he said.

School district officials have said there are more than $130 million in immediate capital project needs, including two new schools. A bond issue will be required to borrow that much money.

The beach communities have been lobbying the county to provide more money to help with projects such as dredging, beach nourishment and channel widening.

The hope is the schools and beach communities can come up with a cost estimate for their short-term needs, Phillips said.

"I'd like to see the school board give us a list with specific needs," he said. "And I have yet to hear any formal request from the beaches."

Norris said there might be a revival of the sales tax referendum or even a schools bond referendum put before voters. He has no timeline for when that might be.

Commissioners have said they are reluctant to put a bond referendum before voters until sometime before or after a 1999 bond issue is paid off in 2020.

But both commissioners noted the beaches' and schools' needs will continue to be there.

"I am sure this won't be the last you hear about it," Norris said.

In other business, the board voted to change its agenda meeting schedule to 4 p.m. on the Tuesday prior to the commissioners' meeting, which is held on the third Monday of the month.
