
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

CSI St. Tammany Coroner's Office: New coroner opens up facilities for the public to see Dr. Charles Preston of Slidell was sworn in as St. Tammany Parish coroner on Monday, May 20, 2014 and immediately fulfilled one of his campaign promises: making the coroner's office available to the public. Preston invited the crowd to tour the state of the art coroner's facility north of Lacombe. "I want you to see the office that belongs to you, the taxpayers of St. Tammany Parish," said Preston. "I want you to see how this office is and how it functions." Tag along with NOLA.com | The Times Picayune on the tour.

Dr. Charles Preston of Slidell was sworn in as St. Tammany Parish coroner on Monday afternoon and immediately fulfilled one of his campaign promises: making the coroner's office available to the public. After a few brief remarks in the coroner's office media room - packed with family, friends, law enforcement and elected officials - Preston invited the crowd to a reception in his adjacent spacious office he takes over, and staffers later took groups for tours of the facility north of Lacombe.

"We are literally trying to open this office to you," Preston told the crowd after being sworn in by retired 22nd Judicial District Judge Patricia Hedges, his wife Lisa Leonard at his side.

"I want you to see the office that belongs to you, the taxpayers of St. Tammany Parish. I want you to see how this office is and how it functions . . ."

As winner of the May 3 special election , Preston will fill the remainder of the term of former coroner Dr. Peter Galvan, who resigned last October and pleaded guilty to a federal corruption charge. The term runs through March 2016.

During the campaign , Preston, a retired emergency medicine physician, vowed repeatedly to run a transparent office and make it available to the citizens, unlike his predecessor. Galvan persuaded voters to approve a property tax to build the state-of-the-art forensic facility on Louisiana 434 north of Lacombe; he even held a public ground-breaking ceremony.

But the $11 million, 23,000-square-foot office opened without fanfare in the fall of 2012, with no public dedication or open-house event.

Preston received a standing ovation after Hedges performed the swearing and concluded with the words, "Congratulations. You are the coroner."

"I am truly honored and humbled to be in this position today," Preston told the audience. "And I intend to work very hard."

The new coroner said he had but one message for the public: 'This office is not embattled. This coroner's office has been functioning well."

He said he inherited "a fine office" from interim Coroner Dr. Pramod Menon, who was appointed by the Parish Council after Galvan resigned.

Both Preston and Parish Council Chairman Reid Falconer praised Menon for stepping into a difficult situation and stabilizing things at the coroner's office.

"He stepped up when we really needed him," Falconer said. "He has spent countless hours here and really brought the coroner's office back on track . . ."

Falconer also thanked the coroner's office staff that endured nearly a year of turmoil, publicity and state and federal investigations into the wrongdoing by Galvan, who is now serving a two-year prison sentence.

"They hung in there through very very difficult times," Falconer said.

After the formal ceremony - attended by a number of Parish Council members as well as Covington Mayor Mike Cooper, Sheriff Jack Strain, Covington Police Chief Tim Lentz, Slidell Police Chief Randy Smith and Mandeville Police Chief Rick Richard - the guests enjoyed refreshments and food in the cavernous office Galvan had built.

Looking on, Parish Councilman Dennis Sharp said the swearing-in turns the page on the Galvan saga.

"Today we go from concern to hope. Now we are very hopeful."

Sharp said he did not know Preston but was planning on introducing himself before the event concluded.

"He's got a lot of opportunity and potential," Sharp said. "I think he's the kind of guy that can make good on it."

Check here if you do not want to receive additional email offers and information.

Thank you for signing up!

Please check you inbox, and approve the verification email. If you dont' see it, check your spam folder.  To view and subscribe to any of our other newsletters, please click here .

© 2014 NOLA Media Group. All rights reserved ( About Us ).

The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of NOLA Media Group.

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
