
Sixty years after Brown v. Board, the vast and unshrinking achievement gap between white students and their black and Latino peers is a damning indictment of our failure to live up to Justice Warren’s brilliant decision on behalf of a unanimous Court.

This is what America, at its best, is and aspires to be. We’re falling very short.

No, schools can’t replace the family, but the idea, too often just under the surface, that most kids born to the wrong parents and in the wrong neighborhoods just won’t make it is ugly — America at its worst.

New York not only has America’s most segregated schools, according to the Civil Rights Project at UCLA, but the black and Latino children in them trail far behind their white counterparts despite tens of billions in new spending by the Bloomberg administration to try and close that gap. This segregation, which coincides with our neighborhood-by-neighborhood racial divides, as most of us come home from school or work to places where most people look like us, has very real consequences — especially as the gulf between the rich and the rest of us swells.

Nationally, the test-score gap between students who are rich and everyone else has widened dramatically over the past 30 years. And even when poor children excel, they often aren’t in a position to reap the promised benefits. A student with a top SAT score from a low-income family is now less likely to graduate college than a student with a middling score from a fairly wealthy one.

That should send a chill through anyone who believes merit and intelligence count for more than being born in the right family. If you don’t believe the kids of the Upper East and West sides are usually born into brilliance and those in Brownsville into ignorance, it’s plain something is very wrong.

The best charter schools, one of King’s preferred solutions, serve as de facto magnet programs for children of color with motivated parents — but that further drains the student and parent pool remaining in traditional public schools, and it’s doubtful their results could be scaled up citywide.

Mayor de Blasio’s pledge to build more economically diverse neighborhoods might help, as could universal pre-K when that begins in the fall. But those are far from sure things, and kids can’t afford to wait.

The solutions aren’t secret. But because the public schools serve so many roles beyond educating our kids — as an employment hub for New Yorkers, a way to house kids so adults can work and a driver of property values in neighborhoods with highly ranked schools — they’re rarely discussed.

It comes down to a consistently high bar, and real choice. That means opening up schools to all comers, so geography isn’t destiny (our transit infrastructure would be a huge leg up for that, given the political will). Employing dedicated advocates to work on behalf of students whose parents, for whatever reasons, aren’t. A serious, system-wide pedagogy, like the Common Core is intended to facilitate, that helps students who enter school without the knowledge base needed to learn acquire it. More open vocational and advanced tracks — and ensuring kids aren’t pushed into them based on their name or neighborhood. And affluent, white parents living up to their words about diversity.

That may press past what’s politically possible, but judge whatever is proposed on this basis: If it gives kids in “bad” neighborhoods a fair shot. Anything else means political leaders and parents are holding to the unspoken agreements that have left far too many kids behind for far too long.

© Copyright 2014 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.
