
Wolfeboro Police Commissioner Robert Copeland acknowledged using the slur in an email to fellow police commissioners this week.

"I believe I did use the 'N' word in reference to the current occupant of the Whitehouse," Copeland said in the email . "For this, I do not apologize — he meets and exceeds my criteria for such."

In a statement to the Boston Herald , Romney called on Copeland to apologize and resign.

Political leaders and residents of Wolfeboro, a predominantly white town, have also called on Copeland to resign. Wolfeboro Town Manager David Owen called Copeland's comments "appalling" and "reprehensible."

The late Sen. Robert Byrd (D-W.Va.)  loosely said the "N-word" on "Fox News Sunday" in 2001, while discussing the state of race relations in the United States.

In a WPIX interview in 2012, East Haven, Conn. Mayor Joe Maturo (R) was asked what he would do for the Latino community. Maturo replied, "I might have tacos when I go home. I'm not quite sure yet."

In 2011, Texas state Sen. Larry Taylor (R) made a culturally insensitive remark while speaking at a hearing regarding an insurance company paying policy holders in a timely manner.   "Don't nitpick, don't try to Jew them down," Taylor said.

Recordings from Richard Nixon's presidency recovered in 2009 revealed that Nixon thought abortion was necessary "when you have a black and a white ... or a rape."

In 2010, South Carolina state Sen. Jake Knotts (R) referred to President Barack Obama and South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley (R) as "ragheads."  BuzzFeed released footage of the incident in 2012.

In 2006, former Florida state Rep. Ralph Arza (R) was accused by Bruno Barreiro of calling a school superintendent a "negro mierda," meaning "black piece of sh--" in English.  Arza resigned and faced criminal charges after spouting threats and racial slurs such as "n---er" in a drunken voicemail to Barreiro.

While campaigning in 2006, former Sen. George Allen (R-Va.)  referred to an Indian-American as "macaca,"  a slur typically directed to Africans.

While speaking to reporters on a campaign bus in 2000, Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) used the slur "gooks" while condemning the Vietnamese prison guards who tortured him.  "I hate the gooks," McCain said. "I will hate them as long as I live."

While serving as a Missouri senator, Truman referred to waiters who served at the White House as an "army of coons" in a letter addressed to his daughter. In a letter to his wife in 1939, Truman used the phrase "n---er picnic day."

The book "Game Change" by reporters John Heilemann and Mark Halperin, published in 2010, revealed that Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.) made some racial remarks in reference to Obama during his 2008 campaign.  The passage in the book reads:  "[Reid] was wowed by Obama's oratorical gifts and believed that the country was ready to embrace a black presidential candidate, especially one such as Obama -- a 'light-skinned' African American 'with no Negro dialect, unless he wanted to have one,' as he later put it privately."  Reid apologized for the comments in a statement released in January 2010.  "I sincerely apologize for offending any and all Americans, especially African-Americans, for my improper comments," Reid said.

During a campaign stop in Iowa in 2012, former Republican presidential hopeful Rick Santorum made a controversial reference to black people while discussing welfare programs.   CBS News quoted Santorum saying he didn't want to make "black people's lives better by giving them somebody else's money."  "I want to give them the opportunity to go out and earn the money and provide for themselves and their families," Santorum said.  Santorum later claimed that he was "tongue-tied" and did not remember using the word "black," according to CNN.

Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day..

Use this form to alert a HuffPost editor about a factual or typographical error in this story.

Thank you!
