
D-Day would have been effected with far less trouble if, at the time, we had insisted on the same rules that pertain in Haworth’s annual commemoration of the event. The Yorkshire village holds what is now called a “1940s Weekend” – don’t mention the war – and people who wear Nazi uniforms, or the SS insignia, have been told that they are not welcome. This is because the uniforms “give offence”. Previously, people turned up dressed as Nazi soldiers and others as allied soldiers – much as actually happened the first time the event was staged, on the beaches of Normandy in 1944. But some people complained about the uniforms and so signs have gone up all around the town telling them they’re not welcome.

That’s what we should have done, back then. In fact as early as September 1939 we should have informed Hitler that his views gave considerable offence and that he would not be welcome here. Or, indeed, in Poland, France or Belgium. And if he persisted in wearing his uniform and doing that salute thing then we might hope that well known academics, left wing actors, philosophers and the writers of children’s fiction, such as Philip Pullman, would sign a strongly-worded letter to The Guardian expressing their outrage – and that, I’m certain, would have done the job, without all the nastiness that later prevailed.

Knowing the double standards that prevail to this day,  I have no doubt there would be no problems with full Red Army attire.

You should look up the filthy nonsense that was ‘The Sword of Stalingrad’ to see how our so-called leaders can be so blind.

our world now seems to be full of people who spend every waking hour looking for reasons to be offended.  is it because they have nothing else to do?  there are still about 50 million potholes to be filled.  once again, judge a country by its roads.

I’m offended, you’re offended, he’s offended, she’s offended……..

It’s like living in a bad Monty Python sketch that never ends.

We always were.  You don’t get successfully invaded and occupied three times and almost lose a world war once by being good at self-defence.

We could have called Hitler a “bully” as well, just to put him in his place.

That would have done the trick.

Perhaps we should get them to write a snooty note to Putin on behalf of the EU who are appalled that their expansionist marxism has been stymied in the East.

Better still, get the folks of Berwick to compose it, after all, that bastion of the North is still at war with the evil Bear.
