
Share This Story!

Arkansas native Heather L. Harper has been named CEO of Acadia General Hospital, formerly American Legion Hospital in Crowley.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Heather Harper, the new CEO of Acadia General in Crowley, speaks to The Advertiser Monday, May 18, 2014, at LGMC in Lafayette.

Arkansas native Heather L. Harper has been named CEO of Acadia General Hospital, formerly  American Legion Hospital in Crowley.

Harper, 40, will start the job June 16.

Earlier this month, Lafayette General Health System signed a lease to take over management of the Acadia Parish hospital.

LGHS President and CEO David Callecod said a national search culminated with around 50 applicants vying for the post.

The search was rounded down to eight, then four candidates, Callecod said.

Harper is currently the chief operating officer at Southern Tennessee Medical and Emerald Hodgson Hospital in Winchester, Tennessee.

She also worked as CEO of Hillside Hospital in Pulaski, Tennessee, as CEO/administrator at Phillips County Health Systems in Phillipsburg, Kansas, and as assistant administrator/ethics compliance officer at Central Arkansas Hospital in Searcy, Arkansas.

She earned her master’s degree in Health Services Administration from the University of Arkansas at Little Rock, Arkansas, and her bachelor’s degree in Human Services from Henderson State University in Arkadelphia, Arkansas.

This isn’t the first time she’s worked for Callecod, Harper said Monday.

Callecod said Harper has the experience needed to lead Acadia General as it transitions into the health system.

“We want to give the people of Acadia Parish the hospital they deserve. This is a very proud community with such a rich history. I believe we are going to move very quickly to get the hospital to where it’s right along with us in terms of excellence,” Callecod said.

Within the next few weeks, Harper and her husband, Phillip, who she said is an avid duck hunter, will move their 6-year-old twins into their new home in Crowley. She said she’s eager to learn the culture and become part of the community.
