
With less than four months to go before the start of classes, charter school El Paso Leadership Academy is closing a deal on a property just east of Downtown.

The charter, one of four authorized by the state to open fall, will take over the former home of the YWCA at 1918 Texas Avenue, about a mile east of City Hall.

Omar Yanar, the school's superintendent and CEO, said the building will likely undergo several phases of remodeling over the next few years.

"It almost looks like it was built for a school," he said. "We lucked out with this property."

The 45,000-square foot property will have only an initial class of 125 sixth graders this fall but will eventually house 750 students in grades six through 12. Yanar declined to say how much the school is paying for the property because the transaction is not yet complete but it is valued at more than $1.6 million, according to the Central Appraisal District.

El Paso Leadership Academy's charter was authorized by TEA Commissioner Michael L. Williams in September and confirmed by the State Board of Education two months later. It was part of the first class of four charter schools approved under a new rules that place the approval process in the hands of the education commissioner.

Finding a physical home was perhaps the most critical task for El Paso Leadership Academy before the first day of classes but Yanar is still pressing for financial support from the community even as the school interviews teachers and markets itself to families of potential students.

The charter has raised about $3.3 million in external funding so far, including a $800,000 federal charter startup grant.

"The challenge is none of it can go for brick and mortar (costs)," Yanar said.

The school is hopeful it will receive more support financially from the local community. So far, the Hunt Foundation started of Hunt Companies Chairman and CEO Woody Hunt has made a $75,000 contribution. Yanar said El Pasoans need to contribute another $225,000 to meet the goal of a $300,000 matching grant.

The matching grant is from Raza Development Fund. They're matching $300,000 raised from the community with a $100,000 contribution.

Charter schools do not receive funding from local property taxes or state facilities allotments and the school won't start drawing state revenues until after the start of the semester.

Yanar said the school has received applications "into the hundreds" for only five sixth grade teaching spots. Interest has come from applicants as far away as Laredo, San Antonio and Denver as well teachers currently employed at local school districts.

El Paso Leadership Academy is just beginning its heaviest marketing, meanwhile, to families of potential students. Its 125 student slots will be filled through a lottery process this summer. Families will have until June 18 to submit an enrollment packet equivalent to an application and students will be chosen randomly from those submitted.

Yanar plans advertising through traditional media as well as outreach through local community organizations.

"We're going to be doing a lot of grassroots campaigning," he said.

The charter will qualify as a Title I school, he said, with a majority of low-income students. As he's made his pitch to potential supporters in El Paso, Yanar said he has had to clear up some misconceptions about charters — that they mostly serve high achievers, or exclude low-income and minority students.

David Dunn, the president of the Texas Charter School Association, said he doesn't expect it will be difficult for El Paso Leadership Academy to recruit students in the area in part because of the limited number of charters operating locally.

"Not every charter has to have a lottery to get started. Some of them don't reach capacity for a few months or even for a year or two (after opening)," he said. "The lottery process itself is going to vary too."

Dunn noted that new charter schools are also operating under a more constricted schedule than previous years, in which charters found out their official status a year in advance of classes starting. To assist with the launch period, the association in recent years has worked to create networks of newly launched charter schools to help share solutions to initial challenges.

Andrew Kreighbaum may be reached at 546-6127.
