
MAVERICK MP Chris Davis has been handed his last political lifeline by his LNP colleagues after apologising to the party room for speaking out of turn.

Deputy Premier Jeff Seeney addressed the media after the party room meeting to announce Dr Davis would remain in the LNP government.

He said the events of the past few weeks resulted in Dr Davis’s axing as Assistant Health Minister, had damaged the party.

But he said MPs had accepted Dr Davis’ apology.

“We’ve had a long discussion about the need for unity in politics, and Dr Davis has apologised to the party room and accepted those are the processes within he must work,” Mr Seeney said.

Earlier, Dr Davis revealed he had been encouraged by members of his electorate to “go independent” and quit the LNP following his axing as Assistant Health Minister.

Dr Davis said he had been overwhelmed by the support from his Stafford constituents since being terminated by the Premier last Tuesday night, and speaking out again in a television interview Friday night.

“Going independent is something that a lot of people in my electorate want me to do,” said Dr Davis today.

Dr Davis was asked to comment on scathing remarks by Ministers heading into Cabinet this morning.

Housing Minister Tim Mander said Dr Davis should start airing his concerns within the party room rather than in public.

“What Chris has to realise is that if you continue to cry wolf you will eventually lose credibility,” he said.

“It’s no good roaring like a lion in public and being meek as a mouse in the party room.

Water Minister Mark McArdle said Dr Davis had not raised his concerns about the political donation rule changes with him and urged him to rethink his position within the LNP.

“It’s a matter for him now to take the step that he feels most appropriate,” Mr McArdle said.

Dr Davis said it was obvious some members of the LNP were not happy with him, but neither was he.

“If I thought the prognosis was hopeless I would act accordingly,” he said.

He ruled out quitting politics and forcing a by-election in Stafford which could embarrass the government in the same way as the Redcliffe by-election result did.

“That’s not what my electorate wants,” Dr Davis said.

Dr Davis’s future is expected to be discussed at the LNP’s Party Room meeting this afternoon.

News.com.au's Privacy Policy includes important information about our collection, use and disclosure of your personal information (including to provide you with targeted content and advertising based on your online activities). It explains that if you do not provide us with information we have requested from you, we may not be able to provide you with the goods and services you require. It also explains how you can access or seek correction of your personal information, how you can complain about a breach of the Australian Privacy Principles and how we will deal with a complaint of that nature.
