
BHOPAL: Taps went dry in nearly half of Bhopal on Sunday when the morning water supply was cut off in several areas of Old and New city. This is the second time in a month that water supply from the Kolar pipeline has been snapped. Water crisis is likely to continue on Monday.

Large number of residents of Arera Colony, Nehru Nagar, Char Imli, Gulmohar and other parts of the city had a tough time on Sunday due to negligence of the water works department of  Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC) to repair a 23-year-old rusted Kolar pipeline.

Few days ago, water could not be supplied to various parts of the city following power disruption in one of feeder lines. Also, repair work at pumps of the Narmada water distribution scheme had affected BHEL areas.

Old and new Bhopal residents on Sunday were left gasping for water and the BMC also didn't provide any alternative arrangements for their water woes.

However, BMC claimed, tankers from the Karbala were deployed plant to the affected areas.

Many residents complained the pumping station was out of order for last many days and they could not call water tankers.

Talking to Times of India,  executive engineer (EE) and in charge of the Kolar water supply department,  Avinash Shrivastava said, "The leaks developed 4-5 days ago. There are three leaks, one major and two minor. One minor leak was detected in the pipeline near Kajlikheda village and another similar leak was in supply line near the dam."

When asked how much water was wasted because of leak, he said, "Not much water has been wasted. We would plug all eakages by Sunday evening after which repair works will be dried and three pumps would be switched on gradually for pumping the water. By Monday morning, water will reach Bhopal."

Shrvastava said pumping from Kolar filtration plant will start anytime during the night. Kolar supply system was closed on Saturday and the pipeline de-watered with help of pumps.

BMC officials said it takes 10-12 hours for water to reach Chuna Bhatti from the Kolar Filtration Plant.

It is likely Kolar water will reach most of the areas by late Monday evening. But, normal water supply in all areas connected to Kolar will start on Tuesday morning.

Hence, large parts of the city, including E1 to E5 of Arera Colony, Trilanga, E-7 Extension, Janata Quarters and Nishatpura would be affected and face water crisis on May 19.
