
Share This Story!

Carlton Burke will be doing a presentation at The Asheville Wild Birds Unlimited store in Gerber Village for a special program on owls at 3 p.m. May 25.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Owls are a hoot.

Sorry, I had to. I am powerless in the face of a pun.

Bad jokes aside, my head spins around when I hear mention of an owl (OK, that was another bad owl joke). Especially after a snowy owl made local headlines in December.

Thousands of bird watchers, cute animal lovers and 'Harry Potter' fans -- the boy wizard in the popular series has a snowy owl named Hedwig -- flocked to the story of the hurt bird got of its migration course, and ended up on a Transylvania County farm.

The Citizen-Times reported in March that the male bird may end up a permanent Western North Carolina resident.

The snowy owl that migrated far afield late last year and ended up on a Transylvania County farm might just become a permanent resident of Western North Carolina.

Carlton Burke, a local wildlife rehabilitation specialist, took him under his wing, and brought it from near death to a healthier body weight. Unfortunately, this beautiful bird also developed a circulatory problem in three of its eight talons.

In addition to being a wildlife guru, Burke is a compelling presenter -- I've seen him many times at the WNC Nature Center for Groundhog Day festivities.

He will be doing a presentation at The Asheville Wild Birds Unlimited store in Gerber Village for a special program on owls at 3 p.m. May 25.

This free program will feature a special appearance by some of Carlton's "amazing owl ambassadors," according to the press release.

Carlton is a local naturalist and educator who resides in Mills River where he operates Carolina Mountain Naturalists, an education service which offers live wildlife and nature programs to various groups and organizations.

Owls are very mysterious birds of prey seldom seen due to their elusive and nocturnal lifestyle. In this special program, Carlton will share information about the fascinating lives of these unusual birds and their unique adaptations for life in the nighttime world.

He is also a NC state and federally licensed wildlife rehabilitator. He was on staff as the Curator of Exhibits at the Western NC Nature Center in Asheville for more than 25 years and also teaches classes for the Blue Ridge Naturalist Certification program at the NC Arboretum in Bent Creek.

For more, visit www.asheville.wbu.com.
