
YEREVAN, MAY 19, ARMENPRESS. The European Union fully supports the statement of the OSCE Minsk Group Co-Chairs made on May 12 on the occasion of the 20th anniversary of the ceasefire signed in 1994. This is noted in the statement of the European Union on the occasion of the 20th anniversary of ceasefire in NKR contact line. “As the Co-Chairs underscore this agreement put an end to the open war, but did not settle the conflict. And the populations first of all feel the absence of its final settlement. The European Union continues to be deeply concerned about the incidents on the contact line and the cases of a large number of deaths.

We condemn the use of force and urge the sides to refrain from all the possible actions causing tension. On that purpose we urge the sides to strictly keep the ceasefire to stop the invasions in the two directions in the contact line and to keep restraint both on the battlefield and in the public statements. The European Union calls on the sides to take additional means to preserve ceasefire and strengthen peace process,” the statement says as reported by Armenpress.

On August 25, the NKR President Bako Sahakyan convoked a meeting of the Security Council.

Human Rights Defender (Ombudsman) of the Republic of Armenia Karen Andreasyan has sent  a letter to the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Navi Pillay on the case of the  Armenian citizen Karen Petrosyan taken captive in Azerbaijan and killed on the following day.

Russian Foreign Ministry official representative Alexander Lukashevich commented in response  to inquiry on Karen Petrosytan's death in Azerbaijani captivity.

The copyright for information published on this web site is owned exclusively by Armenpress news agency.  All information materials published on this website are intended solely for personal use.

For full or partial reproduction of any material in other media it is required to acquire written permission from Armenpress news agency. Those, who have committed copyright violations, will be prosecuted accordingly.

Website administration is not responsible neither for opinions expressed on the website, nor for the content of the advertisements and of the external links.
