
Construction of the Zoo Interchange has been underway as the state has negotiated for the pending settlement.

The settlement will be finalized today, said Kimberlee Wright , executive director of Midwest Environmental Advocates. The organization and the American Civil Liberties Union of Wisconsin sued the state on behalf of Milwaukee Inner-City Congregations Allied for Hope and the Black Health Coalition of Wisconsin.

The lawsuit argues that the plan to expand the Zoo Interchange without improving transit violates federal planning standards, and will contribute to economic and racial segregation in the region. The parties have been negotiating for a settlement for about a year after federal Judge Lynn Adelman wrote that the lawsuit against the site was likely to succeed .

The settlement would result in the Wisconsin Department of Transportation paying for new Milwaukee County bus routes to jobs centers, according to a May 16 county report. Under the deal, the DOT would give the county $2,875,000 during the Zoo Interchange project for new bus routes. The state also would spend $500,000 a year from 2014 to 2018 to market the routes.

The specific routes are under negotiation. One would run from Milwaukee’s central city to the Park Place Business Park on the city’s far northwest side and to the Menomonee Falls industrial park. That route would start service on Aug. 24, with routes timed along with work shift start and ending times.

Wisconsin DOT officials were not immediately available for comment.

Reporter Sean Ryan covers commercial and residential real estate for the Milwaukee Business Journal and through the Real Estate Roundup blog on the website. He also covers construction, highways and public transit.

If you are commenting using a Facebook account, your profile information may be displayed with your comment depending on your privacy settings. By leaving the 'Post to Facebook' box selected, your comment will be published to your Facebook profile in addition to the space below.
