
WASHINGTON - President Obama has tapped San Antonio Mayor Julian Castro to lead the Department of Housing and Urban Development, a  reshuffling that would add a Hispanic cabinet member to an administration that has faced criticism for not appointing more minorities to top jobs.

Castro, who drew national attention when he gave the keynote address at the 2012 Democratic National Convention, would take the spot now held by Shaun Donovan, who is set to become the next director of the Office of Management and Budget, according to Democratic officials familiar with the proposed moves. The White House is expected to announce the nominations late this week.

Donovan has led the nation's top housing agency since the start of the Obama administration and has been rumored for years to be up for consideration for other posts. The current OMB director, Sylvia Mathews Burwell, has been nominated to head Health and Human Services.

Castro, 39, is serving his third two-year term as mayor of the nation's seventh-largest city. He and his twin brother, Joaquin, a first-term congressman, are rising stars in the Democratic Party with a family story that resonates far beyond their home state.

The congressman is seen as a potential challenger to Sen. Ted Cruz (R., Texas), in 2018 and the mayor has been considered a potential vice presidential nominee in 2016, especially if Hillary Rodham Clinton wins the Democratic nomination for president.

The brothers grew up with their mother and their grandmother, who left her home in Mexico as an orphaned girl to live with relatives in Texas.Castro has been undergoing vetting by the FBI, according to two government officials who were not authorized to discuss the process publicly. He had previously rejected offers from Obama to join his cabinet but was approached again a few weeks ago about taking the HUD job.

White House spokesman Eric Schultz said Saturday that there was no personnel announcement "at this time."

The addition of Castro would boost to three the number of Hispanics, the nation's fastest-growing voter bloc, in Obama's cabinet. The White House has faced criticism in recent years for not appointing more minorities, especially Hispanics, to senior government jobs, given the strong support Latinos provided for Obama in 2008 and 2012. In Obama's second term he has tapped Thomas Perez to serve as labor secretary and Maria Contreras-Sweet to lead the Small Business Administration, which Obama has classified as a cabinet-level agency.

"This is an important step for Julian," Henry Cisneros, a HUD secretary under President Bill Clinton and a former mayor of San Antonio, told the Associated Press. "If indeed he has the capability to be what we all think he can be," Cisneros said, he can prove it by performing well at the helm of the federal housing agency.

Get the latest Philly.com Daily Headlines newsletter delivered to your email. Sign up now!
