
A website which named Moss Side as one of the 20 worst places in the world has been taken down following a furious reaction from Mancunians.

Holiday company Buy A Gift set up the ‘Hate Breaks’ page as a list of places to avoid when you were visiting countries around the world - but has now admitted it was ‘in bad taste’.

The website also incorrectly stated that ‘notorious’ Man City were still based there and used fake reviews saying Moss Side ‘really deserved its reputation’.

A marketing executive from Buy A Gift had originally contacted the Manchester Evening News asking if the paper would be interested in running a story on the Hate Breaks website.

But after a furious reaction from Moss Side residents was reflected in an MEN story, the company first changed the website, then removed it completely.

In a statement, a spokesman for Buy A Gift said: “We recently wrote and published a spoof article called Hate Breaks.

“The piece was intended to be a light-hearted take on some of the more controversial locations for a romantic break.

“This article was meant to be taken as a joke but we realise now that the article was in bad taste.

Residents had described the website as ‘bad taste’ and ‘out dated’ after years of working to change perceptions of Moss Side.

And along with councillors representing Moss Side, the area’s MP Lucy Powell had written to Buy A Gift complaining about the website - and inviting them to Manchester to see Moss Side for themselves.

She said: “Not only was this advertisement completely offensive but it also presented an image of moss side that I reject and one that nobody who lives there would recognise.

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

The Manchester Evening News and www.manchestereveningnews.co.uk conform to the newspaper industry's voluntary Code of Practice, administered by the Press Complaints Commission.

If you feel we have made an error in a report, or have fallen below our usual high standards, please write in the first instance to: Rob Irvine, editor, Manchester Evening News, Mitchell Henry House, Hollinwood Avenue, Chadderton, Oldham OL9 8EP.

M.E.N. Media is one of the north west’s largest media providers and reaches 7 out of 10 people in Greater Manchester every week.

Online, manchestereveningnews.co.uk welcomes 2.4million unique users who experience12.4million page views every month.

Our newspapers include the flagship Manchester Evening News - Britain's largest circulating regional daily with up to 130,485 copies - as well as 20 local weekly titles across Greater Manchester, Cheshire and Lancashire.

Free morning newspaper, The Metro, published every weekday, is also part of our portfolio, delivering more than 200,000 readers in Greater Manchester.

Greater Manchester Business Week is the region’s number one provider of business news andfeatures, targeting a bespoke business audience with 12,687 copies every Thursday.

Every month, M.E.N. Media’s print products reach 2.2 million adults, spanning from Accrington in the north to Macclesfield in the south.

Rob Irvine was appointed editor-in-chief of MEN Media and Trinity Mirror Huddersfield in April 2012.

Rob joined Trinity Mirror in 2001 and was editor of the Daily Post North Wales for seven years. He was also publishing director for Trinity Mirror North Wales and Cheshire.

He grew up in Stockport, Greater Manchester and has worked in the local newspaper industry for 27 years.
