
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

Some forecasters predict a show of more than 200 meteors an hour, a display that could rival the annual August Perseids shower or the winter Leonids that have been occurring for hundreds or even thousands of years.

But, because it's a new-comer to our night time viewing, no one really knows what to expect. Although we've never seen it before, the shower of Camelopardalids' cosmic rock and ice debris was spewed out by comet 209P/LINEAR in the 1800s.

Not discovered until 2004, Comet 209P/LINEAR is a dim one that dips inside Earth's orbit once every five years as it makes its loop around the sun. The Lincoln Near-Earth Asteroid Research project, including NASA, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Lincoln Laboratory, and the US Air Force are credited with the find.

Two years ago meteor experts predicted the debris will cross Earth's orbit this weekend, burning up and creating an impressive show of shooting stars. The Camelopardalids takes its tongue-twister of a name from the constellation from where it will appear to radiate. That point is known as the radiant. In this case the radiant is the Camelopardalis, or the giraffe, constellation.

Camelopardalis is a dim, but circumpolar constellation, which means instead of rising from east to west across the night sky, it goes around Polaris, the North Star, so like most newborns, it's up all night.

It's also a sure bet to find because it will be visible near the Big Dipper and Little Dipper, two easily recognizable constellations.

One of the less certain things, is how bright the show will be. Because no one knows how active the comet was in the 1800s, it could be impressive or a complete dud. The show could also start earlier in the night, allowing sky watchers some opportunity for sleep.

One astronomer advised going out to look every hour after dark to not miss it, if the show arrives early. In the case of a dud, you may as well stay up a little longer to see the crescent moon and Venus converging for a tight conjunction the next morning, May 25.

In that case, look for them rising together just ahead of the sun in the eastern sky at dawn. Either way, it will be a nice way to start the day, meteors or not, one scientist said.

Aside from clouds, a meteor watcher's worst enemy is a bright moon, which can wash out all but the brightest meteors. On the night of May 23 the moon is not present, and, it doesn't rise until 3:41 a.m. May 24. Then it will be a waning crescent, so it should not affect the meteor shower.

I note these dates, because I often see meteors in the days leading up to the main event. That way, even if it's cloudy on the advertised date, I don't feel totally cheated.

Attend an exceptional art opening 4-7 p.m. May 22 at the Lee Road library sponsored by the Exceptional Children's Advisory Group. The show will be on display through May 31. Contact heightslibrary.org .

Start your June with a little romance. The City of Shaker Heights presents The Shaker Symphony Orchestra, conducted by Allan Hinkle 3 p.m. June 1 at the Stephanie Tubbs Jones Community Building, 3450 Lee Road.

The orchestra will accompany Robert Kennat in the Violin Romance in G by Ludwig von Beethoven followed by Franz Schubert's Unfinished Symphony no. 8 and Franz Joseph Haydn's "Oxford" Symphony No. 92.

Kennat is a teacher and professional violinist with the Mansfield Symphony, principal violinist with the Shaker Symphony and Tri-C Orchestra, and co-principal violinist with the Parma Symphony.

Tickets are $10 for adults and $6 students and seniors. Purchase at the STJ Community Building or call 216-491-1360 between 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. on weekdays.

They took their best shots. That is, the winners of the Shaker Heights Landmark Commission's second annual Preservation Month photo contest. Eighty-one entries were received, nearly double the entries received in 2013. Thirty different photographers submitted photos.

Commission members considered a kaleidoscope of images from all over the city. Each photo captured a unique element within Shaker Heights, either from the built or natural environment, contributing to the visual richness of the community, according to Ann Klavora, principal planner for the city.

New this year was the People's Choice winner, Leaves on the Driveway by Julia Felderman. It was selected from a field of 20 options in an online survey garnering 500 votes.

Klavora said the commission noted that the winning Street Scene photo—Make Room for Trees, by Karoline Pimplikar—was "so Shaker" and especially representative of the community.

The Landmark Commission selected a first place winner and runner-up in each of five categories. Rich Minkowetz took first place for homes and buildings with his Lomond Entrance. The runner-up in that category was Austin McGuan with Lynnfield Rapid Station.

For architectural elements, Donna Mayer won first place with her Alaska Niece Window and Ken Goldberg was the runner-up with his Plymouth Church. Madeline Hertz took first place in the Sundry category with her On Top of the World photo and Billy Seguin was runner-up with Raider Nation.

In the landscape and nature category Daniel Medalie's Shaker Dawn at Southerly Park won first place with Marc Schwarzbaugh taking the runner-up prize for his Canoe Lake and Bridge. The runner up in the street scenes category was Bob Fox's Helping Clean Up.

Winning photos can be viewed at shakeronline.com and will be published in a future issue of Shaker Life magazine. All contest entries can be viewed by joining the Shaker Heights Landmark Commission Flickr group at flickr.com/groups/shlc .

Check here if you do not want to receive additional email offers and information.

We look forward to sharing with you some of the great content found on cleveland.com.  To view and subscribe to any of our other newsletters, please click here .

cleveland.com is powered by Plain Dealer Publishing Co. and Northeast Ohio Media Group. All rights reserved ( About Us ).

The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Northeast Ohio Media Group LLC.

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
