
That's "Doctor Marty Walsh," to you.

According to the Institute , Walsh earned his congratulatory accolade because of "his commitment to civic responsibility, access to quality education for Boston youth and promotion of workforce development."

Instead of spewing the usual clichés so prevalent during these types of events, Walsh focused much of his address about his own life, using it as an example for how the Institute's Class of 2014 may or may not want to shape their futures.

The mayor touched upon a number of life experiences that he's made mention of during his time blazing the campaign trail for City Hall and subsequently as Boston's chief executive. He spoke of his early bout with cancer and his childhood as the son of immigrant parents. He spoke of his struggle with academics — not having been particularly invested in them but recognizing the necessity of a progressive education.

But he also spoke of his struggle with alcoholism. After securing a construction job but leading a directionless life, Mayor Walsh developed a drinking problem before turning the age of 30. He found himself in detox feeling utterly defeated but was inspired by those who helped him through recovery.

He found solace serving his community, and he found his name on the ballot for state representative.

We know how his career has blossomed since taking up his post on Beacon Hill on behalf of his beloved Dorchester neighborhood. The point he was trying to convey to the eager young minds of Benjamin Franklin Institute of Technology's graduating class is that sometimes our lives don't pan out the way we expect them to. Sometimes, we have to trudge through all the crap before we can reap all the rewards life has to offer.

You can check out Mayor Walsh's transcript below. Keep in mind, the following document is merely an outline. BostInno reached out to the Mayor's Press Office who informed us "Mayor Walsh used this as an outline and truly spoke from his heart at the commencement. This contains a basic theme and structure, but should not be quoted as what he said during the event."
