
A few months after getting bounced by Las Vegas in a battle for professional rodeo's biggest event, Osceola County has won something of a runner-up trophy.

County commissioners on Monday approved a deal making the Silver Spurs Arena home to the Ram National Circuit Finals Rodeo — the Professional Rodeo Cowboys Association's second-biggest annual event.

The county will pay about $1.1 million a year in tourist tax money for the PRCA to hold the event at Osceola Heritage Park, site of the arena, for a 10-year period starting in March of 2015. The 8,500-seat arena is between Kissimmee and St. Cloud on U.S. Highway 192 and close to an exit off Florida's Turnpike.

The four-day event has been held outside Oklahoma City for the past few years.

County Manager Don Fisher said the county would immediately recoup some of its investment through concession, ticket and merchandise sales. He said he expected the deal will "pay for itself and more" by about the third year.

Monday's agreement came out of a failed bid by the county earlier this year to bring the organization's principal event to Osceola from Las Vegas.

In January, the PRCA board decided to keep the Wrangler National Finals Rodeo, also known as the "Super Bowl of Rodeo," in Vegas rather than relocate it to a new, 24,000-seat arena to be built as part of a planned mega-resort near the Gaylord Palms hotel.

Osceola had offered $16 million annually for the National Finals Rodeo's purse and administrative costs, an offer that was matched by Las Vegas.

But Karl Stressman, PRCA commissioner, said the relationships forged during those negotiations led the organization back to Kissimmee. In addition, Stressman said, the location should help efforts to broaden pro rodeo's fan base.

"We see the East Coast as a phenomenal opportunity for growth for us," he said. "We want worldwide fans."

Stressman said the rodeo hopes to win fans from Osceola's large Hispanic population, and international visitors from countries such as Brazil and the U.K. The circuit has a handful of Brazilian competitors, he added.

The rodeo events to be held as part of the Ram event include bareback riding, saddle bronc riding, barrel racing, steer wrestling and bull riding.

While the agreement is to hold the event at Silver Spurs, the door remains open to move it to the 24,000-seat arena that is planned as part of the American Music Resort, if and when that venue is built.

Osceola already has a homegrown, twice-a-year event called the Silver Spurs Rodeo that takes place at Osceola Heritage Park and began in the 1940s. But the county's rodeo roots go back even further, as ranchers have worked land in the county since the late 1800s.

County Commission Chairman Fred Hawkins Jr. said he expects the county to land ancillary events such as a sponsors conference as well.

"It really is a match made in heaven," he said.
