
before she leaves she comes upon an old boozer (jones) perched on a horse who has been strung up with a noose for squatting another man's house. she agrees to cut him free if he'll accompany her on the dangerous journey to iowa. loaded into the wagon are the three women who had gone west with their new husbands with the promise of prosperity and adventure but once settled had their sanity stolen by tragedy deprivation and violence. jones said the myths of american life were a driving issue behind the film which he also co-wrote including the white supremacy that fuelled the massacre of the native population. 'i won't try to hide the fact that a consideration of american imperialism on the west side of the mississippi... was the underlying theme' he said. he said women had paid a high price as part of that history which he described as 'the origin of the female condition today'.

'i don't think there's a woman in this room who's never felt objectified or trivialised because of her gender. there's a reason for that there's a history of that and i think that's an interesting thing' he said. 'the journey in this movie is the inverse of what you usually see in a movie that has wagons and horses in it. the subject matter is women insane women and so-called heroic men.' reprising his irascible screen character jones often bristled at reporters' questions snapping at one point 'i don't know what 'genre' means' when asked about his unconventional take on the western. swank who picked up academy awards for her roles in 'boys don't cry' and 'million dollar baby' said she was eager to play another 'intense strong' woman. this is a film about 'ultimately how much a person can take' she said.

meanwhile tanks rolled down the beachfront in cannes on sunday as sylvester stallone led an invasion of action stars 'with arthritis' to publicise 'the expendables 3'. stallone arnold schwarzenegger and mel gibson waved at fans from three tanks that drove slowly down the main boulevard in the french riviera town where the international film festival is in its fifth day. the film which is not in competition also features harrison ford antonio banderas jason statham dolph lundgren and wesley snipes and the cast was asked by reporters to describe just what makes a good action star. 'you have to be incredibly intelligent handsome sexy good teeth high iq a lot of hair...' stallone joked. 'what makes the audience like a person it's not a matter of muscles' he told a press conference. 'there's something that's almost intangible and i don't know what it is but i know it's very rare because there have only been about 15 action heroes real serious ones in history.'

stallone one of the film's writers said it took three movies to get the 'expendables' formula just right judging the first as being too violent and the second too soft. 'i believe we finally got it right in the third one ? kind of like marriage.' stallone acknowledged that he and the rest of the cast belonged to a 'different generation' but still had the energy and drive to make an exciting contemporary film. 'we're all like very adult children' stallone said. 'we are children with arthritis. we are young forever.' the third instalment of the franchise sees barney ross (stallone) bringing in new blood to his team of mercenaries to take on conrad stonebanks (gibson) a former comrade now seeking to eradicate the group.
