
In DeAndré Upshaw's group of friends, he was the only one denied at Kung Fu Saloon. He wore blue Converse sneakers, center left. His female friend, center right, was also wearing Converse shoes and was admitted in.

Dallas resident DeAndré Upshaw launched a social media campaign against Kung Fu Saloon , a popular Uptown Dallas bar with the self-imposed tagline “kickin’ butt and takin’ shots.” Upshaw says the bouncer refused him entry on Sunday because he was wearing Converse high-top shoes, but Upshaw believes he wasn’t let in because he’s black.

Upshaw believes the bouncers change the dress code as they wish, giving them the ability to turn people away inconsistently. Kung Fu’s dress code is not posted anywhere, confirms spokeswoman Paula Biehler, though in a statement released Tuesday afternoon, the bar has now established clear dress code rules. See them below.

Upshaw says eight other black people were denied access on Sunday night for varying dress code reasons.

Managers at the bar did not return repeated requests for comment. The spokeswoman declined to identify the bouncer and would not give a time frame for when Kung Fu will decide if it should take disciplinary action.

Upshaw and his friends went to “six or seven different bars” near Kung Fu after being turned away. Upshaw was not denied access at the other bars, he says.

Bouncers at Kung Fu Saloons in Austin and Houston have been accused of turning away minorities. In August 2013, one man told the Fox station in Austin he was refused entry because he looked “ghetto.” Another black man says he was kept out of Kung Fu in Houston because of the sneakers he was wearing .

"As previously acknowledged, management of Kung Fu Saloon was made aware of a claim that an employee of the company turned away a customer trying to gain entrance to the bar that was wearing unacceptable attire; of which the customer claims was racially motivated.

"Upon learning of the situation, the manager on duty immediately established contact with the customer, and invited them back in order to hear what had happened in an effort to remedy the situation. The customer refused to return, stated the previously mentioned claims, and the incident was unable to be resolved.

"As many of those that have visited us in the past will attest, Kung Fu Saloon is home to a diverse crowd of patrons of all races, ethnicities, genders, and religions. This is a culture that we value, and is something we have taken great pride in since creating the concept, and it is worth restating that it is not the policy of Kung Fu Saloon to deny any customer entry based upon race, ethnicity, gender, religion, or any other status.

"Management has determined that the dress code has caused misunderstanding, and therefore may be found below. We encourage you to join us to see for yourself how diverse our crowd is, and thank you for your patronage.

body parts or undergarments.

News, reviews, nuggets and tidbits from the world of pop culture, including movies, music, TV, local and national celebrities.
