
Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own.

I am currently a vice president at Eastwick Communications (I do not write about my clients and will disclose any potential conflicts of interest) and have been a technology writer for nearly two decades. I started at CRN covering distributors and Apple and then moved to CNET, where I  helped manage the coverage for hardware, green tech, software and science for nearly 11 years. (I got tased for a story once too: it's like being dunked in boiling oil.). Between 2008 and 2011 I was a senior analyst and editor in chief of Greentech Media. I've spoken in Europe, Asia and the U.S. on green technology and hardware, appeared on 60 Minutes, represented multinational corporations as a lawyer in the late 80s and written special reports on the tech industries in Israel, the Middle East, China, India and Europe.  One summer, I also gave out coupons for free nickels at a casino in Reno.

Let there be indoor light.

That, in a nutshell, is the gigantic promise that new Indian Prime Minister Narenda Modi has made to the country: by 2019, he wants every home in India to have at least one light bulb and have that the light bulb be powered by clean solar energy.

It’s a political promise with a lot of appeal and a massive opportunity for solar and LED providers. India is starved for power. An estimated 300 million plus people aren’t connected to the grid in India and demand for power is anticipated to double to 2020, according to various estimates. An estimated 27% of the country’s power gets lost through theft and technical failure, while blackouts reduce the country’s GDP by 1.5% annually, according to the World Bank . A blackout in 2012 plunged 700 million into darkness for two days.

To top it off, power in India isn’t cheap. A substantial portion of the power in rural areas comes from diesel generators.

Lighting likewise is also in short supply. An oft-cited study from Paul Waide at the International Energy Agency noted that an average North American consumes 101 megalumen-hours of electric light each year while the average inhabitant of India uses only 3 megalumen-hours . In rural communities, lighting often comes from dirty, dangerous oil lamps.

While Modi specifically did not say an LED bulb in every house, it’s hard to imagine solid state lighting not playing a leading role. LEDs consume far less power than standard lights and can be coupled with networking to save even more power: some companies have reported savings of over 90% in industrial settings . Worldwide, lighting consumes more power than is provided by nuclear plants.

Modi has also experienced the appeal of solar before. As the Chief Minister of Gujarat, he was instrumental in developing a solar program that has already put 900 MW of solar capacity in the ground.

India is a challenging country for many businesses. The bureaucracy is legendary for inefficiency and a trade dispute is already brewing over solar panel imports. Land disputes for solar farms no doubt are on the horizon.

Still, it’s hard to imagine politicians not understanding the appeal of bringing power to the people: every time they turn on the lights voters will be reminded of the BJP. I once visited a village school outside of Mumbai that had built a computer lab with old car batteries, a small solar array and a diesel generator: it was a point of pride. Several of India’s conglomerates like Tata have also invested in renewables. Relieving grid congestion would also help IT companies by stabilizing the grid.
