
A Walterboro man has been charged with criminal sexual conduct. According to a 16-year-old victim, back in July, 55-year-old David Alan Evans forced the teen to engage in a sex act.

Officials with the Charleston County Coroner's Office says a body that was found at a boat landing in Mount Pleasant was a man who jumped from the Arthur Ravenel Bridge.

An Indiana mother has started an awareness group after her daughter's unfortunate death while drinking with friends.

The 9-year-old boy who touched the hearts of so many in the Midlands has passed away.

ORANGEBURG COUNTY, SC (WCSC) - Investigators in Orangeburg County say they have charged a Columbia man in connection to an armed robbery at a T-Mobile store where three people were assaulted.

The Orangeburg County Sheriff's Office has charged 54-year-old Archie More Hardin with three counts of kidnapping, armed robbery, assault and battery of a high and aggravated nature and possession of a weapon during a violent crime.

The armed robbery happened at the T-Mobile store on 1638 St. Matthews Rd on Friday.

An incident report states that three people in the store were assaulted and duct taped during the incident.

Orangeburg Magistrate Donald West denied bond for the Hardin on all six warrants during a bond hearing on Sunday.

Copyright 2014 WCSC. All rights reserved.

Longtime neighbors of Johnson Hagood Stadium are convinced Friday night's gun incident was out of the ordinary, and they say safety isn't a concern at all.

A Goose Creek man pleaded guilty to 10 counts of animal cruelty on Monday in connection to a 2013 incident where 45 dogs in poor condition and the remains of 200 dogs were found at a home.

The College of Charleston has received initial approval toward efforts to offer doctoral degrees that align with area businesses' needs.

Authorities say they are searching for two suspects who were caught on surveillance cameras stealing a shelf from a Mount Pleasant restaurant.

A Pennsylvania company that makes parts for power generation equipment is opening a new plant in Summerville, investing almost $8 million and creating 45 jobs.

The director of the annual Sertoma football classic said Monday the board may consider using metal detectors next year after a gun was sneaked into Johnson Hagood Stadium.

All content © Copyright 2000 - 2014 Worldnow and WCSC. All Rights Reserved.
