
The newly passed Connecticut budget contains a substantial funding boost for one government function that was in legitimate need of support: day care inspections.

The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services recently issued a revealing report that details numerous issues on how Connecticut monitors day care centers. HHS officials recommend yearly, unannounced inspections; this state conducts them biannually. The federal organization calls for inspectors to each work a caseload of about 50 providers; in Connecticut, the average caseload is 332.

These inadequate practices can cause violations to go unnoticed. In one case, national reviewers visited a Connecticut day care center that had been inspected one month earlier. They still identified 11 potentially hazardous conditions and five playground safety problems. At two other sites, federal officials found exposed wiring in a gazebo used by kids, plus a fuse box, first-aid kit, shaving cream and hair spray all accessible to children. Facilities were also discovered not to have complied with licensing requirements or mandated criminal and protective services checks for employees.

Unsurprisingly, the HHS report recommended that this, the Constitution State, ensure more frequent and thorough on-site inspections, as well as appropriate background checks for all staff who work directly with children. State politicians were wise to heed the federal warning and establish appropriate levels of day care monitoring. Otherwise, children could have remained at risk for otherwise avoidable injury.

The primary problem had been that state programs tasked with day care oversight were woefully underfunded and mismanaged. In his new budget, Governor Dannel P. Malloy met both needs. He allocated $1.5 million to hire 28 new staff to handle day-care licensing and inspections. Moreover, responsibility would fall under the Office of Early Childhood, which has quickly become a reliable source of assistance for in-state kids since Malloy created it in June, 2013.

Funding for the 28 employees required General Assembly approval. Although this appeared an easy measure to pass, nothing budgetary-related can be considered “chiseled in stone,” given Connecticut’s ongoing red-ink woes.

But state leaders passed this part of the budget, for the sake of kids. Adding 28 employees to the day care agency will be of great help in addressing hazards and issues identified by federal reviewers. Politicians were right to support Malloy’s proposals — $1.5 million is a small investment to make for immensely improved safety of Connecticut’s children.
