
After 10 people died in recreational boating accidents in Alaska last year — a state low — members of an Eagle River group say even one death is too many.

Eagle River U.S. Coast Guard Auxiliary members are volunteering their time to perform boat checks to keep people safe.

The inspector’s main focus: life jackets.

“We want to see everyone wearing a life jacket. It’s required for kids under 13 but we really need to see the adults wearing the jacket,” said Doris Thomas, flotilla commander.

They also look for basics like a first aid kit and a fire extinguisher.

The inspectors say the number one problem they see is expired flares.

“The flares have a 42-month lifespan and they’ve got to be really careful when they’re buying their flares to make sure they get the maximum of those 42 months on the flares when they buy them,” Thomas said.

It’s not just important to know your boat is in good working order. You also need to know where you’re headed on the water.

“This is the most dangerous part of Eagle River right here, and doing a rescue on it is just as dangerous at floating it,” said Anchorage firefighter Mark Glatt.

The Anchorage swift water rescue team showed KTVA the most dangerous section of the Eagle River.

A log jam and swift current make passage tricky. This is where the majority of their rescues happen.

“It’s people that are going beyond their ability and that don’t take the time to scout the river,” Glatt said.

He said preparation is key.

“We’d like people to know the river that they’re going on, check it out ahead of time, see what the potential threats are, know your boat, know what the limitations are of your boat,” Glatt said.

The firefighters said the main reason people get caught by surprise on Eagle River is because the first section is slow and meandering, so they’re not prepared when the current suddenly speeds up near the log jam.

That’s why they recommend pulling out ahead of the rapids and scouting the route, so you can decide whether or not to try it.
