
Imagine an Idaho that is ranked No. 1 in the nation for wages and job creation, an Idaho that has the best public schools and universities and the best opportunities for our kids after graduation.

Imagine if Idaho had a governor who had real solutions to the challenges our state faces.

Right now, we have none of that. Our governor, a longtime politician, ignores the problems facing our state, and seems content with an Idaho where wages are lower than the rest of the nation and opportunities scarce. When asked about our challenges, the governor embraces the status quo. His policies are dictated by which Idaho lobbyists will come out ahead. That explains why our state agencies are mismanaged, and our taxes and health care costs are too high. That explains why four lobbyists are running our governor’s re-election effort. That explains why the governor insisted on turning our one and only televised debate into a Saturday Night Live skit that has brought shame to our state. Idahoans deserve better.

This newspaper takes issue with my plan to put our federal lands back into productive use. I’m the first to admit that such a fix will not happen overnight; but it won’t happen at all if we don’t try. Contrary to what this newspaper’s writers told readers on Sunday, other states are working feverishly to gain access to the natural resources that are locked away at the mercy of federal bureaucrats in Washington, D.C. The question is, why not Idaho? Our current governor is content giving lip service to state control and autonomy, but doing little else. That’s why Idaho was the first and only republican-controlled state to implement Obamacare, allowing our state to become a sockpuppet for President Obama and his administration.

We need to push back. We need to fight for the use of federal lands, for grazing, timber and mining. I will lead that fight. But that’s not all I will do as governor: We can save millions of dollars on state employee healthcare, freeing up money to make a multi-million dollar investment in training for high-tech, high skilled and high paying jobs. We can improve our public schools by expanding education choice, rewarding our great teachers for their hard work and rejecting calls to federalize our education system with Common Core. We can make additional investments in high tech education, so that we no longer have company CEOs complaining that our schools and universities are producing graduates who aren’t ready to enter a 21st century workforce. We can lower our taxes, reduce regulations and create a business climate that routinely attracts new businesses and help grow existing ones. We’re not doing that today.

Idahoans are smart, capable people. I believe in you, I believe in Idaho, and I believe there is a better way forward. Please join me on election day to change leadership in Idaho. We need fresh ideas and someone who cares more about you and your family than the lobbyists at the Capitol.

State Sen. Russ Fulcher is challenging Gov. C.L. “Butch” Otter in Tuesday’s GOP’s primary.

Copyright 2014 Twin Falls Times-News. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Username & Password Required!
