
Gov. Mike Pence spoke about his Healthy Indiana Plan 2.0 proposal Monday, May 19, 2014 at the American Enterprise Institute, a conservative think tank in Washington, D.C.

Speaking Monday at the American Enterprise Institute, a conservative think-tank in Washington, D.C., Pence repeatedly highlighted the HIP Link premium assistance component and job training opportunities that will be available to all HIP participants if the federal government approves his alternative to Medicaid expansion.

While most of the estimated 450,000 enrollees are expected to join HIP Plus, a high deductible health plan with mandatory participant contributions similar to the existing Healthy Indiana Plan, HIP Link will provide financial support to individual Hoosiers earning less than $16,105 a year to purchase health insurance through their employers.

Pence said participants in this "first of its kind" program can use their HIP funds to pay premiums, co-payments or deductibles required by an employer health plan, rather than join a government plan.

"The soft paternalism of the modern welfare state has failed to honor the dignity of the working poor in many ways -- by failing to give them the benefit of the doubt and by failing to believe in them," Pence said.

Along those lines, Pence said members of HIP Plus and HIP Basic, a default plan with no required participant contributions, also will be provided a "gateway to work" connecting them to the state's job training and job search programs, so HIP members quickly can move out of government-supported health care altogether.

"HIP 2.0 is a safety net that aligns incentives with earned success, hope and opportunity," Pence said. "Our hope is that people will not be on it very long at all, but will transition into the private insurance marketplace."

The Republican governor emphasized that, unlike entitlement programs that can promote dependency, he believes low-income, working Hoosiers want a hand up and not a handout.

"HIP 2.0 is really designed and built with that faith and that confidence in the people of Indiana and their ability to take hold of their futures if given the opportunity to prosper," Pence said.

Indiana is among two dozen states that have refused to expand Medicaid eligibility under the Affordable Care Act, also known as Obamacare.

Next month, Pence formally will ask the federal government to allow the state to use Medicaid expansion funds to pay for Healthy Indiana Plan 2.0.

There's no deadline for federal health officials to respond to Pence's request.

Copyright 2014 nwitimes.com. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Call or Stop in today!

Username & Password Required!
