
ELMHURST – The state fight for a solution to its pension problems took another turn last week when a Sangamon County judge decided to delay its latest effort.

On May 14, Judge John Beliz ordered a temporary restraining order and preliminary injunction against the reforms set out in Senate Bill 1, which cuts cost of living increases, lowers contributions required of current employees, guarantees state contributions and raises retirement ages for state workers.

There are currently several suits challenging the constitutionality of the measure signed by Gov. Pat Quinn in December. The Illinois Constitution currently states that contractual benefits of state workers "shall not be diminished or impaired."

"This is an important first step in our efforts to overturn this unfair, unconstitutional law and to protect retirement security for working and retired Illinois families," said Michael T. Carrigan, president of the Illinois AFL-CIO, in a statement on behalf of worker coalition We Are One Illinois.

Beliz ruled on a lawsuit filed by the Illinois State Employees Association Retirees and several other plaintiffs.

In his official filing, Beliz said that the there was sufficient evidence those named in the suit would "suffer irreparable harm" if the injunction was not issued. Implementation statewide will now be held until Beliz or a higher court decides on the constitutionality of the law.

"Obviously we are very pleased that the judge understood the situation that a lot of these retirees were in and their uncertainty of what was going to happen next," said Donald Craven, the lawyer for the association.

Attorney General Lisa Madigan's office, which represents the state in legal matters, defended the law to the court on Thursday with a formal response.In it, Madigan says the retirement systems "have been underfunded for many years [and] their underfunding now greatly exceeds the state's annual budget for all categories of expenditure."

Because of the "magnitude" of the pension problem – reaching upward of $100 million in some estimates – she argues that the law is valid.

"The goal of the pension reform law is to stabilize the pension system," Madigan spokesperson Maura Possley said. "Unfortunately this decision will likely further burden the systems and hurt taxpayers."

Many legislators contacted after the decision expressed little surprise at the ruling, saying that lawmakers and proponents of the law were expecting a legal fight.

"I think it was kind of the right thing to do," said State Rep. Dennis Reboletti.

He did not think the delay was unanticipated, but supported the postponement while the courts make a determination on the pension reform bill.

"We’ve known that it will be a long road through the judiciary for the state’s pension reform, so this is just one bump in the road and pension reform will ultimately be decided by the Illinois Supreme Court," said Sen. Kirk Dillard, R-Hinsdale. "So this decision is not a surprise."

House Republican leader Jim Durkin, R-Western Springs, said he was pleased there was movement on the circuit court level, but that the stay shouldn't be considered a significant legal victory.

Reporter Mari Grigaliunas contributed reporting to this article.

Copyright © 2014 mySuburbanLife.com. All rights reserved. Published in Downers Grove, Illinois, USA, by Shaw Media.
