
LIGHTNING RELEASES: Houston, TX (5/19/2014) - The TWFG Insurance Services Gran Fondo: Texas TMCO charity bike ride has made it largest-ever donation to the Texas Medical Center Orchestra and the National Multiple Sclerosis Society. On Sunday evening at a TMCO concert, co-founder Mark LeBlanc presented checks to the two charities totaling $74,000. “We are astounded by these donations” stated Ariela Alpert, President of the orchestra who plays first violin. “This will go far in helping us provide music to the infirmed who may not otherwise have an opportunity to hear good, live concert music.” The TMCO plays not only in grand concert halls such as the Wortham Center in Houston and Festival Hill in Round Top, but in hospitals such as Methodist Hospital Houston. Smaller ensembles play for local medical charities, medical conferences and facilities in the area. In 2013, the orchestra played at Carnegie Hall in New York.

Receiving the donation for the National Multiple Sclerosis Society, Mindy LeBlanc, Development Manager, stated that “This donation will make it possible for the society to continue its decades-long effort to assist those living with MS, to stop MS in it tracks, and to find a cure for MS.” Since its founding in 1947, the National MS Society has provided over $660 million towards MS research.

During the same ceremony, Mr. LeBlanc presented a trophy to Michael A. Crafts, CLF, LUTCF, Vice President of Sales and Marketing for The Woodlands Financial Group, title sponsor of the bike ride. “We are thrilled to be a part of such a dynamic organization” said Crafts. “The Woodland Financial Group, since its founding by Gordy Bunch a decade ago, has been at the forefront of progress and this is another way for our company to be involved in the community that has supported our rapid growth” said Crafts.

The TWFG Insurance Services Gran Fondo: Texas TMCO charity bike ride was founded in 2011 by Mr. LeBlanc and by Phil Pauzé, both avid cyclists and major fundraisers for the National Multiple Sclerosis Society. This year, it had record rider participation with 2159 registered riders. Over the past four years, it has had over 6400 registered riders making it one of the largest rides recommended by the National MS Society as a lead-up ride to the BP MS 150 Houston-to-Austin ride. Since inception, the ride has donated $187,000 to the two charities. Both the TMCO and the National MS Society are qualified charities under section 501c3 of the IRS code.
