
Last Modified: Sunday, May 18, 2014 at 11:47 p.m.

BARTOW | Central Florida Health Care and Tri-County Human Services are collaborating on a partnership to better coordinate physical and mental health care.

Tri-County now has some of its behavioral health counselors at Central Florida Health Care's Lakeland, Winter Haven and Dundee clinics.

In 2014-15, Tri-County plans to have a counselor at Central Florida's Frostproof clinic  and one at the clinic Central Florida is developing in Mul berry.

The arrangement lets Central Florida's primary care doctors more easily connect patients whose physical illnesses they treat with behavioral health therapists if those patients also have mental health or substance abuse  issues, according to the directors of those programs.

They're able to make an in-person transfer, which significantly improves the chances of that person being able to get both types of care, said Bob Rihn, executive director of Tri-County.

"It's very significant to see the impact of having a person (available) to deal with their emotional trauma on a personal basis," Rihn said.

Their partnership is similar to one taking place between Peace River Center, which provides a large amount of mental health care, and the Florida Department of Health in Polk County.

Central Florida's relationship with Tri-County is one of several partnerships it has with other agencies in Polk, said Ann Claussen, Central Florida's executive director.

Others are with Lakeland Regional Medical Center, Winter Haven Hospital, Mulberry, Healthy Start Coalition, Polk State College and Ridge and Traviss career centers, she said during a presentation Friday to the Citizens Healthcare Oversight Committee.

The oversight committee reviews how money from the county's half-cent indigent care sales tax is spent. Tri-County and Central Florida both get some funding from that tax.

Claussen said the Mulberry clinic, currently treating children in a temporary building, should have its permanent structure in place sometime during the summer.

The $1.5 million modular building will enable Central Florida to add more services. Adult primary care and dental services, along with behavioral health counselors, are planned there.

"Mulberry has no health services at all," she said. "They are excited and welcoming us with open arms."

Central Florida is active in  Polk, Highlands and Hardee counties. Its other Polk clinics are in Frostproof, Winter Haven, Lakeland, Dundee and Lake Wales. The one in Lake Wales is dental only.

Rihn, at the meeting to update the oversight committee on Tri-County's activities, said his organization operates at  15 locations in Polk, Highlands and Hardee counties.

Services for which it gets some county funds include a detoxification center, outpatient substance abuse and mental health treatment, psychiatric and medication services, prevention programs, aftercare for people after treatment programs and the integrated primary and behavioral health care it does with Central Florida.

From other funds, it has residential programs, housing, a project to help people transition from being homeless and driving under the influence services.

"I always consider us the little engine that not just could, but does," Rihn said.

Reader comments posted to this article may be published in our print edition. All rights reserved. This copyrighted material may not be re-published without permission. Links are encouraged.
