
After wrapping up production of "Fathers and Daughters" starring Russell Crowe, the movie donated their entire set and clothing used during filming to the Free Store in Braddock.

The Free Store is a nonprofit that gives people items for whatever they are able to pay.

The store is planning a big community event Tuesday afternoon, and said they can’t wait to see the difference this large donation will make in their community.

“As the first box gets emptied, we’ll slide another box forward to keep the traffic flowing,” volunteer Shiane Prunty said.

The store said they received a donation of about 400 boxes of kids' clothes. They also received furniture.

Fetterman, the wife of Braddock’s mayor, started the Free Store almost two years ago to help people in her community.

“If you believe in people and you treat them well, it’s a system that works. We see it work every day at the store,” Fetterman said.

Channel 11’s Gordon Loesch reported this is the fifth time a movie production company has made a donation to the Free Store, but it’s the first time they’ve donated a set and furniture. Normally, that stuff is destroyed.

“I think they found another way now to take these items and do something great with them,” Fetterman said.

The giveaway event on Tuesday will be from 5 to 8 p.m. at the store (1215 Braddock Avenue). NOTE: Children must be present in order to receive clothes.

Thank you for registering!

We have sent you a confirmation email. Please check your email and click on the link to activate your account.

Thank you for registering!

We look forward to seeing you frequently. Visit us and sign in to update your profile, receive the latest news and keep up to date with mobile alerts.

Don't worry, it happens. We'll send you a link to create a new password.

We have sent you an email with a link to change your password.

We've sent an email with instructions to create a new password. Your existing password has not been changed.

To sign in you must verify your email address. Fill out the form below and we'll send you an email to verify.

Check your email for a link to verify your email address.
