
Share This Story!

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Paul Johnson Drywall Inc. will pay $600,000 in overtime back wages.

Get the latest developments on the biggest stories on azcentral.

A Prescott-based drywall company settled a federal investigation Monday by agreeing to pay $600,000 in overtime back wages and penalties in a dispute about how it classified and paid its workers.

The settlement with Paul Johnson Drywall Inc. requires the company to classify its workers as regular employees rather than "member/owners," a label the company used since April 2013 to skirt overtime pay rules in an arrangement with Arizona Tract LLC., a construction labor contractor, according to the U.S. Department of Labor. Johnson Drywall severed its relations with Arizona Tract as part of the settlement and reactivated 1,325 employees while hiring another 627.

Last year Paul Johnson Drywall contracted with Arizona Tract to provide drywall laborers and in some cases used former Paul Johnson Drywall workers. The decision Monday to rehire its former workers suggests the arrangement with Arizona Tract had sliced the drywall company's staff from at least 1,400 to 28.

In a consent judgment filed Monday in U.S. District Court in Arizona, Paul Johnson Drywall Inc. and its owner Robert Cole Johnson, agreed to pay $556,000 in overtime back wages and damages to at least 445 current and former employees. That's nearly $1,250 per person. Johnson also agreed to pay $44,000 in penalties.

The case grew out of an investigation by the Labor Department's Wage and Hour Division in Phoenix that examined construction contractors Arizona Tract solicited.

"This resolution will bring a lot of positive change for hundreds of employees working in residential construction," said Janet Herold, the department's regional solicitor in San Francisco in a statement. "Paul Johnson Drywall is a leader in this industry in Arizona, and we are pleased that, as a result of our investigation, the company has taken such a public stand against the scourge of misclassification, which deprives vulnerable workers of their wages and the full rights and benefits of employee status and deprives taxpayers of the payroll taxes."

The company, which has offices in Prescott, Phoenix and Tucson, said the settlement modernizes its place in the traditionally piece-rate industry.

"We pride ourselves on having the most professional crews in the state, and welcomed the opportunity to evaluate employment practices with the (Labor Department)," Johnson said in a statement released by his company. "Our crews allow us to deliver clients unparalleled on-time delivery in the safest manner, and as a result of these high expectations, we consistently pay our crews the highest wages. We're excited to be taking our business, as well as our trade and related industry, to the next level."

Paul Johnson Drywall could not be reached for immediate comment Monday. On its website, the company touts its charitable works in the communities it serves and spells out a mission statement that includes a provision promising integrity and improvement.

"We will always uphold our organization's founding principles of integrity, excellence and trust, continuing to raise the standards of our company to a higher level," the company says.

As part of the settlement, Paul Johnson Drywall agreed to hire a third-party monitor to ensure its compliance with the Fair Labor Standards Act and will devise an educational campaign to promote awareness of the importance of compliance with the FLSA in the Arizona residential construction industry.

That includes presentations to local home builder associations by the company addressing the importance of properly classifying and paying workers in the drywall industry.

In many ways, the case revolved around provisions of the FLSA that distinguish employees from independent contractors.

The government test is whether the worker in reality is dependent on a single employer or is really in business for himself.
