
Denver could approve its first hostile landmark designation in recent memory Monday if the City Council sides with preservationists over the wishes of property owners trying to redevelop a site containing an empty old church.

An earlier controversy — over since-scrapped redevelopment plans for the same West Highland property — left "blood on the streets," as Councilman Charlie Brown  put it. That makes some council members leery of deciding the landmark issue.

This time, it's a different set of people, including some neighbors and Denver preservationists, asking for landmark status to protect Beth Eden Baptist Church in case a new developer steps up.

Neighborhood fights have become routine as Denver densifies. But the West Highland site has a unique blend of conflicting forces: investors wanting to reap maximum profit from redevelopment, some neighbors who want to limit density and building height, and preservationists who fear what would be lost if an 83-year-old church is torn down.

"Really, the basic history of our neighborhood dates back to the founders of this church," in the 1890s, said landmark designation supporter Marilyn Quinn, who lives about four blocks east. The current church was built in 1931 at 3241 Lowell Blvd.

The landmark application follows the end of a nearly three-year battle by other neighbors to try to stop plans to build apartments by developer Redpeak Properties.

Those neighbors, including a group called No High Rises in West Highland, were motivated  by concerns about what would be built, including one building's five-story height.

Since Redpeak's plans included reusing the church building, preservations didn't get involved.

Opponents lost their zoning challenge lawsuit against City Council, Redpeak and the property owners last year.

But Redpeak backed out a few months ago, citing delays and rising development costs.

Enter the preservationists. They were spurred to action by the property owners' request to the city for a five-year "certificate of nonhistoric status."

The designation would allow partial or complete demolition of the church during that period.

The owners sought that permission with support from the neighbors involved in the lawsuit as part of a settlement in which they agreed not to appeal their court loss.

In March, the nonprofit Historic Denver and other advocates submitted a landmark designation application.  That status, in contrast, would protect the church indefinitely by making demolition or exterior changes subject to city review.

Supporters argue that landmark status wouldn't handcuff a developer's ability to adapt the church into a new development.

But Tom Wootten, head of the ownership group Highland Square LLC, worries that the restrictions could stymie redevelopment or prevent a creative reuse of the church.

Already, he said, potential developers have told him they're wary of it receiving landmark designation.

Approval by the council would mark the first time the city has granted landmark status without the owner's consent since the council passed a 2006  ordinance aimed at preventing "surprise" demolitions of historic properties.

The remaining building is "the only documented church in the Tudor Revival style in Denver," says Historic Denver's landmark application. Four hundred people signed a petition in support of landmark designation.

Denver's Landmark Preservation Commission unanimously recommended approval.

Now it's up to the council.

Councilwoman Susan Shepherd, who represents the area, says the preservationists' landmark application makes a compelling case for the site's history, geography and architecture — the criteria the city must consider.

But a council committee was split last month, with four members voting to send the proposal to the council, two abstaining and one voting no.

That is among considerations the council will weigh at Monday's 5:30 p.m. meeting after a public hearing on the issue.

We reserve the right to remove any comment we feel is spammy, NSFW, defamatory, rude, or reckless to the community.

We expect everyone to be respectful of other commenters. It's fine to have differences of opinion, but there's no need to act like a jerk.

Use your own words (don't copy and paste from elsewhere), be honest and don't pretend to be someone (or something) you're not.
