
PEKIN — Bill Comstock and his family had just enjoyed a late breakfast on Nov. 17, 2013, when his phone alerted him to take shelter from a storm.

“Being not too bright, I slipped on a sweatshirt and went outside,” said Comstock. “The sirens went off, and we knew we needed to get away from a big tree.

“The leaves from the fall were being sucked off of the streets and yards toward the river. It sounded like a jet taking off. People say it sounds like a train, but it sounded like a jet.

As Comstock dialed 911, he heard a knock at the door. It was a firefighter checking to see if everyone was all right.

It has been six months since the tornado turned upside down the lives of more than 100 Pekin families. Most are back in their homes. Others are still waiting for their homes to be completed. And several are still waiting on insurance companies to settle their claims.

A structural engineer checked the home in the days after the tornado. The foundation was undamaged, but snow and water caused interior damage to the house, prompting workers to strip it down to the studs. Inside the walls, they found that electrical sockets had been pulled up through the roof, and there was damage to some of the plumbing. Comstock said he is lucky, because as a construction worker he is able to do some of the work himself to help move the project along.

“It’s been a roller coaster ride,” said Comstock. “People think they have insurance, and that they can just snap their fingers and rebuild and replace your stuff,” he said. “That’s not how it works. But it all gets worked out in the end.

Page 2 of 3 - One of the most remarkable things that the family has witnessed after the disaster is the caring nature of family, friends, the community, neighbors and even strangers. The Sheet Metal Workers and other unions came to the family’s aid, as did the YWCA Karate Club, where Comstock works as an instructor. Churches and the American Red Cross have made donations of things the family needed immediately — “underwear, socks, food — you know,” said Comstock.

Frank Bellrose bought the home at 500 Lakeside Ave. in Pekin more than 34 years ago, after which he married his wife, Becky.

Bellrose is finishing the home now, but the family will not reoccupy it. The last time they lived full time in the home was in December 2010. Over the past few years, they spent more time in Colorado, and a year ago decided to sell the Pekin home. They now live full time in Ouray, Colo.

Bellrose is replacing windows, fixing the damaged chimney and removing the remains of a huge tree that struck the home when an EF-2 tornado sliced across the north side of Pekin.

In all, 147 homes were damaged and of those about 50 were deemed uninhabitable immediately after the tornado. Bellrose is also finishing the little items on his honey-do list from the 20-year remodel project. He plans to sell the home as soon as possible.

Ray Markey came to Pekin with Bellrose from Colorado to help with the house.

“My first thoughts were how to clean up this mess,” said Bellrose. “The volunteers were fantastic. Within hours, they were cutting down trees and clearing debris out of yards. There were 4-foot-high piles of debris across the front of the property when they were done. The volunteers and workers with the city and the Red Cross worked night and day.

The Nov. 17 tornado came on a Sunday while many residents of Pekin were at church — a fact that may have saved lives. There were no major injuries from the Pekin tornado. But the debris field of downed trees, roofless homes, utility poles crossing streets and damaged houses left many in shock.

Page 3 of 3 - Pekin City Manager Joe Wuellner said he is proud of the way the city and community responded.

“We had everything covered — the fire department, the police, the street department people and the inspection people were all right there, and they went in and assessed damages, opened up streets and helped secure things,” said Wuellner. “Any community that has one of these, the people come from everywhere to try and help.

Wuellner said the assistance of neighboring municipalities and townships made a huge difference in opening streets quickly and securing the area.

The city spent about $163,000. The Federal Emergency Management Agency denied claims to repay the city for the money it used to clean up the disaster. Gov. Pat Quinn in April announced that the state would help municipalities recover up to 75 percent.

The city has waived all fees for building permits for tornado victims. In all, the city has issued 73 free permits so far. Permits for new homes are based on the size and value of the home. Wuellner said that some homes under construction that will have a value of $200,000 to $300,000 run as much as $2,000. Permits for repairs are less costly. Wuellner estimates that the city has waived $14,000 to $15,000 in new home permits for homes being rebuilt and probably another $5,000 in permits for repairs.

Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.

Your privacy is important, read our privacy policy.

Original content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted.
