
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

KALAMAZOO, MI -- Arturo Armijo knows a lot about tacos.

He said he's been eating them "as long as I could chew."

Armijo is joining John "Gonzo" Gonzalez and I on our visits to Kalamazoo on our search for Michigan's Best Taco. Gonzalez and Armijo have been friends for more than 20 years. When Gonzalez came to Grand Rapids in 1990, Armijo organized a lunch to welcome him. Since then they have worked on various Mexican festivals.

Armijo moved to Grand Rapids from Texas in 1953 at the age of three. His grandmother would make tortillas three days a week. They were "a mainstay," he said. "Once a week we'd have those, it was a treat."

The tacos were in the Texas style: deep-fried tacos with ground beef seasoned with pepper, garlic, cumin, chili powder and a little bit of onion.

"That's how we used to make them in Texas," he said.

When Armijo was growing up, there were a few Mexican restaurants in the Grand Rapids area.

Most were small mom and pop shops, not that popular at them time, and made food in the Texas style.

"There were just a handful of Mexican families," he said.

The popularity of Mexican food grew in the Grand Rapids area during the late '60s and early '70s along with a change in society and acceptance of other cultures, Armijo said. Stereotypes were changing. People more accepting of different minority groups. A lot had to do with the food, and Armijo started to see more non-Latinos go to Mexican restaurants.

When more Mexicans started coming to the area, they wanted tacos like what they had in Mexico: Two corn tortillas with meat, cilantro and onions. These, Armijo said, have become popular in the past 10 to 15 years.

But no matter what style of taco, the fundamentals are the same.

"A good taco starts with a good tortilla," he said. "Soft, have to taste nice and fresh."

Then comes the type of meat. The freshness and spices make a taco.

Armijo retired from Grand Rapids Community College after 20 years; he most recently was the executive assistant to the president. He has been involved with various programs and organizations, and helped make Grand Rapids a sister city with Zapopan, Mexico.

Armijo owns a place in Guayabitos, a Mexican city on the Pacific Coast. There, tacos are completely different, he said, with a lot of fish tacos with chilli, salsa and hot sauce. The most popular fish used is dorado, or mahi-mahi.

© 2014 MLive Media Group All rights reserved ( About Us ).

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
