
At just 40-years-old Northern California native Henry Evans' life was turned upside down when he suffered a stroke that left him a quadriplegic.

"He had a family and 4 young kids. He was at like the peak of his career when it all happened," Evans' nephew Henry Clever said.

It was a dramatic life change for Evans, a graduate from Stanford, and the chief financial officer for a technology company in the Silicon Valley.

Unable to speak without the help of technology, his mind was untouched. So he reached out to his nephew, who shared the same first name as him, and was also a mechanical engineering major at the University of Kanas School of Engineering.

"He gave me the idea and I built it," Clever said.

That's when the two went to work and developed the Ultramouse.

"He wanted to start it because he wanted to be able to change channels on his TV, and watch YouTube videos on a large screen without something obstructing his angle of view," Clever said.

Evans was using an eye tracking device that had to be two feet from his face.

"The Ultramouse is behind your head," Clever said.

All plugged in by USB, Evans maneuvers the cursor just from moving his head with these ultrasonic sensors. A range box controls the sensitivity of the cursor from a range of 1 to 10. Since he still retains enough movement of his thumb, he uses a device to click.

"The click is like a light switch. It's just on and off," Clever said.

And it now allows Evans to use a computer from a great distance, just as far as the wire will go.

"So he could be in a large auditorium, or he could be doing like a virtual presentation, or something in front of a huge audience," Clever said.

The Utlramouse has not only given Evans the opportunity to be more independent, but it's also won Clever second place at the 2013 American Society of Mechanical Engineers International Undergraduate Research and Design Expo in San Diego.

"The main purpose of it was to help my uncle. The purpose was not to make a bunch of money," Clever said.
