
Gov. Jay Inslee played the happy warrior, TV executive producer David Gelber (“Years of Living Dangerously”) played the angry media critic and Episcopal priest the Rev. Kathleen Patton brought Lucifer into the coal train debate, as the group Climate Solutions roused a packed breakfast at the Westin on Monday.

Gov. Jay Inslee:  If the West Coast can give us Jimi Hendrix, the Beach Boys and Nirvana, it can give the world solar cells and windmills.

All three had approaches to what’s sure to be furious upcoming debate on carbon reduction and the ultimate fate of two big coal export proposals.

If the West Coast could give us “Jimi Hendrix, the Beach Boys and Nirvana,” said Inslee in a flight of hyperbole, then it lead the world in giving the world windmills and solar cells.

He talked about clean energy on a visit to Moses Lake last week, Inslee added, and “There were some light bulbs going on.”  A firm in Moses Lake makes carbon fiber for all-electric cars.

Gelber, who was Ed Bradley’s producer at “60 Minutes” for 25 years, touted his climate production on Showtime while lamenting the glacial pace at which the TV networks have discovered a rapidly warming world and its consequences.

Patton of St. Stephen’s Episcopal Church in Longview delivered a fiery denunciation of Millennium Bulk Terminals proposal for a major coal export terminal at a shut-down aluminum smelter along the Columbia River.

Northwest environmental groups are campaigning to phase out use of coal to generate electricity.  Puget Power still gets a big chunk of its power from aging, 1970′s-vintage coal plants in Montana.

Climate Solutions is a practical outfit, dedicated to what it calls “cutting edge partnerships” with business and the public sector to drive “market based solutions to carbon emissions from transportation and a phase out of coal from the electricity sector.

The Boeing Co. is its biggest corporate “Climate Champion,” and Marc Daudon of the Cascadia Consulting Group chairs its board of directors.

The annual breakings of bread by such groups as Climate Solutions, Foreterra and the Washington Wildlife and Recreation Coalition show that once-fierce rivals — notably timber companies, electrical utilities and environmental groups — now make common cause.

Seattle TV stations devote resources to environmental coverage, and The Seattle Times recently produced a ground-breaking series on acidification of the world’s oceans.

David Gelber operates in a somewhat different environment.

“Why is it so hard to get non-fossil fuel lobbies or (corporate) executives engaged on this issue?” he asked.

Gelber was scathing on networks’ lack of climate coverage.

He noted the recent NBC piece by Ann Curry, the exiled “Today Show” co-host, titled “Our Year of Extremes,” but said such efforts get little promotion.

At the same time, argued Gelber, newspapers have “let go” highly competent environmental reporters. ”Its ranks have been so thinned that the press doesn’t have people to do this story,” he said.

As well, Gelber feels that major polluting corporations have learned to play rope-a-dope. “Exxon may say the right thing, but they are still finding politicians who gum up the works,” he said.

Indeed, Big Oil and Big Coal helped “gum up” wide-ranging legislation that would have set America on a path to limit carbon emissions. It passed the House, thanks in parts to efforts by then-Rep. Jay Inslee, but died in the Senate.

Inslee soldiers on, relentlessly optimistic. “We have a compelling story that the best new generator of jobs is clean energy technology,” argued the governor.  He’ll have to persuade the Legislature.

Browse previous blog posts by month and year of entry. You'll see all the posts for that time period.

Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
