
Welcome Back!

Thanks for being a frequent visitor to www.wiscnews.com . You have now viewed of your FREE premium pages this 30-day period. After you have viewed FREE pages, we will ask you to purchase a subscription.

Portage High School senior Rob Shlimovitz won a $1,000 Kohl Excellence Scholarship this spring.

When Rob Shlimovitz met retired U.S. Sen. Herb Kohl they had more in common than the 2014 scholar recognition luncheon for Kohl’s foundaiton.

“He looks at my name tag and asked, ‘How’s Jack?’ My dad said that my grandfather and Mr. Kohl were friends when they went to law school together. I literally was speechless for a moment,” Shlimovitz, 18, said.

Kohl, a Democrat, was referring to Jack Shlimovitz,who attended law school with him at the University of Wisconsin-Madison from 1951 to 1955. Jack is the Portage High School senior’s paternal grandfather.

Shlimovitz attended the April luncheon as a recipient of a $1,000 Herb Kohl Foundation Excellence Scholarship. The award recognizes students who are highly motivated and have shown strong promise for succeeding in college and beyond.

The last PHS students to receive the award were Alanna Stapleton and Seth Medelson in 2011.

Shlimovitz will graduate from PHS May 30 and will attend Michigan Technical University in Houghton to study engineering.

“I fell in love with the campus because it’s very outdoorsy and relatively small. It has chemical engineering, which is the major I’m going into and as well as a program for a minor in global business, but one of the big deals was they have a collegiate curling circuit so I can continue on (competing) after high school,” he said.

A fan of science and math, Shlimovitz said he wants to own a firm in either mining or oil operations.

Excellence Scholars are selected by a statewide committee composed of civic leaders, and representatives of education-related associations and the program’s co-sponsors: The Wisconsin Newspaper Association Foundation; Wisconsin Department of Public Instruction; Wisconsin Council of Religious and Independent Schools; and regional Cooperative Educational Service Agencies.

Shlimovitz is one of 100 seniors across the state to earn the scholarship. A short list of his activities include: the National Honors Society; the National German Honors Society; curling; golf; marching band; FFA; FBLA; PHS student council; football; an Eagle Scout; and a grade-point average of 4.03.

“I really focus on being involved in as many things as I can, at least involved in it to say I’ve done it once,” he said.

The Kohl Foundation Scholarship and Fellowship program was established by Kohl in 1990.

To date the foundation has awarded $8.6 million to Wisconsin educators, students and schools.

“Education is the key to the future of Wisconsin and our nation. I am very proud of the accomplishments of these students and teachers, and look forward to the great contributions they will make in the future,” Kohl said, in a press release.

Advice for incoming freshman from Shlimovitz: time management and organization.

“Those are the two big things ... most importantly leave time for yourself otherwise you’ll go crazy,” he said.

Beyond the recognition, the people in attendance who wrote letters of recommendation made Shlimovitz feel good inside. The guests included PHS Principal Robin Kvalo, teacher/golf coach Ed Carlson, the Rev. Dave Hankins of Portage Presbyterian Church and guidance counselor Laura Kallenbach.

“It just made me feel pretty good about myself that people drove all the way to Janesville in the morning. It was a special thanks for writing this letter and all the stuff they’ve done for me over the last four years to help me get to this point in my life,” Shlimovitz said.

Copyright 2014 Wiscnews.com. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Congratulations Rob.

Vote!

Local businesses offer you great deals on goods and services.

Portage and Columbia County headlines delivered to your email inbox daily.

Portage area sports headlines delivered to your email inbox daily.

I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site consitutes agreement to it's user agreement & privacy policy.

Login here with a previously connected Facebook account.

Username & Password Required!
