
Yadira Smith told friends and family that Robinson Hedghill threatened to kill her if she didn't marry him, records show.

If anything were to happen, Smith confided with neighbor Charlotte Hampton, she wanted to make sure her children stayed together.

On Friday, something seemed odd with Smith when she and Hampton spoke on the phone.

Hampton told police she went to Smith's house, where Hedghill answered the door. Records said Smith stood behind Hedghill and told her friend: "He won't let me out."

Hampton returned to her home and called 911. But before Orlando police arrived at their Pine Hills-area home, Smith's teen son came home from school and found his mother dead. She was stabbed at least twice in the neck.

Court records released Monday detail the allegedly tumultuous relationship between Smith, 42, and Hedghill, 49, who was arrested Saturday.

Several people said Smith was trying to end her relationship with Hedghill, but he wouldn't move out.

Hampton told police she called Smith Friday and asked if she could borrow hair spray. Smith told her to stop by.

Several hours later, Hampton sent her 13-year-old brother to Smith's home to pick up the hair spray. Hedghill answered the door, said no one else was home, and then slammed the door shut. About 25 minutes later, Hampton spoke with Smith on the phone and knew something was amiss. That's when she walked to Smith's house, and encountered her friend and Hedghill.

"It was apparent to Charlotte the victim was trying to leave, but the defendant would not let her," police stated. Hampton returned home and called police at roughly 2:55 p.m.

Minutes later, two neighbors saw Hedghill drive away. Meanwhile, Smith's 14-year-old son came home at about 3:20 p.m. The front door was locked.

The teen peered into a kitchen window and saw her in a pool of blood. Several knives were on the floor.

Smith's son ran to Hampton's house for help and a second 911 call was made. Officers were already en route.

Asked why it took more than 20 minutes for officers to arrive, police Sgt. Jim Young said the initial call was not designated a priority incident because there were no signs of violence — it was a verbal argument. An officer spotted him Saturday at a bus stop on West Washington Street and Coburn Avenue. He was charged with second-degree murder and remained jailed Monday.

No one answered the door at Hampton's home Monday, and a neighbor knew little about Smith, who used to live in New York.

At the Fremont Park Avenue home he shared with Smith, a single tea-light and silk flower rested on the doorstep.
