
More than 40 years after the Equal Rights Amendment was first passed by the U.S. Congress, an Illinois state senator is taking another crack at getting her colleagues in Springfield to adopt the provision that would enshrine in the U.S. Constitution the idea that rights can’t be abridged on account of sex.

Sen. Heather Steans, D-Chicago, said the proposed amendment is still relevant today given the ongoing debates about equal pay, abortion rights and other issues on which women are fighting for equality.

The amendment appeared to die in 1982 after only 35 states passed it by the deadline that Congress set after adopting it in 1972. That was three short of the 38 needed to amend the Constitution. Supporters of the amendment are now pushing a “three state solution,” arguing the 1982 deadline should not apply. If three more states pass it, the supporters will try to make the case that there is no need for the U.S. Congress to start the amendment process over.

Steans has tried to pass the amendment a few times before, without success.

Section 1. Equality of rights under the law shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any State on account of sex.

Section 2. The Congress shall have the power to enforce, by appropriate legislation, the provisions of this article.

Section 3. This amendment shall take effect two years after the date of ratification.

The ERA was introduced into every Congress between 1923 and 1972, when it was passed and sent to the states for ratification. The original seven-year time limit in the ERA’s proposing clause was extended by Congress to June 30, 1982, but at that deadline, the ERA had been ratified by 35 states, three states short of the 38 required to put it into the Constitution.

It was a very big deal here.  Before my time, but stories still abound.

* The Question: Should the Illinois General Assembly ratify the ERA, even if it is too late? Take the poll and then explain your answer in comments, please.

I voted no. No one can deny “equal protection under the law” is important. It’s already in the U.S. Constitution. The ERA can’t make it, it’s too late. So why waste time? Unless there’s a way to start the whole process over for its’ advocates: in Washington D.C.

Yes, absolutely. This should be a bipartisan no-brainer. Even Dwight Eisenhower supported passing it in the 1950s.

As soon as we find our disco albums, nylon shirts and platform shoes. Nothing beats those 70s!

Jimmy Carter! Dyn-O-Mite!

VMan, get in the game, albums are out, 8 Track is the way to go.

If it passes, force supporters into Chevy Vegas for the rest of their lives.

Its the new 1975 AMC ERA - the new wide constitutional amendment!

Republicans should embrace this opportunity because it will very likely allow for lawsuits, laws and referendum requiring gender equity in award of public business and in school admissions (see State of Michigan next door).

A fascinating question . . .

A mom was just given the boot from the National Restaurant Association show for bringing her breastfeeding infant.

Ironically, she was there as a small business owner to exhibit her company.

In defense of the association, an attorney argued that banning breastfeeding infants from the show is not the same as banning breastfeeding mothers.

Um.  Whatever.

This is not the first time that breastfeeding moms have had problems at McCormick Place, but this one is in the Tribune and will likely be 9 o’clock news.  That’s how public facilities behave, imagine what the private ones are like.

So yeah, go Steans.

VMan, you’re getting close to making the case that this should pass.

I voted yes because I believe in equal rights for women. Pay for women still lags behind that of men. We should enshrine in national law the protections that have been missing for women throughout our history.

I have several Mike Royko books and was a semi-regular reader of his column. One of his great columns was on the failure of ERA to pass many years ago. He said the ERA lobbyists were too well-intentioned and didn’t know how to play politics in Illinois.

Royko said they should forget about the charts and leaflets and throw shoeboxes of cash through hotel room transoms of legislators (something like that). He said legislators could have been bought cheaper than the cost of good-intentioned campaigns.

Dear VMan . . .

There are a lot of dead constitutional amendments out there still “viable” if you believe the ERA can ignore the constitutional deadline.

There is a reason for a deadline for these things. It wasn’t just to pick on the ERA.

If you want to open that can of worms, be prepared for a whole new slew of new old constitutional amendments in purgatory limbo.

Not sure how that relates to the ERA, since men don’t breastfeed.  For now, anyway… but who knows what future biotech might accomplish.

To the post, I voted no.  Since “equal protection” is already guaranteed by the 14th Amendment, I don’t see what the ERA would add to the Constitution that isn’t already there.

Voted no even though I would most likely support the ERA if given the opportunity actually pass.  (I only say most likely because I don’t know all the details of the original amendment).

Yes, absolutely yes. Not just because it’s the right thing to do, but because these social issue distractions are few and far between this year. We need to recycle a few so Quinn has something to bludgeon the GOP with until November.

C’mon people. Try to keep up. If the ILGOPs were smart, they’d jump on board and pass this with little debate, to take it off the board. But I suspect they’ll choke on this like they do every time somebody mentions Obama.

At least they’re predictable.

This appears to be the list of amendments ratified by Congress but never enacted.

I like the first one . . .

I voted yes.  I worked for it when I was in college, lo those many years ago.  I would work for it today.  Equal protection under the law? We don’t have it and it’s way overdue.

I was running around the Capitol during that time and it was insane, people chained to this statue or that door or something. Unbelievable floor debates, that people still talk about! Reading these comments brought back those memories and also tells me that, we will be in for a repeat if this does come about.

If Heather “Vote Countula” Steans is doing the head count, remind her Sen. Schoenberg is not going to be voting and add up her senators again.

To the Question;

If the GA voted for it to Pass, I would be good with that, and if Slytherin Republicans in the 21st Century world, fall back to 1980’s talking points to rationalize a vote of “No”, then my passive “Yes ” becomes a solid “Yes “.

It’s a passive “Yes”. If the water is carried to get it to an actual vote, then sure, but that water can be carried by those who can count with “thunder” as a sound effect.

Yes, if for no other reason than the symbolism.

This discussion brings me back to years gone by.  I recall several female supporters of the ERA (along with Dick Gregory) camping out in the capitol rotunda and having a hunger strike to support their cause.  Pretty exciting stuff back in the day.

Bill White:  The one you like is still in play.  Just like what became the 27th Amendment (pay raises have to wait until the next Congress to take effect–ratified in 1992), that amendment had no time limit (Unlike the ERA).

It’s still the right thing to do, and still needed.

Yes, it’s never wrong to fight bigotry and discrimination. However, even with an amendment, not having the social will to fight discrimination matters more (see 15th Amendment and it’s near century of utter worthlessness).

yes because women belong in the U.S. Constitution.  clarity.

I voted yes because a vote in favor of the ERA is a vote against the backward thinking, anti-feminist Phyllis Schlafly and her ilk.

I voted yes and would like it to be passed but given the recent trend for actually giving everyone the right to marry, perhaps the Constitution does not need to be amended.

Reread section 1 of the 14th amendment and don’t see anything there that would allow gender based discrimination.  Seems to me that adding the ERA amendment would do nothing to add to the rights of any individual.

At best a new vote on the ERA seems either symbolic or is a venting of frustration about having lost the vote all those years ago.  A waste of time.

The reason for a constitutional amendment deadline is so that states can vote for or against the amendment with in the same timeframe if if a state wishes to pass a constitutional amendment after it’s failed date then all states should have the right to revoke.

There is no “constitutional deadline.” The 27th Amendment became part of the Constitution 202 years after it was first proposed.

No. Using energy and legislative time for a purely symbolic and meaningless and unnecessary vote when the state is imploding is just nuts. It’s not even politically smart. Happily, society’s marched on since the 70’s, and women in this country in particular are doing exceptionally well at university and in business and in the professions–strides to a degree that seemed nearly impossible 45 years ago–and it happened without a Constitutional amendment even!

Wow, Schlafly would be tickled pink that you thought she was worth the effort.

Voted ‘no’, given the fact she is introducing this 6  months before the general election and at the end of the spring session.  Let’s see if it is brought up again in the fall veto session.

A Scalia-esque “textual analysis” and any look at “Framer’s ideology” wouldn’t say that.

I vote yes. Women’s issues are still front and center, and inequality still exists. It’s good politics.

Abortion — Shame on the state senator for referring to Abortion regarding the amendment.

She is lucky that she was given the chance to live and to be so obsessed with Abortion is wrong. It can be argued that abortion goes against women besides the babies that will never be born. Susan B Anthony was against Abortion as were the other original suffragettes.

This is why I left the Democratic Party.

Steans’ motives notwithstanding, it should have been and still should be passed by this benighted state at some point.

The 14th amendment was adoped in 1868. Women could not vote in federal elections until 1920. Therefore I voted yes.

This is not needed.  Women already have equal rights under the law in this country and in this state.  More unnecessary legislation designed to gin up favor for or opposition against candidates in an election year.  It’s pretty standard procedure in Illinois anymore, but no less disgusting.  How about fixing the budget - for real.  This kind of stuff makes it easy to see why other states see our government as the laughingstock of the US.

A constitutional amendment is primarily needed to fix a defect of national importance that other laws can’t fix under the current constitution.  I am open to it, if it can be shown the defect exists.  Symbology or other trivia should not be the reason, this being the US Constitution; either this amendment is needed to fix something that is real, or it isn’t.  Make your case.

I’m not sure what that assertion has to do with anything Jacob, but Susan B. Anthony died about 15 years before the 19th Amendment was ratified. In her era, women were much more likely to die giving birth than they are today.

Also, voting rights are not the same as equal rights.

It is not too late! We do need the ERA. I am 40 years old and at three different workplaces I have been given lesser pay than my male counterparts. I have overheard conversations at my former office in the Chicago Board of Trade where decisions were made to pass over competent women because they were concerned they might want to have children and that that could interfere with job performance. I was told by one employer in the Chicago suburbs that because I refused to cry in front of fellow employees after being publicly berated, that I was creating a “subversive environment;” something my male counterparts were never subjected to - it happened to them in private. At a local hospital in the Chicago suburbs, after the acting administrator (a woman) gave a presentation to board members and opened the floor for questions, the chair asked her, “What color underpants are you wearing?” She was also “acting administrator” because the chair refused to “allow a woman to run my hospital,” even though she already was, but for a lot less pay. These are but a few examples of my own experiences. Anyone who says we don’t NEED the ERA, is someone who likely doesn’t view women as equals and likely does not believe in equal pay for equal work. This is a human rights issue, and it is an economic issue. How many families and children suffer in this country due to the discrimination the women in that family face - the lost pay, the lost time, the lost sense of security.

The ONLY right women have in US Constitution is voting-this is from Justice Scalia, who says 14th does not currently apply to women! We need real equality to protect men and women from discrimination. Every national Constitution since WWII has gender equity; so does the Illinois 1970 one! We need it. It is past time.

In September 2010 Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia in a conversation with a reporter about the Wal-mart sex discrimination case, expressed his opinion that the Constitution does not protect against sex discrimination.

A 2001 study by the ERA Campaign Network in Princeton found that 96% of adults believed that male and female citizens should obtain equal rights; 88% believed that Congress should make it obvious that male and female are equal in the U.S. Constitution, and 72% believed that the Constitution already states that men and women are equal.

An April 2012 poll for Daily Kos and Service Employees International Union (SEIU) found that 91% of Americans believe that men and women should have equal rights affirmed by the Constitution. A 2001 Opinion Research Corporation poll showed that 96% of U.S. adults believed male and female citizens should have equal rights, and 88% said the Constitution should guarantee equal rights, but 72% of the respondents mistakenly assumed that the Constitution already includes such a guarantee.

Of course yes. Equality under the law should not be debatable.

If an angry guy like Oswego Williy is for it….kinda.

it is the right thing to do, and it will label the Tea Party neanderthals prior to the next election who will vote against it. Good voter information action.

I voted “no” because, as Steans herself admits, it is (only) symbolic. I don’t believe in wasting time on  political grandstanding when there are pressing and urgent fiscal issues affecting the state. She’s just trying to pad her resume and appeal to the EMILY’s List crowd for when she tries to seek higher office.

I wonder what any of that means.

Yes. If some Republicans don’t know a trick bag when they see one, they get what they deserve.

Good and hard too.

It is NOT only symbolic. It would change the standard of scrutiny by the Courts when confronted with discrimination based on gender. It would make more laws that discriminate by gender unconstitutional. it would prevent rollback of existing statutory protections.

Utter garbage politics.

Sure. Why not? There’s no time limit on stupid.

Sure, why not? And while they’re at it they could repeal a woman’s right to vote (19th Amendment), as restricting the vote is so popular with the far right. Garbage indeed!

Are you referring to voter ID ? The same people griping about this are the same ones that have no problem showing an ID for everything else in life (booze, smokes, any bank business, etc).

YES!

The State Senator brought up abortion. I agree with you that ERA has nothing to do with Abortion, however you should let the state Senator know that not me.

Besides, Susan B Anthony was against abortion. This has nothing to do with women dying in childbirth. You are correct that less happens today which actually shows less “need” for abortions.

Fact free living is bad for you.

It doesn’t matter when Susan B Anthony died. She was a suffragette. Also, she was one of the most famous ones.

When is the last time you went to a bank? Seriously, the last time I showed a DL or state ID at the bank was last time I made a checking account. Anyone who could get ahold of my secret code could do my banking for years and get away with it.

She was also a coward and a racist.

You are wrong.

Susan B Anthony was far from a coward and she was not a racist. She also was against Abortion. The true fasts are bad for you. You can’t handle the truth.

Susan B Anthony worked against slavery. This was not cowardly in the 1840’s. She worked for women’s rights and was arrested for voting before women could vote. This is not cowardly. The 19th amendment is named after her.

She upset a lot of powerful leaders of the 1800s. This is not cowardly.

The Susan B Anthony museum has more than 80 issues of Anthony’s newspaper, The Revolution, which makes more than 100 references to abortion and Winn ( the museum director) said each of the references is in direct opposition to abortion. She also points out that the newspaper did not accept advertising for abortion.

There are many quotes by Susan B Anthony in direct opposition to Abortion.

Us ratifying the Amendment means nothing for anyone (except ourselves) unless 2 other states ratify, and no one unratifies.  I have nothing against symbolism, but that would appear to me to be all this is at this time.

There is no legal precedent for “unratifying” it. That has never been done. Ratifying a potential constitutional amendment is kind like loosing your virginity. Once it’s done; it’s done.

Any by the way, I find it interesting how many in the comments act as though women having constitutional equality is regarded as politically correct, ginning up support, a trick bag for Republicans. It’s called human rights people, so please stop demeaning my right to be equal under the United States Constitution, just as it has been for the entire history of this country.

If it really is no big deal, than ratify it already. The Nevada state legislature plans to make the plunge next. They are considering making it the first bill they introduce in their new session.

Get it done already Illinois!

Voted no.  Thought of just two words: military draft.  I din;t want my daughters/granddaughters conscripted into military service to fight foreign men overseas.

The ERA needs to be passed. IL has shown a staggering inability to handle respect and lacks common sense. Needed medical facilities have been closed. Access to reasonable, competent treatment is almost nonexistent in my area. Do to stupidity, I learned very quickly about ethnic prejudice in middle school. By high school, a response to a lawsuit resulted in all students having a gender and an ethnicity in the computer. I was denied class changes because of my gender and ethnicity and how it would unbalance a classroom. Money is misspent making a workable intersection dangerous for the PR. That is the Illinois I have lived most of my life in. The least it could do is support women’s rights.

RE: 14th Amendment - This amendment has been consistently used to deny rights to women - the right to vote, to serve on juries etc. etc. It does not provide protection to women, unfortunately.

ERA only applies to laws which deal with men and women differently. Abortion laws do not apply to men. Because of that ERA does not protect (or forbid) abortion rights. That’s a separate issue.
