
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

The Louisiana Mineral and Energy Board collected nearly $581,000 for the May sale of oil and gas lease rights on state and local lands, a sharp decrease from April.

The drop in revenue was due in part to the board's decision to reject several bids from companies seeking rights to drill areas at the heart of the emerging Tuscaloosa Marine Shale oil and gas formation.

Activity in the Tuscaloosa Marine Shale has been the center of controversy as one company seeks to drill a new well targeting the formation in St. Tammany Parish. Residents there say the fracking method used to explore the area will blemish the local landscape, cause environmental damage and lead to health problems.

The Tuscaloosa Marine Shale spans much of central Louisiana and the Florida Parishes, though drilling activity has largely clustered East Feliciana, West Feliciana and St. Helena parishes along the Louisiana-Mississippi border. The formation is estimated to hold more than seven billion barrels of oil.

The mineral board rejected more than $95,000 in bids during the May sale, most of which targeted St. Helena and East Feliciana parishes, northwest of the disputed St. Tammany well.

The board did not accept the bids -- which included eight from Frisco, Texas-based Comstock Oil & Gas Louisiana LLC -- because they were too low, according to state records.

The state awarded 12 leases total covering 1,817 acres out of 47 nominated tracts covering more than 30,840 acres. That compares with 32 leases sold and $1.8 million in bonus revenue collected in April.

Seven companies participated in the May sale.

Baton Rouge-based Cypress Energy Corp. led bidding activity, offering more than $371,000 for five tracts in Terrebonne Parish, including more than $64,000 for 304 acres in state waters.

The board also sold leases in Acadia, Allen, Cameron, Plaquemines, St. Helena and St. Martin parishes.

Comstock Oil & Gas submitted nine bids totaling $80,495 for areas in St. Helena and East Feliciana parishes. But the company was only awarded one lease at a bonus of $32,895 for 129 acres in St. Helena.

Houston-based HK TMS had both of its bids rejected. The company bid $14,715 total for two leases in East Feliciana Parish.

The Louisiana Mineral and Energy Board has collected $17.1 million so far this fiscal year, which began July 1, 2013. The state collected $18.3 million total during the previous fiscal year.

Check here if you do not want to receive additional email offers and information.

Thank you for signing up!

Please check your inbox, and approve the verification email. If you don't see it, check your spam folder.  To view and subscribe to any of our other newsletters, please click here .

© 2014 NOLA Media Group. All rights reserved ( About Us ).

The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of NOLA Media Group.

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
