
In the conclusion of his 26-page ruling that made marriage equality legal in Oregon, U.S. District Judge Michael McShane beautifully and bluntly laid out why that state’s ban on same-sex marriage could not stand.

It is not surprising then that many of us raised with such a world view would wish to protect our beliefs and our families by turning to the ballot box to enshrine in law those traditions we have come to value. But just as the Constitution protects the expression of these moral viewpoints, it equally protects the minority from being diminished by them…..

My decision will not be the final word on this subject, but on  this issue of marriage I am struck more by our similarities than our differences. I believe that if we can look for a moment past gender and sexuality, we can see in these plaintiffs nothing more or less than our own families. Families who we would expect  our Constitution to protect, if not exalt, in equal measure. With discernment we see not  shadows  lurking in closets or the stereotypes of what was once believed; rather, we see families committed to the common purpose of love, devotion, and service to the greater community.

Because McShane didn’t stay his ruling and there is no state official in Oregon willing to defend its ban on same-sex marriage, Oregon is now the 18th state in the nation, plus the District of Columbia, to legalize marriage equality. Add federal and state court rulings declaring unconstitutional bans on same-sex marriage in Utah, Oklahoma, Virginia, Texas, Idaho, Arkansas and Michigan and the number goes up to 25. They are all under appeal. That number goes up still to 28 if you include rulings in Ohio, Tennessee and Kentucky that require those states to recognize same-sex marriages performed in other jurisdictions.

The march to marriage equality is becoming more of a sprint. Only the Supreme Court can tell us where the finish line is. And the time for it to do so is drawing nigh.

Jonathan Capehart is a member of the Post editorial board and writes about politics and social issues for the PostPartisan blog.

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
