
A Texas Hill Country canyon offers star parties, wildflower hikes, lazy lake cruises and farm-to-table refueling.

This natural dolomite formation, shaped like a dog and the size of a Labrador retriever, appears in the Queen’s Throne room of Longhorn Cavern State Park.

At Eagle Eye Observatory, located on a former cornfield, you can star-watch through pro-quality telescopes.

One parkland trail at Canyon of the Eagles leads to Eagle Eye Observatory, where Austin-area astronomers as well as park and resort visitors go to watch the stars.

A delectable grilled pineapple dish is among specialties at The Overlook Restaurant at the Canyon of the Eagles.

Daredevil mountain bikers love this rocky hilltop at Reveille Peak Ranch (below), an extreme sports and event center near Canyon of the Eagles.

An impressive building constructed by the CCC -- Civilian Conservation Corps -- in the 1930s at Longhorn Caverns State Park.

A morning walk on Peacock Loop Trail in the hilly, sprawling park at Canyon of the Eagles.

Entering the deep, long cavern at Longhorn Cavern State Park in Texas Hill Country.

Texas hospitality, on-site gourmet restaurant serving breakfast, lunch and dinner at affordable prices; child- and pet-friendly. 62 recently renovated cabins with eco-friendly furnishings, 2 ADA rooms, campground and RV parking. An hour northwest of Austin.

New lighting illuminates parts of this rare river-formed cavern. The park also features intriguing stone buildings from the 1930s. Free admission; low-priced tours.

Narrative with terrific views of Lake Buchanan, the Colorado River, native animals and migrating birds. Kayak rentals.

Jupiter and its moons, the very same discovered by Galileo in 1610, seem within my reach. Orion’s blue-white and red super-giants punch holes in the darkness; shooting stars leave trails of glitter.

This ridge, an hour northwest of Austin, offers the ultimate in high-definition. To get a better celestial view would require a space shuttle.

Located on a retired cornfield in Texas Hill Country, Eagle Eye Observatory is one of the mind-tingling attractions at Canyon of the Eagles.

This 940-acre nature park-resort, owned by the Lower Colorado River Authority, supports an incredibly rich ecosystem inhabited by coyotes, armadillos, deer and small feral pigs, 340 species of birds from American bald eagles to endangered golden-cheeked warblers, 68 species of reptiles and in adjacent Lake Buchanan, 18 kinds of fish.

Cacti, Indian blanket flower and bluebonnets number among 150 plants covering a rugged landscape shaded by live oak and Ashe juniper.

About 720 acres of preserve is fenced off from motorized vehicles, creating a wonderland of cliffs, hills and wildflower meadows for wandering — and open-air study of botany, ecology, geology, astronomy and animals.

Millions of years ago, rocky earth bucked up into the Llano Uplift, Texas’ central mineral region. Centuries eroded its sediment, exposing limestone, granite and dolostone and sculpting distinctive hills and canyons.

This is a place to “discover miniature worlds,” said Bill Gibson, a naturalist lured here to lead nature walks after a career with national parks countrywide.

Several nights a week, star parties draw gazers to the open-air observatory’s high-power telescopes — a 16-inch Cassegrain Ealing and a 12.5-inch Harlan Smith Newtonian.

Even my unaided eyes can see the sparkly Milky Way and fabled constellations. The dark-sky site protocol prohibits bright lights after dark to enable optimal night vision (eyes adjust within 30 minutes). That means switching off headlights and interior lights as our car crunches up the gravel to the hilltop. And no flash photography. Illumination is restricted to red-lens flashlights and LEDs.

Just beyond the parking lot, square tables accommodate the personal telescopes and film equipment of enthusiasts, some with the Austin Astronomical Society. “This is one of America’s top dark-sky sites,” one told me.

Canyon of the Eagles reminds me of summer camp, except it’s year-round with clean guestrooms, comfy beds and nice bathrooms (linens and towels provided), and no rowdy bunk-mates.

Instead of a mess hall, there’s a gracious restaurant serving made-from-scratch gourmet dishes at every meal. Urban cowboys equipped to camp have a choice of tidy RV and tent sites.

Besides star parties, complimentary guided eco-hikes and informal classes pair enlightenment with relaxation. You can meet non-venomous reptiles, learn how birds fly, examine animal habitats and listen to cowboy poets.

Solitude-seekers can row on Lake Buchanan or hike 14 miles of trails from easy Lakeside to steep Peacock Loop. I took the latter to Juniper Ridge, where panoramas inspired an impromptu yoga session.

In this pocket of the Llano Uplift, endangered golden-cheeked warblers build nests in the mature Ashe junipers. The eagles nest here winter-long before carpets of brilliant wildflowers bloom across the park. Rabbits and deer crossed my path, and scat indicated coyotes close-by. My watch for the resident mountain lion went unrewarded.

Curious about Texas Hill Country plants, I join a guided hike. Bill, our guide, moves quietly and slowly, pointing out miniature marvels: deep-purple marble-sized persimmons, magenta prickly pear fruits (“tunas”) harvested by the resort’s chef — and tillandsia embracing tree limbs. Related to Spanish moss (which is not really a moss), these epiphytes — air plants — are not parasitic. They use hosts simply as sun porches.

“Explore these worlds from an insect’s point-of-view,” Bill suggested. It’s an invigorating way of looking at things, a new lens on life that I resolve to adopt.

The “parade of birds” helped persuade ramblin’ Bill to camp awhile at this eco-resort. By day he watches raptors and songbirds. At night he calls Eastern screech owls, sometimes using a smartphone app.

He’s grateful for every heron and egret spotted: Feather-hunters once decimated their populations, but here they’ve rebounded.

Canyon of the Eagles guest-quarters resemble 1920s Hill Country cottages constructed with local stone, rustic board-and-batten siding and porches with rocking chairs facing Lake Buchanan.

The resort draws families, honeymooners, buddies and dog-lovers. Two rooms accommodate disabled guests.

The resort’s Overlook restaurant vanquishes memories of camp food, serving inventive dishes made with fresh local ingredients. Texas accents emanate from housemade tortillas to cocktails to grilled agave-glazed fruit cups.

Free-admission Longhorn Cavern State Park’s features were constructed in the 1930s by the Civilian Conservation Corps, including the show-cave portion of this rare, river-formed cavern. Before that, occupants included Ice Age animals, Comanche Indians, Confederate soldiers who made gunpowder in hiding, and notorious Texas outlaw Sam Bass.

A softly illuminated trail winds past age-old formations in rough, rippled limestone and smooth dolomite chambers. One subterranean feature defies belief: a dog-shaped figure that looks hand-sculpted, but has been verified by scientists as a natural dolomite formation. The crack in its “torso”? Someone climbed on for a photo, earning herself a hefty fine.

In downtown Burnet (locals say “burn-it, durn-it!”), I sip sweet peach tea at Tea-licious amid displays of hand-stitched quilts and jumbo jars of house-fermented sweet pickles.

Charming, but for true enchantment I head back to the canyon resort. There are infinite worlds of nature-made wonders underfoot and overhead. And food that even beats cooking over a campfire.

Posted in Travel on Sunday, May 18, 2014 9:20 pm.
