
This  news release comes from the American Greyhound Council , which represents the dog racing industry, from breeders to tracks, such as the Southland Greyhound Park in West Memphis. It announces apparent mistreatment of greyhounds at an Arkansas farm.

The National Greyhound Association (NGA) has removed approximately 135 greyhounds from a rural Arkansas farm in response to concerns raised by other NGA members in the area, according to Gary Guccione, executive director of the association.

Guccione said the intervention occurred after NGA President Julia Ward and member Randy Finegan became aware that greyhounds on the farm were in poor condition and did not appear to be receiving proper food and care. The NGA officials contacted local law enforcement authorities and worked with them to remove the greyhounds from the facility legally with the owner's permission.

The dogs were moved in four trucks and trailers, with seven greyhounds going to West Memphis for treatment and eventual adoption, and the remainder to NGA national headquarters in Abilene, KS, where they will be cared for by staff until they have been restored to full health. All the dogs are expected to make a full recovery, according to Guccione, after which they will be returned to their rightful owners or placed in adoption programs.

Guccione said the farm's proprietor will appear before an NGA disciplinary hearing in early June. If found guilty of serious violations of the NGA's animal care standards, the individual will be banned from greyhound racing for life, and others prohibited from doing business with him.

greyhounds will be fine."

UPDATE: I'm told that the dogs were taken from a breeding operation near Mount Pleasant in Izard County established by a greyhound farmer who'd moved not long ago from Kansas. The Greyhound Council's Guccione declined to name the owner because of the ongoing investigation, but said he'd had "issues" while getting established in Kansas and the organization had monitored him to be sure his care was up to standard. He said the issues In Kansas about adequate facilities had occurred during a business breakup and bad winter but didn't rise to the level where a sanction was in order. The group got a tip about poor conditions in Arkansas and they contacted the sheriff for a visit tp the owner, who was encouraged to voluntarily turn over the dogs. "This has a happy ending," Guccione said. He said he was confident the dogs would return to good health and the organization had received commendations from some who criticize the industry generally. He didn't know if charges were possible in the case. I'm awaiting a callback from Izard County, but it appears no one has been charged in that jurisdiction at this point with animal cruelty charges.

Jonesboro Mayor Harold Perrin has suspended Police Chief Mike Yates for 30 days without pay for Facebook comments about a Jonesboro Sun police reporter who's since quit her job because she said she didn't feel safe. The chief has been ordered to apologize, to undergo training, to stay away from social media and to review information release procedures that the Sun complained about.

An emotional Clarke Tucker, joined by his wife Toni, denounced Republican oppo research involving his four-year-old child at a a press conference this morning at his campaign headquarters in the Heights. The candidate for a District 35 House seat is running against Republican Stacy Hurst, a Little Rock City Director. "My opponent in this campaign for state representative has come after my four-year-old son and my family in a way that is completely unacceptable in a political campaign," Tucker said.

Harrison has scrubbed a visit from a delegation from Ghana on account of fear — unsupported — of the Ebola virus. The mayor said it is "hysteria" at work.

Rogers City Attorney Ben Lipscomb faces an investigation for claiming to be a law officer to get VIP treatment at a concert. Crime or no crime, it's not the first time he's demonstrated poor judgment. A new Arkansas lawyer recounts his experience with Lipscomb and his then-boss, the bumptious U.S. Rep. Steve Womack.
