
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

PolitiFact: Claim Rep. Justin Amash votes more Democratic than Republican is 'false'

GRAND RAPIDS, MI — It's well-known U.S. Rep. Justin Amash occasionally votes against the majority of the Republican Party, though PolitiFact determined those actions aren't enough to consider himself as a member across the aisle.

PolitiFact's famed "Truth-O-Meter" found U.S. Rep. Mike Rogers', R-Brighton, claim that Amash "votes more with the Democrats than with the Republicans" is false. Rogers joins a growing chorus of establishment Republicans supporting Amash's primary opponent , local businessman Brian Ellis, even going as far as contributing $5,000 to his campaign.

This isn't the first time Amash, R-Cascade Township, has been the target of critics for being out of line with his party. In a television advertisement, Ellis claimed Amash voted with President Barack Obama 51 percent of the time — the most of any Republican member in Congress.

However, the votes were taken during a one-year span in Congress, 2012. PolitiFact adds the votes considered were just 61 individual instances were Obama took a public position, or a fraction of votes held in the House.

PolitiFact pulled back and explored the totality of Amash's votes on OpenCongress.org , which aggregates congresspeople's voting records and is owned by the nonpartisan Sunshine Foundation. Its profile on Amash shows he voted with the Republican Party 82 percent of the time since January 2013.

It's not as high as Rogers' 96 percent nor does Amash rank as high as fellow Michigan Republicans, but voting records show he votes more conservatively than not. House Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi, for example, least often votes with Amash, according to OpenCongress.org's records.

In an earlier interview, Amash spokesman Will Adams said the congressman's record is soundly conservative. He also pointed out Amash's explanations on Facebook , which PolitiFact found as interesting in that it provides detail as to why he breaks from his party.

"Also in 2012, he voted against Republicans on a bill to replace across-the-board spending cuts (the so-called 'sequester') with other more targeted cuts, while lifting spending caps on the military," PolitiFact wrote. "Obama, instead, wanted to replace the sequester with tax increases and cut in other ways; Amash said he opposed the Republican proposal because it increased spending."

© 2014 MLive Media Group All rights reserved ( About Us ).

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
