
MIDDLESEX COUNTY >> Three Connecticut River Valley towns have been awarded Small Town Economic Assistance Program grants which will fund a variety of economic development, community conservation and quality-of-life projects, state officials announced Monday.

Portland town officials hope to use a $363,000 state grant to complete work on the riverfront park. This is the fourth such grant the town has received to do work on the park, which sits on the shore of the Connecticut River just north of the Brownstone Discovery and Exploration Park.

The park has been under construction since 2008 and is a cooperative effort involving the Brownstone Quorum, the parks and recreation department, and the public works department, First Selectman Susan S. Bransfield said.

The effort to create the park has also involved extending Middlesex Avenue so that it ties into Brownstone Avenue and installing sidewalks as well as creating a parking area, and building both a pavilion and an open-air amphitheater on the park site itself.

Bransfield said the town will sue the grant funding to extend water and sewer lines into the park, create a free-standing handicapped-accessible toilet, erect a band shell cover over the amphitheater and create a 600-linear foot driveway with code-compliant parking. It will also be used to install picnic tables and grills, “and do some further landscaping on the site, Bransfield said.

The town is in the final stages of developing a schedule for concerts for this summer as well as hiking program. In the fall, the park will be used in conjunction with a haunted ride, she said.

“This state grant is a massive boost for the town of Portland. This final phase of the Riverfront project will provide significant economic benefit to the small businesses that line Portland’s Main Street,” State Rep. Christie Carpino (R-Cromwell and Portland) said.

The grant proposal was developed by Bransfield working in concert with Planning and Land-use Administrator Deanna Rhodes, Economic Development Coordinator Mary Dickerson, Director of Finance Tom E. Robinson and Director of Public Works Richard D. Kelsey. “I hope when this final phase of the project is completed that the park will become a destination location,” both for residents of the town as well as for those throughout the region, Bransfield said.

In all, 28 towns throughout Connecticut were awarded funding.

East Hampton received $500,000 in STEAP funds, which will be used to implement Phase II of the Watrous Street Redevelopment Project. “This grant will strengthen our business center here in East Hampton and I am confident that this will be an invaluable investment,” said state Rep. Melissa Ziobron, R-34th. “By increasing parking in the Village Center, we will stimulate growth for our small businesses and attract more customers,” said Ziobron.

Funds will pay for capital improvements including comprehensive blight removal, public safety and a public parking project in the Village Center of East Hampton. The project promotes economic development and removes a public health threat by remediating a brownfield at the Summit Thread Powerhouse and turning it into a public parking area.

The lower river valley town of Old Saybrook received $500,000 for the Main Street Connections Park and Parking Lot Project, which involves redeveloping the property where an irreparably storm-damaged municipal building is located and replacing it with a parking area and recreational park. This will create a place in the center of town where people can relax and recreate, according to the governor’s office.

Features include much needed additional downtown parking, multi-modal canopied pathways, and seating in the park.
