
Speaking Monday at the East Coast Gaming Congress in Atlantic City, a panel of experts said illegal offshore gambling sites continue to operate, and that’s hurting the fledgling online gambling industries in the three states that have legalized it.

New Jersey saw its first decline in Internet gambling revenue in April, falling to $11.4 million from $11.9 million in March. It began in late November as a way to help Atlantic City’s casinos gain new revenue and customers. Nevada and Delaware also offer it.

He said his state recently sent cease-and-desist letters to gambling companies from out of state that are marketing to New Jersey residents. Internet gambling can only be conducted within New Jersey’s borders, according to state law.

California gambling control commissioner Richard Schuetz said over a million people are betting over the Internet in his state — all illegally.

Rebuck also said some people are hesitant to give their Social Security number and credit card information to a gambling provider, even one licensed by the state.

Brian Mattingley, CEO of 888.com, said his company conducted a survey that showed only 10 percent of New Jerseyans realize Internet gambling is legal here.

But despite its relatively slow start, panelists were unanimous that online gambling has plenty of room for growth in the U.S.

“We think what’s happening in the U.S. is the single most exciting happening in I-gaming in the world,” said Eamonn Toland, president of the North American arm of the Irish-based Paddy Power online betting firm.

He said continuing problems with credit card acceptance are holding the industry back.

Schuetz and several others compared Internet gambling to an infant.

It appears that you already have an account created within our VIP network of sites on . To keep your points and personal information safe, we need to verify that it's really you. To activate your account, please confirm your password. When you have confirmed your password, you will be able to log in through Facebook on both sites.

We're Almost There!

Please fill out the information below to help us provide you a better experience.
