
FT. MYERS, Fla., May 19, 2014 /PRNewswire/ -- TruStar Energy, one of the leading providers of compressed natural gas (CNG) fueling infrastructure, is pleased to announce the grand opening of JJ Taylor's second CNG fueling station in Florida – at their Fort Myers location.

This is the second TruStar Energy-designed, owned, and maintained station built for JJ Taylor. The first station, located in Tampa, Fla., was brought online two years ago and has been fueling their fleet as well as vehicles from a few local refuse haulers in the Tampa area.

"JJ Taylor was among the first beverage distributors in the country to migrate their fleet to CNG," said TruStar Energy Vice President, Scott Edelbach. "After witnessing first hand the benefits – in terms of operating costs and bottom-line savings, they asked us to build a station at their Ft. Myers distribution center."

"We've had a very positive experience with CNG powering our Tampa-based fleet and now can realize additional operational savings by utilizing natural gas to power our tractors that move products between our Tampa, Fort Myers, and Fort Pierce locations," said JJ Taylor Corporate Vice President of Administration, Jose Rivera, adding that this station will also be accessible to local fleets needing CNG fuel.

The Fort Myers station is similar to their Tampa fast-fill station, but has additional time-fill posts to accommodate their 10 new Freightliner Cascadia tractors, powered by the Cummins-Westport 12 liter engine. Rivera says they already have an additional 12 Kenworth tractors slated for delivery in June and 25 on order for January 2015.

"Our goal at JJ Taylor is to continue migrating our fleet to CNG with the target of converting 95% of our Florida fleet by 2017," said Rivera.

"Moving away from foreign oil and converting to CNG makes financial sense to fleets running dedicated routes," said TruStar Energy President, Adam Comora, adding that public and private fueling networks are expanding almost daily throughout the country. "Significant fuel savings create added value for fleet operators and their partners. Natural gas is better for the environment, better for domestic energy independence and better for the bottom line – truly a win-win-win solution."

TruStar Energy began building private "behind the fence" fueling stations in 2008, and has since expanded their product offerings to include public / private station builds along with fuel supply contracts. In addition, TruStar Energy-owned stations can be built for those customers that are not interested in station ownership, but want access to low-cost CNG fuel.

Comora said TruStar Energy has the capability of building 40 CNG stations per year and expects to double that capacity over the next few years.

TruStar Energy LLC is the preferred partner for commercial fleets looking to transition their fuel supply from oil to natural gas.  TruStar Energy provides a suite of solutions making the transition as simple and easy as possible for the customer.  With station builds throughout the US and Canada, TruStar Energy is a recognized leader in providing CNG infrastructure and CNG fueling solutions.
