
Perhaps inadvertently, Rubio created a useful template here for classifying a number of today’s Republican candidates for Senate — and, more broadly, for gauging the party’s current approach to science.

This language is detailed in the PAC’s  endorsement criteria , which also require the candidate filling out a questionnaire detailing these positions.

A spokesperson for Land did not reply to a request for clarification of her position; I’ll update if I hear back. When questioned by Politico , Land did not mention rape or incest as exceptions to her opposition to abortion.

 * Thom Tillis: The Republican Senate candidate in North Carolina said during the GOP primary that climate change is not a fact.

Of course, it’s unclear how much all of this will matter in terms of who will control the Senate next year, given the terrible make-up of the map for Dems. But it’s worth noting that Dems are planning to ramp up attacks on the GOP candidates over Personhood as the campaigns intensify. Meanwhile, as Lucia Graves details , it’s not impossible climate change could matter a bit more than usual in multiple Senate races. The Koch brothers, who are spending massively to influence who controls the Senate, have a history of bankrolling climate skepticism , and with environmental activist Tom Steier set to spend huge sums on Dems, that could give the issue a somewhat higher profile.

Either way, the current GOP candidates’ stances on Personhood and climate change are a reminder that, for all the talk about the “GOP establishment” vanquishing extreme elements within the party, the nominees themselves have held positions that Dems will seize on to portray them as being just as extreme as Todd Akin and Richard Mourdock ever were.

Greg Sargent writes The Plum Line blog, a reported opinion blog with a liberal slant -- what you might call “opinionated reporting” from the left.

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
