
Earn Free CME Credits by reading the latest medical news in your specialty.

Note that this randomized trial of an IL-6 antibody demonstrated efficacy in ameliorating symptoms in children with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis.

Be aware that the randomized portion of the trial only included patients who had already demonstrated a response to the agent.

Treatment with tocilizumab (Actemra) resulted in fewer early disease flares and significant symptomatic improvements among children with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA), a phase III study found.

Among patients receiving tocilizumab, 25.6% of patients experienced a flare by week 40 compared with 48.1% among those randomized to placebo, for an adjusted difference of -0.21 in rate of flares (95% CI minus 0.35-minus 0.08, P=0.0024), according to Hermine I. Brunner, MD , of Cincinnati Children's Hospital, and colleagues.

In the placebo group, flares began to appear after only 28 days, they noted.

In addition, after 4 months of treatment, 89.4% of patients receiving tocilizumab had achieved a 30% response according to the American College of Rheumatology criteria (ACR30), while 62.2% and 26.1% had ACR70 and ACR90 responses , respectively, the researchers reported online in Annals of the Rheumatic Diseases.

JIA is classified as polyarticular if more than four joints are affected, and can be associated with severe disability. It differs from systemic-onset JIA in that it lacks rash and intermittent fever along with the joint involvement.

A previous study demonstrated that this interleukin (IL)-6 receptor antibody was effective in systemic JIA , and has also shown benefits for adults with rheumatoid arthritis.

Because of that previous experience and because IL-6 has been detected at elevated levels in the joints and serum of children with polyarticular JIA and appears to correlate with disease severity, Brunner and colleagues enrolled 188 patients from 58 centers throughout the world in a three-part trial of tocilizumab known as CHERISH.

All participants had previously had an inadequate response to methotrexate, and some had also failed on another biologic agent.

In the first open-label phase of the study, children who weighed 30 kg (66 lbs) or more received 8 mg/kg of tocilizumab intravenously once monthly for 4 months. Those who weighed less than 30 kg were assigned randomly to receive monthly doses of either 8 mg/kg or 10 mg/kg.

Those who had an ACR30 or better response entered part two, in which they were randomized to continue tocilizumab or placebo, continuing on background methotrexate and steroids as needed.

Part three of the study will extend to 64 weeks and will consist of open-label tocilizumab in the doses given in part one.

Patients' mean age was 11 years, and three-quarters were female. Disease duration was slightly over 4 years, and the mean number of joints with active arthritis was 20.

In part one of the study, children weighing less than 30 kg who received the 8 mg/kg dose had lower ACR30/70/90 responses than the other groups. In the second part, rates of ACR70/90 were higher in patients also receiving methotrexate, but were lower in those who had previously received biologics.

Other studies of biologics in children with JIA who have not responded to previous biologic therapy have also found lower response rates, and these children may represent a particularly refractory population, the researchers observed.

During the study, 9% of patients experienced 22 serious adverse events. Five of these events, such as pneumonia and cellulitis, were thought to be treatment-related.

Among laboratory abnormalities were increases in liver enzymes, neutropenia, and thrombocytopenia, but no relation was seen with infections or bleeding. As has been seen in adults, increases also were seen in total and LDL cholesterol levels.

"Tocilizumab treatment provided sustained and clinically meaningful improvement for patients with [polyarticular-course] JIA on monthly dosing of 8 mg/kg in patients weighing 30 kg or more and 10 mg/kg in patients weighing less than 30 kg," Brunner and colleagues concluded.

A limitation of the study was the withdrawal of patients who didn't have an ACR30 response in part one of the trial.

The study was funded by Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd.

The investigators disclosed multiple relevant financial relationships with companies including Roche, AbbVie, Pfizer, AstraZeneca, GlaxoSmithKline, Novartis, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Eli Lilly, UCB, MedImmune, and Novo Nordisk.

This survey is a poll of those who choose to participate and are, therefore, not valid statistical samples, but rather a snapshot of what your colleagues are thinking.

MedPageToday, powered by Everyday Health Inc., is a trusted and reliable source for clinical and policy coverage that directly affects the lives and practices of health care professionals.

Physicians and other healthcare professionals may also receive Continuing Medical Education (CME) and Continuing Education (CE) credits at no cost for participating in MedPage Today-hosted educational activities.

© 2014 MedPage Today, LLC. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of the MedPageToday.com terms of use and privacy policy . The material on this site is for informational purposes only, and is not a substitute for medical advice, diagnosis or treatment provided by a qualified health care provider.
