
FORDLAND, Mo. -- Monday Governor Jay Nixon announced grants for five new tornado safe rooms at schools in Missouri.

FORDLAND, Mo. -- Monday Governor Jay Nixon announced grants for five new tornado safe rooms at schools in Missouri.

One will be in Webster County at the Fordland School District Elementary School.

The new safe room at Fordland Elementary will serve two roles.

One as a new preschool and then when storms roll through it will act as a safe room for the kids.

When Sarah Gatewood takes her daughter to preschool at Fordland Elementary, she pays close attention to the weather.

"I think it's very important we are known in this area to have tornadoes," she said.

Right now there is not a FEMA safe room nearby.

"When there are storms sometimes I'm even hesitant to allow her to go to school," she said.

But that will soon change.

Fordland has been awarded a grant for a severe weather shelter.

Superintendent Richard Spacek said the school has narrowly missed being in a storm's path in years past.

"We've just been lucky and not have a direct hit at any of our buildings," he said.

He said getting students to safety will be much quicker having the safe room attached to the school.

The kids will be able to get to the storm shelter from the multipurpose room just by going through a door that right now just leads to the back of the building.

But will soon be one of the walls of the 4000 square foot tornado shelter to be built on this property.

"It will be a relief to know that safety is that close," he said.

Sarah Gatewood's daughter will spend the next five years at this school.

She hopes a tornado never comes close enough to need the shelter, but it'll be there just in case.

"I'm really relieved that she will be here in a safe place," she said.

The shelter will cost about a million dollars to build.

The grant pays 75 percent of that cost and the other 25 percent is matched by the school district.

The governor Monday also announced a safe room for the Plato School District in Texas County, which will keep up to 700 people safe during severe weather.
