
May 19, 2014 -  Ensuring safe, reliable, and proper grid connection at all times, CM-UFD.M33 (Grid Tie Relay) protects wind turbines from unstable grid activity or faults by disconnecting electric energy source from grid. Relay monitors voltage and frequency in single- and 3-phase grids and trips coupling switch when electrical values are not within set parameters. Upon fault detection, grid feeding monitoring relay sounds alarm, displays message, and signals alarm cause to control system.

ABB Inc.

New grid feeding monitoring relay, CM-UFD.M33, protects wind turbines from unstable grids or faults by disconnecting electric energy source from the grid; also monitors voltage and frequency, ensuring safe, reliable and proper grid connection at all times.

Las Vegas, Nevada — ABB, the wind industry’s leading power technology provider, today announced it is introducing a powerful new grid feeding monitoring relay for wind applications, as part of the AWEA Windpower 2014 conference and exhibition.

The new low-voltage grid feeding monitoring relay CM-UFD.M33, also known as the Grid Tie Relay, is a state of the art component that protects wind turbines from unstable grid activity or faults by disconnecting the electric energy source from the grid. The relay monitors voltage and frequency in single and three phase grids and trips the coupling switch when electrical values are not within set parameters. If a fault is detected, the grid feeding monitoring relay sounds an alarm, displays a message and signal the alarm cause to the control system.

The new Grid Tie Relay demonstrates ABB’s global expertise in advanced design and product development that meets the needs of the increasingly sophisticated wind industry.

This solution, which is also designed for solar applications, uses a UL tested and certified product that encompasses multiple functions in a compact plug and play package. Operating mode/status display, user interface, integrated protective functions, various control inputs and outputs, vector shift detection, interrupted neutral detection, automatic reconnection as result of false errors, test mode function with fault memory storage to assist in system trouble shooting and password protection for optimum security. It also provides visual status indication that can be connected to a PLC for remote monitoring.

To see this new state-of-the-art solution from ABB, visit the ABB booth #4148 at the AWEA Windpower 2014 conference and exhibition at the Mandalay Bay Convention Center in Las Vegas.

ABB ( www.abb.com ) is a leader in power and automation technologies that enable utility and industry customers to improve performance while lowering environmental impact. The ABB Group of companies operates in around 100 countries and employs about 150,000 people. The company's North American operations, headquartered in Cary, North Carolina, employ over 30,000 people in multiple manufacturing, service and other major facilities.
