
A quick investigation indicates the child accidentally ingested a cleaning solution usually kept safely tucked away in a kitchen cabinet.

The label gives a suggestion for immediate first aid and says to call a poison control center.

Now imagine there is no one to call.

That could become a reality July 1 unless funding is found for the Illinois Poison Control Center hot line.

Emergency help can be there within minutes, but those minutes can sometimes cause irrevocable harm without intervention.

Sometimes that help — and a costly trip to the emergency room — is not even needed. About 90 percent of the time, poison control experts are able to determine that there is no danger or can provide guidance on the proper treatment over the phone.

Last year in Illinois about 80,000 calls were placed to the Illinois Poison Control Center hot line — almost a third of them from healthcare professionals.

In addition, education programs initiative by the center are credited with sharply reducing the number of incidents requiring assistance by teaching adults how to secure dangerous items and teaching children to avoid them.

Since 2009, though, the Illinois Poison Control Center has lost about $1.5 million in funding. In addition to donations, it relies on state and federal funding.

But state funding is questionable this year in the midst of Illinois’ budget mess and center officials say that without it, the future of the Illinois Poison Control Center is in question.

That would make Illinois the only state without a poison control center.

Bunker Hill Sen. Andy Manar is among those pushing to make sure the funding is available.

That is exactly what happened in several states that in the past. Michigan saw an increase of 35 percent in emergency room visits a decade ago when it stopped serving just a portion of the state, according to the American Association of Poison Control Centers. In Louisiana, the closing of its poison control center in 1988 cost the state $1.4 million because of the increase in emergency room visits for poison-related treatments.

Manar is joined by 71 other state lawmakers trying to keep the poison control center from having to cut back services or close.

This is a life-saving service Illinoisans cannot afford to lose.
