
It’s tough to follow the news when you’re finally off the clock and have time for yourself and your family. Rewind will help you catch up with all the happenings in Utah over the weekend.

Willie Jessop arrested in Texas, days before expected windfall in Utah » Willie Jessop, the former Warren Jeffs bodyguard who already has claimed his old prophet’s compound, was arrested in Friday in Texas days before he is to receive property and water rights or cash in Utah.

Bring back firing squad executions, Utah lawmaker says » In the wake of a botched lethal injection in Oklahoma last month, a Rep. Paul Ray says he believes a firing squad is a more humane form of execution. And he plans to bring back that option for criminals sentenced to death in his state.

Injured boy re-ignites South Temple crosswalk concerns » Parents have been concerned for years that South Temple is too dangerous for their children, about 450 of whom attend the school, which sits away from the street and out of sight, and seemingly out of mind, to the drivers who speed along the major thoroughfare.

So who’s winning the circulation war? Tribune or Deseret News? » One view of new circulation audits for Salt Lake City’s battling newspapers seems to bolster claims that a recent reworking of the two dailies’ decades-old partnership is patently unfair. Seen another way, the figures appear to reflect a new world in Utah’s media markets.

Monument aims to educate Utah kids on freedom » With Saturday’s Armed Forces Day comes a new Utah monument to veterans — but this one comes with a lesson, literally. The new 15-foot-tall Utah Freedom Memorial, unveiled Friday near Sandy City Hall, is meant to educate kids about the cost of freedom. Organizers not only raised money to erect the granite, bronze and concrete structure but also designed a curriculum they hope area schools will use to teach kids about the importance of freedom and the sacrifices necessary to sustain it.

Reader comments on sltrib.com are the opinions of the writer, not The Salt Lake Tribune. We will delete comments containing obscenities, personal attacks and inappropriate or offensive remarks. Flagrant or repeat violators will be banned. If you see an objectionable comment, please alert us by clicking the arrow on the upper right side of the comment and selecting "Flag comment as inappropriate". If you've recently registered with Disqus or aren't seeing your comments immediately, you may need to verify your email address. To do so, visit disqus.com/account .
