
When one thinks of a walkable city, Atlanta typically isn't the first place that comes to mind. Nevertheless, despite sprawling across North Georgia and the rapid growth over the last few decades, a pedestrian scale urban core still exists. Today, Metro Jacksonville takes a stroll through Atlanta's Five Points, South Downtown and Fairlie-Poplar districts.

1.

Five Points is where Marietta Street, Edgewood Avenue, Decatur Street and two legs of Peachtree Street meet. Atlantans consider Five Points to be the center of the city. It's the origin of the city's street addressing system.

Prior to the arrival of white settlers, Five Points was the intersection of two Creek Indian trails, the Pitch Tree (corrupted to Peachtree) Trail and the Sandtown Trail. In 1845, George Washington Collier opened a grocery store at what is now Five Points, and the store later served as Atlanta's first post office in 1846. In 1848, Five Points served as the location of Atlanta's first mayoral election. Moses Formwalt became Atlanta's first mayor, defeating Jonathan Norcross. In 1875, Atlanta's drinking water system began with the construction of three artesian wells at Five Points. The system delivered water to Atlanta's residents via wooden pipes.

Until the 1960s, Five Points represented the central hub of Atlanta. However, with the advent of urban sprawl, white flight, and the development of shopping malls, the economic and demographic center of Atlanta shifted northward, and Five Points went into decay. By the 21st century, the area was revitalizing, mostly due to the expansion of Georgia State University, which maintains a large footprint in Five Points.

2.

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

8.

9.

10.

...build their own systems before the Jacksonville City Council, mayor and DIV will be knocking the door down to get us streetcars! Any day now folks!

Hmmmmm, well, it seems that these neighborhoods in Atlanta have a lot in common with downtown Jacksonville with streets almost devoid of people.

They are more crowded during weekdays, when school is in, people are at work and retail is open. I took those images on a Sunday before 10am.

The area certainly benefits from having a major college there. I actually used to enjoy walking around Poplar St and Fairlie St checking out the older buildings when I lived there.

Hmmmmm, well, it seems that these neighborhoods in Atlanta have a lot in common with downtown Jacksonville with streets almost devoid of people.

I understand it's a fairly popular neighborhood.

Why wasnt Midtown shown in any of these pics? Downtown sucks..Midtown is full of people day and night with high rise condos and thousands living there. At night, it's full of people walking around going to restaurants and bars till 2-3 am.

Why wasnt Midtown shown in any of these pics? Downtown sucks..Midtown is full of people day and night with high rise condos and thousands living there. At night, it's full of people walking around going to restaurants and bars till 2-3 am.

Is it part of the historic districts? I don't know so I'm asking. I do agree Midtown is one of the most walkable and well-connected parts of the city.

No. Midtown is north of downtown and wasn't the focus of the article.

Midtown is still considered part of the urban core. I live there.

Yes, but it's not the oldest section of Atlanta's historic urban core. Midtown and several urban core neighborhoods in Atlanta, including Marietta Street Artery, Sweet Auburn, Old Fourth Ward, Cabbagetown, Inman Park, Castleberry Hill, etc. have been highlighted on MJ in the past. They, and others will most likely be highlighted again at some point in the future. This particular article was only intended to highlight a section of urban Atlanta that we haven't given much coverage to over the years.

Having lived in both cities, it seems to me that Five Points makes downtown Jax look like Mardi Gras.

Having lived in both cities, as well, you're plain wrong.  You must have been one of those suburban Atlanta residents that never made it downtown, and are this unfamiliar with it.

It's been a while since I boosted Atl on this site since I no longer live there, but DT Atl is making an apparent comeback, and with far more office space than DT Jax, more residents AND better connectivity to neighborhoods with population densities of 10-20,000 ppsm, the country's 4th or 5th largest/busiest convention center and about 15,000 hotel rooms to boot, as well as touristy stuff (Aquarium, World of Coke, Westin sundial, concert venues such as the Tabernacle, and more UC), and a 35,000 student university, you are out of your mind if you think Five Points (the city's busiest transit hub where all 4 MARTA lines converge) is sleepy compared to DT Jax.

Over.

Share your opinion by posting comments on stories that interest you.

Stay up to date on all of the latest issues affecting your neighborhood.

Create a network of friends working towards a better Jacksonville.
