
The move will mark the first time in nearly a century that the Seafarers International Union, which represents deckhands, ferry crews and other sea merchants, will not have a New York City presence.

Courtesy of ND Architecture & Design This is the rendering of 635 Fourth Ave., Brooklyn.

The seafarers union is pulling up anchor and setting sail for Jersey City, abandoning its headquarters on the edge of Gowanus.

The move will mark the first time in nearly a century that the Seafarers International Union, which represents deckhands, ferry crews and other sea merchants, will not have a New York City presence.

The turf was too valuable, and the lucre too substantial, for the sailors to ignore. In December 2013, the labor organization sold its headquarters, at 635 Fourth Ave., to Bushburg for $10 million.

The real estate developer plans to build up to 91 rental apartments, including some affordable units, with a funky exterior design. The plan was first reported by New York YIMBY.

“The union received a substantial offer for the Brooklyn Hall, and there’s no shipping in New York,” said SIU secretary-treasurer David Heindel in a newsletter last August.

Courtesy of ND Architecture & Design The new building will likely include some affordable units.

Still, it marks a significant departure for the union, which counts 82,000 members nationwide and has long maintained a presence in the city.

Its national headquarters was located in lower Manhattan until 1982, when it moved to Camp Springs, Md.

It is not the first time the union is bolting Brooklyn.

The labor group transferred its training facility and a host of other regional offices from Brooklyn to a massive campus in Piney Point, Md., in 1967.

Seafarers International Union The union has owned the building since the early 1990s.

The school now sits on the site of a former Navy torpedo testing center, which includes 90 waterfront acres and a vast fleet of training boats.

As for the new Gowanus development, the proposed building will rise to 12 stories and is expected to be finished in about three years, according to one of the developers, Israel Hirsh.

The complex will probably include affordable housing, a source familiar with the plan said, though the developers are still hashing out the exact number of units with city housing officials.

© Copyright 2014 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.
