
Mrs Maglaya: 'I heard my kid screaming, "They're shooting the dog in the front yard"'

A woman is suing three police officers and the city of Chicago for $1.35million (£800,000) after an off-duty officer shot dead her pit bull puppy as her five-year-old daughter looked on in horror.

Video footage of the aftermath of the incident last year shows distraught owner Samantha Maglaya wearing blood-soaked clothes as she hugs neighbours.

Ms Maglaya's daughter saw the officer shoot the four-month-old puppy eight times outside their home in Norwood Park just after 3pm on May 17, 2013, according to a federal lawsuit filed on Friday in the US District Court.

'He was just like my baby. I carried him around. I fed him with a bottle.' Ms Maglaya told the Chicago Sun-Times at the time.

She added: 'I heard my kid screaming, "They're shooting the dog in the front yard."'

Ms Maglaya said: 'He [Maximus] would sit in the yard and listen to the birds. He didn't even bark. He never growled.'

According to the lawsuit filed by Ms Maglaya, Maximus had not posed as a threat; he had been playfully wagging his tail; and there was no child on a bike in the vicinity.

Just after the shooting, Ms Maglaya's husband was fined for having the puppy off a leash and without a dog-tag, according to the suit.

It is also alleged the Chicago Police didn't accurately record the scene before cleaning it up.

Ms Maglaya claimed the off-duty officer, and two fellow law enforcers, wanted her to leave the neighbourhood due to her race, and housing status, adding that one of the officers had been racially abusive to her.

The three officers conspired to kill the dog as they didn't want it in the area, according to the suit.

The 22-count lawsuit claims include negligence; excessive force; illegal seizure; aggravated cruelty to animals; hate crimes against Maglaya and her daughter; criminal trespass to property; and intentional infliction of emotional distress, among other things. It also seeks to hold the city responsible.

All three policemen are listed as  defendants in the suit, which claims the two officers who did not shoot Maximus helped the third one cover it up.

The Independent Police Review Authority, which has been investigating the incident, has yet to comment.

The city has not yet been served with the suit, according to a Department of Law spokesman.

The comments below have been moderated in advance.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
