
HAMDEN, Conn., May 19 (UPI) -- Quinnipiac University's graduation ceremony was delayed yesterday after a former student allegedly called in a pair of bomb threats to disrupt the proceedings so that her family wouldn't find out that she had dropped out.

Danielle Shea was charged with threatening in the first degree and falsely reporting an incident after reportedly phoning in two fake bomb threats while she was wearing her cap and gown.

Shea, 22, allegedly made the calls because she was worried her family would discover she had dropped out of school and still continued to collect thousands of dollars in tuition money.

After making the first call about a "bomb in the library," Shea allegedly called back and said, "You haven't cleared out graduation. That's not a good idea."

The graduation ceremony was relocated, but it did take place after an hour and a half delay.

Police were able to find Shea by tracing her phone number. After her arrest, Shea made a "detailed confession" to Hamden Police detectives, NBC Connecticut reported .

© 2014 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Any reproduction, republication, redistribution and/or modification of any UPI content is expressly prohibited without UPI's prior written consent.

UPI licenses content directly to print outlets, online media and institutions of all types. In addition, UPI's distribution partners provide our content to thousands of businesses, policy groups and academic institutions worldwide. Our audience consists of millions of decision-makers who depend on UPI's insightful and analytical stories to make better business or policy decisions.

In the year of our 107th anniversary, our company strives to continue being a leading and trusted source for news, analysis and insight for readers around the world.

© 2014 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

UPI.com is your trusted source for world news, top news, science news, health news and current events.

We thank you for visiting us and we hope that we will be your daily stop for news updates.
