
The desire to free potential future buyers from a union pension fund led to a strike of about 30 employees that started last month at steel fabricator and processor Clifton Steel Co. in Maple Heights.

The strike, which began on April 24, was sparked primarily by a disagreement over the so-called successorship clause in Clifton's contract with the Teamsters Local 507. Changing that clause could make the company more attractive to future buyers, but the union worried the change would threaten job security. The company has about 80 employees in total.

Clifton Steel wants to strip out language in the existing contract that requires future buyers to take on the union's current benefits, including its health, welfare and pension plans. While the company has “no desire or ability” to sell at this time, that requirement would be a restriction on a future sale, said Seth Briskin, chair of the labor and employment department at Meyers, Roman, Friedberg & Lewis in Cleveland.

Briskin, who is serving as Clifton's labor counsel, said typical successorship clauses state that the union and its collective bargaining agreement come with the purchase of a company, leaving the new owner to negotiate in good faith with the union.

Clifton's clause, with its precondition to purchase, is more extensive. Changing that clause wouldn't save the company or any future buyers from dealing with large withdrawal liabilities to leave the pension plan, but it would give them the opportunity to negotiate out of the plan itself. The change wouldn't affect employees at this time, as Briskin said Clifton has agreed to continue the pension and health care plans for now.

“Those plans aren't going away,” he said.

Albert Mixon, secretary-treasurer for Teamsters Local 507, said the union's pension and health plans — the Cleveland Bakers & Teamsters health, welfare and pension funds — are not funded to the levels they need to be. But the strike is “all based on job security,” he said. Mixon said the union offered to bend on the pension point in counterproposals last week and had trouble getting a conclusive answer from the company.

Briskin said the counterproposals did concede a bit on the pension component, but they put other, previously settled items on the table. The proposals will have to be evaluated as a whole, he said.

While the strike and the counterproposals continue, there are other deadlines looming.

In April, the Teamsters filed a labor dispute case with the National Labor Relations Board that is awaiting a hearing date. The union also filed for an unemployment hearing, which Mixon said is scheduled to be held in June. The contract expired in July 2013.

David Campbell, a partner at Vorys, Sater, Seymour and Pease LLP in Cleveland, said he thought it was unusual to parcel out specific components of a contract. In a typical asset sale, the buyer would recognize the union and negotiate a new contract or simply accept a full, existing contract, he said. If it wasn't economical for the company at this time, management instead would negotiate that directly.

But trying to free future buyers from obligations isn't unprecedented. For the past 15 or 20 years, companies have been wary of anything that would put encumbrances on future activity, said Wade Fricke, a shareholder in Ogletree, Deakins, Nash, Smoak & Stewart, P.C.'s Cleveland office. Companies don't want to lock anyone into an agreement, he said.

Jason Rothman, also a shareholder in the Cleveland Ogletree office, said it's not buyer-friendly to be locked into a pension.

“They don't want to step into the shoes of the seller,” and take care of the underfunded portion, Rothman said.

Readers are solely responsible for the content of the comments they post here. Comments are subject to the site's terms and conditions of use and do not necessarily reflect the opinion or approval of Crain's Cleveland Business. Readers whose comments violate the terms of use may have their comments removed or all of their content blocked from viewing by other users without notification. Comments may be used in the print edition at editorial discretion.
