
Two DuPage County men were among six people indicted recently by a federal grand jury on mortgage fraud charges.

Prosecutors said the men are accused of causing buyers to fraudulently obtain mortgages from various lenders to purchase condominiums at Vision on State in Chicago, a 250-unit building in the 1200 block of South State Street.

Custom reprints are a powerful and strategic way to share your article with customers, employees and prospects.

The YGS Group provides digital and printed reprint services for Daily Herald. Complete the form to the right and a reprint consultant will contact you to discuss how you can reuse this article.

Need more information about reprints? Visit our Reprints Section for more details.

Robert D. Lattas, 37, of Oak Brook, an attorney who represented developers at closing, is facing bank fraud and making false statement charges. James J. Carroll, 63, of Naperville, the chief financial officer of the company that developed the building, is charged with bank fraud.

Also indicted were: Warren N. Barr III, 62, of Riverside; Jeffrey A. Budzik, 37, of Miami Beach, Florida; Asif A. Aslam, 43, of Riverside, California; and Leonardo V. Sanders, 51, of Chicago.

The indictment also seeks forfeiture of more than $22 million from Barr, Lattas, Aslam and Sanders. All but Barr are expected to be formally arraigned this week. Barr is believed to be living in Saudi Arabia and an arrest warrant has been issued, according to court papers.

Prosecutors said between 2007 and 2012, the men caused buyers to obtain mortgages to purchase units at the building based on false statements to lenders about the sale prices, buyer employment income, financial condition, assets, liabilities and intent to occupy the units.

The men face up to 30 years in prison if convicted.

Guidelines: Keep it civil and on topic; no profanity, vulgarity, slurs or personal attacks. People who harass others or joke about tragedies will be blocked.              If a comment violates these standards or our terms of service , click the X in the upper right corner of the comment box. To find our more, read our FAQ .
