
Earn Free CME Credits by reading the latest medical news in your specialty.

For best viewing, click the bottom right corner for full screen.

Note that this randomized trial of vitamin D therapy as an adjuvant to traditional asthma therapy showed no improvement in asthma symptoms with the supplement.

Be aware that epidemiologic links between low vitamin D levels and a pro-inflammatory state may not necessarily be causal.

SAN DIEGO  --  Supplements to normalize vitamin D levels did little to help adults with asthma as an add-on to standard inhaled corticosteroids, a randomized trial showed.

The composite of decline in lung function or increase in beta-agonist, systemic corticosteroid, or healthcare use occurred in a similar 28% of supplemented and 29% of placebo-group patients over 28 weeks (adjusted hazard ratio 0.9, 95% confidence interval 0.6-1.3).

Exacerbations and seven other secondary outcomes showed no impact of supplementation either, Castro reported here at the American Thoracic Society (ATS) meeting and simultaneously online in the Journal of the American Medical Association.

The only significant impact was a small decrease in overall dose of the inhaled corticosteroid ciclesonide required to maintain asthma control (111.3 versus 126.2 mcg/d).

"Given that concern has been raised with the safety of both long-acting beta-agonists and anticholinergics (commonly added when inhaled corticosteroids are not optimally efficacious), this small effect of add-on vitamin D3 might be important over time, but this would require further investigation," the group noted.

But the large number of secondary outcomes and lack of adjustment for multiple comparisons suggested "this finding needs to be considered exploratory and interpreted with caution," they added.

Low vitamin D  --  serum levels under 30 ng/mL  --  is thought to create a proinflammatory state implicated in development of asthma and its severity, the researchers explained.

Epidemiology has linked insufficiency to airway hyper-responsiveness, impaired lung function, increased exacerbation frequency, and reduced corticosteroid responsiveness in both adults and children.

However, it may just be an association without a causal link, noted Howard Bauchner, MD , editor-in-chief of JAMA and a co-chair of the late-breaking ATS clinical trial session.

"At this point, vitamin D supplementation in adults with asthma is not indicated," he told MedPage Today, noting that asthma is not alone in that summation.

"Over the last few years, there has been a number other conditions in which randomized clinical trials have been formed in people vitamin D deficient with no effect on outcome," he pointed out.

A recent review of observational studies and meta-analyses in BMJ turned up no "highly convincing" evidence of ties between vitamin D and outcomes, even in osteoporosis, although that conclusion drew plenty of counterarguments.

A second study at the same ATS session reported that vitamin C supplementation for moms who don't quit smoking during pregnancy improved pulmonary function and reduced wheezing in their infants.

Castro's VIDA (Vitamin D Add-on Therapy Enhances Corticosteroid Responsiveness in Asthma) trial included 408 patients with symptomatic asthma and a serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D level of less than 30 ng/mL at nine academic centers in the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute's AsthmaNet network.

To see if vitamin D could boost corticosteroid responsiveness, patients were randomized to double-blind treatment with a loading dose of 100,000 IU of oral vitamin D3, then 4,000 IU daily for 28 weeks or with placebo atop inhaled ciclesonide treatment, after a run-in period with the corticosteroid.

Ciclesonide was dosed at 320 mcg per day and tapered to 160 mcg and then 80 mcg per day if asthma control was achieved by 12 weeks and maintained.

While all were vitamin D insufficient before the trial and half were deficient with levels below 20 ng/mL, supplementation brought levels above the 30 ng/mL threshold for 82% in that group.

Mean levels were 41.8 ng/mL at week 28 in the supplement group, while the mean stayed in the deficient range for those who got placebo.

But that difference didn't translate to a lower overall treatment failure rate at 28 weeks (0.58 versus 0.74 per person-year, P=0.17).

An analysis of just those who achieved sufficient vitamin D levels with supplementation showed no significant impact on treatment failure either compared with placebo overall.

The most common reasons for treatment failure were need for more inhaled or systemic steroids (58%) and exacerbation (46%).

Secondary outcomes of lung function or airway hyper-reactivity, asthma quality of life, asthma control, and sputum eosinophilia didn't correlate with vitamin D supplementation.

The researchers noted that the lower than expected event rate may have limited the study's power to detect small differences with vitamin D supplementation.

The trial was supported by grants from the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, with ciclesonide and levalbuterol provided at no cost by Sunovion Pharmaceuticals.

Castro reported relevant relationships with the NIH, Boston Scientific, Amgen, Ception/Cephalon/Teva, Genetech, Medimmune, Merck, Novartis, GlaxoSmithKline, sanofi-aventis, Vectura, NextBio, KaloBios, Asthmatx, IPS/Holaria, Boehringer Ingelheim, Elsevier, and Sparo.

This survey is a poll of those who choose to participate and are, therefore, not valid statistical samples, but rather a snapshot of what your colleagues are thinking.

MedPageToday, powered by Everyday Health Inc., is a trusted and reliable source for clinical and policy coverage that directly affects the lives and practices of health care professionals.

Physicians and other healthcare professionals may also receive Continuing Medical Education (CME) and Continuing Education (CE) credits at no cost for participating in MedPage Today-hosted educational activities.

© 2014 MedPage Today, LLC. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of the MedPageToday.com terms of use and privacy policy . The material on this site is for informational purposes only, and is not a substitute for medical advice, diagnosis or treatment provided by a qualified health care provider.
