
A dispute over public access has developed in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Erie in the case of a lawyer whose business practices, including the size of his fees, are the subject of a rare report by a court-appointed expert.

The lawyer, Jason J. Mazzei, wants his written response to the report to be sealed.

Opposition is coming from the Office of the U.S. Trustee, which monitors bankruptcy cases as part of the Justice Department.

The office wants U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Thomas P. Agresti to unseal both the report, which the expert conducted at Agresti's request, and Mazzei's response. Agresti has said he will use the information to decide whether to suspend Mazzei from practicing in Bankruptcy Court.

Mazzei is arguing the information should be off-limits to the public because it "may include privileged communications," he said in a motion filed May 5.

The Office of the U.S. Trustee countered that Mazzei's requests for confidentiality go against the presumption that all records filed in Bankruptcy Court, "are public records and open to examination by an entity," according to a motion filed May 13 by Norma Hildenbrand, an attorney for U.S. Trustee Roberta DeAngelis, whose jurisdiction includes Pennsylvania.

Hildebrand also wrote that Mazzei had provided no details of what "privileged communications" his responses might contain. Regarding the expert's report and Mazzei's responses, Hildebrand wrote, "Congress has never codified an exception in the Bankruptcy Code for confidentiality in attorney misconduct matters."

Agresti will hold a hearing on the sealing issue today at the federal courthouse in Erie.

Mazzei, a lawyer since 1999, is still licensed to practice law in Pennsylvania. He is based in Pittsburgh but has or had offices throughout northwestern Pennsylvania, including Erie.

The court-ordered review is rooted in what Agresti wrote has been the "serious concern" he and the other three Bankruptcy Court judges in the Pittsburgh-based Western District of Pennsylvania have had with Mazzei's conduct over the past several years. The district includes Erie.

Agresti has raised questions about Mazzei's handling of one Chapter 7 case, in which his legal fees were larger than his client's debts (Mazzei agreed to refund the fees), and his handling of hundreds of Chapter 13 cases that involve requests to have debtors' mortgages reduced.

With Mazzei's consent, Agresti in June ordered the expert -- the person is unnamed in court records -- to conduct a review of Mazzei's practices, with Mazzei agreeing to pay for the expert's services, up to $40,000.

Agresti in January provided a copy of the expert's report to Mazzei so he could respond to it. Agresti designated the report confidential "for the time being," according to a ruling he filed in April.

Agresti gave Mazzei a May 5 deadline to file a response to the report, which led Mazzei to request that the response be sealed.

ED PALATTELLA can be reached at 870-1813 or by e-mail. Follow him on Twitter at twitter.com/ETNpalattella.
