
CHARLESTON, W.Va. — The Alzheimer’s Association, West Virginia Chapter, will hold a launch party at Taylor Books from 5 to 7 p.m. May 22 for a new “Chicken Soup” book that features the works of local contributors.

“Chicken Soup for the Soul: Living with Alzheimer’s & Other Dementias” includes a piece titled “Fade to Black.” Written by Jennifer Waggener, an employee of the Alzheimer’s Association, West Virginia Chapter, it was inspired by her grandmother.

Susan Young, of South Charleston, also contributed an essay, “Bring Him to Me,” chosen for inclusion in the book.

The Alzheimer’s Association will receive a portion of the proceeds from the sale of “Chicken Soup for the Soul: Living with Alzheimer’s & Other Dementias.” The book is available online, at area bookstores, or by calling the Alzheimer’s Association at 800-272-3900.

CHARLESTON, W.Va. — The Alzheimer’s Association’s annual Thanks for the Memories Luncheon, which honors West Virginians who show outstanding efforts in the fight against Alzheimer’s disease, will take place May 29 at the Charleston Marriott Town Center beginning at 11:45 a.m.

This year’s honorees are U.S. Sen. Jay Rockefeller, for his leadership and commitment in the fight against Alzheimer’s, and Rachel Torlone, the Sylvia Watkins Walk to End Alzheimer’s Volunteer of the Year.

Funds raised at this event will go to support the programs and services provided by the Alzheimer’s Association, West Virginia Chapter.

CHARLESTON, W.Va. — Living with Alzheimer’s, a three-part series for patients in the early stages of Alzhiemer’s and their caregivers, will take place June 9, 16 and 23 at 10:30 a.m. at the Alzheimer’s Association, 1601 Second Ave.

The series will address what patients and caregivers need to know and how to plan for the challenges ahead, as well as resources for assistance.

RSVP is required by June 2, and a brief consultation will be conducted prior to entrance in the program. For more information, call 800-272-3900 or visit alz.org/wv .

Sign up for the latest news delivered to your inbox each morning.

Thank you!
