
Michael Noonan:   Based on several thousand years of history, and based on the last 100 years of fiats, gold will continue to rise as a store of value, and almost all fiats will fail, massively. Which fiats will continue? The Yuan and the Ruble, for two. The Panama Balboa is another possibility, but Panama will have to do some sorting out to get rid of the fiat US dollar, its paper currency. The official money of account is the Panama balboa, but it ceased printing around 1941, in favor of the US dollar. This little Central American country has been making preparations to disassociate from the fiat Federal Reserve Notes.

For all the gold China has been accumulating this past decade, it is unlikely that China will back the yuan by gold. It would be too problematic for what it would do to its economy. Russia has been a lesser buyer of gold, but it also has tremendous reserves that it mines every year, adding to its holdings. Its natural gas resource has taken center stage as a backing for the ruble. Russia will also unlikely want to back the ruble by gold.

There have been numerous articles from reliable sources that have been calling for a new gold-backed currency to replace the waning Federal Reserve petrodollar as the world’s reserve currency, many thinking a gold-backed yuan as a prime candidate. In this regard, gold’s future is uncertain. It will undoubtedly play a significant role, but not likely linked to one specific country as a new world reserve currency.

"I study billionaires for a living. To be more specific, I study how these investors generate such huge and consistent profits in the stock markets -- year-in and year-out."

From the solidifying financial and economic ties between China and Russia, China and several other natural resource rich countries, and the BRICS alliance, a strong possibility lies in contractual ties amongst all these countries, and not a single nation gold-backed currency. A perfect example is what will likely be concluded next week between China and Russia, the largest ever natural gas deal.

Obama does not “speak softly,” nor does he carry a “big stick.” ["Speak softly and carry a big stick," was first used by Theodore Roosevelt when he wanted Congress to increase the amount of money he needed to carry out and define his foreign policy, using "diplomacy" backed by military might, America's [outdated] foreign policy to this day.] So Obama’s sanctions and threats against Russia ring hollow, and all parties concerned know it.

Prior to the Rothschild elites forcing the US into official bankruptcy in 1933, [from which point in time forward, the US has been owned by a few select international bankers...a fact about which almost all American remain ignorant], prior to 1933, the US used gold as a backing in it contracts with other nations, so there is a viable history for using gold, and any other natural resource, [oil, copper, natural gas, as a few other examples] as an integral part of contracts and foreign exchange.

The deal with China may require backing with gold, to some degree, as a guarantee. There may be a clause that exchanges yuan or rubles for gold, silver, copper, etc, without the necessity of any country having a gold-backed currency. A soon-to-be relegated-to- third-world-status country, like the United States, would not be able to participate, by virtue of the fact that it will be unable to bring anything to the bargaining table. All other countries will engage based upon a relatively hard currency and/or a natural resource to act as collateral.

China, Russia, Panama, other BRICS, Turkey, Iran, et al, can keep their fiat currency, but simply back up any contract with acceptable collateral, oil for gold, gold or some acceptable equivalent for whatever is being sold. This will eliminate the stronghold that the US and UK have maintained for the past century, and the military might will become a whisper of what it used to be. For now, however, the military remains very much a tool of desperation as the once mighty West continues its unabated slide into a decline from which it cannot recover.

The time frame between now and then remains an unknown, and it is very likely that the elites will cause major disruptions, like Ukraine, aiming for what it knows best, profitable war. Countries and people suffer, but the Rothschild formula for creating chaos, leading to war, provides incredible wealth for themselves.

With the US Gestapo Homeland Security purchasing billions of bullets, 7,000 NATO personal defense weapons, aka the kind of assault weapons used by civilians that the Obama/United Nations wants to outlaw, and now the Department of Agriculture wanting to buy submachine guns, it is very apparent that the elite-controlled corporate federal government is preparing for war…against Americans in their own country. This will not end well, and perhaps for the first time, the ravages of war will be confined to the US.

Over a year ago, we were going to do an article on the Department of Homeland Security, [If you guess the Homeland to be secured is the US, you would be wrong. The Homeland to be secured, at all costs, is the corporate federal government.] The reason for not doing the article was the content, the fact that Homeland Security has hundreds of “camps” around the country, where, thanks to the Bush Patriot Act and Obama’s National Defense Authorization Act, on top of the 1933 amendment to the Trading With The Enemy Act, [the Amendment made U S citizens the enemy within their own country...read the Act.], the corporate federal government can declare anyone an enemy and held without rights of any kind, and for any duration. Think of Guantanamo Bay coming to roost on US soil.

There was more. Homeland Security has also purchased tens of thousands of caskets, stacked up, row after row after row. Draw your own conclusion as for whom they are intended. No country at war has a history of bringing back war victims to be buried in special camps.
