
A Lifetime of Vermont People, written and photographed by Peter Miller of Colbyville, Vermont, has been awarded another honor. The Independent Publisher Association gave an IPPY gold medal to Lifetime as the best non-fiction book of 2013 written by an author living in the northeast.

The 208 page book has 60 profiles and black and white photo portraits of rural Vermonters. The coffee table book was printed by EBS of Verona, Italy, recognized as one of the finest printers of books with black and white photographs. A Lifetime of Vermont People may be viewed at www.silverprintpress.com , publisher of the book.

The New England Book Festival, held in Boston in January, awarded A Lifetime of Vermont People a gold medal as the best art/photograph book by a New England author.

The New England Society of New York, at a lunch at the Grolier Club in New York, awarded the gold medal to Lifetime as the best art/photography book of the year on a New England subject.

The Independent Book Publisher association, however, awarded Mr. Miller’s book an IPPY gold medal as the best non-fiction book from the Northeast. This is the first time one of Mr. Miller’s books, best known for elegant black and white photography, has been recognized for the writing content.

Over 5,500 books were submitted for the IPPY awards. The award ceremony will be held in New York City on May 28th.

Peter Miller is the author of six documentary books of photographs and text. Four of them are collections of Vermont photographs and profiles. He also authored books on the Great Plains and Paris, France.

VTDigger.org requires that all commenters identify themselves by their authentic first and last names. Initials, pseudonyms or screen names are not permissible. The purpose of this policy is to encourage a civil discourse among neighbors who are willing to stand behind their identities and their comments.

As a result of our comment policy, VTDigger.org has created a safe zone for readers who wish to engage in a thoughtful discussion on a range of subjects, regardless of where they stand. We hope you join the conversation.

VTDigger.org does not share specific information about our readers with other entities. Email addresses we collect through our subscription list and comment submissions are kept private.

We use Google analytics to generate aggregated data regarding the size and geographic distribution of our readership. This information helps us gauge how many readers come to the website and what towns they live in. It does not include addresses or other identifying characteristics about our readers.

We're an independent nonprofit organization, your donation helps fund the digging, and, it's tax deductible.

Thanks for reporting an error with the story, "Peter Miller’s ‘Lifetime of Vermont People’ receive..."
