
BOWLING GREEN, Ky. (WBKO) Heavy rains on the Balkan Peninsula of Europe are causing the worst flooding in more than a century.

Thousands have been forced to evacuate their homes and at least a dozen are dead.

That devastation is hitting hearts here in Kentucky.

Sitting in their Bowling Green living room, thousands of miles away, they're watching floods destroy their home country.

They've been in Kentucky for years, but their loved ones remain overseas.

"My friends and family at first had been evacuated -- half of my neighborhood in Zenica," said Dijana Muminovic, from Zenica.

While her family is slowly getting back on their feet, a new concern begins as water levels lower.

"You have the landslides just crashing, so only in the area where I live, we have lost 5,000 houses, and that's just one area, and this is growing each day, each second, as this is happening," Muminovic said.

However, she says devastation in Bosnia started long before with war in 1995, and rebuilding since has taken time.

"And when the flood came, it's killed the last bit of everything that we've had. It's difficult to express what we feel, because we've already been at loss," Muminovic said.

"In the situation that they were in to begin with before the flood, it was really hard to react to such a giant disaster as this one," said Senida Husic, from Bratunac.

They say situations in the country make it hard to get help, but they want to contribute as much as they can.

"This is just my plea that people will get involved -- they'll spread the word -- and not forget about this little country that in the 90s was actually forgotten for a couple years and a lot more people died than needed to, because that could have been stopped a lot sooner than it actually was. I'm hoping this time the national community will react a lot more swiftly and a lot more effectively to help this country rebuild once again," Husic said.

They're working with others here in town, organizing a charity dinner to spread awareness about the devastation in Bosnia and to raise money to send over as aid.

Keep it clean, keep it civil, keep it truthful, stay on topic, be responsible, no links, share your knowledge, and please suggest removal of comments that violate these standards.
