
HOW DID IT get to be "Ida Kay's Portsmouth?" It was a name one editor chose because I always wrote about the city in a personal way.

Having agreed to talk about Portsmouth and myself at the Hill House on May 28. I thought it was time to examine why a 30-day stint to "help out" in the Ledger-Star office here in 1979 stretched into 35 years.

When I needed to move closer to my aging parents in Elizabeth City to help with grocery shopping and medical appointments, I made a trip to talk to the powers-that-were in the Norfolk office and we agreed I would start in a month, probably working in Virginia Beach. On the way back to North Carolina, I stopped in the office here to say hi to one of the editors who was from Elizabeth City.

At that time, the newspapers had a large staff here who covered Portsmouth, Chesapeake and the environs and in quick succession had lost several reporters who moved on to larger cities. The editor offered me a bed and bath in her three-story house on North Street if I'd work several days a week to help fill the staff gap, going to Raleigh on weekends to pack for moving to Norfolk or maybe to Virginia Beach. I had no intentions of moving to Portsmouth.

But Olde Towne was seductive. People strolled on the streets and talked to each other. Vessels ranging in size from aircraft carriers to tiny sailboats were up and down the river all day. There was music on the waterfront. The Seawall Restaurant near the office was a popular gathering place for a lot of local movers and shakers, making it a magnet for newspaper folks. A number of other restaurants were in walking distance.

High Street was bustling with stores such as The Famous, so there was no need to go somewhere else and you could skip the malls. It was easy to get to the opera and concerts in Norfolk.

During my transient month here, I met some interesting folks. Among them was Emily Spong, the feisty lady who was known for fighting with those who wanted to destroy older buildings. Thus, my knowledge of Portsmouth history expanded quickly.

That history is Portsmouth's biggest asset and often is overlooked by decision makers. Few places have been such an integral part of this nation's entire history and that never has been exploited.

Back in 1979, the city seemed to be waking up to its importance. But over recent years, while other places were making lucrative use of lesser history, Portsmouth has not kept up. Somewhere along the way it lost its vision and seems willing to become just another place for developers to exploit at whim.

Portsmouth accidentally became my home because of the people here. They taught me about the history. They welcomed newcomers, even those like me who were just passing through for a month or so. They were part of their neighborhoods.

It's always bothered me that Portsmouth gets a bad rap from its neighbors and that many of its lifelong citizens buy into this negative feeling. Sometimes it seems those of us who chose to live here see the city in a brighter light.

Maybe all of us need to step up and pitch in to push the city forward in the right way. However, that's a story for another time.

I promise, there'll be no lectures at the Hill House gathering on May 28. Come and join the discussion of what's good about Portsmouth.

COMMENTS ADVISORY: Users are solely responsible for opinions they post here; comments do not reflect the views of The Virginian-Pilot or its websites. Users must follow agreed-upon rules: Be civil, be clean, be on topic; don't attack private individuals, other users or classes of people. Read the full rules here.

- Comments are automatically checked for inappropriate language, but readers might find some comments offensive or inaccurate. If you believe a comment violates our rules, click the report violation link below it.
