
A Chicago man who spent more than two decades behind bars for a double murder before prosecutors dismissed his conviction filed a federal lawsuit Monday that alleges police and prosecutors coerced him into confessing to a crime he did not commit.

Deon Patrick, 42, was serving a sentence of life without parole before he was released from prison in January.

"I can never get back what they've taken from me," Patrick said in an interview following a news conference with his attorneys. "I just want to be able to take care of my family, make sure my kids are OK, make sure their kids are OK. That's what I'm trying to do with this lawsuit."

Patrick was a co-defendant of Daniel Taylor, who was convicted in the same November 1992 double murder even though records showed he was in a North Side police lockup when the murders occurred. Taylor, Patrick and six co-defendants all confessed, implicating each other – seemingly giving strength to the confessions that were the centerpiece of the prosecution.

But the records that showed Taylor was in the lockup ultimately undermined the cases. Taylor was freed last summer after Cook County prosecutors moved to drop his conviction. Patrick's release followed, and both have since obtained certificates of innocence in Cook County Circuit Court. Taylor also has sued police and prosecutors over allegations they conspired to cover up evidence of his innocence.

Authorities alleged that Taylor, Patrick and two others shot Sharon Haugabook and Jeffrey Lassiter in an apartment near Clarendon Park while four co-defendants stayed outside as lookouts. Five of the men were convicted and sent to prison. Two alleged lookouts were sentenced to 30 years each in prison and had been released. The fifth defendant, Dennis Mixon, who is serving a life sentence, has admitted his involvement in the murders and has said all the others were innocent.

Patrick's lawsuit names as defendants the city of Chicago, Cook County, seven police officers and two assistant state's attorneys.

A city Law Department spokeswoman said city officials were reviewing the lawsuit but declined further comment. A spokeswoman for the state's attorney's office also declined comment.

Since his release, Patrick has been getting to know his two children and three grandchildren and adjusting to life outside prison. Living with a cousin in south suburban Hazel Crest, he said that he struggles to sleep and remains distrustful of people he does not know.

He has begun looking for a job and hopes to be able to help support his family soon.

One of his attorneys, Stuart Chanen, said Patrick also hopes to draw attention to the sort of police conduct that led to his conviction.

"Deon is very committed to using a case like this to continue to improve police practices," Chanen said. "That's one of his goals."
