
We have re-imagined our design in a bold new way. Before we roll it out for everyone, we are giving select readers an opportunity to try out the new design. We welcome your feedback.

We've removed you from the beta test of the new design.

Please note: if you clear your cookies you may be invited back to the beta. In order to prevent this from happening, please do not clear your SFGate.com cookies for the next 30 days.

(05-19) 10:48 PDT SAN FRANCISCO -- The planet-hunting Kepler spacecraft, unable to aim at the stars after two of its steering wheels broke down, is back on its celestial mission again, thanks to the power of sunshine.

And NASA officials in Washington have given it another two years on the hunt, with a third year likely before the spacecraft runs out of fuel, said Charlie Soback , Kepler's project manager at NASA's Ames Research Center in Mountain View.

During its four years in orbit, Kepler has detected 3,845 objects in distant space that the craft's ground-based astronomers call "candidate" planets - most probably real ones, they say.

And they have confirmed that 966 are indeed true "exoplanets" - orbiting around far-distant stars just the way Earth and its sister planets circle the sun.

Kepler had been steering itself to detect possible planets around stars within the constellations Cygnus and Lyra, and its tricky maneuvers had kept its telescope's aim rock-steady by the use of four "reaction wheels" whose spinning motions at the base of the spacecraft stabilized the entire structure.

But when two of the reaction wheels jammed - one in 2012 and the second only a year ago - and ground controllers couldn't budge them, the spacecraft lost stability and the telescope couldn't aim properly.

Ground-based engineers, however, have figured out an ingenious answer to the stability problem, Soback said, one he called "canoeing with the sun."

Space scientists have long known that the violent sun constantly sends out bursts of high-energy, subnuclear particles known as the "solar wind." It speeds outward at millions of miles per hour, and, for decades, visionaries have dreamed of spacecraft sailing virtually forever on that energetic wind, tacking and steering throughout the solar system and beyond.

NASA, in fact, is supporting research into the "solar sailing" concept - an idea that astronomer Johannes Kepler first dreamed up more than 400 years ago.

Now engineers have devised a system for the spacecraft that uses the delicate pressure of photons in sunlight alone - not the solar wind - to keep Kepler balanced as its two remaining reaction wheels keep its balance steady, Soback said.

Kepler is no longer focusing on stars in Cygnus and Lyra, however, and the spacecraft's telescope will now be peering at stars in the ecliptic - the direction where all the familiar constellations of the zodiac lie.

It will look for other targets too, like unseen star clusters, active galaxies and supernovas, when it returns to action on May 30.

NASA officials approved two more years of funding for the spacecraft last week, and said the total is now $600 million for the pioneering venture that a high-level independent committee evaluating the mission called "astounding."

Confluence of factors means few in Napa will get paid out.

Billy Crystal's moving tribute to his late friend during Emmys.
