
Two years ago, 30,000 Illinoisans thought they’d voted on Election Day, but in fact their ballots were tossed out because those would-be voters weren’t properly registered. That’s a serious problem in a state where voter turnout is far from where it should be. Just two months ago, turnout in Cook County for the gubernatorial primary dropped to a record low.

A package of election reforms that the Legislature is drafting and is likely to take up in committee this week could help fix that, and lawmakers should speed these reforms through. While other states shamefully attempt to restrict voting rights, Illinois would be among national leaders in extending this most fundamental tool of democracy.

Among the proposed reforms is same-day, or Election Day, registration. In years past, it wasn’t technologically possible to allow people to register and vote on the same day without opening the door to fraud, but it is now. Electronic poll books updated in real time in all precincts could ensure no one tries to hit the voting booths at more than one location.

The need for same-day registration is greater than one might think because many people believe they are registered when in fact their registrations are out of date and invalid. They are allowed to cast provisional ballots, but if they are not properly registered or at in the wrong precinct, those votes won’t count. That’s what happened to those 30,000 voters two years ago.

How bad is the problem? Cook County Clerk David Orr estimates that 25 percent of eligible Illinois voters aren’t registered. It happens for a variety of reasons. Some people, of course, are lazy or uninterested. But others have moved and simply haven’t kept up their registrations. Each year, half a million people move from one address to another in Cook County alone, and in 2012, more than 13 percent of Illinoisans changed addresses. More people than one might think don’t understand they need to re-register when they show up at their new address, or they neglect to do it until it’s too late.

Voting is at the core of our democracy, and ideally every eligible person should be registered. The government should make it as easy as possible to vote, and there are several proposals besides same-day registration percolating in the Legislature that can move us closer to that goal.

◆ Illinois should join the Electronic Registration Information Center. Seven states already are part of this national nonprofit, which uses voter data, motor vehicle records, addresses and Social Security death records to track down voters who have moved, changed names or died. Right now, if people move from Illinois to, say, Virginia, they might remember to register in Virginia but rarely think to notify Illinois election officials they are gone. That clutters up voting rolls for years with inactive names, and updating those rolls costs a lot of money.

Because ERIC, which was created with help from the Pew Charitable Trusts, helps get the right voters on the rolls, states that already have joined ERIC have seen increases in voter turnout.

◆ Illinois should expand its use of the National Change of Address system. If you file a change of address with the U.S. Postal Service, local election officials already can automatically update your voter registration if you stay in the same jurisdiction. But if you move just a couple of blocks from Evanston to Rogers Park, you have to re-register.

◆ The “grace” period in which voters can register and vote after the official deadline at specified places in a county should be extended at least to the Sunday before an election. This will help people who recently moved get back on the rolls in time to vote.

The word from Springfield is that not all these reforms will make this year’s election legislation. But they should. Better voter turnout and more accurate voter rolls are goals everyone should support.

© 2014 Sun-Times Media, LLC. All rights reserved. This material may not be copied or distributed without permission. For more information about reprints and permissions, visit www.suntimesreprints.com . To order a reprint of this article, click here .
