
PORTLAND, Ore.  -- Same-sex marriages in Oregon could begin as soon as Monday afternoon, depending on a judge’s ruling.

U.S. District Judge Michael McShane said he’ll issue his ruling at noon Pacific time on a constitutional challenge to the state’s gay-marriage ban. Officials in Oregon’s largest county, Multnomah, say they’ll begin issuing marriage licenses immediately if his ruling allows it.

McShane hasn’t signaled how he’ll rule, but the state refused to mount a defense of the voter-approved ban, and both sides asked that it be found unconstitutional.

The judge last week denied a request by the National Organization for Marriage to defend the law on behalf of its Oregon members.

Four gay and lesbian couples brought the Oregon cases, arguing the state’s marriage laws unconstitutionally discriminate against them and exclude them from a fundamental right to marriage.

In refusing to defend the ban, Democratic Attorney General Ellen Rosenblum said there were no legal arguments that could support it in light of decisions last year by the U.S. Supreme Court. She sided with the couples, asking the judge to overturn the ban.

Gay rights groups previously said they’ve collected enough signatures to force a statewide vote on gay marriage in November. But they said they would discard the signatures and drop their campaign if the court rules in their favor by May 23.

The Supreme Court last year struck down the 1996 Defense of Marriage Act, which barred the federal government from recognizing same-sex marriage. It determined the law improperly deprived gay couples of due process.

Federal or state judges in Idaho, Oklahoma, Virginia, Michigan, Texas, Utah and Arkansas recently have found state same-sex marriage bans to be unconstitutional. Judges also have ordered Kentucky, Ohio and Tennessee to recognize same-sex marriages from other states.

But opposition remains stiff in many places. Critics note most states still do not allow gay marriage and that in most of those that do, it was the work of courts or legislatures, not the will of the people.

Oregon law has long prohibited same-sex marriage, and voters added the ban to the state constitution in 2004. The decision, approved by 57 percent of voters, came months after Multnomah County briefly issued marriage licenses to same-sex couples.

About 3,000 gay couples were allowed to marry before a judge halted the practice. The Oregon Supreme Court later invalidated the marriages.

Copyright Associated Press.  All rights reserved.  This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.

Gay Boston - Sign up!

Click it!

A national group opposed to same-sex marriage says it will seek to defend Oregon’s gay-marriage ban from challenges in federal court.

A federal judge in Oregon is ready to hear arguments about the state’s voter-approved ban on same-sex marriage, but no one will be in court to defend the measure.

Lawyers for four gay and lesbian couples and the state of Oregon urged a federal judge Wednesday to strike down Oregon’s voter-approved ban on same-sex marriage.

Win Free Stuff!

Homotech and YouShoot are registered trademarks of EDGE Publications Inc.
