
Pushing the outer limits of your system’s embroidery dimensions may cause design distortion. Remember to stay within your system’s sewing field.

It may sound elementary, but when you’re embroidering caps, you must remember to treat the process differently than when you sew on any other product. Once you and your sales staff realize caps can’t be treated or sold like jackets or shirts, then production nightmares can be drastically reduced.

I cringe when I hear, “Sure, we can put that 14,000-stitch design with tiny lettering on a cap — no problem!” Help your sales staff understand there are limitations to sewing on caps. They may not need all the technical details, but giving them simple dimensions and guidelines will suffice.

First of all, you are requiring an embroidery machine — which works in two dimensions — to now create something round, or 3-D. The cap frames and drivers for today’s embroidery machines allow embroiderers to create beautiful designs on finished caps. But there still are limitations.

Let’s take a good look at what you’re sewing on in order to make the best choices for design and supplies to produce a high-quality, finished product.

Most caps that are embroidered today are constructed of six panels, which means there is a seam down the middle. Depending on the cap’s construction (How thick is the fabric? Does it have stiff backing? Is there additional top stitching?), this seam can be rather bulky and dense. Keep this in mind when assisting customers with a design that will sew well on caps.

When looking at a customer’s logo and realizing its tiny text and multiple outlines probably won’t sew well, you, as the expert, must help him understand what will and won’t work on a cap. Sometimes, you can recommend that the main logo be sewn on the front of the cap and the tagline on the back or side. If logo compliance will not allow the text to be separated, you can suggest a filled background behind the small text or enlarging the lettering to a size that will sew well.

Some caps have a more solid construction with either fused buckram (rough plastic backing) or an extra layer of freestanding buckram behind the front panel. We call these structured caps because they have their own shape.

There also are unstructured caps, which conform to the shape of the wearer’s head. Typically, structured caps are easier to embroider. They still require backing, proper hooping and digitizing, but they usually require less “babysitting” than unstructured caps.

The fabric of unstructured caps tends to shift more during the sewing process. Special care in hooping is required. If you use pieces of backing that are long enough to line 2⁄3 of the cap, then you will have more stability when sewing, especially if the backing also is clamped down with clips. In extremely difficult cases, the backing can be glued into the cap with spray adhesive prior to hooping. Adding silicone spray to the backing will reduce any thread breaks brought on by the adhesive.

Each cap system has a maximum sewing field. Most systems will only sew between 2 inches and 21⁄2 inches tall. As you push the outer limits, you may experience design distortion. So if your maximum sewing field is 21⁄4 inches, it may be best to keep your designs under 21⁄8 inches in order to minimize sewing problems.

When a second color or segment of the design starts to sew, it may not align properly to the first segment, meaning it is out of registration. To avoid these types of problems, digitize cap designs to sew from the center out. This will push the fabric out from the center in a uniform motion, preventing flagging and registration problems.

Proper underlay stitches also can help. Short stitches in a lattice format can anchor the cap to the backing and reduce shifting. Many digitizers will set up files that work well for both caps and left-chest logos. Most digitizing software programs also have a feature for text to sew from the center on out. Apply this rule when setting up your own cap designs. Sew the bottom line first and move up, sewing each line from the center on out.

If your cap framing system allows for clips at the back, use them to give your sewing area the most possible stability.

For embroidering on the sides of caps, you must first ensure your cap is hooped straight. Many embroidery machine operators hoop caps at a slight angle up or down on the sides. To test the straightness of your hooping, place a strip of masking tape on either side of the cap before placing it in the hoop. Make sure the tape is exactly straight with the bottom edge of the cap and about 11⁄2 inches to 2 inches up from the edge.

Hoop the cap as usual, attach it to the machine and slowly rotate it from left to right to see if the presser foot traces a straight line across the masking tape. If the tape is not straight when you move the presser foot right and left, you can either practice hooping the sides exactly straight or you can adjust the angle of the side designs in the machine.

Most operators are consistent with their hooping and will hoop the same angle throughout a complete job. Consistency is the key and it is best to have one operator hoop all the caps for one job when adjusting the angle in the machine.

Hooping the back of caps usually is done with small tubular hoops, or a Fast Frame and sticky backing. Regular tearaway backing is strong enough for this application. Larger, contract operations may use custom frames, but most caps can be easily manipulated for flat sewing.

Remember that aforementioned thick and dense center seam? This is something to consider when determining how much detail can be sewn on a cap.

Logos with extra-small text, multiple outlines or tiny detail can cause needles to break and stitches to skip, especially right over the seam. Reducing some of the detail and density in top layers may avoid these problems.

Titanium- and Teflon-coated needles in a 75/11 sharp style are the best choice for caps. They help to penetrate through the heavy fabrics, buckram and extra layers on seams.

Another helpful trick is using silicon spray. This lubricates each stitch and reduces thread and needle breaks. You can spray the inside of each cap or each piece of backing when hooping or framing.

Many embroiderers question whether backing is necessary for caps. It’s necessary because it creates a smooth, consistent surface for the needle, hook and bobbin — especially on caps with rough buckram. It can prevent seams from dragging across the needle plate, and it keeps the thread and bobbin tensions smooth and even.

You may be tempted to substitute a layer or two of lightweight tearaway backing for caps. However, this usually is too flimsy to handle all the tasks mentioned above. The thicker and stronger the backing, the more suitable and effective it will be in overcoming the unique challenges of sewing on caps.

For successful cap embroidery, remember to choose designs with the cap in mind, know your lettering and sewing field limitations, and select the correct needles and backing.  Keeping all these factors in mind will create an ideal scenario for the best finished product.

Predominantly a four-color offset printer, Copper Island Printing & Graphic Services, Calumet, Mich., broke into screen printing garments at the recommendation of press operator Ron Trapp, who needed several dozen T-shirts screen printed. The idea was that screen printing could offer another revenue stream for the shop, and Copper Island owner Marc Norton agreed.

Impressions makes it easy for you to request and receive supplier catalogs.
