
Frank Stites  said Wheat Ridge  has always had a good relationship with its fire department, and that history made it easy for him to cast a "yes" vote May 6   for  a property tax increase for the fire district.

"I think the fire department needs it," Stites, a lifelong resident,  said. "They were volunteer all those years, did a good job and didn't waste any money."

The ballot measure asking for a five-mill  increase passed 3,054  to 2,393  and means the 32,000   customers in the Wheat Ridge Fire Protection District will pay in total about$1.66 million more per year in property taxes. An owner of property valued at $250,000  will pay an extra $99.48  per year. The district generated $3.15 million in 2014.

"This will allow the district to offer better training, better equipment and better services," said Fire Chief Bob Olme.  "I've got to say we're very humbled and very thankful people saw the value in what we do."

The fire department has 33  paid firefighters, 18  volunteers, owns two fire stations, leases one from the city of Edgewater and has a response time of just over four  minutes from dispatch call to firefighter arrival.

The district won't see any of the property tax increase until March 2015,   Olme said, but priorities include building a new station in Edgewater, purchasing new equipment and taking a serious look at unfreezing pay for firefighters.

The district's need for more funding came from rising costs, increased demand for services, depletion of a $2.3 million  grant and the 2010  transition from an all-volunteer to a paid organization.  If the mill levy didn't pass, the district would have faced a $420,000  shortfall in 2016.

Newcomer Monica Duran   and incumbents James Johnson  and Kent Johnson   won election and will join  Jerry Cassel and Liz Willis on the five-member board of directors for the district.

Olme and the three winners said the district is ready to move forward after a turbulent year of leadership resignations , deaths and the realization that the financial health of the district was dire.

"The way I'm looking at it now is we have a fresh start," Duran said.  "We can take all the lessons learned from the past and mistakes that were made and just move forward; we need to  set out our financial goals and let people know  what our mission and dedications are."

District  leadership has expressed reservations about following the recommendation of a blue ribbon pane l  that the organization hire an outside consultant to develop a long-term financial plan and assess the district's structure and levels of service.

"That part of not knowing where the money has been going has been taken care of," Kent Johnson  said in a previous interview, noting that an outside firm now does payroll. "We now know who the money is going out to and why."

"The past is behind us and I  don't  want to keep throwing more money on it and have more people unnecessarily be involved," James Johnson said in April. "I think we're in good shape and moving forward."

We reserve the right to remove any comment we feel is spammy, NSFW, defamatory, rude, or reckless to the community.

We expect everyone to be respectful of other commenters. It's fine to have differences of opinion, but there's no need to act like a jerk.

Use your own words (don't copy and paste from elsewhere), be honest and don't pretend to be someone (or something) you're not.
