
The first marriage license issued after the county clerk's office reopened at 1 p.m. Monday, May 19. A judge struck down Oregon's ban on same-sex marriage Monday, and county clerks across the state starting issuing marriage licenses to same-sex couples the same day.

EUGENE, Ore. - The Lane County Clerk's Office began issuing marriage licenses to same-sex couples at 1 p.m. Monday following a federal judge's ruling that strikes down Oregon's decade-old ban on same-sex marriage.

The Clerk's Office can also officiate for same-sex couples wishing to marry.

"Our staff strive to provide the highest level of customer service as we go through the expected influx of marriage licenses," said Lane County Clerk Cheryl Betschart. "In addition to issuing marriage licenses, our staff is also responsible for Tuesday's election. We appreciate the understanding of couples awaiting this important moment."

Weddings are performed most mornings, and slots are reserved on a first-come, first-served basis.

A marriage license costs $60.

A waiver of the 3-day waiting period costs $10.

The clerk will perform a marriage for $100.

According to the Oregon Health Authority Center for Health Statistics, same-sex couples have the option of choosing between marriage and a domestic partnership, which has been available in Oregon since 2008, the county said.

Couples who are in a domestic partnership may marry their current partner.

Someone in a domestic partnership who wishes to marry another person must dissolve that partnership prior to any marriage.

Same-sex couples who were married in another state do not need to take any action: their marriage is already recognized under Oregon law.

It is a good thing that some have chastised my post.  This tells me that these folks have some fear or belief that Jesus is God and that is good.  For justausername God is the ultimate Judge, and you are right Jesus wants us to love everyone, but we do not have to love the sin.  I am not judgeing anyone, I am merely stateing my belief that Homosexuality is not acceptable to God, and I base that on Biblical teachings.  Ultimately that will be between the homosexual person and God.  Have a good day.

Jesus teaches us to hate the sin, and love the sinner.  We must follow and accept Jesus as our Lord and Savior if we are to experience eternal life in heaven.  It is my choice to believe this with all my heart and soul.  If you don't believe that homosexuality is a sin, then you probably don't believe in the message that Jesus so lovingly bestowed upon us.  For that I am truly sorry.  I will pray that we can all fight the sins that are currently causing division and hatred in our wonderful country.  I will pray for myself also, because none of us are without sin.

A proud day for Oregon and ALL Oregonians.  Congratulations.

Whats a disgrace is folks who wield their religious beliefs like a weapon to inflict their particular brand of hate filled rhetoric on those around them. Ignore them.

I am so happy for all the long term couples that can finally marry!

You darn lame stream media people didn't say much when former president Bush broke countless US laws, his blatant disregard and denial for the Geneva Convention, his lies to the American people, and of course the fact that he ordered torture! We have the current president following the same path! That isn't important enough for you media people to keep in the news, but a couple of men who do things against nature and God's law, its kept in the news constantly by immoral people like yourselves!

You aren't  journalists, you're gossips, who have no regard for the Constitution of the United States! Our fore fathers considered the media of most importance in keeping the government in check and transparency for the people! But you people use the Constitution for toilet paper! I doubt anyone of you really understand what you and most Americans have given up yesterday and today when you give attention to this kind of garbage!

You give up your morals and values every single day and allow this disgrace to continue and force it on the rest of us!

I do NOT want my child seeing a man kiss a man or a woman kiss woman in public. And although it isn't common place so much now, it will be if you continue to support this crap and allow it to continue!

Truly disgusting!

@Jerry  And the difference is their marriage certificate will be recognized by all legal entities. :) That must drive you crazy.

But still not a peep from you about why you want to keep the word 'marriage' from them.

@souptonuts  Jesus never said to love the sinner, hate the sin. That was St. Augustine.

Take a look at the rate of violent crime, STD's, AIDS, Suicide etc in the homosexual community and tell me there is no "rational" argument against it. One study I read the average lifespan of a homosexual male is 43 years old...Now we are advertising and nationalizing this behavior ? This is, of course, ignoring the moral argument, which I don't expect you to engage in or understand.

Homosexual marriage will NOT be good for our society, this proven statistically.

The ban was approved by state voters.  Not just "religious" people.

Give the loopy melodramatic atheist hyperbole a rest.

@Postone well look at this way when your child grows older and the possibility of maybe realizing he/she was born gay - your child will have equal rights in society but you might have a problem with it...maybe it will turn your hard heart into realizing gays are people too.

@Postone  The Constitution you claim to respect protects gays as well. Today's ruling was a monument to that. Equal protection under the law for all, even if a bunch of bigots cry about it.

Gay couples' revenge will be the laughter of their children.

@ Postone The cycle of hate and bigotry continues by not teaching your children equality and human rights for all.  Shame on you!  I find you truly disgusting!

@PleaseBeSmart @souptonuts Souptonuts did not say Jesus said anything, he said Jesus "taught us" And Jesus did teach what souptonuts this.

@Clueless   @iloveeugene  "Take a look at the rate of violent crime, STD's, AIDS, Suicide etc in the [straight] community.  Especially the violence against women and children by husbands, boyfriends, and fathers.

Why on earth is someone else's marriage any of your business?  It's really interesting that so many guys are completely fixated on gays having sex.

 and thus overturned by a federal judge.  That it sparks such hate filled responses in the comments section is to which I referred. Perhaps you should look to the context of replies to assuage your misunderstanding.

"Gay couples' revenge will be the laughter of their children."

And how exactly are homosexual couples going to produce "their children"?  That is biologically impossible.

You leftoids have given up all attempts at rational thought or logic.

"I find you truly disgusting!"

Looks like you have quite a bit of "hate and bigotry" stuff going on yourself.

Luk 14:26 "If anyone comes to Me, and does not hate his own father and mother and wife and children and brothers and sisters, yes, and even his own life, he cannot be My disciple.

Psa 5:4-5  For You are not a God who takes pleasure in wickedness; No evil dwells with You.  (5)  The boastful shall not stand before Your eyes; You hate all who do iniquity.

Once again, you are proven wrong, and Jesus (and the bible) to teach the principle of loving people but hating sin, I could get into the deeper theological explanation of this principle and the verses above if you wish.

@justausername @Clueless@iloveeugene I was not citing reasons, just citing facts and statistics.

AND you have no CLUE why these statistics exist, you name a few reasons why they may exist in some cases (as if that makes any difference).

I took this photo about 10 AM, but since it was in the shade of one of our trees, I decided to use the flash and it made it look more like I had taken it at night.

While plucking dead blossoms from my Petunia plant I noticed this unusual spider so decided to take a photo of it. After loaded the shot in my computer I saw that the design on it's back looked like some sort of 'space alien'. Interesting. Enjoy.

Saw smoke from a lightening strike in the hills above our place.  Flew my RC plane with camera to check out the smoke.  At the same time we alerted the fire department and explained we had a drone checking out the situation.

Eugene,
