
Matt Towery is author of the book “Paranoid Nation: The Real Story of the 2008 Fight for the Presidency” and publisher of the Washington-based Southern Political Report, the nation’s oldest active political newsletter. Follow him on Twitter: @matttowery.

The national media continue to tout Georgia’s soon-to-be-open U.S. Senate seat as one of just a few “swing” states that could end up going Democrat in a year that otherwise seems to look great for the GOP nationally. And the current outlook for the May 20 Georgia contest might tell us a great deal not only about Georgia but about trends that are developing across the nation.

In a crowded field, three candidates have emerged, but none of the three fits the “right wing extremist” category that Democrats were hoping to see win the Republican nomination. The Democrats’ candidate, Michelle Nunn, daughter of former Sen. Sam Nunn, is waiting with strong polling numbers, plenty of cash and a virtually guaranteed nomination against marginal Democratic opposition.

The good news for the Republicans is that their three individuals who are pressing to make an almost certain runoff in July are considered attractive candidates and, at the same time, are strong conservatives in a state where moderate-to-conservative views still dominate the political landscape.

Businessman David Perdue leads in the polls. He’s running the “I’m not a career politician” message, and it has gone over well. Perdue has been highly successful in the private sector and has the active backing of his cousin, former Gov. Sonny Perdue. In Georgia, the backing from a popular former Republican governor, who is also a cousin, is valuable.

Congressman Jack Kingston, who has been a loyal Republican since his college days, has the backing of the state’s business community and many longtime GOP activists. He is locked in a battle for second place in the polls with former Georgia Secretary of State Karen Handel. Handel came close to edging out Nathan Deal in a GOP runoff for governor in 2010. But Handel’s campaign tactics against Deal rubbed some, including Deal, the wrong way. Nathan Deal is now, of course, Governor Deal.

Fortunately for Handel, Deal can hardly play kingmaker this year, given that his approval ratings are anemic and he faces a tough reelection battle against state Sen. Jason Carter, grandson of former President Jimmy Carter. But the damage and ill will created in her race against Deal has left Handel cut off from big money. And that’s where this story gets interesting.

Based on all estimates, turnout for the May 20 primary will be extremely tepid. Georgia’s fire-breathing, flag-waving, tea-party-enamored Republican electorate of 2010 has all but disappeared. That means that television commercials designed to air to the masses won’t have as big of an impact as they did just four years ago. That’s helpful to Handel because she is airing her TV spots primarily through social media.

Some rather clumsy early ads by Kingston, combined with Handel’s dogged use of alternatives in communication — such as automated phone calls and Facebook — have kept the two in a tight battle for the right to take on Perdue in a July showdown.

But the lackadaisical attitude of voters toward this primary should give Republicans around the nation pause for concern. Is it possible, with President Obama’s approval ratings slowly creeping up a bit, that the GOP could be bitten by the same “turnout bug” that left Mitt Romney in Obama’s dust in 2012? Republicans must ask why a state such as Georgia is polling with as many or more voters identifying themselves as Democrats or “independent voters” as they do as Republicans.

Much of the national media is convinced that Michelle Nunn, who is currently running ahead of each of the potential GOP nominees in the polls, is set to take Georgia’s Senate seat and provide a possible barrier to a Republican Senate takeover. But the bad news for her boosters is that Nunn has yet to face the brutal attacks that will attempt to link her to President Obama and other prominent liberal Democrats. And even if Nunn outperforms her Republican opponent in November, she must win a majority of the vote — with a Libertarian in the race — in order to avoid runoff with the Republican. She would stand little chance of winning that runoff.

That being said, Republicans need to examine Georgia’s unenthused Republican electorate and determine if “the turnout bug” could bite them again this year, and what role social media could play in avoiding a 2012 repeat.

Matt Towery is author of the book “Paranoid Nation: The Real Story of the 2008 Fight for the Presidency” and publisher of the Washington-based Southern Political Report, the nation’s oldest active political newsletter. Follow him on Twitter: @matttowery.

Posted in Columns on Monday, May 19, 2014 6:30 am.

ROCKY TOP, Tenn. (AP) — An experiment of sorts is taking place in the Appalachian foothills of eastern Tennessee, where two towns with a common heritage and a common problem are taking two very different approaches.

Both Briceville and Rocky Top were once bustling mining communities with stores, jobs and even opera houses. Today, Rocky Top's downtown is lined with vacant buildings and Briceville recently lost its only store.

In Briceville, a nonprofit group has funded the college education of three dozen students on the condition that they come back to mentor younger kids.

Rocky Top recently changed its name to the bluegrass song by that title on the promise that developers would build a multi-million dollar tourist complex.

Time will tell which — if either — of the contrasting approaches can help save this dying sliver of Appalachia.

WASHINGTON (AP) — Egypt and the United Arab Emirates secretly carried out airstrikes against Islamist militias inside Libya, U.S. officials said Tuesday, decrying the intervention as an escalation of the North African country's already debilitating turmoil. They said the United States had no prior notification of the attacks.

One official said the two countries and Saudi Arabia have been supporting for months a renegade general's campaign against Libyan militant groups, but that the Saudis don't appear to have played a role in recent strikes. Another official said Washington knew about Egyptian and U.A.E. plans for a possible operation and warned them against going through with the effort.

Libya is undergoing its worst violence since the overthrow of dictator Moammar Gadhafi three years ago. Tripoli's international airport is largely destroyed. Diplomats, foreign nationals and thousands of Libyans have fled the country.

The violence has its roots in the collapse of the Libyan state with Gadhafi's demise, as powerful militias seized power and the central government proved unable to create a strong police force or unified military. In recent months, Islamist fighters have faced backlash, losing their power in parliament after June elections and facing a counteroffensive by former Gadhafi and rebel Gen. Khalifa Hifter. Washington doesn't support the general. But some of Libya's regional allies, fearful of the growing power of the Islamist extremists, have helped Hifter.

A U.S. official said recent airstrikes weren't done with authorization from Libya's government.

The officials weren't authorized to speak publicly on the matter and demanded anonymity. The Egyptian and U.A.E. role in the strikes was first reported by The New York Times.

In a joint statement, the United States joined with Britain, France, Germany and Italy in expressing its concerns, saying ""outside interference in Libya exacerbates current divisions and undermines Libya's democratic transition."

And the newly appointed U.N. envoy to Libya said he doesn't believe foreign intervention is helpful. The diplomat, Bernardino Leon, said only an inclusive political process with all Libyans represented in parliament, government and other state institutions will end the instability gripping the country.

"Any kind of intervention or foreign intervention won't help Libya get out of chaos," Leon said.

American officials have not attributed the strikes to any country publicly. Egypt has repeatedly denied involvement. Emirati officials have not commented.

Islamist militias in Libya have made similar allegations against Egypt and the U.A.E. following two days of mysterious airstrikes against Islamist-allied militia positions in Libya's capital, Tripoli, since Aug. 18.

The strikes happened as Islamist-backed militias were fighting for control of Tripoli's international airport. Libyan officials have repeatedly called the airstrikes "foreign," and the country's air force likely does not have the capability to fly night sorties.

Egyptian Foreign Minister Sameh Shukri on Tuesday said reports of an Egyptian role in the airstrikes were "unsubstantiated rumors."

Shukri said his country respects Libya's popular will and elected parliament, and wanted to help train its armed forces. "But we have no direct connection to any of the military operations on the ground in Libya," he said.

The Emirates and its Gulf neighbor Qatar played the most prominent Arab roles in the military intervention that helped lead to Gadhafi's ouster, with both sending warplanes to assist the NATO-led effort. They also provided humanitarian aid, and Qatar in particular played a major role as a supplier of weapons to rebel groups.

But the two countries — both important U.S. allies — today find themselves in opposing camps jostling for influence in the wake of the Arab Spring uprisings.

The Emirates, Saudi Arabia and Egypt under President Abdel-Fattah el-Sissi — who led the ouster of Islamist President Mohammed Morsi — are staunchly opposed to the Muslim Brotherhood, which they see as a threat to their ruling systems. Morsi hails from the Brotherhood, Egypt's largest Islamic group.

Michael reported from Cairo. Associated Press writer Adam Schreck in Dubai, United Arab Emirates and Sarah El Deeb and Jon Gambrell in Cairo contributed to this report.

NEW YORK (AP) — The corporate parent of CNN, TNT and TBS on Tuesday offered voluntary buyouts to 600 veteran employees, part of an overall cost-cutting effort at the Atlanta-based broadcasting company founded by Ted Turner.

The offer went out to U.S.-based employees who are over 55 and have worked at the company for at least 10 years, excluding on-air talent and others with specific contracts. Some 9,000 of Turner's 13,000 employees are based in the United States.

The company would not comment Tuesday, saying it should become clear this fall how many employees it will be shedding. Turner Broadcasting chief executive John Martin has been talking for several months about a restructuring plan he has called Turner 2020.

Turner is a division of Time Warner, the media company whose profitability is being closely watched following a spurned takeover bid earlier this year by Rupert Murdoch's News Corp. Turner also owns The Cartoon Network, HLN, Tru TV and Turner Classic Movies.

CNN's chief executive, Jeff Zucker, told some of the news network's employees that "we are going to do less and have to do it with less," according to a partial transcript of a call this week that was quoted by The Atlanta Journal-Constitution.

Zucker has been trying to restructure the news network with a greater emphasis on non-fiction programming that can be aired several times, in addition to ongoing news coverage.

In a letter to employees explaining the buyout offer on Tuesday, Turner management said it was identifying cost savings and shifting spending to high-growth areas.

Although management called the buyout "strictly voluntary," the letter noted that "Turner will also undertake additional reductions in staffing."

TNT and TBS, networks once dominated by reruns of old broadcast shows, are under increased pressure to follow the industry lead and make more original programming.

JACKSON, Miss. (AP) — Prosecutors are laying out a simple timeline to establish Tracey Lynn Garner's guilt on depraved heart murder charges stemming from unlicensed buttocks injections that prosecutors say killed a woman, while defense lawyers seek to raise doubts about Karima Gordon's 2012 death.

Lawyers made opening statements Tuesday in Garner's trial in Hinds County Circuit Court.

Garner is also charged in the 2010 death of Marilyn Hale of Selma, Alabama, but faces separate trial on those charges.

Attorneys struggled to seat 12 jurors because of pretrial publicity. The state sought a delay after no alternate jurors were seated, increasing mistrial chances, but Circuit Judge Winston Kidd ordered the trial to proceed.

Natasha Stewart was sentenced to seven years in prison after she was convicted of manslaughter for referring Gordon to Garner.

The three wrestlers were identified as 20-year-old Lucas Marcelli of Massillon, Ohio, 18-year-old Abraham Pishevar of Rockville, Maryland, and 18-year-old John Hill of St. Simons, Georgia. The 20-year-old pilot, William Felten of Saginaw, Michigan, also was killed.

University officials said Felten and Marcelli were second-year students, while Hill and Pishevar were freshmen.

Marcelli graduated from Jackson High School in Massillon and twice qualified for Ohio's state wrestling tournament.

The plane crashed outside the airport and then exploded shortly after takeoff from Cuyahoga County Regional Airport in suburban Cleveland about 10 p.m. Monday. The four men were trapped inside the wreckage.

The Federal Aviation Administration and the National Transportation Safety Board will be investigating the crash.

Case Western Reserve University is making grief counselors available to students, and university president Barbara Snyder said in a statement that the school would be working closely with the four men's roommates and friends.

"We are truly heartbroken about these promising lives cut short," Snyder said.

Mark Gerald, 45, said he was sitting on his front porch when the plane went down. He said he could hear the plane struggling, but didn't see it until it crashed.

Gerald told the Northeast Ohio Media Group that the plane exploded as he and neighbors ran toward it to try to help.

"We thought we had (a chance to help them). It was too hot," he said. "The whole fuselage was involved."

William Honaker, 18, said he was driving nearby when he saw a "ball of light" and realized it was a plane on fire.

Honaker said he also tried to approach the aircraft, but onlookers warned him away because of the fire's intensity.

"(The plane) was so mangled," Honaker said. "I didn't want to look at it anymore, to be honest."

WASHINGTON (AP) — Family members and U.S. officials say the Islamic State militant group has been holding a young American woman hostage in Syria since last year.

The woman had been working for several humanitarian aid groups when she was kidnapped.

The U.S. government and the woman's family requested Tuesday that she not be named for fears of her safety.

The administration officials spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the issue publicly.

The woman is one of at least three known hostages of Islamic State militants in Syria. Another, James Foley, was beheaded by the militant group more than a week ago. Other American hostages were being held by other groups. These include Peter Curtis, who was released by al-Nusra Front earlier this week .
