
One by one, they came up to the microphone, calling for peace, unity and harmony.

Then they marched, walking a mile to a clearing in the woods where 19-year-old Akinleye Osafa Warner lay dying weeks ago. With candles flickering and tears streaming, they prayed for Warner. They prayed for his family. Then they prayed for themselves.

That was the scene Monday night as Langley Park residents still stunned by Warner’s death rallied for the Guyanese immigrant, who police say died after three teens fatally stabbed him to “gain notoriety” in a gang.

The NAACP, Casa de Maryland and Langley Park residents held the candlelight vigil days after police announced the arrest of three middle-school-aged students charged with first-degree murder in Warner’s death.

Children carried hand-drawn posters covered in peace signs, rainbows and flowers as sunlight disappeared during the evening march. Warner’s stepmother, overcome with grief, fainted in the woods as family members set up a memorial in the grass where her stepson was slain.

Several who spoke at the rally Monday worried about racial tensions between Hispanic residents and African Americans or recent African immigrants in Langley Park.

Ivelaw Warner said police are still looking for more people who may have been involved with or have information about his nephew’s slaying but worry witness are afraid to speak up. Langley Park, Ivelaw Warner said, is home to immigrants who may fear talking to authorities and residents who fear talking to police will result in retaliation. But speaking out and sharing information with police is also important to keep Langley Park safe, he said.

Prince George’s County police said anyone with information about Akinleye Osafa Warner’s death can remain anonymous by calling 1-866-411-TIPS (8477).

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
