
Share This Story!

An unusually harsh winter multiplied the road-repair budget by five fold in Wicomico County.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

In this 2010 file photo, pothole patches and a pot hole litter the roadway on Beaglin Park Drive near Old Ocean City Road.

The preponderance of potholes this spring has been stretching road-repair budgets across the North, and Wicomico County hasn't been spared.

Last year, the county spent about $90,000 on winter-related repairs -- about $40,000 on pothole patches and $50,000 on larger jobs.

This year, that total is at least $465,000. Some $400,000 consists of more-intense repairs, the stuff of resurfacing after a plow scrapes too low or water infiltration breaks up the asphalt. Another $65,000 is for the pothole-filling material -- and that figure doesn't include the $20,000 for the 1,840 man hours.

The five-fold increase is tied to the this past winter's fluctuations between severe cold and milder temperatures, said Lee Beauchamp, Wicomico's public works director.

In March, for example, temperatures yo-yoed from 10 to 93 degrees in Salisbury, according to the National Weather Service. Potholes typically form when water freezes inside cracks in the road and expands, breaking up the pavement.

County workers have been toiling all winter to keep pace with the formation of the holes, Beauchamp said. That work appears to be mostly in their rear-view mirror.

Last week, they kicked off their spring paving program. It isn't solely focused on winter-related repairs, but many of the projects on the list involve fixing what winter and spring wrought. Paving on Rum Ridge Road and Naylor Mill Road east of Jersey Road fell into that category, Beauchamp said.

The county is getting some help from the state with its repair bill. It joined all 23 Maryland counties and Baltimore city in applying for $10 million set aside by the General Assembly this year specifically to finance post-winter refurbishing.

Each county received a share based on its total road mileage. With its 700 miles of roads, Wicomico took $300,000. The remaining $150,000 or so is coming from the county's road-paving fund, Beauchamp said.

If it weren't for the state money, the work still would have gotten done, he added. But lower-priority projects probably would have been postponed.
