
NEW MILFORD -- World-renowned jazz guitarist Bucky Pizzarelli will take the stage at Canterbury School in New Milford on Saturday for a benefit concert. Show time is 7:30 p.m. and he'll be accompanied by Ed Laub.

The two have been performing for audiences all over the U.S. and Canada in clubs, concert halls and jazz festivals for the past 12 years, after a lifetime association as teacher and student.

They combine instrumental and vocal arrangements with an emphasis on the Great American Songbook, as well as some of the classic 1930s guitar duos made popular by Carl Kress /Dick McDonough, Eddie Lang and George Smith .

Together with Union Savings Bank , The Silo and Hunt Hill Farm , Smithsonian Institution affiliates, are producing this special fundraiser. All proceeds will benefit The Silo at Hunt Hill Farm in New Milford, which is listed on the National Register of Historic Places .

The Silo at Hunt Hill Farm offers programs and family events that enrich the community, including art gallery exhibitions, cooking classes, live music, literary readings and more.

"We are very excited to have the opportunity to sponsor this benefit for Hunt Hill Farm," said Marie O'Neill , of Union Savings Bank. "Union Savings Bank is a major supporter of the arts, and The Silo at Hunt Hill Farm is a vital part of western Connecticut's arts and cultural scene, as well as a historic treasure. This concert will allow The Silo to continue inspiring visitors with unique and creative programming."

Hunt Hill Farm Executive Director Liba Furhman said, "We are so pleased to have Bucky coming to play for us. He is an award-winning jazz legend who appeals to all generations."

Tickets are $30 for general admission, with reserved seating tickets at $50 and $75 levels. A pre-concert reception will be held from 5:30 to 7 p.m., also at the Canterbury School, with tickets for the reception and concert at $100. Sponsor and underwriter levels are available as well.

For more information and to purchase tickets, visit www.hunthillfarmtrust.org or call 860-355-0300.

Tickets are also on sale at The Silo during regular hours. The Silo Gallery and store are open Wednesday through Saturday, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. and Sunday from noon to 5 p.m.
