
MURPHYSBORO -- Memorial Day is coming soon and the General John A. Logan Museum has a weekend filled with events for families to enjoy.

The Logan Day Centennial Celebration will begin at 9 a.m., Saturday with the dedication of five Illinois State Historical Society markers around the courthouse square in Murphysboro.

P. Michael Jones, director of the General John A. Logan Museum, said the markers honor significant individuals and events in Illinois’ history. Two of the markers honor Dr. Israel Blanchard and Col. Lindorf Ozburn, both of whom tested a citizen’s right of dissent in wartime.

Another marker honors a group of men who joined the Union Army and fought through some of the bloodiest battles of the Civil War. The next three markers honor the Logan family, which founded Murphysboro.

The first marker is for the family’s patriarch, Dr. John Logan, whose political and moral views affected his family long after his death. The second honors John A. Logan, who is often credited with founding Memorial Day, and the third marker commemorates Murphysboro’s 1914 Logan Day.

The dedication of the markers will also feature speeches by U.S. Rep. William Enyart, D-Belleville, and Brigadier General Johnny Miller, assistant adjutant general of the Army and Illinois National Guard. Both men attended SIU.

The markers cost $12,000 to be placed and the local businesses, organization and individuals helped pay for the cost.

After the dedication, the Logan Day Centennial Celebration parade will take place from the courthouse to the museum with a portrayal of Logan on horseback.

Logan will be played by Brian “Fox” Ellis.

“It will be a stirring sight to see General Logan riding a horse,” Jones said.

After the parade, onlookers are asked to participate in an old-fashioned picnic on the museum grounds. The weekend will also include a wreath laying at the Logan statue in front of Murphysboro Middle School and the Memorial Day service at Woodlawn Cemetery in Carbondale, where the first Memorial Day service was observed in 1866.

In 1868, Logan, as commander-in-chief of the Grand Army of the Republic, issued General Order No. 11. This order established May 30 as the annual date “for the purpose of strewing flowers, or otherwise decorating the graves of Comrades who died in the defense of their country.” First called Decoration Day, it later became Memorial Day.

Jones said Logan did not conceive the idea of Memorial Day, but when he issued General Order No. 11 he did make it a national holiday. He said Logan believed that this was the proudest act of his life.

Copyright 2014 The Southern. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Username & Password Required!
