
The blades of the Scituate Wind turbine have been motionless since late April, but it's not because of the wind.

The blades of the Scituate Wind turbine have been motionless since late April, but it’s not because of the wind.

Acting Town Administrator Al Bangert said the turbine is experiencing an electrical issue.

Gordon Deane, president of Palmer Capital Corporation, the manager of Scituate Wind, LLC, said there have been a number of electrical ‘faults’ that have cropped up, which automatically shut the turbine down.

Deane said the turbine last generated power on April 25.

Sumul Shah, president of Solaya, the operators of the Scituate Wind, said it’s hard to say what the problem is with the turbine.

Shah said a lot of equipment has been changed out at this point and the problem is believed to be either wiring or programming.

“It’s possible it’s just a small short somewhere,” he said.

His crew is in “constant communication” with the turbine manufacturer, Shah said.

The 400-foot wind turbine was installed in its spot on the Driftway in early April 2012.

The turbine has been offline in the past for general maintenance and due to very high or very low wind velocity, or to reorient itself to a change in wind direction.

In June of last year lightning struck the turbine, causing it to stop running for several days. Shah said this problem was not caused by lightning strikes.

Page 2 of 2 - Both Bangert and Deane said the Town of Scituate would not be losing revenue while the turbine was down.

Bangert gave an overview of the revenue generated by the turbine.

He said Year One, which ran from April 2012 to March of 2013, the turbine generated $183,355. In Year Two, which is from April 2013 to March 2014 the turbine generated $235,839 of which $44,389 went to taxes, leaving $191,450 going into the revolving fund.

He also pointed out that the solar array, which has only been operational since October 2013, has already generated $141,607 in revenue.

“Both projects are producing as we predicted,” Bangert said.

Deane said Scituate Wind, the manufacturers and operators are working diligently on the problem.

“All of us are equally frustrated that the problem has not been finally identified and resolved,” he said.

Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.
