
PENTON, AL – Ronnie Johnson of Chattanooga, TN captured his first career Chevrolet Performance Super Late Model Series win on Saturday night at Penton Raceway in Penton, AL, driving the NeSmith Chevrolet Special. The National Dirt Late Model Hall of Fame Inductee passed Brian Ligon of Augusta, GA with four laps to go to take not only the victory, but also the point lead.

Johnson also said the win was special because he could add another track to his impressive win list of different race track across the country.

Ligon would take the checkered flag in the second spot, but he was disqualified during the post-race technical inspection with a chemically altered tire. That moved J.R. Moseley of Columbus, GA up to the second spot in his first-ever Chevy Super Series start.

Tyler Crowder of Lamont, FL took the third spot and Jacob Grizzle of Blairsville, GA finished fourth. Dingus Griffin of Ohatchee, AL was fifth and Josh Adkins of Talladega, AL drove to a sixth-place finish and was the Rookie of the Race.

Chase Edge of LaFayette, AL finished seventh and Matthew Turner of Dawsonville, GA took the eighth spot. Tim Roszell of Anniston, AL was ninth and David Brannon of Elora, TN rounded out the top ten.

Johnson left Penton Raceway as the new Chevrolet Performance Super Late Model Series point leader with 292 points and a 12-point advantage over Griffin and Crowder, who are tied for the second spot with 280 points apiece.

Ligon took the lead at the drop of the green flag followed by Moseley, Tim Busha of Boaz, AL, Johnson and Dana Eiland of Salem, AL. Johnson got under Busha coming off the fourth turn on lap three to take the third spot, and Ligon caught the cars on the tail of the lead lap by lap six.

The first of nine caution flags came out on lap seven for debris, and the field was slowed for second time when Mark Dowdy of Waterloo, AL spun in turn three on lap 12. Jadon Frame of Winchester, TN spun in turn four on the restart for the third caution flag.

Ligon had Moseley, Johnson, Jake Knowles of Tyrone, GA, Eiland, Busha, Grizzle, and Crowder doubled up behind him for the restart. Knowles got by Johnson when the field went back to green to take over the third spot. Frame spun in turn four on lap 16 to light up the caution bulb for the fourth time.

Knowles passed Moseley for second on the next restart, but the field was slowed for the fifth time when Busha cut down a left-rear tire on lap 22 while running sixth. The next restart saw Moseley power around the outside of Knowles to reclaim the second spot coming off the fourth turn. The caution was displayed for a multi-car tangle in turn two on lap 26 that slowed the field for a sixth time.

Ligon had Moseley, Knowles, Johnson, Eiland, Crowder, Grizzle, Griffin, Adkins and Edge doubled up behind him for the “Dixie Style” double-file restart. When the green flag came out, the field bunched up coming down the front straightaway, and Eiland spun out of the fifth spot to bring the caution flag back out.

While the field was under caution, Knowles dropped out of the race while running third. Eiland stalled on lap 27 to bring out the eighth caution flag, and a spin by Dowdy on lap 28 would light the caution bulb for the final time. The last 12 laps of the race were caution-free as Johnson went to work for the $3,000 top prize.

Johnson got under Moseley for the second spot in turn two on lap 31, but by this time, Ligon was a half straightaway ahead of the Chattanooga Flash. As the leader encountered heavy lapped traffic, Johnson quickly caught Ligon by lap 36, and began to look inside to challenge for the lead.

With less than four laps to go, Ligon pushed up the banking of turn four, and that opened the door for Johnson to take the lead and pulled away to take just over a second margin of victory under the checkered flag.

In preliminary action, Ligon was the fast qualifier among the 25 entrants with a lap around the 3/8-miel clay oval in 13.844 seconds. The two ten-lap Qualifying Races were won by Griffin and Turner.

The next race for the Chevrolet Performance Super Late Model Series will be a 50-lap $3,000-to-win $300-to-start event on the high banks at Tazewell Speedway in Tazewell, TN on June 14.

All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed without permission.
