
BEAUFORT (WJCL) — It’s National Boater Safety week. The South Carolina Department of Natural Resources officers are inspecting people’s boats for free to help keep those out on the water safe.

DNR officials said they see boaters that are not 100 percent covered, which is why they’re preforming these free checks over next several weeks.

Owen player has lived near these Beaufort waters all his life. He also owns his own fishing guide company. Even with all that experience, he’s still having his boat inspected by DNR.

“Its safety, you know. Especially for a small family; little kids. Things like that,” said Owen Player, a boater.

First Sergeant, Robbie Smith is with South Carolina’s DNR. He says the biggest mistake boaters make is with life jackets.

“It buys time for us to get there,” said Sgt. Robbie Smith, South Carolina DNR.

You want to make sure you have enough for everyone on board and everyone knows where they are stored.

“These waters out here, they’re swift. The currents can pull you hard. Sometimes people want to swim against the current,” said Smith.

Even player stresses life jackets for himself and his passengers.

Smith says having the right jacket also makes a huge difference in someone’s survival chances.

“It’s very important that they look at the weight regulations on the back of the life jacket. They match up with that operator,” said Smith.

DNR officers are also urging people to have a flare gun, radio and some way to get rescuers’ attention, and a life saver for when someone goes overboard.

“Not just that, a fire extinguisher and a whistle. If it is late at night, and you break down, you can get someone’s attention to hear you,” said Smith.

Smith says if you choose to bypass the free inspections, It could mean money out of your own pocket with a citation. However he hopes people will respect the laws on the waters this summer.

“Just be courteous out there this summer. I think everybody will have an enjoyable and safe summer,” said Smith.
