
Prune producer Bruce Gowrie-Smith is about to test his luck with a new bulk export strategy.

AT Gowman Foods' big drying facility at Darlington Point, prune producer Bruce Gowrie-Smith is about to test his luck with a new bulk export strategy that packs his export crop in much the same way as containerised grain is shipped offshore.

A trial of prunes which have been virtually poured into containers internally lined and sealed with food-grade woven protective sheeting will replace the conventional packing method using big pallet-sized boxes on wooden pallets.

"If it works, we save ourselves about $1500 in pallets and cardboard boxes which are burnt as soon as they are unloaded in the US," said Mr Gowrie-Smith (pictured).

"The liners only cost me about $100."

While the loading technicalities had provided initial headaches for the Goman team to sort out, he was hopeful the trial, encouraged by US buyer Sunsweet, would cut supply costs and help further reinvigorate the industry.

"It's quite a coals-to-Newcastle story really - exporting our dried fruit to California - and the biggest exporters in the business - isn't the sort of opportunity we'd have anticipated," he said.

Sunsweet, a grower co-operative with about 300 producer members, packs about 70,000 tonnes of prunes annually, destined for markets worldwide, including China.

Mr Gowrie-Smith, whose past farming operations made him Australia's largest tomato producer and also included capsicums, carrots and maize for starch production, has 55 hectares of plums and 18 drying tunnels recently upgraded to dramatically improve their energy efficiency.

His tomato operations were phased out about five years ago as local processors including household names like Edgells and Rosella wound back canning and processing operations in Australia in the face of stiff competition from imports and lower cost overseas production plants.

John Hine, you couldn't be further from the truth about the AWB single desk. It left for dead,
