
New DigiPrime 4453 is a water based, water resistant primer that promotes adhesion of Xeikon electrophotographic toners to most paper and film substrates.  It is particularly effective for difficult applications such as in-mold label printing.

As a 100% aqueous product, DigiPrime is a safer option for operators and the environment than some alternatives and does not yellow or lose its print receptivity over time.

Michelman will be featuring its new DigiPrime® 4453 digital press primer formulated for use on Xeikon digital presses at the Xeikon Café event taking place May 20-22, 2014 in Antwerp, Belgium, Europe.  The company will be part of the In-Mold Label Track at the Café.

DigiPrime 4453 is a water based, water resistant primer that promotes adhesion of Xeikon electrophotographic toners to most paper and film substrates.  It is particularly effective for difficult applications such as in-mold label printing.

The new primer is approved for direct and indirect food contact in both Europe and the USA with limited restrictions depending on end-use. Customers can contact Michelman for a detailed Food Contact Declaration of Compliance.

DigiPrime is Michelman’s flagship brand of digital press primer, and is designed to improve ink receptivity, rub resistance and image quality on printed materials.  As a 100% aqueous product, DigiPrime is a safer option for operators and the environment than some alternatives and does not yellow or lose its print receptivity over time.

Michelman is a global developer of water-based barrier and functional coatings for flexible film packaging, paperboard, and corrugated cartons; and water-based surface modifiers, additives and polymers for numerous industries including wood and floor care, industrial coatings, inks, fibers, composites, and construction products.  Michelman serves its multinational and regional customers with production facilities in the U.S., Europe and Singapore, and a worldwide network of highly trained field technical support personnel.
