
John Bauer has spent most of his political career trying to get other Democrats elected to higher office.

But the Jeffersonville resident has now decided to become a candidate in his own right, kicking off his campaign Monday for lieutenant governor. His race is likely to reveal contrasts not only between the Democrat and Republican incumbent Phil Scott, but also between Bauer and Gov. Peter Shumlin.

The Democratic governor rarely passes up an opportunity to remind Vermonters about the state’s unemployment rate, which, at 3.3 percent, is now second-lowest in the nation. Shumlin is also fond of mentioning the 11,000 jobs he says have been created here since he was sworn in 2011.

Bauer said his bid for lieutenant governor won’t be politics as usual.

On his campaign website, Bauer credits his ideological underpinnings to progressive luminaries like Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders, Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren and former U.S. Labor Secretary Robert Reich. And if his formal campaign announcement at the Statehouse on Monday is any indication, income inequality will become a central theme in Bauer’s bid against Republican incumbent Phil Scott.

Bauer’s candidacy could expose policy contrasts not only between him and his GOP opponent, but between liberal Democrats like Bauer, and more fiscally moderate Democrats like Shumlin, who has at times during his tenure alienated the left with proposed cuts to social programs, and a refusal to consider tax increases on the very rich.

Bauer says reforming tax policy in ways that collect more revenue from wealthier residents is one way to restore economic balance. He says he also wants to create new investment vehicles that would allow residents here to put their money into local companies, as opposed to stocks and bonds.

Bauer is also taking a strident stance against corporate contributions to political candidates, and is trying to avail himself of public financing to be financially competitive. In order to qualify,  he’ll need to raise $17,500 from 750 different in-state donors, in amounts of $50 or less. Bauer says he’s about 25 percent toward meeting the goal. He has until June 12 to get there.

About a dozen supporters flanked Bauer at his announcement. While he hasn’t won the backing of any of the five statewide Democratic officeholders, he has been endorsed by the Vermont Democratic Party, though the organization sometimes endorses multiple candidates in the same race. Major party candidates have until June 12 to declare. Progressive Party candidate Dean Corren is also running against Scott.

Bauer has managed the campaigns of Treasurer Jeb Spaulding and former gubernatorial candidate Susan Bartlett. He works as the sound supervisor at the Spruce Peak Performing Arts Center, and is a part-time wedding DJ.

Scott said he’s glad to hear of Bauer’s focus on economic development, an issue to which he says he’s dedicated his first two terms in office.

“As I’ve been trying to gain some traction on economic development over the last few years … I welcome anybody that’s entering the race to talk about prosperity for Vermont,” Scott said.

Scott said he doesn’t “begrudge anybody seeking public financing,” but he said he personally wouldn’t be comfortable accepting taxpayer money for his campaign.

“I would rather have someone give to my campaign because they believe in me and believe in my platform, rather than having money come from all taxpayers, some of whom might not believe in my candidacy,” Scott said.

In an email statement, the Shumlin campaign said "Gov. Shumlin welcomes John Bauer into the lieutenant governor's race and looks forward to a lively discussion of the issues in that campaign."
