
Jammu: The Gujjar community in the state on Monday sought the resignation of Omar Abdullah saying the Chief Minister has lost the moral right to rule the state after the poor show of the ruling NC-Congress in the Lok Sabha polls.

Bhartiya Gujjar Mahasabha (BGM) state president, Eshfaq-ur-Rehman Poswal said that the NC-Congress coalition government has lost people's faith and confidence and as such the chief minister should resign and seek fresh mandate.

"He has lost moral right to rule the state", Poswal said. National Conference drew a blank in the just-concluded general elections. "This time they have rejected the NC and Congress for ditching them in all these years", he said, adding these backward communities have in these elections supported PDP and BJP with high hopes.

National Conference drew a blank in the just-concluded general elections.

"PDP's victory in Kashmir is a testimony that Gujjars and Bakkerwals have given their full support to the party and rejected NC and Congress for backstabbing them", he claimed and added that the PDP MPs would also highlight the burning issues of these communities in the Parliament.

Incidentally, Omar on Sunday sought to know the reasons from the people of the state for the rejection of NC candidates including party president Farooq Abdullah. The community also expressed hope that the new Narendra Modi-led government would work for the welfare and development of the state, especially for the downtrodden communities like the Gujjers and Bakkerwals.

"I hope that the issues of Gujjars and Bakkerwals of the state, like political reservation, recruitment in belt forces, creation of Ministry of Tribal Affairs and others would find a top priority in Modi's agenda for J&K", Poswal said.

CNN name, logo and all associated elements ® and © 2013 Cable News Network LP, LLLP. A Time Warner Company. All rights reserved. CNN and the CNN logo are registered marks of Cable News Network, LP LLLP,

displayed with permission. Use of the CNN name and/or logo on or as part of CNN-IBN does not derogate from the intellectual property rights of Cable News Network in respect of them.
