
A task force created by the Colorado legislature and awaiting the governor's approval would review operations of three regional centers for the intellectually and developmentally disabled.

The bill creating the 15-member task force awaits the governor's signature, and the group would begin meeting in July. State officials say there are no plans to close the centers, despite fears  expressed by parents of  adult children who are   receiving  treatment or living at the centers.

The study  would include an examination of  whether the state should close any centers and whether it should continue  operating beds for  those disabled requiring the highest level of care and supervision. The task force  also would look at   whether to  add or drop beds.

The regional health centers in Wheat Ridge, Pueblo and Grand Junction offer  medical, psychiatric, psychological and therapeutic supports  and day program services, as well as long-term residential care.

Parents of  the developmentally disabled  receiving services at  centers  said they fear that    the Colorado Department of   Human Services plans to close  the facilities — which state officials deny.

"There are no plans to close the centers," Human Services spokeswoman Liz McDonough said. "I don't know how we can make it any clearer."

The task force, which would include family members  of the disabled population at all three centers, will   look at how the facilities function and whether any changes should be made to  provide  the best integrated care  possible for residents, McDonough said.

Parents who organized a  "Save Our Regional Centers" group fear that changes could include  ending  residential services that are currently provided to, according to center websites, about  250 developmentally disabled individuals. The group is  holding an emergency meeting Saturday to discuss their concerns, but it's closed to the public and media.

"It is scary for parents. We haven't been able to get clear answers," said Ellen Laurence, whose daughter has been a  resident at the Wheat Ridge Regional Center since she was 13. She's now 32.

"Sending them back into group homes or other  community settings is fine for some, but it's not safe for others who  would be a danger to themselves or others," said Laurence, a Greeley resident.

Her daughter has had 31 surgeries, she said. And, once, without any malicious intent, she broke her mother's jaw. She  also had injured several teachers, which led to her being expelled from school before she went to live at the center.

Laurence   said parents have dealt for several months with the nebulous threat of closure of the centers, which stems in part from changes in operations. It climaxed   last week with the loss of  consulting psychiatrist Dr. Randall Buzan. He had  worked part time at the Wheat Ridge and Pueblo centers for 23 years.

"It feels like a nail in the coffin of the centers," Laurence said. "He's a fabulous psychiatrist. We trust him. Why aren't stakeholders included in these decisions?"

Buzan said that he and another part-time professional  are being replaced by a full-time position.  However, he said, a few months ago the Wheat Ridge center also lost its longtime director. Dan Drayer, a Human Services spokesman, said he resigned.

Buzan shares  the parents' belief that  Human Services director  Reggie Bicha would like to close the centers to integrate residents into the mainstream — a position  they say he's publicly stated. Drayer said Bicha's position is the opposite.

"To close the regional centers would be a disaster," Buzan said. "They will discharge all these people, and some will end up in emergency rooms and jails."

We reserve the right to remove any comment we feel is spammy, NSFW, defamatory, rude, or reckless to the community.

We expect everyone to be respectful of other commenters. It's fine to have differences of opinion, but there's no need to act like a jerk.

Use your own words (don't copy and paste from elsewhere), be honest and don't pretend to be someone (or something) you're not.
