
7venth Power is pleased to announce that its President Richard Scrushy has been invited to speak as the Morning Keynote speaker at Pfeiffer University’s 2014 Fraud & Forensic investigations conference meeting at The Westin Charlotte Hotel, 601 South College Street, Charlotte, NC, on June 10 – 11, 2014.  He will talk about his experiences in building billion dollar companies and the problems that caused an accounting fraud at one of his companies.  Included in his discussion will be the high profile investigations and trials brought by the United States government.

Established in 1885, Pfeiffer University is a globally engaged, regional university distinctive for its transformational undergraduate experiences and leadership in professional and graduate programs that fill demonstrated needs on its campuses in Charlotte, Misenheimer, Raleigh and online.  Vested in its history as a United Methodist-related university and propelled by an innovative faculty and staff, Pfeiffer prepares its students for a lifetime of achievement, scholarship, spirituality and service.

Richard Scrushy is a dynamic entrepreneur with a strong track record.  He was a founder of three New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) companies.  All three became billion dollar companies, and two became Fortune 500 companies.

He built his first company from the ground up with a business card and a dream.  He then served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of that company for nearly twenty years.  The company grew into a multi-billion dollar Fortune 500 Company.  He served as Chairman of another corporation for several years until it merged with NYSE company and he served as Chairman and CEO of yet a third company.  At one time, the number of employees in the companies for which he served as Chairman exceeded eighty-thousand people.

One of the companies he started became the largest healthcare provider geographically in America with more than 2,350 facilities.  The company had operations in all fifty states and every major city in the United States.  It also had operations and facilities in several other countries including Saudi Arabia, United Kingdom, Puerto Rico and Australia.
