
Citizens Bank and Volunteer NH have named John Walker a “Good Citizen” for his outstanding commitment to the Laconia community. The Good Citizen Award honors people who demonstrate an exceptional commitment to volunteerism and, through their efforts, strengthen the communities where they live and work. As part of the award, a $250 donation is being made in Walker’s honor to Got Lunch! Laconia.

Walker, a retired airline pilot, was instrumental in the launch of Got Lunch! Laconia. In the spring of 2011, Walker learned that more than half of the Laconia’s students — nearly 67 percent, and more than 1,400 children — received free or reduced-price lunch during the school year. He questioned what these children did during the summer months, and sought a solution to ensure they received a nutritious meal. Partnering with Paula Gile, an associate minister at a local church, Walker launched Got Lunch! Laconia in April 2011 as a collaboration of community partners coming together to feed Laconia children during the summer months.

CONCORD — New Hampshire Insurance Commissioner Roger Sevigny has been re-elected president of the National Insurance Producer Registry, a nonprofit affiliate of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. NIPR is a public-private partnership that supports the work of the states and the NAIC in making the producer-licensing process more cost-effective for the benefit of regulators, the insurance industry and consumers.

Sevigny has served as president of the organization since 2012 and has served on its board of directors since 2007.

Mark Wright, a director and chairman of the McLane Law Firm’s intellectual property practice group, has been recognized with a Client Choice Award by Lexology, an international legal intelligence service. He was singled out for his work in intellectual property law and trademarks. Established in 2005, the Client Choice Awards recognize law firms and partners around the world. The London-based organization considered thousands of submissions and selected 251 individual winners from across 46 U.S. states.

Meredith Cline, a junior business administration and marketing major at UNH’s Peter T. Paul College of Business and Economics recently presented her marketing research project, “Analyzing The Effects of Environmental Constraints On Business” at the 15th annual Undergraduate Research Conference, which was held April 11-26 at the University of New Hampshire.

Cline was awarded first prize for her poster presentation in the marketing category. Her study focused on an environmental constraint placed upon a local business, Las Olas Taqueria. Lin Guo, assistant professor of marketing, served as Cline’s adviser.

Susannah Chance, vice president of HR at Leddy Group, who provides staffing solutions and business consulting services, was honored by the Business and Industry Association of New Hampshire with an “Above and Beyond” award. Chance received the recognition because of her service and her commitment to BIA’s mission during the past year.

Chance was honored along with other businesspeople from around New Hampshire, including individuals from the New Hampshire Department of Resources and Economic Development, Northeast Delta Dental, New Hampshire Department of Environmental Services and Medtronic Advanced Energy.

Sandler Training of Manchester has hired Toby Payne. Payne, a sales force development expert, will work closely with firm principal Kevin Hallenbeck to develop business with clients and implement training programs.
