
The debate over the definition of marriage in the state of Alaska shifted to the courts this week as a group of same-sex couples filed a lawsuit to challenge the state’s same-sex marriage ban. Nationwide, similar lawsuits have been successful in challenging the definition of marriage as between only a man and a woman, with some 17 states now recognizing same-sex marriage.

While this shift may be uncomfortable for some, it is important to step back when considering the issue and think a bit about the history of marriage in our nation as well as the world because the common-day version of marriage is a relatively new invention.

A study of humans circa 10,000 BC finds that nuclear families as we think of them today did not exist, despite what you might glean from watching the Flinstones or the Croods. Instead, early humans lived in groups of clans, with a division of labor that resulted in relative equality between genders. As civilization evolved, and the idea of ownership of property developed, societies became more male-dominated.

World-wide, a wide range of definitions of marriage developed -- and most were based more on exchange of property than on love, which really didn’t enter the picture until much later, and in some countries even today, is not a central element in marriage. Instead, marriage was closer to a business partnership between two individuals and two families.

The Christian church got involved in the second half of the 16th century, mandating a variety of rules we continue to use in many cases today, like the woman’s taking of her husband’s name. Eventually, laws instituting the legality of the marriage went into place, and the modern-day marriage began to emerge.

But many things were accepted when it came to marriage -- even a few decades ago -- that would make most modern-day brides and grooms cringe. Women, for example, were considered possessions -- not just by society, but by law. Domestic violence and rape within marriage were deemed acceptable rights of a husband in many cases. In fact, England didn’t make marital rape illegal until 1991. In the U.S., marital rape was legal in some states until 1993, and even after that, the laws were more lenient than in other rape cases until less than a decade ago.

As women gained ground in the rights department, many laws still restricted interfaith marriages, as well as marriages between people of different races. In fact, it was only a little over 40 years ago that the United States Supreme Court unanimously ruled that laws against marriages between whites and blacks as well as marriages between whites and Native Americans or Asians were unconstitutional. At that time, 16 states still had laws restricting who could marry, and that was only a generation ago.

Today, the debate isn’t the color of one’s skin but rather gender, but the argument is the same. The basic premise is that all people have rights of equality, and it is central to our national principles. While religious institutions may have the right to restrict what kind of marriages they endorse, from a nationally legal standpoint, those arguments are crumbling. And it isn’t just in the United States. Worldwide, more than a dozen countries have ruled same-sex marriages legal.

Sometimes change is uncomfortable. Our concept of an institution such as marriage is something we are raised with, and adjusting it can be challenging. People may wonder what the implications will be for the family unit. But with an estimated 50 percent of marriages failing (and that’s just the dismal statistic for first-time marriages – the subsequent marriages are even more doomed) the purpose of upholding today’s version of marriage as the best for society is questionable.

But remembering that the definition of marriage has changed dramatically over history helps one to understand that this, just like many other social institutions, is a work in progress. We continue to refine what our society deems acceptable and not. Today, a couple in love expects they can get married and not have to think twice about whether their skin colors’ match. But for our parents, that wasn’t the case, and we all know that 50 years ago, an interracial couple turned many heads and made some people uncomfortable.

Few of us would like to go back to loveless arranged marriages, punishment by death for infidelity or similar barbaric practices of the past. We will have to continue to walk the tightrope on an issue that blends the lines between religion and law, between social values and court orders. Keeping perspective about the fluidity of social practices and the laws that govern them will help.

Perhaps the bigger question is why divorce rates continue to climb, and why more and more people are choosing not to marry at all. If the current trend continues, this debate could be a moot point in a few decades, as marriages may become altogether obsolete.

Then, the way our society arranges itself may again change.

Carey Restino is the editor of The Arctic Sounder , where this commentary first appeared. Used with permission.

The views expressed here are the writer's own and are not necessarily endorsed by Alaska Dispatch, which welcomes a broad range of viewpoints. To submit a piece for consideration, e-mail commentary(at)alaskadispatch.com .

All Rights Reserved.
