
Please enter at least two characters in the Last Name field.

Be sure to include your name, daytime phone number, address, name and phone number of legal next-of-kin, method of payment, and the name of the funeral home/crematory to contact for verification of death.

For more information about placing obituaries, click here .

Tortilla Ranch Mexican Grill, a new homegrown restaurant concept, is now open in Overland Park.

At Tortilla Ranch — 8617 College Blvd., just east of Antioch Road — customers order, pay and pick up their food and drinks at the counter.

It specializes in burrito platters with sides of rice and beans, along with ranch tacos (their version of street tacos), nachos and quesadillas, margaritas and bottled beers. Flour tortillas are made fresh on-site. Customers also can select from a variety of ingredients — shrimp, fish, grilled chicken and steak, guacamole and more.

Other menu items include breakfast burritos, key lime pie, fresh margaritas, and Roasterie coffee.

Hours are: 7 a.m. to 9 p.m. Sunday through Thursday, and 7 a.m. to 10 p.m. Friday and Saturday. Breakfast is from 7 to 10:30 a.m. daily.

Tortilla Ranch partners, Ed Gieselman and Ed Brownell, have been talking about teaming up on the new Mexican grill fast casual concept for a decade. They say they just want to get the Overland Park location established, but they have a history of opening multiple locations.

Gieselman is president of Jose Pepper’s Restaurants LLC, which was founded nearly 26 years ago. The company has more than a dozen Jose Pepper’s restaurants and Cactus Grill operations in Kansas and Missouri.

Brownell became a partner in Bagel & Bagel three years after it was founded. Bagel & Bagel later joined with two other regional bagel restaurant chains to form the national Einstein Bros Bagels. He also is a partner in Spin Neapolitan Pizza, which has multiple locations in the metro, as well as in California.

is pleased to provide this opportunity to share information, experiences and observations about what's in the news. Some of the comments may be reprinted elsewhere in the site or in the newspaper. We encourage lively, open debate on the issues of the day, and ask that you refrain from profanity, hate speech, personal comments and remarks that are off point. Thank you for taking the time to offer your thoughts.
