
Dr. Jack Sinclair, pictured in 2009, becane a physician but he was also a talented musician who played the French horn and piano.

Dr. Saroj Saigal, left, remembers Dr. Jack Sinclair, pictured with her at the McMaster neonatal intensive care unit when it opened in 1973, as a pioneer in their field.

Dr. Jack Sinclair, a pioneer in the care and treatment of premature and critically ill newborns, was an associate professor at Columbia University in New York City in 1970 when he was recruited by McMaster University to create a neonatal intensive care unit in Hamilton.

In only a few years "it was one of the foremost neonatal units in the world," said colleague and longtime friend Dr. Saroj Saigal.

When he came to Hamilton, Sinclair worked with newborns and preemies at the former Henderson Hospital until McMaster University Medical Centre, now the McMaster Children's Hospital, opened in 1973.

Sinclair's clinical work in neonatal care at a time when there was no such specialty made him a respected scholar, skilled researcher and mentor known around the world. His research greatly improved a baby's chances of survival and made McMaster renowned for its neonatal intensive care unit (NICU).

Sinclair, a 1959 University of Manitoba medical graduate, died in Toronto on May 2 from cancer. He was 80.

Saigal was at the Pediatric Academic Societies conference in Vancouver when news came of Sinclair's death.

"He was internationally known, so the news spread quite fast," she said.

He was a brilliant man and a great influence in encouraging medical treatment that was based on sound evidence that it worked, she said. He was internationally known for his 1992 book Effective Care of the Newborn, Saigal noted.

The book, which he co-edited, is considered a seminal work on the subject.

"He was a pioneer in Canadian neonatal intensive care and was recognized for his research on temperature regulation in premature infants…," Saigal said.

When he started, the survival rate of very small premature babies was very low, she said.

Suzanne Sinclair, his wife of 55 years, said Sinclair also helped pioneer the practice of bringing mothers in danger of delivering prematurely to McMaster to deliver because the NICU was right there. It wasn't until 10 years later that Toronto hospitals had a similar a program, she said.

This was his way "to prevent birth damage", she said. "He was interested in the intact survival of small infants."

Saigal said Sinclair "was greatly admired for his intellect, his innovative approach in treating newborns and as a mentor to young neonatologists (pediatricians specializing in seriously ill and premature newborns). He will be greatly missed."

Many of the international neonatologists he trained are now leaders in their own countries, she said.

Sinclair also helped establish the Neonatal Collaborative Review Group of Cochrane Collaboration, a database of information that is now "a key source of evidence for and against therapeutic interventions in newborns," she added.

From 1983 to 2003, he was its co-ordinating editor and from 2003 to 2010, the editor.

Sinclair lived in Burlington for 16 years and in Hamilton another 16 and was also a Mac professor of pediatrics from 1970 until retiring in 1999. He was then named professor emeritus and  became an adjunct professor at both Yale University and the University of Texas at Houston.

But Sinclair was more than a renowned and respected doctor, researcher and educator. He was a talented musician who began playing French horn in the Winnipeg Symphony while still a teenager, his wife said.

He was an accomplished pianist and he studied classical music composition with the prolific French composer Darius Milhaud at the Aspen Summer Music Festival in Colorado. His wife said both the festival and the symphony each performed one of his compositions.

Despite his love of music, Sinclair chose to become a doctor.

"I think he thought he couldn't have medicine as a hobby and earn a living as a composer, but he could have music as a hobby and earn a living in medicine," Suzanne said.

Sinclair received many accolades, including awards from the Canadian and Swedish Pediatric Societies and the American Academy of Pediatrics.

In 2002, McMaster University and Hamilton Health Sciences Foundation each contributed $1 million to create a research chair in Sinclair's name to fund further innovations and research in neonatology.

A memoriam on The Collaborative website said, "Jack exemplified the three cornerstones of an outstanding academic clinician: caring physician, enlightened teacher and a meticulous researcher."

It also said: "For all his professional laurels, Jack was a humble man, dedicated to his vegetable patch, untangling the knots from his fishing line, and enjoying telling and retelling an amusing story from a seemingly endless collection of anecdotes. He was a natural raconteur …"

Sinclair is survived by his wife Suzanne, daughter Lee Hamr, a science teacher in Toronto, and sons David, a classical and baroque double bass player in Paris, France with teaching positions in Switzerland, and Stephen, an organ builder and principal owner in Montreal's Juget-Sinclair Organs, which supplies organs around the world.

A celebration of Sinclair's life will be held from 4 to 6 p.m. on June 12 at the McMaster University club.
