
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

A crowd gathered inside Oregon United for Marriage headquarters broke into applause, greeting the ruling with tears and ecstatic embraces.

"It's a win," said Basic Rights Oregon director Jeana Frazzini after federal Judge Michael McShane struck down the state's ban on same sex marriage in a ruling that was announced shortly after noon.

Opponents called the ruling unfair because they never had a chance to oppose the challenge to the state's constitutional amendment prohibiting marriage except between a man and a woman.

Plaintiff Ben West on gay marriage ruling Ben West addresses a crowd at the Oregon United for Marriage headquarters just minutes after the ruling. He and Paul Rummell, standing next to him, plan to marry.

"Oregon's court system has been turned into a Banana Republic," said Teresa Harke, spokeswoman for the Oregon Family Council . "Hundreds of thousands of Oregonians have been ignored in this entire process."

The Oregon Catholic Conference also had harsh words for McShane's decision.

"Despite the judge's ruling, authentic marriage remains what it has always and only been according to God's design: the loving union between one man and one woman for the mutual benefit of the two who have become one flesh and any children born of their union," the religious organization said in a statement. "Redefining marriage confuses the true purpose and meaning of marriage."

A number of couples took steps to get married immediately. Others made plans for the near future.

Among those who hope to get married now that the law has been changed is Oregon House Speaker Tina Kotek , D-Portland, who in 2013 became the first openly lesbian in the nation to hold that office.

"Today's historic ruling means that all Oregonians will have the legal right to marry the person they love," Kotek said in a statement. "After a 10-year engagement, my partner Aimee (Wilson) and I are thrilled to join the many other Oregon couples getting married this year."

Gov. John Kitzhaber issued a statement offering his support for the ruling.

"No longer will Oregonians tolerate discrimination against the gay, lesbian, and transgender community," Kitzhaber said. "Instead, the people of this state have come to understand that marriage equality affects our neighbors and our coworkers and the people next to us at the grocery store. It affects loving families that are committed to one another.

News of the judge's ruling reverberated far beyond Oregon.

The ruling "affirms what a majority of Oregonians already knew: discrimination has no place in our society, much less the state constitution," Chad Griffin, president of the national Human Rights Campaign, said in a statement.

Oregon politicians were quick to weigh in as well.

U.S. Sen. Jeff Merkley: "Today, Oregon is a better place for all who live here. This ruling will strengthen families and communities."

U.S. Rep. Peter DeFazio: "Oregon can reaffirm a commitment to ensuring civil rights for all citizens, not just some."

Oregon Senate President Peter Courtney : "Marriage equality is about fairness. It's about justice. It's about caring."

Oregon House Minority Leader Mike McLane : "For those that believe marriage is a religious covenant, the origin of which predates America, today's federal court ruling won't change that.  For those that believe marriage is a legal union between two people that is recognized and enforced by our state government, today's ruling is a logical extension of the Supreme Court's ruling last summer. Our society must embrace both views."

Keep tabs on the people who represent your interests in Salem and Washington, D.C.

© 2014 Oregon Live LLC. All rights reserved ( About Us ).

The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Oregon Live LLC.

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
