
No, it is not. Let’s look at the latest data from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics.

The household survey from which BLS derives its monthly releases of state and local unemployment rates has a fairly small sample size. While BLS reports the “standard” unemployment rate, called U-3, on a monthly basis, it does not feel comfortable delving more deeply into the survey for monthly data explaining what is happening to those no longer considered in the labor force.

Instead, BLS uses 12 months of survey data to construct six different unemployment measures with varying breadths. These six rates are then updated every quarter.

The familiar U-3 rate consists of workers who lack jobs and are actively looking for work. For the April 2013-March 2014 period, North Carolina’s U-3 average was 7.2 percent, slightly above the national average of 7.1 percent. That gap used to be much wider. In fact, North Carolina had the second-largest drop in U-3 unemployment in the nation.

Now, U-3 doesn’t tell the whole story. If a worker gets discouraged and stops looking for a job, he’s no longer in U-3. If he stops looking for a job to move to another place, move home to take care of elderly parents, or go back to school, he’s no longer in U-3. And if he takes a part-time job making 50 percent of what he used to make, but would still like a full-time job, he’s no longer in U-3. I just described the three broader measures of labor utilization. U-4 takes in discouraged workers. U-5 takes in all other marginally attached workers. U-6 takes in the involuntary part-timers.

In each case, North Carolina’s labor-market improvement was still either the best or second-best in the nation over the past year. For example, for the April 2013-March 2014 period, North Carolina’s U-5 rate — including all workers who have dropped out of the labor force for some reason — averaged 8.6 percent. During the previous 12 months, it averaged 10.8 percent. That’s a drop of 2.2 points, the largest in the country. The national average drop in U-5 unemployment was 0.9 of a point.

If you subtract U-3 from U-5, you get the share of each state’s labor force that consists of discouraged and other marginally attached workers. For North Carolina, that share was 1.4 percent for the period ending in March. The national average was also 1.4 percent. During the previous period (2012-13), 1.6 percent of North Carolina workers were discouraged or otherwise marginally attached. In other words, the rate of worker disengagement in our state is down, not up.

So if you persist in believing North Carolina’s tumbling unemployment rate is simply a quirk caused by discouraged workers dropping out of the labor force, you are no longer describing reality.

John Hood is president of the John Locke Foundation.Representations of fact and opinions are solely those of the author.
