
On May 10, Phet Xaysombath, 33, graduated from UNC Charlotte with a degree in mechanical engineering. A 15-year journey took him from living in a dorm room to living in a freight container and back again.

From dawn until dusk, Phet Xaysombath’s hands searched the churned-up soil for purple sweet potatoes on the Hawaiian farm where he toiled as a laborer.

To protect his skin from the baking sun, he wore long sleeves and pants and covered his head with a T-shirt so that only his eyes showed.

At night, he returned to his home, an abandoned shipping container with a mosquito net for a door and an old mattress on the floor.

He lived that way for three months. Five years later, he still considers it the best time in his life.

This month, Xaysombath graduated from UNC Charlotte with the bachelor’s degree in mechanical engineering he had begun 15 years earlier, before being led off that path by a powdery white line of cocaine.

He said he hopes his story serves as both a cautionary tale and testament to perseverance.

Xaysombath grew up in Salisbury. Raised by his grandparents, he went to church faithfully and earned nearly all straight A’s in high school, where he lettered in three sports.

After high school graduation in 1999, he enrolled at UNCC. Looking back, Xaysombath said, he doesn’t think he was prepared for the freedom of university life.

The night his roommate offered him cocaine, Xaysombath turned a dark corner that led eventually to him dropping out, moving to California to work in his mother’s Thai restaurant and becoming addicted to crystal methamphetamine.

After years of working just enough to get money for drugs, Xaysombath said, it wasn’t any specific rock-bottom incident that turned him around.

To distance himself from the drug scene surrounding him in California, he caught a cheap flight to Hawaii, where he took work on the sweet potato farm.

After months of sobriety, Xaysombath left the farm and decided to pick up where he had left off with his education. His life since has been on an upward swing.

On May 10, he graduated from UNC Charlotte with a well-paying job already lined up. Recognized for defying the odds, Xaysombath was presented the university’s Anna M. Johnson Hats Off Award, given to students who overcome struggles to find success.

His girlfriend said “yes” to his marriage proposal after a four-year courtship. He has a home, a career, love and a hopeful future, none of which he had five years earlier.

The Charlotte Observer welcomes your comments on news of the day. The more voices engaged in conversation, the better for us all, but do keep it civil. Please refrain from profanity, obscenity, spam, name-calling or attacking others for their views.

The Charlotte region is vast and diverse. The more voices engaged in conversation, the better for us all. The Charlotte Observer welcomes your comments on news of the day, but we ask that you keep the discourse civil.

Do not use profanity or obscenities. And don't try to camouflage profanity with asterisks, abbreviations or other symbols or foreign phrases.

Do not use threatening language. Talk of violence won't be tolerated.

No racial, gender or sexual-orientation name-calling.

Do not attack other commenters for their views. Do not libel or defame anyone or violate their privacy.

Keep your comments succinct and stay on topic. Comments that bear no relation to the story may be deleted.

Do not add images to your comments.

Do not report comments as abusive simply because you disagree with them. Report them only if they violate these guidelines.

Do not post spam or advertising of any kind.

Do not post a comment using all capital letters.

We do not monitor each and every posting, but we reserve the right to block or delete comments that violate these rules.

You can help: Notify us of violations by hitting the "Report Abuse" link. Users who continue posting comments that violate these guidelines may, at our discretion, be blocked from submitting future comments as well.

And finally, as Mark Twain said: "Always do right. This will gratify some people and astonish the rest."
