
Fort Bend Junior Service League's new board of directors for 2014-2015 was presented at the May 6 meeting.  Front row, from left, are Ashley Joshi-Patel, Katrina Sayes, Debbie Buckner, Cindy Dempster, and Mimi Zayback.  In the back row, from left, Mindi Zemanek,  Dana Clement, Soni Karamchandani, Heather Carroll, Caroline Bordelon, and Hillary Watson.

Rich and Denise Muller were among the sell-out crowd at the event.

Renee and Charles Hunter enjoyed the festive evening at Constellation Field.

Out for a fun evening with friends were, from left, Tracey Richardson, Amy Zost, Traci Pelter, and Lori Bramlett.  All were appropriately dressed in black and white.

Sticking to the black and white theme of the Spring Fling were, from left, Melissa and Matt Hayslip, Cindy and Chris Dempster, KK and Scott West, and Johnnie and Jimmy White.  Cindy Dempster was the League president for 2013-2014; Melissa Hayslip, KK West, and Johnnie White were event co-chairs.

Clay and Kimberly Camp were resplendent in black and white.

The Fort Bend Junior Service League 's Spring Fling fundraiser, held on April 5 at Sugar Land Skeeters Insperity Club at Constellation Field, paid off in a big way for the league and for Fort Bend Family Promise, recipient of 90 percent of the evening's proceeds.

The sold-out "Black & White Bash" proved a great casual alternative to the formal charity balls that had been standard spring fare for the Service League.

The grand total of $168,000 was announced at the league's May 6 meeting, and most of the Family Promise board of directors were there for the check presentation.

Fort Bend Family Promise is a nonprofit organization providing shelter, meals, and comprehensive support to families who have lost their homes due to unfortunate circumstances.  It's all done through a collaborative effort with local church congregations, who step up in support of events benefiting the charity.

The league's May meeting wrapped up a very successful year, while introducing the board of directors for 2014-15.

The league has begun its annual membership drive. Provisional membership is available to women ages 23 and older. Anyone interested in learning more about the league is encouraged to attend one of the informational meetings, June 19 or July 17 from 6 to 8 p.m. at locations to be determined.

Check the FBJSL website, www.fbjsl.com, for more information.
