
CHAMBERSBURG &GT;&GT; The 11/30 promotion celebrating Chambersburg's biggest crossroads will go down in history in Chambersburg Area Senior High School's 2013-14 yearbook.

The CASHS yearbook class worked with Downtown Chamersburg Inc., an affiliate of Greater Chambersburg Chamber of Commerce to make it happen. It was the first time the yearbook class worked with the community to produce the yearbook, called "The Echo," said teacher Mike Snedden.

"For us it's the normal traditional yearbook but it's also them representing the community and the historic things that are on Route 11, Route 30," he said.

The 11/30 concept was started by Mike Kalathas, owner of The Orchards, according to Noel Purdy of DCI. He gave the organization licensing rights to use it as wanted, Purdy said.

DCI took it on as a grassroots opportunity to celebrate the current and historic significance of Chambersburg's location as the crossroads of U.S. 11 and U.S. 30, which intersect in downtown Chambersburg as Second Street and Lincoln Way East. The organization designed T-shirts and magnets and also held events highlighting the 11/30 theme.

The yearbook class first approached DCI about incorporating 11/30 into the yearbook.

"We were super excited and thought it was another exciting way to capitalize on the grassroots effort promoting Chambersburg," Purdy said.

The partnership enabled the CASHS yearbook class to highlight the community of past and present within the pages of their school story while allowing DCI to reach a younger demographic, Snedden said.

Throughout the book, photos of community landmarks from years ago and the present show students what prior generations saw. Students worked with Franklin County Historical Society to gather information. Another photo among other features shows the CASHS Trojan mascot posing at the U.S. 11 and U.S. 30 intersection.

Promotion of 11/30 will extend far beyond the yearbook, since each copy comes with an 11/30 magnet.

The partnership between DCI and the yearbook class was not limited to building the yearbook. Students volunteered at Small Business Saturday, the day after Black Friday that is dedicated to local businesses, as well as other related events.

"It's a really fun way to connect with students in our community and have them think about the community in a different way," Purdy said.

This year's 99th edition of The Echo is a precursor to the 100th edition coming next year. "Next year's will be way different because of it being the 100th edition," Snedden said.

Amber South can be reached at 262-4771.
