
Like us on Facebook. Follow us on Twitter.

Youngstown, Ohio, May 19, 2014 – Calling attention to a new radioactive waste facility in the heart of Youngstown and a new fracking waste injection well operation in Weathersfield Township, near Youngstown, concerned citizens of Frackfree Mahoning Valley (FFM) and supporters have signed up to speak at the Youngstown City Council, on Wednesday, May 21, 2014, during the public input part of the Youngstown City Council meeting.The meeting is scheduled to start at 5:30 PM at the Youngstown City Hall, 26 S. Phelps St., according to the Youngstown city website.

Frackfree Mahoning Valley says that the issue of toxic, radioactive fracking waste is not only a local issue, it is a national issue that is resonating more and more every day, and rightly so. FFM asks: Where are all of the millions of gallons of toxic fracking waste and solid waste that fracking is generating going to go? Much of it is coming to Ohio while other states are banning it, or trying to ban it, such as Connecticut, New Jersey, and New York.Why is it coming to Ohio? There is no good, workable solution for handling this toxic, often radioactive fracking waste. Ohio is not a waste dump. Ohioans are not expendable; no one is expendable. The only moral solution is to stop generating fracking waste since there is no good or safe way to contain it or to dispose of it. Public health, safety and the public interest must come first, according to Frackfree Mahoning Valley.

Frackfree Mahoning Valley hopes that numerous Youngstown and surrounding community concerned citizens attend this very important May 21 City Council meeting to hear about the radioactive waste facility that has recently been allowed in the heart of Youngstown.This development has enormous implications not only for Youngstown, but also for the surrounding area, says FFM.

Frackfree Mahoning Valley is again renewing its call for open, public dialogue and conversation in real time, preferably televised or otherwise broadcast, so that our community can have ready access to much-needed scientific and factual information about fracking and related processes and the citizens’ need for local control to protect public health, safety, and well-being.

Utica Shale , a compilation of Utica shale activities.

Landman Report Card, a site that looks at companies involved in gas and oil leases. FracFocus, a compilation of chemicals used in fracking individual wells as reported voluntarily by some drillers.

Chesapeake Energy Corp, the Oklahoma-based firm is the No. 1 driller in Ohio.

Allegheny Front, environmental public radio for Western Pennsylvania.
