
Barbour went back to his old lobbying firm in Washington that he originally set up in 1987. He also joined Mississippi's largest law firm, Butler-Snow. Case found the former governor has some strong feelings about the June Republican primary for the U.S. Senate race in Mississippi.

Barbour, who is now 66 years old, said he's still in good health. The former governor, who first served as political director for President Ronald Reagan, thinks U.S. Sen. Thad Cochran should be re-elected, if for no other reason than what Cochran did in getting federal help for Mississippi in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina.

"So you think Cochran will be re-elected?" Case asked.

"I believe he will be re-elected for good reason. The people of Mississippi don't want out-of-state special-interest groups to come in here spending millions of dollars to tell them what they aren't doing, particularly when we have got a senator like Thad Cochran, serving them so well. Sen. Cochran knows he has got a serious race. In politics there is an old adage: There are two ways to run: Scared or unopposed," Barbour said.

Cochran is facing a strong challenge from state Sen. Chris McDaniel, who claims to be more conservative than Cochran.

"If Thad Cochran wins the nomination, he is a shoo-in and will keep his seat. And if he should lose, then the Mississippi seat comes in play. And I want Republicans to win control of the Senate, because then we can stop (President Barack) Obama from doing a lot of bad things. We can also stop him from packing the Supreme Court," Barbour said.

"Do you regret the pardons that you made at the end of your administration?" Case asked.

"So 10 people were released. Five of them worked at the Governor's Mansion. I don't regret that at all, because as a Christian, I believe you confess your sins and repent and you rehabilitate yourself, (and) that by earning that redemption, you earn a second chance, and that's what these people did. I pardoned 10 of 23,000 we have in the system. The truth is, if more people had known you could apply for a pardon, there are all sorts of people who would have been able to earn a pardon," Barbour said.

The views expressed are not those of this site, this station or its affiliated companies. By posting your comments you agree to accept our terms of use.

The candidate who lost a Mississippi Republican primary for U.S. Senate two months ago says he's not giving up before a judge considers his lawsuit challenging the race.
