
The Missouri Department of Transportation and crews will be starting shoulder work for a bike trail on Highway 74 in Cape Girardeau. The section runs from fountain Street to Interstate 55.

The Missouri Department of Transportation and crews will be starting shoulder work for a bike trail on Highway 74 in Cape Girardeau. The section runs from fountain Street to Interstate 55.

The Kentucky Transportation Cabinet has arranged for emergency demolition of the old U.S. 60 bridge over the Tennessee River between McCracken and Livingston Counties.

The Kentucky Transportation Cabinet has arranged for emergency demolition of the old U.S. 60 bridge over the Tennessee River between McCracken and Livingston Counties.

A West Paducah teen has been charged in connection with a assault on a bicyclist on Cairo Road.

A West Paducah teen has been charged in connection with a assault on a bicyclist on Cairo Road.

The Kentucky State Police responded to a deadly vehicle crash on Aug. 25 around 7:19 p.m.

The Kentucky State Police responded to a deadly vehicle crash on Aug. 25 around 7:19 p.m.

Gov. Pat Quinn has signed a measure into law aimed at curbing workplace discrimination against pregnant women.

Gov. Pat Quinn has signed a measure into law aimed at curbing workplace discrimination against pregnant women.

Attorneys for Wisconsin and Indiana are set defend their states' gay marriage bans before a federal appeals court in Chicago.

Federal appeals court judges considering whether to uphold gay marriage bans in Indiana and Wisconsin are reserving their toughest questions for the states, asking how the bans help society, especially children of same-sex couples.

?Here is a list of road projects around the Heartland scheduled for Tuesday, August 26.

Wear your seatbelt. During the Labor Day holiday in 2013, there were eight fatalities in crashes on Missouri roadways and two of those killed were not wearing a seatbelt.

Don't text and drive. Distracted driving is a top cause of crashes. Put down your phone and focus on your driving.

Don't tailgate. Keep a safe distance. Remember to leave at least two seconds of braking distance between you and the vehicle in front of you.

Slow down for work zones. Lanes may be reduced or shifted. By slowing down you will be more prepared to adjust to the changing conditions and potential delays from reduced lanes.

Route CC will be reduced to one lane while crews perform pavement repairs. This section of road is located from Route 51 to Route U. Weather permitting, crews will be working on Tuesday, Aug. 26 and Wednesday, Aug. 27 from 7 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. daily.

East and westbound traffic will be restricted. Existing lanes of Route 67 from CR 323 to Route 160/158 will be signed as Route C. The north end of Route C (existing Route 67) will remain closed for about two months as work is completed at the intersection of Route 67, Route C, and CR 323.

The city says there will be lane closures on William Street at and near the intersection of William Street and Sheridan Drive as well as road closures of Sheridan Drive near the intersection of William St. and Sheridan Dr. starting Monday, Aug. 25 through Wednesday, Aug. 27. The schedule is subject to change due to weather, the contractor's schedule or other relevant factors. Striping and other work related to a new traffic signal at this intersection will be ongoing.

MoDOT plans to replace the bridge on Route 61 over Hughes Creek - two miles from Route CC. Construction is set to begin in 2015.

From the north: Route 61 south to Route KK, west on KK to I-55, south on I-55 to Route E, then east on Route E to Route 61.

From the south: Route 61 north to Route E, east on Route E to I-55, north on I-55 to Route KK, then east on KK to Route 61.

Maps are available at MoDOT's Sikeston Office  on N. Main St. Property owners can request a hearing in writing if affected.

Roadwork continues on Route 21 from Ripley to Carter County from US 60 to US 160 until Nov. 1.

Route 84 in Dunklin County will be reduced to one lane as contractor crews work on sidewalk improvements. This is located between Depot Street and Michael Street. Weather permitting, work will take place Friday, Aug. 29 through Friday, Sept. 19 from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. daily.

There will be a highway dedication on Sept. 6 in Iron County. It's to honor the Latham family. It'll be held at 2 p.m. at the Catfish Bowl on St. Mary St. in Pilot Knob. The road honors the Latham family from Route A to Route 49 to Route 32 in Iron and Reynolds Co.

Route B will be reduced with a width restriction of 10 feet while crews perform pavement repairs. This section of road is located from Route 62 and Route 80. Weather permitting, crews will be working on Monday, Aug. 25 through Friday, Aug. 29 from 6:30 a.m. to 7 p.m. daily.

Route 61 in New Madrid County will be reduced to one lane with a 10-foot width restriction as contractor crews perform pavement repairs. The roadwork is located from Larcel Drive to County Road 824. Weather permitting, work will take place Wednesday, Aug. 6 through Monday, Oct. 1 from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. daily.

Work continues on north and southbound I-55 in Perry and Ste. Genevieve counties. The road is one lane from Route 51 to Route J/N at Ozora through Nov. 14, from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. daily.

Route 106 in Reynolds and Shannon counties is down to one lane from Route 21 to Route H through Nov. 1, for shoulder work and pavement repair.

Route 21 in Carter and Ripley is down to one lane from US 60 to US 160 through Nov. 1.

Route 142 in Ozark, Howell, Oregon and Ripley Counties will be reduced to one lane as Missouri Department of Transportation crews perform pavement repairs. This section of roadway is located from Route 101 in Ozark County to Route V in Ripley County. Weather permitting, work will take place Monday, Aug. 25 through Thursday, Aug. 28 from 7 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. daily.

Route Z will be reduced to one lane with a 10 foot restriction from Route N to Route 61 from Aug. 11 to Aug. 28 from 6:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. daily.

Route 77 will be reduced to one lane while crews perform bridge repairs. This is the bridge over I-55. Weather permitting, crews will be working on Monday, Aug. 25 and Tuesday, Aug. 26 from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. daily.

County Road PP will be closed while crews replace a culvert pipe under the road. This section of road is located between County Road 325 and County Road 329. Weather permitting, crews will be working Monday, Aug. 25 from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m.

Route 91 in Stoddard and Scott County will be reduced with a width restriction of 10 feet as crews perform pavement repairs. This section of road is located from Route P and Route 61. Weather permitting, crews will be working on Monday, Aug. 25 through Friday, Aug. 29 from 6:30 a.m. to 7 p.m. daily.

Route AD will be reduced to one lane while crews perform pavement repairs. This section of road is located from U.S. 60 to the end of state maintenance. Weather permitting, crews will be working on Monday, Aug. 18 through Wednesday, Aug. 27 from 6:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. daily.

 Route CC in Stoddard County will be closed as Missouri Department of Transportation crews perform pavement repairs. This section of roadway is located from Route HH to Route 114. Weather permitting, work will take place Thursday, Aug. 21 through Wednesday, Aug. 27 from 6:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. daily.

Route 91 in Stoddard and Scott county will be reduced with a width restriction of 10 feet as crews perform pavement repairs. This section of road is located from Route P to Route 61. Weather permitting, crews will be working on Monday, Aug. 25 through Friday, Aug. 29 from 6:30 a.m. to 7 p.m. daily.

Route PP will be closed while contractors replace the bridge with box culvert. This section of road is located between Hawk Street and Hickman Street in Puxico, Mo. Weather permitting, crews will be working on Tuesday, Sept. 2 and will re-open on Friday, Oct. 31.

East and westbound Route 114 will be reduced to one lane with an 11-foot width restriction as crews make pavement repairs. This section of road is located between Route AH and Route CC. Weather permitting, crews will be working on Tuesday, July 9 through Tuesday, Sept. 2 from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m.

East and westbound Route 60 will be reduced to one lane with a 16-foot width restriction while crews make pavement repairs. This section of road is located between Route AH and County Road 789. Weather permitting, crews will be working on Tuesday, July 9 through Tuesday, Sept. 2 from 6 a.m. to 6:30 p.m. daily.

MoDOT crews are planning to improve Route Z bridge over McGee Creek, located about 3 miles east of Route T. Construction could begin as early as spring 2015. As construction is underway, Route Z will be closed to through traffic near the bridge. Detour routes will be signed.

Oversize and overweight loads are restricted on Route 13 westbound near Old Shawneetown at the Kentucky state line.

Route 13 east of IL 1 will be restricted until Dec. 31 near Junction.

The final phase of the Walnut St. water line replacement begins Monday, Aug. 25 in Murphysboro. Parking along Walnut will be suspended. The parking ban takes place until work is finished.

The Illinois Department of Transportation would like to alert motorists traveling Interstate 57 and Interstate 64 in the Mt. Vernon area of the North I-57/I-64 Interchange Construction Project beginning July 21, 2014.  This will be on I-57 from mile marker 95 to mile marker 97 and on I-64 from mile marker 73 to mile marker 75.

The contractor will be engaged in patching operations followed by placement of asphalt pavement. Lane reductions will be utilized to perform this work.

Delays are expected. To avoid these delays, motorists are encouraged to utilize the marked detour routes. Motorist should reduce speed, be alert to equipment and workers and use extreme caution when traveling through this area.

Route 146 will be reduced to one lane from 4.2 miles east of IL 145-Flat Lick Branch until October 17.

On July 7, "Old" Illinois HWY 13 West, will be closed between Hankins Road and 1/2 mile west of the Carrier Mills Road. This is for a bridge replacement, just west of Bankston Church Road. This closure will not effect “New” Illinois 13 West. The road is scheduled to be closed until September 12.

Commerce Drive from Division Street to Brentwood Drive is under construction, and is closed for 50 days, according to IDOT. Work begins on July 28. Parking for establishments east of Brentwood will stay open. Access to the front parking areas on the south side will not be affected. The McDonald's employee parking lot will be accessible via Brentwood from the south.

The Union County Highway Department announced Friday, Aug. 22 that the reconstruction work on Skyline Drive between Old US Route 51 and Jamestown Road will begin Monday, August 25, 2014. The project start was delayed one week due to weather. It will take 2-3 months to complete. Drivers are urged to use caution while driving in this area and watch for workers and equipment in the road. They are also encouraged to use alternate routes during this time to avoid the work area and possible lengthy delays. Access to residences will be maintained. Several road closures are planned in order to replace cross road culverts prior to the resurfacing.

The Union County Highway Department announced Friday, Aug. 22 that the replacement of the bridge on Fisher Lane near Dongola will begin Monday, August 25, 2014. It will take approximately 2 months to complete. Drivers are urged to use caution while driving in this area and watch for workers and equipment in the road. Traffic will be maintained via a temporary runaround.

After a concrete pour on U.S. 68 Lake Barkley Bridge at Canton in Trigg Co. on Wednesday, Aug. 20, a land and load width restriction for deck repairs will remain up until Thursday afternoon, Aug. 28, to allow the concrete to cure. The work zone restrictions with an automated signal controlling traffic flow will come down on Thursday afternoon and remain down until Monday. They will then go back up on Monday, Aug. 25 and remain up through Thursday, Aug. 28 to allow the crew to finish patching of the bridge deck.

The KYTC plans to close KY 893/West State Line Road in the Hazel Community on Wednesday, Aug. 20. It will be closed to through traffic at mile point 18.670 at the west edge of Hazel to allow a large double cross drain to be replaced. This is just west of 5th Street intersection and less than a mile west of U.S. 641. This KY 893 closure will extend westward to Old Whitlock Road/Jesse Lane. It is expected to close at 8 a.m. on Wednesday and reopen by 4 p.m.

A contractor for the Kentucky Transportation Cabinet (KYTC) plans to restrict traffic along a section of Interstate 24 in Trigg, Caldwell, and Lyon Counties starting Monday, August 4. Interstate 24 will be restricted to one lane at various locations between the 45-mile marker and the 69-mile marker. This is for concrete pavement repairs and bridge maintenance work. This work to repair and replace a number of failed concrete slabs is spread along an extended section of I-24 from near the Trigg-Christian County line to near the KY 293 Exit 45 Interchange in Lyon County. The contractor plans to begin work along the westbound lanes near the Trigg-Christian County Line and work westward along this 24-mile section, then turn and work along the eastbound lanes. Drivers should be prepared to encounter slowing and merging traffic as they approach this work zone. The work zone will include a 55 mile per hour speed limit with an enhanced enforcement presence. The anticipated completion date is December 1.

US Hwy 60 has reopened to traffic at Dyer Hill Curve in Livingston County. Please remember that this is still an active work zone. They have about two weeks of work to finish out tie-ins to side roads and place a final layer of asphalt. Please continue to use caution in this area near the 19 mm in Livingston County.

A contractor for the Kentucky Transportation Cabinet (KYTC) plans to restrict traffic along a section of Interstate 24 in Trigg, Caldwell, and Lyon Counties starting Monday, August 4. Interstate 24 will be restricted to one lane at various locations between the 45-mile marker and the 69-mile marker. This is for concrete pavement repairs and bridge maintenance work. This work to repair and replace a number of failed concrete slabs is spread along an extended section of I-24 from near the Trigg-Christian County line to near the KY 293 Exit 45 Interchange in Lyon County. The contractor plans to begin work along the westbound lanes near the Trigg-Christian County Line and work westward along this 24-mile section, then turn and work along the eastbound lanes. Drivers should be prepared to encounter slowing and merging traffic as they approach this work zone. The work zone will include a 55 mile per hour speed limit with an enhanced enforcement presence. The anticipated completion date is December 1.

The Kentucky Transportation Cabinet (KYTC) plans to make adjustments to a traffic signal at the intersection of US 641 and US 62 East of Eddyville in Lyon County to facilitate ongoing construction along a section of US 62. The traffic signal at US 62 mile point 10.465 and US 641 mile point 0.0 has been traffic activated. Due to construction, the traffic detection loops will be disconnected starting around Noon today and technicians will put the signal into timer mode. Due to the addition of lanes along US 62, a new signal will eventually be constructed for this intersection. The switch from traffic activation to timer mode is to facilitate that work and other construction along US 62.

In addition to US 62 and US 641, this signal also handles traffic from KY 3305 at mile point 1.811, which is the south leg of the intersection.

Drivers should be aware of the timed phasing at this signal and take note of changes in traffic flow it may create at the intersection. Driverse should also be alert for traffic shifts that may be required to facilitate ongoing construction along US 62 in this area. It has an anticipated completion in the summer of 2015.

P&L Railroad plans to close a section of KY 284/Old Benton Road in PADUCAH starting Monday, August 25, 2014. According to the transportation cabinet, KY 284/Old Benton Road will be closed to through traffic at mile point 0.561 to allow rail line and rail crossing upgrades. This rail crossing is along KY 284 between Yarbro Lane and Lindberg Street on Paducah's Southside where Bridge Street transitions to Old Benton Road. The road will close at approximately 7:30 a.m., CDT, Monday, after the morning school bus run. KY 284 is expected to remain closed at this site until sometime on the afternoon of Friday, August 29. Drivers can self-detour via KY 1554/John Puryear Drive and US 60/Irvin Cobb Drive.

The City of Paducah Engineering-Public Works Department wants to inform the public that crews with Harper Construction will begin Monday, August 25 to rehabilitate a section of Mayfield Road from Wheeler Avenue to the intersection of Mayfield Road and Irvin Cobb Drive. The intersection will be closed to through traffic to facilitate the roadway work. A detour will be in place to guide traffic around the work zone. Please use caution, and watch for the work crews and traffic control devices. This work will take approximately two weeks, weather-permitting.

Paducah Water will close a portion of Ring Road around Kentucky Oaks Mall starting Monday, August 25 for the relocation of water mains as part of the Olivet Church Road Improvement Project. The water main relocation work includes the excavation and restoration of the roadway to install a 10” and a 12” water main within steel encasement. Paducah Water will begin staging materials and completing other preparatory work later this week (8/20). The section of road that will be closed to through traffic is between Sears and the shopping center that contains Old Navy, Shoe Carnival, and other stores. Access to the businesses will be maintained throughout the construction; however, through traffic will not be allowed on a small section of Ring Road between Sears and Old Navy. Weather-permitting, the work will take two to three weeks for completion.

Starting on May 27, access to the Paducah City Hall at 300 South 5th Street will be limited to the 5th Street entrance. Employees and the Paducah City Employees Credit Union customers still will have access to city hall from the basement breezeway. The 4th Street entrance will be closed, and access under the concrete roof canopy surrounding the building will be restricted. Construction is still going on, according to city hall.

A body recovered from a southwest Missouri lake has been identified as that of a 25-year-old man who disappeared in mid-July.

A body recovered from a southwest Missouri lake has been identified as that of a 25-year-old man who disappeared in mid-July.

The death of a Carpentersville man after a traffic stop by police is being investigated by the Illinois State Police Public Integrity Unit.

The death of a Carpentersville man after a traffic stop by police is being investigated by the Illinois State Police Public Integrity Unit.

A kindergartner abducted from her school was missing for six hours before her family learned she was gone, witnesses testified Monday as a young woman's kidnapping and sexual assault trial opened.

The Corvette Caravan will be coming through Cape Girardeau Tuesday evening.

The Corvette Caravan will be coming through Cape Girardeau Tuesday evening.

Police in Cape Girardeau, Missouri are still searching for two suspects believed to have stolen things from West Park Mall over the weekend.

Police in Cape Girardeau, Missouri are still searching for two suspects believed to have stolen things from West Park Mall over the weekend.

A video posted by a Fort Stewart soldier's wife is getting tons of attention on social media.

A video posted by a Fort Stewart soldier's wife is getting tons of attention on social media.

Police in St. Louis are searching for a man who ate breakfast at a Taco Bell, then robbed the restaurant after finishing his meal.

Police in St. Louis are searching for a man who ate breakfast at a Taco Bell, then robbed the restaurant after finishing his meal.

The apartment complex that includes the home Civil Rights icon Rosa  Parks and her husband shared while they lived in Alabama's capital city,  was heavily damaged by copper thieves Monday.

The apartment complex that includes the home Civil Rights icon Rosa  Parks and her husband shared while they lived in Alabama's capital city,  was heavily damaged by copper thieves Monday.

All content © Copyright 2000 - 2014 Worldnow and KFVS12. All Rights Reserved.
