
Share This Story!

The county and two local women earn Thumbs Up.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Thumbs Up to “tiny Tulare County” for the high marks the California Policy Center gave it for its conservative and responsible management of the county employee pension fund.

According to the CPC, Tulare County has set aside enough funds to cover 87 percent of its retirement obligations — including health care — which it called a “healthy” funded ratio.

Looking at it another way, if the county was to attempt to achieve 100 percent funding status in 20 years, the county would spend about 2 percent of its annual budget to pay down the unfunded portion, another fairly healthy outcome.

Los Angeles, as a comparison, would have to spend 23 percent of its annual budget.

The unfunded liability per household in Tulare County comes to $1,258 compared with Los Angeles’s $12,132.

And the payment to eliminate that unfunded portion in Tulare County is just $123.

In addition, the county has elected to increase its payments to the fund to offset losses from the stock market and real estate markets.

Sound fiscal money management, particularly long-term obligations, are what sets cities and counties apart and Tulare County rightly earned its distinction of being among the best in the state.

Thumbs up.

Thumbs Up to brave Tulare resident Linda Peterson and her selfless daughter, Rhonda Schmidt, who underwent back-to-back surgeries early this month so that daughter could donate a kidney to mother.

The gift of a healthy kidney came just in time for Mother’s Day.

Peterson and Schmidt had the surgeries performed at Stanford Medical Center in Palo Alto where surgeries of this type may be fairly routine.

But to the family that has to endure the wait for two very risky surgeries to be concluded, it must seem like a huge gamble.

Peterson had been sick for nearly two years. Schmidt was the picture of life, health, vitality and fitness.

And neither wanted the other to give anything up.

It was a generous gesture that could not have been timed more perfectly.

Thumbs Up to Michele Figueroa of Visalia who is now on to the next chapter of her life in service to others.

After 25 years as a Visalia police officer, she is on her way to the Peace Corps Moldova for two years, if her training goes as planned.

That shouldn’t be a problem for the fit and determined retired police officer, despite the fact that she is nearly twice the age of the average Peace Corps volunteer.

No doubt she’ll succeed there as she has elsewhere.
