
Governor Jerry Brown says the state is 'getting ready for the worst'

All evacuation orders  were lifted Sunday as firefighters gained the upper hand on the  remaining four of nearly a dozen blazes that tore through Southern  California last week - while the governor warned the state was gearing  up for what could be one of the drought-stricken region's worst wildfire  seasons.

Gov. Jerry Brown told ABC's This  Week that the state has 5,000 firefighters and has appropriated $600  million to battling blazes, but that may not be enough in the future.

'We're  getting ready for the worst,' Brown said. 'Now, we don't want to  anticipate before we know, but we need a full complement of firefighting  capacity.'

The state firefighting agency went to peak staffing in the first week of April, instead of its usual start in mid-May.

Thousands  of additional firefighters may be needed in the future, Brown said,  adding that California is on the 'front lines' of climate change that is  making its weather hotter.

The  California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection has responded to  more than 1,500 fires this year, compared with about 800 during an  average year.

'And in the years to come, we're  going to have to make very expensive investments and adjust,' Brown  said. 'And the people are going to have to be careful of how they live,  how they build their homes and what kind of vegetation is allowed to  grow around them.'

Firefighters over the weekend scoured charred hillsides north of San Diego to guard against a resurgence of flames.

The  fires spanning 39 square miles chewed a destructive path through San  Diego County, destroying at least 47 houses, an 18-unit apartment  complex and three businesses. Officials were still assessing the damage.

A badly burned body was found in a transient camp, and one firefighter suffered heat exhaustion.

Most  homes were destroyed in two suburbs about 30 miles north of San Diego -  San Marcos, an inland commuter city of new housing tracts, and  Carlsbad, a coastal community and home of Legoland California.

The  first blaze started Tuesday and was caused by a spark from construction  equipment, according to state officials. It could take months to get to  the bottom of the most damaging fires.

Alberto  Serrato, 57, pleaded not guilty Friday to an arson charge in connection  with one of the smaller fires, but authorities say they don't believe  he started it, just added brush to it.

Firefighters  doused remaining hotspots with hoses and water-filled backpacks, sawed  large logs and raked soil with shovels and other hand tools to ensure  the ground was moist enough to prevent fires from returning.

The comments below have not been moderated.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
