
BRIGHTON Caravan Park residents will be forced from their homes within weeks, walking away  empty-handed after a deal that allows a $3 million redevelopment to finally begin.

Work was to have started last year, but was stalled by the legal fight .

Before the trial, the council had offered residents   $8000 in compensation   to relocate and  Mayor Ken Rollond, who has been outspoken in his support of the residents, said he would fight to have that reinstated.

The residents, who must leave the park by July 31, will not have to pay their own  legal costs because they were represented for free.

Any personal property not removed before then   will be disposed of by the council as “abandoned property”.

Resident Lenny Gough earned an Overseas Humanitarian Service Medal by sorting through thousands of bodies to identify victims of the 2004 Asian tsunami that ravaged hundreds of beachside communities.

He said his community had now been devastated in a different way.

“I went to see a community that was wiped out by a wave, my community has been wiped out with a pen for the tourist dollar,” Mr Gough said.

Mr Gough, a former mortuary techniciansaid the 16-month fight had been devastating and had left him homeless, out of pocket on his $80,000 investment to buy a cabin at the park in 2010, and led to him twice being admitted to hospital with suspected heart problems.

“You can’t just say to your residents ‘that’s it, I want your place, get out’ and not give a toss about where they go,” Mr Gough said.

The court case, which began on April 7, was originally expected to take three weeks.

Only 10  residents had given testimony and none of the council’s witnesses had appeared when the deal was reached.

Outside court,   resident Marilyn Pearson said it had been she had experienced one of the toughest weeks of her life.

“With the trial time blowing out to a possible 10-12 weeks and the uncertainties associated with litigation, we decided we could not continue,” she said.

She said 10 of the residents were yet to find new homes.

Senator Nick Xenophon, who  supported  the residents, said the case would have racked up more than $1 million in costs to the council.

“This has been an awful day for an incredibly decent and dignified group of people,” he said.

The council’s spokesman on the case, Deputy Mayor Stephen Patterson, said it was pleased the matter was resolved and the redevelopment could proceed.

He said the council’s “deep pockets” were not the overriding factor in the residents pulling out and at all times the council “wanted to avoid a court case”.

News.com.au's Privacy Policy includes important information about our collection, use and disclosure of your personal information (including to provide you with targeted content and advertising based on your online activities). It explains that if you do not provide us with information we have requested from you, we may not be able to provide you with the goods and services you require. It also explains how you can access or seek correction of your personal information, how you can complain about a breach of the Australian Privacy Principles and how we will deal with a complaint of that nature.
