
Welcome!

Social Security is designed as a pay-as-you-go system. This means that the working population contributes to the fund, but those retiring right now are drawing their benefits from that system. So even if you spend an entire career paying your Social Security taxes, it isn't your own money that you'll eventually receive. Someone else gets your contributions, just as your retirement will be funded by a younger person still in the workforce.

Sadly, even the best-laid plans can be undone by demographics. The two decades following World War II were marked by unusually high birth rates, now known as the "baby boom." When the baby boom generation exits the labor force (as is beginning to happen), it will put a huge strain on the Social Security Trust Fund. Policymakers have proposed several solutions. One of the most contentious of them is raising the retirement age.

Lord Adair Turner, former chairman of Britain's Pensions Committee, argues in an interview that Social Security cannot survive unless the retirement age is adjusted. Given Americans' increasing life span, Turner says: "We must keep stable the proportion of your life spent paying into, and receiving out of your pension system. ... You just have to look at the mathematics of it."

Try any of our Foolish newsletter services free for 30 days . We Fools may not all hold the same opinions, but we all believe that considering a diverse range of insights makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy .

Report this Comment icon found on every comment.

What about lifting the cap on contributions, as now exist, make all work icome income subject to SS contributions?  Keep benefits as is.

Add your comment.

Please be respectful with your comments. Review our Fool's Rules .

The secret is out... experts are predicting 458 million of these types of devices will be sold per year. 1 hyper-growth company stands to rake in maximum profit - and it's NOT Apple. Show me Apple's new smart gizmo!

Use this area to report a comment that you believe    is in violation of the community guidelines. Our    team will review the entry and take any appropriate    action.

Gaurav has been writing for The Motley Fool since December 2012. His core interests include banking, financial regulation, and macroeconomics. Oh, and Game of Thrones.

You don't seem to be following any stocks yet!

Better investing starts with a watchlist. Now you can create a personalized watchlist and get immediate access to the personalized information you need to make successful investing decisions.

Terms of Use © 1995 -        2014        The Motley Fool. All rights reserved.

BATS data provided in real-time. NYSE, NASDAQ and AMEX data delayed 15 minutes.

Real-Time prices provided by BATS . Market data provided by Interactive Data .

Company fundamental data provided by Morningstar . Earnings Estimates and Analyst Ratings provided by Zacks .

SEC Filings and Insider Transactions provided by Edgar Online.
