
Bossier City is betting on the future of natural gas, having opened its first compressed natural gas (CNG) station on East Texas Street back in 2010.

"The city wanted to take some steps to be able to be able to offer that as an alternative fuel, along with the E85, which is ethanol fuel, the flex fuel," says city spokesperson Mark Natale.

He says a frenzy of activity in the Haynesville Shale initially prompted Bossier to take a closer look at getting into the flex-fuel game.

But their motivation was two-fold.

"Bottom line, save money on fuel, and secondly, be beneficial for the environment."

Those are the same reasons the Haynesville Shale is expected to get its second wind as a supplier of natural gas, after taking a severe plunge in the last several years.

"We think there's a lot more room for operations. We've only tapped into about 25% of the natural resources here in the ground beneath our feet in the Haynesville Shale," says Ragan Dickens, Shale Director for the Louisiana Oil & Gas Association (LOGA).

Dickens is reacting to guest speaker Matt Koch at the Bossier Chamber of Commerce's recent breakfast.

Koch, an energy analyst with the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, spelled out for the packed audience why America's energy future is changing.

"[The U.S.] has tremendous resources here in oil and gas and coal, and even just last year, it was announced that we're going to surpass Russia as the world's largest oil and gas producer."

Koch says there's been a 53% increase in U.S. natural gas production since 2008, followed by a 48% increase in crude oil.

Furthermore, natural gas from shale makes up about 1/3 of all of the nation's production.

However, Koch adds, reaching our full potential means breaking down barriers.

"Certainly the need to get regulations that make sense and allow us to develop these resources in a way that we can utilize them in a timely fashion."

True enough, but natural gas doesn't come without its own environmental concerns.

Hydraulic fracturing and methane emissions have both been singled out as reasons natural gas isn't the be-all, end-all eco-replacement for coal.

And locally, we're fighting to hold our own against an abundance of shale discoveries across the country.

That's both good and bad. It means there's no shortage of the gas, but it also creates a saturated market, driving down the price of natural gas.

"As we saw in the boom of 2008 to about 2011, we had $12 and $13 natural gas," Dickens says.

At its lowest, prices dropped to about $1.80.

Now, they hover in the $4 range, and Dickens says, prices in the $5 to $6 range are necessary for operators in the shale to simply break even.

Even so, in terms of future energy production, he says all signs point to natural gas.

"As these coal facilities are retiring, natural gas is moving in to be that chief energy provider," Dickens predicts.

He also notes a so-called 'manufacturing renaissance', to the tune of over $70 billion expected to be spent in Louisiana over the next three to four years, through building new facilites and expanding existing ones.

This includes overseas exporting of LNG, liquefied natural gas, a key to ensuring continued demand.

"That's good news for our operators and for our citizens here that are looking to be re-employed and move home from other areas of the country," says Dickens.

Shreveport opened its first public-use CNG station in April.

Called Freedom Fuel and located on West 70th St., the station will supply fuel to all types of fleet vehicles.

Natale says Bossier City has a little over 200 vehicles at any given time that can utilize CNG.

He says it costs about $7,000 to convert one of their vehicles, and that the city makes up that money - and then some - over the vehicle's lifetime.

The city has purchased nearly 60,000 GGE, or gasoline gallon equivalent, from the station on East Texas St. since it opened 4 years ago.

Bossier City has since opened a second CNG station on Barksdale Boulevard.

Send your news tip or story idea to the KTBS 3 Newsroom.  Enter your email address below to get started.

We're sorry, but only one entry is allowed per person.

Thank you for your continued interest.

Thank you for your submission to KTBS 3 News.  A member of our staff may contact you for more information.

Whataburger has made fast work of some of its workers, saying it's fired those involved in an angry and disturbing confrontation at its restaurant in southeast Shreveport early Saturday.That confrontation was caught on a customer's cell phone video.

Whataburger has made fast work of some of its workers, saying it's fired those involved in an angry and disturbing confrontation at its restaurant in southeast Shreveport early Saturday.That confrontation was caught on a customer's cell phone video.

 A late week weather pattern change may bring us some rain and slightly cooler conditions.

 A late week weather pattern change may bring us some rain and slightly cooler conditions.

Clint Richardson and Jason Vaughan will plead guilty to prostitution charges, trading testimony for dropped felony charges, the promise of no jail time, and the possibility of expungement. ADA Dale Cox calls them "the least culpable" of the defendants.

Clint Richardson and Jason Vaughan will plead guilty to prostitution charges, trading testimony for dropped felony charges, the promise of no jail time, and the possibility of expungement. ADA Dale Cox calls them "the least culpable" of the defendants.

The Natchitoches Police Department Detective Division is currently investigating a battery that occurred at Natchitoches Central High School in Natchitoches this afternoon.

The Natchitoches Police Department Detective Division is currently investigating a battery that occurred at Natchitoches Central High School in Natchitoches this afternoon.

Shreveport Police are looking for a man who allegedly barged into an east Shreveport home Friday morning in an attempted sexual assault.

Shreveport Police are looking for a man who allegedly barged into an east Shreveport home Friday morning in an attempted sexual assault.

All content © Copyright 2000 - 2014 Worldnow and KTBS. All Rights Reserved. For more information on this site, please read our Privacy Policy and Terms of Service .
