
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

The news: The Portland School Board is expected to vote Monday on an expansion of the renovations of Franklin, Roosevelt and Grant high schools. The overall cost estimate of these three projects has jumped from $247 million to $294 million, as The Oregonian's Nicole Dungca reported last week .

Why you should care: The district suggests paying for the cost increases in part by siphoning at least $22 million from the $68 million budgeted to replace roofs and make seismic upgrades at other schools. Most of these other schools must wait years or decades for their turn at a full renovation.

What the editorial said: "...The board should maintain its full commitment to these essential (roof and seismic) projects, even if it means using operating funds to pay for them. Treating the pot of roof-and-seismic money as a convenient ATM for cost overruns on the high school renovations, and then failing to make up the difference, would give the community every reason to feel cheated. ..."

Daveporter: "For all their good intents, the PPS Board, the PPS staff, and most of the neighborhood school activists that form the governing coalition of PPS are failing (1) to keep individual project creep and costs under control and (2) to plan in a transparent way for a complete system of rebuilt high schools in Portland. Back in September, high school planning went off track when the enrollment sizes of the three high schools to be rebuilt were each increased in spite of many unused classrooms at Benson, Jefferson, and Marshall. There was no transparent plan for all the future high schools in Portland that showed a need for additional classrooms in the total system. There is no such transparent plan now. Millions of dollars are going to be wasted.

Econoguy: "The Oregonian editorial is certainly posing the right question. No argument there. At the same time, to really understand all the moving parts of the PPS budget, one actually has to sit down and read through hundreds of pages to fully appreciate what is happening. Firstly, PPS spends an incredibly small amount of money on maintenance and preventive maintenance. Secondly, PPS has some hefty debt obligations related to PERS bonds that begin escalating in a few years. You find this little tidbit burred in the budget. Look closely, it is hard to find.  Thirdly, the ballot measure for the PPS bonds had very little in the way of absolute and binding commitments. One would have to actually read through the underlying  bond covenants to determine if there is anything legally binding as to what and where the money gets allocated. In short, PPS has a fair amount of discretion when it comes to how and where the bond proceeds get spent.

"I would be shocked, but this is Portland and I was dumb enough to buy a house here when, really, I knew better. I guess the joke is on my and all the other homeowners.

Pdxaok: "Don't worry ladies and gentlemen, I'm sure PPS will come out with another "it's all about the children" bloated bond request to make up the difference. Look for campaign mailers trotting out little kids grinning from ear to ear, at a mailbox near you!"

© 2014 Oregon Live LLC. All rights reserved ( About Us ).

The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Oregon Live LLC.

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
