
Share This Story!

Lack of open beds is turning people away from center.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

On any given weekend, the 14 beds at St. Cloud's detox center are usually full.

That can pose a challenge for law enforcement, hospital staff and others who are looking for a safe place for someone who needs to detoxify from alcohol or drug use.

Despite efforts to provide other options for people who frequently use the detox center at 1321-13th St. N, it remains busy and is full about 20 days a month. That's led some in the community to call for more beds.

"We average 85-86 percent full," said Lori Schmidt, executive director of the Central Minnesota Mental Health Center, which operates the detox center. "Weekends, we're packed to the brim."

Counties are required by state law to provide detox services, and they are required to pay the full cost for anyone who is found to need those services while in the county.

The rising costs have caused some counties to close their detox centers, putting more pressure on those that remain open. There are now 22 detox facilities in the state, while there once were 54.

The detox center in Brainerd closed about a year ago, leaving Duluth and the Twin Cities as the  closest facilities to St. Cloud.

"That is partially an explanation of why those individuals in need of detox services are being pushed out to emergency rooms, perhaps into our jails, and perhaps not getting the services they need," said Mark Sizer, Stearns County human services administrator, at a May 6 county board meeting.

The other reason is that St. Cloud is a growing metro area facing more urban problems. Detox centers tend to be located in larger cities where "when you have intoxicated people in your community, people see them," Schmidt said.

With colleges, a transportation system and nightlife, "It makes it easy for people to come here and find their way around and get drunk and end up in detox," she said.

But not all detox users are college students sleeping off the excesses of a night on the town. The largest portion of St. Cloud detox users last year — about 30 percent — were between the ages of 45 and 54.

About 39 percent had been to detox once before in the past 12 months, and nearly 28 percent had five or more previous stays.

&lt;!--iframe--&gt;

The opening of River Crest home in 2010 was anticipated as a partial solution to the frequent detox users.

The 40-bed housing facility for chronic inebriates in southeast St. Cloud is designated for people who have long histories of alcohol addiction and failed attempts at treatment.

River Crest was successful in providing housing for a group of chronic inebriates who are no longer using detox as often, Schmidt said. However, "We filled it up with others," she said.

Police Chief Blair Anderson said St. Cloud is facing the same problem as many other communities.

"Those in need of services for chronic inebriation — or whatever that stems from — far outnumber the beds that we have to place those people," he said.

St. Cloud Hospital's emergency trauma center also is dealing with the influx. The ER still treats roughly 110 acutely intoxicated people every month, said Paul Schoenberg, director of the emergency trauma center.

"They take many resources and efforts and time," Schoenberg said.

CentraCare is working on plans to have a separated area for intoxicated patients to keep them and other patients safe.

While the numbers haven't increased substantially, what's gotten worse is the disrespect of health care workers by mentally ill or chemically abusive patients, Schoenberg said.

The hospital recently increased security in its emergency room, including adding metal detectors and security guards, in light of recent incidents of patients assaulting staff.

Alcohol remains the most commonly abused substance, although the ER is seeing some methamphetamine and heroin, Schoenberg said.

The average stay at the St. Cloud detox facility in 2013 was 2.3 days.

The St. Cloud detox center is licensed for 20 beds. Right now, there are 14 detox beds and five for people experiencing a mental health crisis.

Schmidt said the center plans to add one more detox bed within the next couple of months. If the mental health crisis beds could be moved to a separate facility, that would free up five spots and "come very close to meeting current needs," she said.

However, a new facility would require funding that the mental health center doesn't have. It would likely require grants or donations, she said.

A complicating factor is the state is considering shifting who pays for detox services to Medicaid and private insurance.

That would ease the cost burden for counties. But depending on the funding formula, it also could pose financial problems for the mental health center, Schmidt said. Medicaid reimbursement rates typically only cover 50 to 75 percent of the cost, she said.

Anderson hopes any solution will be forward-looking and not a short-term fix. The need for more beds is likely to get worse in the future, he said.

"In five years, is five beds going to be enough?" he asked.

Part of the solution should be to take a comprehensive look at what was causing a person to become a chronic user and address those issues, Anderson said. Those factors could range from poverty to disenfranchisement to lack of access to education, he said.

"A person doesn't wake up and is a chronic inebriate," Anderson said.

Follow Kirsti Marohn on Twitter @kirstimarohn.
