
Login or Signup now to share stories and leave comments.

Login or Signup now to share stories and leave comments.

What a shame that attitude no longer holds sway on Capitol Hill.

Republicans in the House of Representatives have unveiled a Pentagon budget plan that reduces spending - but includes dozens of costly stipulations for the generals and admirals. Rest assured Democrats would do the same thing, as they have in the past.

An example: For one reason or another, the Pentagon has concluded it is time to replace the A-10 “Warthog” warplane. It has been one of the most effective ground-support aircraft in history.

House leaders’ budget plan calls for the Pentagon to put its A-10s in storage instead of fully retiring the airplane. Keeping the planes ready at a moment’s notice will be costly. Not doing so, of course, also will be expensive - but will create a fleet of useless antiques.

Actually, the report shows there is very little “fraud” by would-be or actual voters. And the report reveals that Schultz got very little of value in return for the criminal investigation that has cost the state $250,000.

From the time he entered office in 2011, Schultz set out to plant the idea that Iowa’s elections are vulnerable to fraud perpetrated by illegal immigrants, convicted felons and other miscreants. After more than two years of beating the bushes for evidence of this fraud, Schultz reported last week that of 238 cases investigated, 27 criminal charges have been filed by Iowa county attorneys.

Of those 27 criminal prosecutions, guilt was established in six cases, four cases were dismissed, one defendant was found not guilty, one prosecution was deferred and 15 cases are pending.

In a state with nearly 2 million active registered voters, this handful of cases hardly constitutes evidence of a major problem of voter fraud.

In fact, fraud is the wrong word for these cases. The legal meaning of fraud is an “intentional perversion of the truth” that results in injury. Instead, it is likely that the vast majority of these cases were people who did not set out to commit election fraud but rather made a mistake because Iowa’s voter eligibility rules and forms are confusing. Even state and local election officials are uncertain about who is eligible to vote.
