
Instant messaging is the new digital battle ground. Daniel Young looks at what impact this battle might have for the traditional social networks.  The social media landscape is changing, again, and the new players are demanding brands shift their mindset - from being human to getting personal.

In this cross-posting from The Conversation science astronomer Michael J. I. Brown  shares his experiences in debating with and challenging online trolls. I often like to discuss science online and I’m also rather partial to topics that promote lively discussion, such as climate change , crime statistics and (perhaps surprisingly) the big bang . This inevitably brings out the trolls .  “Don’t feed the trolls” is sound advice, but I’ve ignored it on occasion – including on The Conversation and Twitter – and I’ve been rewarded. Not that I’ve changed the minds of any trolls, nor have I expected to.

In recent days 'tapegate' has consumed much of the Victorian political news cycle. In this cross posting from The Conversation academic Mark Pearson looks at legalities around journalists recording sources.  It is a sad day when senior political figures steal a journalist’s recording device and destroy its contents, as we have been told happened at this year’s Victorian Labor Party conference. But it is an even sadder day when we hear a major newspaper – The Age – justifying a senior reporter secretly recording their conversations with sources.

The dealers for luxury car brand Lexus are thought to have finalised a shortlist for the media account, which is currently out to pitch.

The agencies believed to be on the shortlist include the incumbent TMS, who will face off against UM, the Mediavest side of Starcom Mediavest and fellow Publicis media agency Publicis Media, which is a sister agency to ZenithOptimedia.

As Mumbrella recently revealed  independent media agency TMS is facing a fight to retain the account, with the pitch being watched closely by many in the industry as it is the first time in more than a decade that a part of the Toyota, Lexus’s parent company, account has been out to tender.

All agencies contacted declined to comment.

Toyota is the foundation client of TMS and there is growing speculation that the winner of the Lexus dealers’ pitch will be in a strong position to pick up more of the Toyota media business, with this account thought to be worth around $10m but the broader Toyota account is worth more than $70m in 2012-13 according to Nielsen.

F.Y.I.
