
LUCKNOW: The NOTA or 'none of the above' button found its share of takers across the state this Lok Sabha election. Overall, 591,603 voters pressed this button not to elect any candidate in the fray on the EVM in front of them.

While a NOTA vote is wasted, it seems voters in many small towns of the state chose to do it over choosing smaller parties, independents and even the Aam Aadmi Party.

The highest number of NOTA votes were registered in Robertsganj, a Maoist-affected area of eastern UP. A whopping 18,489 voters chose the option here. The constituency had a choice between 14 candidates, including Quasmi Ekta Dal's Gun Devi.

The total number of NOTA votes was about 10,000 more than what Aam Aadmi Party candidate Ravi Shankar Kannaujia could manage.

In fact, it seemed as if across the state, it was en masse rejection of Aam Aadmi Party in constituencies that registered a high number of NOTA votes.

In Kaushambi, where 15,155 voters chose NOTA, AAP's Swarnlata Suman polled only 3,692 votes.

Jhansi, too, declared its verdict against the AAP with only 5,536 voters supporting it as against the 13,959 voters who chose NOTA.

Similar was the case in Bansgaon and Banda where NOTA got votes upwards of 13,000.

In Shravasti, there was a difference of only about 6,000 votes between NOTA's tally and that of the Congress. While party candidate Vinay Pandey got 20,006 votes, 14,587 votes went to NOTA. AAP got a mere 2,578 votes here.

In Bahraich, NOTA's 13,498 tally scored between Congress's 24,421 and AAP's 8,319.

In Saharanpur, NOTA got more than double the votes that AAP got.

Similar outcomes were seen in Deoria, Sitapur, Pilibhit, Kaiserganj, Fatehpur, Faizabad, Ballia, Bahraich, Ambedkar Nagar and Kushinagar.

At 1,784 votes to NOTA, Amethi registered the lowest number of voters choosing none of the candidates in the fray.

According to a political expert, the NOTA option had been publicised widely through TV and print advertisements and promotional programmes so it is unlikely that the last button on EVMs was pressed in ignorance.

For those who did not like either the AAP or other parties it was a safe way out without giving them the feeling of guilt at having wasted their vote.

We encourage you to log in and comment. Non-logged-in comments will go through a verification process for security reasons.

Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community. Help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive. Let's work together to keep the conversation civil.

We encourage you to register/login and proceed.

However, if you choose to remain                                                                                  non-loggedin, you are required to fill up the form below and verify your email address before we can publish your comment.

That way, we                                                                                  can verify that the email address doesn't belong to someone else.

We encourage you to register/login and proceed.

However, if you choose to remain                                                                                  non-loggedin, you are required to fill up the form below and verify                                                                                  your email address before we can publish your comment.

That way, we                                                                                  can verify that the email address doesn't belong to someone else.

Your Reason has been Submitted to the admin.
