
. . . . . . .

Photo Credits: Photo provided by the Athens County Sheriff’s Office.

Photo Caption: Heroin and other evidence recently confiscated during drug busts in Athens County.

This is the fourth article in a series that's focusing on heroin and related drugs' growth, prevention, treatment, distribution, law enforcement and policy in Athens County and southeast Ohio.

For law enforcement, the battle against heroin is a battle against supply.

Even illicit drugs follow the economic law of supply and demand. So while law enforcement in Athens County supports efforts to combat addiction and decrease the heroin customer base, the main task at hand is to cut off supply by going after heroin dealers.

In that effort, the Athens County Sheriff's Office, the Athens Police Department, the Ohio University Police Department and the Athens County Prosecutor's office recently have been emphasizing increased cooperation in hitting area heroin dealers where it hurts together.

Athens County Sheriff Rodney Smith, named interim replacement while elected sheriff Pat Kelly awaits trial on a multi-count indictment, said Saturday that heroin use has grown in the area as the drug has become cheaper and more readily available.

He said that with the APD and OUPD's cooperation with the Sheriff's Office, the fight against drug dealers is growing more comprehensive.

"It's increased our resources. We have more manpower, and we can do bigger, stronger investigations because we can share resources," he said, citing the recent arrests and indictments of eight Athens County residents alleged to be involved in a prescription painkiller drug ring .

The use of strong prescription painkillers and heroin are closely linked, due to many addicts moving from one to the other.

Smith reiterated that the main intention of law enforcement is to cut off supply as much as possible.

"We're looking for larger-scale investigations that will turn into catching larger-scale drug dealers," he said. "We want to take the supply away."

Local law enforcement receives a variety of resources from the state level, Smith said, but he always sees room for improvement.

"They can help us out with equipment through state and federal grants for things such as wiring informants, cameras and switching vehicles out," he said.

While Athens County has its own problems, the heroin epidemic spans the region and the state as well, Smith acknowledged. He said he's in communication with regional law enforcement agencies, and this helps trace drug trafficking throughout the area.

Asked about the role of U.S. Rt. 33 in the transportation of heroin, Smith said it represents a main corridor, though law enforcement realizes that recognizing a special police focus on that route, drug traffickers will find alternate routes.

"We're going to continually monitor all roads, and watch all avenues they may try to use to get into Athens County," Smith said.

Statistics from the Drug Enforcement Administration show that nearly 85 percent of property crimes and violent crimes can be traced back to drug use and the illegal drug trade, Smith said, so law enforcement is focused on working those cases just as hard.

This is where the city of Athens sees some of its biggest consequences from the growth in heroin addiction and trafficking.

Athens Police Chief Tom Pyle said in an interview earlier this month that with college students making up a majority of Athens residents, usage is focused on party drugs, but the problems of heroin and painkiller addiction are nevertheless harmful to the community.

"Ultimately, it's not that addiction creates problems for law enforcement; it creates problems for the community," Pyle said. "My guess is that the majority of property crime is related to addiction. Heroin and prescription pills are the most addictive, so they're the most prevalent in problem-causing."

He said during a recent prescription drug take-back day, where old pills are turned over to the police for proper disposal, his department received 26 pounds worth.

Pyle said that ultimately, drug addiction regionally comes down to the economy and a lack of hope.

"People use to mask depression. They don't have hope in their lives because they're poor," he said. "Or they're dealing drugs so that they're not poor. The bottom line is, the war on drugs from a law-enforcement perspective takes all the press, but there's not as much focus on treatment, which is really how we're going to combat this."

Pyle said he supports a war on society's failure to recognize treatment as the single best option for resolving the drug problem.

"You look at mental illness budgets from state to state, and they're almost always the first thing that gets cut in tight times," he said. "We need to be focusing our efforts on the mid- to high-level dealers, not the users… Treatment should be funded just as much as law enforcement."

This is the only way to address the demand side of things while law enforcement focuses on the supply side, Pyle said.

"Casual users are not supply side," he said.

Meanwhile, when focusing on mid- to high-level dealers, drug investigations have to be clandestine in order to not be compromised by publicity about arrests. When supply is cut, drug prices go up, which can impact demand because users can't afford it, Pyle said.

"But there can be backlash to it, too," he said, with property crime resulting from addicts who can't afford their habit. "That's where that treatment needs to come in. It needs to be a one-two punch. They need to be on equal playing fields. The supply side should be handled by law enforcement. The demand side should be handled by behavioral health specialists. And then monies ought to be equal, but that's never the case."

AT THE OU POLICE DEPARTMENT, Chief Andrew Powers said Friday that prescription painkillers are a bigger problem than heroin, and his goal in working with other area law enforcement is to keep heroin off of campus.

"We don't want it to become a problem. We don't want it to find its way on to campus," he said. "We want to keep it off campus."

He said while there have been some cases of heroin use at OU, it's not anywhere close to widespread or even common.

"If you want to look at felony drug offenses, prescription pills are more common, certainly than heroin," he said.

Coordination between his office and the Athens Police Department has been occurring for years, Powers said, and coordination with the Sheriff's Office further allows law enforcement to follow drug problems up and down the chain.
