
LINAMON, Lanao del Norte -- An owner of a passenger van was abducted by five armed men in the coastal village of Demulogan, Balocod town, this province, over the weekend, authorities said.

Senior Inspector Domingo Murillo, Linamon police station chief, identified the victim as Jhon Kevin Montajes, 22, and a resident of Barangay Tangigueron of Tubod town.

In an initial investigation conducted by the police, Harvey Limpisan, 36, fare collector, disclosed that around 5 p.m. of May 16, they were hired by a couple from Tubod bound for Iligan City to prepare a wedding reception.

Limpisan said when they reached a gasoline station in Bacolod, another three male passengers who claimed to be companions of the couple boarded the van.

As Montajes drove his Starex van with plate number KVZ-459, the couple requested for a stopover at a rest area and alighted from the van to use the restroom.

"The two couple no longer boarded the van while the three armed men claimed at gun point ‘mga rebelde ‘mi, kidnapping ni’ (We are rebels and we are kidnapping you)," Limpisan said.

Both Montajes and Limpisan were blind folded while the van was driven by one of the abductors, Limpisan added.

The armed men made a stopover in the coastal barangay of Samburon, Linamon where Limpisan managed to escape after he noticed that he was left alone inside the van.

Limpisan said the abductors spoke in Cebuano dialect. After fleeing from the suspects, Limpisan went to the Linamon police and reported the incident.

"The PNP Linamon and PNP Bacolod with the provincial command are closely working on to establish the motive of abduction and trace the possible escape route of the abductors and the victim," Murillo told Sun.Star Cagayan de Oro.

When law enforcers found the van, they cordoned the area while the Explosives Ordnance and Detection (EOD) unit from the province conducted a search inside the vehicle after the abductors allegedly left a hand grenade inside the van, according to Limpisan.

All vehicles from Iligan City and Lanao del Norte were held until 11 p.m. until the EOD has completed the security check of the passenger van.

The van was brought to crime laboratory for finger print traces, police said.

Montajes’s abductors have yet to demand a ransom for his release as of Saturday morning.

Published in the Sun.Star Cagayan de Oro newspaper on May 20, 2014.

DISCLAIMER: Sun.Star website welcomes friendly debate, but comments posted on this site do not necessary reflect the views of the Sun.Star management and its affiliates. Sun.Star reserves the right to delete, reproduce or modify comments posted here without notice. Posts that are inappropriate will automatically be deleted.

Forum rules: Do not use obscenity. Some words have been banned. Stick to the topic. Do not veer away from the discussion. Be coherent and respectful. Do not shout or use CAPITAL LETTERS!
