
LAS CRUCES >> As I travel around town, I am noticing more and more businesses are showing their local pride.

"This is a Local Business" are popping up more and more around town. Small, independent businesses are making sure that their customers know they are supporting a local business rather than a national chain. "Buy Local" campaigns are popping up all over the country and more and more individuals are reconfiguring their shopping habits to include supporting local businesses.

According to the American Independent Business Alliance, local, independent businesses in communities with a long-term buy local themed program or campaign reported revenue growth of seven percent in 2013.

As part of our local "Think Local First" campaign, I find myself talking with individuals about the importance of buying local all the time. However, a common response is that sometimes people can't get what they need at a local business.

I understand that and occasionally find myself with the same dilemma. However, what I always suggest to people is to try to shop at a locally owned business first, share with the owners what you are looking for, and if you can't purchase your items locally, then purchase what you need at a bigger store.

All I ask is to make an effort to explore what our locally owned businesses offer before you go elsewhere. It's a little investment of time. But, it's well worth it.

The investment you make in supporting a locally owned business comes back into our community in multiple ways.

According to study "The Economic Impact of Locally Owned Businesses vs. Chains," there are a total of nine reasons to think local first.

I'll cover a few of those reasons and how they relate to our community.

1. Money spent local, stays local. Several studies have shown that money spent in a local business stays in the community. For every $100 spent at a locally owned business, $45 goes back into the community. For every $100 spent at a chain store, only $14 comes back.

The other $86 that leaves our community when you support a chain store is, for the most part, supporting jobs elsewhere. Little is coming back into our local tax base.

So, if you spend $100 at a local hardware or grocery store or restaurant, more money will stay in Las Cruces, supporting one or many jobs and returning the money to the local economy.

2. Local owners are local contributors. Local businesses give a greater amount of money to local causes. Nonprofits receive an average of 350 percent more support from local business owners than they do from non-locally owned businesses. They also directly inject money into the local economy through payments of wages and benefits to local residents. If you work with any charity in town and have had to ask for donations to help raise money for your cause, you will find local businesses on the forefront of those donations.

3. Local businesses offer stable employment. Small local businesses are one of the largest employers nationally, and local businesses offer greater loyalty to their employees. Think about your favorite restaurant or store and the employees who have been there for years.

There is a commitment, loyalty, and trust between the business and the employee that is unique because it is local.

When I think about the local businesses in Las Cruces, I find that my favorite businesses are more than places where money exchanges hands. These businesses are places where the owners are invested in our community, care about my family, and offer a helping hand if needed. I think that alone is worthy of our commitment as a community to support our local businesses. I encourage you to visit a locally owned business today and say thank you.

Together, we can keep our local economy vibrant and sustainable for years to come.

- Carrie Hamblen is the director of the Las Cruces Green Chamber of Commerce.
