
We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. By continuing to browse our site, you are giving your consent for us to set cookies.

However, if you would like to, you can change your cookie settings at any time. Read our cookie policy .

HONOLULU, May 19 (Reuters) - Scientists in Hawaii say they have discovered an ancient underwater volcano, now dormant, that once extended 3,000 feet above sea level and is believed to have helped form the island of Oahu.

The newly documented volcano, named Kaena, began erupting some 5 million years ago in the channel between what is now Oahu and its neighbor island Kauai, according to a study published this month in the Geological Society of America Bulletin.

"We thought we knew where all the Hawaiian volcanoes were, and here's one we didn't really know about," John Sinton, a geologist at the University of Hawaii at Manoa and lead author of the study, said on Monday.

The island of Oahu, home to the state's capital and largest city, Honolulu, is known for its two soaring mountain ranges - Waianae to the west and Koolau to the east. Until the latest discovery, geologists believed Oahu was formed entirely by the two volcanoes that created these ridges.

The new research revealed that Oahu once had a third volcano and resulting mountain peak farther to the west, Kaena, which has since receded back beneath the surface of the Pacific.

While Kaena was the first-born of the three, Waianae surfaced sooner on the eastern flanks of its older sibling about 3.9 million years ago. Kaena broke the surface some 400,000 years later, followed by Koolau in another 500,000 years, the study found.

"By 3 million years ago, all three were emergent," Sinton said. "These islands are always subsiding even when they're growing. Once any volcano stops erupting they continue to sink. We just don't know when Kaena went underwater."

Scientists are still examining various clues for answers to that question, including lava formations that show signs of erosion.

Kaena was not terribly high, probably rising no more than 1,000 meters, or about 3,300 feet, above sea level, Sinton said.

We welcome comments that advance the story through relevant opinion, anecdotes, links and data. If you see a comment that you believe is irrelevant or inappropriate, you can flag it to our editors by using the report abuse links. Views expressed in the comments do not represent those of the Thomson Reuters Foundation. For more information see our Acceptable Use Policy .
