
A Delhi court will on June 2 begin hearing final arguments in the November 2010 sensational abduction and  gang rape case of a 30-year-old call centre executive from the Northeast in Dhaula  Kuan.

Additional Sessions Judge Virender Bhat today concluded recording of the statements of the witnesses on behalf of accused Shamshad alias  Khutkan, Usman alias Kale, Shahid alias Chhota Billi, Iqbal alias Bada Billi and Kamruddin alias Mobile.

The accused on November 24, 2010 had abducted the victim, who hails from the Northeast, while she was walking home with her friend after her shift had ended. They took her to  Mongolpuri, gang raped her, and left her on an isolated road there, the police had said in their charge sheet.

"Meanwhile, the victim's friend, the prime witness in the case alerted the police control room about the abduction. The police later arrested the accused from Mewat in Haryana," the charge sheet said.

All the five adult accused facing trial in the case have claimed innocence and said that they were falsely implicated in the case.

The claim of accused was, however, rejected by the prosecution witnesses.

They have been tried under sections 376(2)(G) (gang rape), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 365 (abduction) of the Indian Penal Code.

Kamruddin, Shahid and Iqbal refused to undergo test identification parade (TIP) after the victim identified Shamshad and  Usman.

During the trial, the police had claimed that the accused have also confessed to their crime.

After his arrest, Kamruddin had purportedly expressed remorse over the act before police, the charge sheet had said.

The case had forced Delhi Police to issue an order under Section 144 of Criminal Procedure Code to all BPOs in Delhi NCR to drop women employees home safely and provide them security.

The incident also led police to issue specific directions to PCR vans to remain visible on roads and that one officer should remain outside the vehicle round-the-clock.

© Copyright PTI. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of any PTI content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without their prior written consent.
