
The McCords Crossroads Homemakers are once again partnering with American Auctioneers to host the Second Annual May Community Celebration honoring veterans and military service to be held Saturday, May 24, beginning at 10:30 a.m. The event will be held on the grounds adjoining the former Hopewell Church located at 7290 County Road 16 in the McCords Crossroads community. Pictured are members making signs for the event.

The McCords Crossroads Homemakers are once again partnering with American Auctioneers to host the Second Annual May Community Celebration honoring veterans and military service to be held Saturday, May 24, beginning at 10:30 a.m.

The event will be held on the grounds adjoining the former Hopewell Church located at 7290 County Road 16 in the McCords Crossroads community.

The event offers a day of live music, arts and crafts, games, food, antique tractors, classic cars, auction of cakes and other items, and free inflatables for the children.

The activities for the day-long event begin at 10 a.m. when the line-up of our down-home parade forms at the McCords Firehall #1 on County Road 16. Judging the best decorated entry in the parade takes place at 10:30.

Anything that will run, or can be pushed or pulled may be entered in the parade, which will travel the short distance along County Road 16 to the celebration site.

Throughout the day, old-fashioned games and events for the entire family will be staged. Games include a sack race, three-legged race, egg toss, corn-hole toss and many more. Prizes will be awarded to the winner in each event.

The volunteer firemen will once again be teaming up with the homemakers club and our local restaurant to provide a delicious BBQ pork plate that will include baked beans, Cole slaw, bread, homemade dessert and iced tea—available for a donation of $5 per plate.

Veterans and children under the age of 10 eat free. All proceeds from the lunch and craft sales will go toward the renovation of the former Hopewell church building.

For more information about the event call Odessa Rogers at 256-475-3417.
