
Kenya: The Law Society of Kenya (LSK) is now demanding the resignation of Attorney General Githu Muigai regarding the controversial Sh1.4 billion Anglo Leasing payments as they unveiled fresh details of the saga.

The society has threatened to file a suit against the AG, Solicitor General Njee Muturi and Senior Deputy Solicitor General Muthoni Kimani to be declared unsuitable to hold office.

LSK has also indicated that it will be seeking to have the three surcharged for any monies paid to the two Anglo Leasing-type firms, First Mercantile Securities Corporation and Universal Satspace.

But Prof Muigai reacted furiously to the move, and termed the LSK Council as ‘highly unethical, unprofessional and driven by petty and irresponsible politics in weighty national matters’. “The introduction of petty and irresponsible politics in weighty national matters is totally unbecoming of the Council of the Law Society of Kenya,” Muigai said in a statement sent to newsrooms.

Yesterday LSK chairman Eric Mutua announced that they intend to strike Prof Muigai from the Roll of Senior Counsel terming him ‘a let-down to lawyers’. “This is fraud and fraud all the way,” declared the LSK chairman after a hurriedly convened council meeting.

“The office of the Attorney General has acted in unconstitutional, illegal and unprofessional manner and has conspired with the Executive,” In a strongly-worded statement, the society also resolved that it would ask the three Government officials to show cause why a Certificate of Dishonour by LSK should not be issued against them.

LSK criticised Prof Muigai for giving a misleading legal opinion to President Uhuru Kenyatta and declaring that the Government had no other legal option but to pay shadowy figures, yet an appeal option was and is still available.

“Failure by the Attorney General to pursue an available appeal option was a dereliction of the Constitution mandate under Article 156 to protect and uphold the rule of law and defend public interest,” they maintained.

He said Mutua was himself under investigation by the Director of Public Prosecutions on the advice of Kenya Police for alleged criminal offences relating to the illegal and unlawful sale of Malili ranch.
