
Growing corporate profit has placed businesses under financial scrutiny, bolstering demand for criminal law services. For these reasons and to help procurement professionals make better buying decisions faster, business intelligence firm IBISWorld has added a report on the procurement of Criminal Law Services to its growing collection of procurement category market research reports.

Buyers also benefit from low price volatility. “Despite the price of criminal law services exhibiting growth over the past three years and further growth forecast for the next three, buyers can easily anticipate the next year's rate because growth is steady year on year,” adds Dessertenne. As such, buyers can forecast their criminal law service budgets more easily.

However, there are several factors strongly prohibiting buyer power. First, criminal law services do not have many viable substitutes. Criminal cases require the knowledge and expertise of seasoned professionals, so buyers are unlikely to find any good substitutes for the service, especially when the criminal case is a complex and costly one. Moreover, because each criminal case is unique, buyers receive very specialized legal services, which make switching costs very high. Changing suppliers is costly - both in time and money.

Because criminal cases are time sensitive and require an extraordinary amount of expertise, criminal law services are inelastic. As such, buyers are largely price takers, with little room to negotiate rates. Still, price is not the primary factor on which buyers choose a supplier; a firm's experience and attention to the client are paramount. Top suppliers of criminal law services include DLA Piper, Baker & McKenzie and Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP. IBISWorld advises buyers to minimize their criminal law service procurement risk by researching suppliers ahead of time and creating a short list of firms from which to potentially receive services. For more information, visit IBISWorld’s Criminal Law Services procurement category market research report page.

This report is intended to assist buyers of criminal law services. Criminal law services are carried out by professional legal practitioners that typically have specific expertise in criminal law. These individuals include lawyers, attorneys (i.e. counselors-at-law) and paralegal professionals. Businesses may use criminal law service professionals for cases that involve fraud, bribery, false claims, money laundering, insider trading, financial manipulation and other related acts. This report does not include discussion or information on individual crimes (which include, but are not limited to, kidnapping, driving under the influence and domestic violence).

About IBISWorld Inc.
