
Register below to start posting comments, receive SMS news alerts and subscribe to our newsletter.

Drachma LGBTI and Drachma Parents Support Group organised a thanksgiving Eucharistic celebration to commemorate the annual International Day against Homophobia and Transphobia, as well as the tenth anniversary from the foundation of the Drachma Community.

The celebration, held at the Carmelite Church in Mdina, was celebrated by Mgr. Charles Scicluna, Auxiliary Bishop of Malta, together with a number of priests who have over the years supported Drachma in its pastoral work among the LGBTI community.

The celebration was attended by dignitaries from political parties, as well as representatives of other institutions in the country.

“The Drachma Community hopes that this celebration can serve as a clear message against all forms of homophobia and transphobia in our society. This celebration also demonstrates that it is possible for LGBTI persons to fully integrate their sexuality with their spirituality,” the group said.

Drachma LGBTI was founded in 2004 by a group of young LGBTI persons, with the aim of exploring their faith in connection with their sexuality. Today it includes lesbian, gay, bi-sexual, transgendered and intersex persons, as well as friends of LGBTI individuals who wish to meet to pray together and explore the connections between sexuality, gender, gender identity, faith, spirituality and religion.

“Drachma is a group largely inspired by the Christian tradition, values and spirituality but is open to people coming from different religious traditions or none at all.  Drachma also explores ecumenical and inter-faith spaces,” the group said.

In 2008, following a public lecture by world-renowned theologian Sr. Jeanine Gramick, organised by Drachma LGBTI, a number of parents of LGBTI persons decided to form a support group. This led to the birth of the Drachma Parents Group. Its aim is to offer acceptance, compassion, support and protection by providing outreach and accompaniment to other parents. It also helps to create a space for sustaining family relations.

The Drachma Community meets on a regular basis, organising monthly meetings, celebrations and social activities for its members, as well as outreach programmes for schools, parishes and other institutions. It also offers individual support for LGBTI persons or family members.
