
Your articles on the recent events surrounding Professor Lennart Bengtsson  ("Scientists in cover-up of 'damaging' climate view", May 16) are not a true  reflection of the way the climate community conducts its research. My position,  and my passion, is that all scientists - no matter what their viewpoint - must  be free to review and debate their research unfettered and without personal  attacks.

Science  is about seeking the truth and acknowledging the uncertainties in what we  currently know; it cannot be about subjective,  unscientific beliefs and  personal attacks of the kind that some of us have had to endure.

Just  as we are very clear that climate models do not give us a definitive answer  about the possible magnitude of future warming, neither do the estimates from  observations as some in the climate sceptic community would claim.

millions of working scientists will understand now how personal and politicised the MO and climate science have become.

Yet again climate Alarmists in the establishment prefer to disregard empircal data and deal with the theory instead.

Is she saying she won't talk to anybody outside of peer review?  That's a bit slow and unreliable.  Or has she not heard of pressure on journals to gatekeep the debate? I'm sure I have.

Does she really communicate the uncertainties when talking to policy-makers? 'Cause I know that's what politicians just LOVE to hear.

A paper he co-wrote ... was rejected after an unnamed reviewer said that it could be used by climate sceptics.

When Vicky made that strong prediction in 2007 of  +0.3C in next 7 years, it was vs 0.8C in the previous 160 yrs!

Climate scientists at the Met Office Hadley Centre will unveil the first decadal climate prediction model in a paper published on 10 August 2007 in the journal Science. The paper includes the Met Office's prediction for annual global temperature to 2014.

These predictions are very relevant to businesses and policy-makers who will be able to respond to short-term climate change when making decisions today. The next decade is within many people's understanding and brings home the reality of a changing climate.

The new model incorporates the effects of sea surface temperatures as well as other factors such as man-made emissions of greenhouse gases, projected changes in the sun's output and the effects of previous volcanic eruptions — the first time internal and external variability have both been predicted.

Team leader, Dr Doug Smith said: "Occurrences of El Nino, for example, have a significant effect on shorter-term predictions. By including such internal variability, we have shown a substantial improvement in predictions of surface temperature." Dr Smith continues: "Observed relative cooling in the Southern Ocean and tropical Pacific over the last couple of years was correctly predicted by the new system, giving us greater confidence in the model’s performance".

Answer you compare them to what you claim they represent.

Normal scientific practice requires you to revaluate your models to see why they fail to match realty.

Well I did say normal , climate ‘science ‘ is special for the first time in the history of science it turns out that if the models and reality differ in value its reality which is in error.

I had cause to re-watch the Hamburg lecture of Murry Salby yesterday, trying to nail some "facts" on the C cycle. Sent this out to one of my lists seeking views only to learn that he was sacked by MacQuarie shortly after that lecture tour.

I understand enough to know that at least 50% of what he had to say was true. My maths is not up to evaluating the remainder. Was his stuff ever published and what is he doing now? Its strange that someone like him should be sacked in a climate science world that welcomes challenge.

record hot year, 1998. "

demonstrated its skill at predicting the global climate.

However, a major effect it cannot predict is volcanic eruptions,

Mount Pinatubo in June 1991."

I welcome scientific debate with those whose research challenges my understanding of climate change and scientists have a well established and robust peer review process for doing this. This process is there for good reason because it ensures the debate is rigorous but never personal.

Different planet regarding peer (pal) review ... but the sceptic community should take this broad up on her offer ... a debate on her woeful statements about the weather. Paul Homewood has already done much of the homework.

It will be difficult for sceptical scientists to rely on peer review (evidence is abundant) whilst the "community" threatens journals and scientists.

The "sacking" of and mendacious behaviour of Maquarie University towards Professor Salby will for ever leave a black mark on that institution.

Just as we are very clear that climate models do not give us a definitive answer about the possible magnitude of future warming, neither do the estimates from observations as some in the climate sceptic community would claim.

My position ... is that all scientists - no matter what their viewpoint - must be free to review and debate their research unfettered and without personal attacks.

Which interpreted means that all climate scientists must be free to say what they like without sceptics interfering by asking for facts or evidence or anything inconvenient like that.

Just as we are very clear that climate models do not give us a definitive answer about the possible magnitude of future warming, neither do the estimates from observations as some in the climate sceptic community would claim.

on the other hand is just meaningless. Some of her colleagues do claim that models give enough of a definitive answer to trumpet that as what is going to happen, even though they use words like "project" and "may" so that if anyone challenges them they can always cop out but the bottom line is what they want people to believe. No sceptic that I know claims that observations give any sort of answer about anything other than themselves though a series of observations over a long enough period will show up repeating patterns in the real world.

So what has she actually said? Basically, "we'll do it our way; mind your own business".

Just as we are very clear that climate models do not give us a definitive answer about the possible magnitude of future warming, neither do the estimates from observations as some in the climate sceptic community would claim.

Unfortunately, when your models don't work, you only have real world data and observations left.

Barry Woods @ 10.43 "but how much input to policy did those earlier documents contribute".

None at all really - they were support for the Climate Change Act but did not affect the outcome which was predetermined by existing policy. Had the Met office not supported the policy they would have been ignored (until nemesis came amongst them). The issue of "personal attacks" is smoke screen - nothing is new here - to obscure the need to "deny" sceptics any credibility whatsoever. Professor Bengtsonn is very credible indeed and for him to demonstrate that maybe the science isn't settled is a dangerous event.

I re-read the Dame's letter after reading those two posts, and many of the comments.  Actually reaching moral high ground is going to take some doing  - merely claiming to be there is not very convincing when you review the goings-on of her climate compadres in Climategate.  It would have been a grand thing if they had allowed others outside of their 'team' to have been 'free to review and debate their research unfettered and without personal attacks.' Actually, not so much 'grand' as ordinary common decency.

Tell that to Michael Mann, Julia.

Suddenly they are projecting an image of innocence, openness, nice friendly people who listen to sceptics carefully and are only interested in truth.

It doesn't wash. Like the models, her comments show no agreement with reality.

It looks like a pretty self-serving letter if you were to ask me. Maybe she didn't intend it that way, but it comes over that way.

"Your articles on the recent events surrounding Professor Lennart Bengtsson ("Scientists in cover-up of 'damaging' climate view", May 16) are not a true reflection of the way the climate community conducts its research. My position, and my passion, is that all scientists - no matter what their viewpoint - must be free to review and debate their research unfettered and without personal attacks."

I've not seen her deplore personal attacks on anyone who didn't hold her views, but she was quick to rally round the CAGW flag without reading the emails from the CRU by putting together a petition which many people said they were afraid not to sign. And right there in said emails were scientists covering up "damage climate views" and engaging in personal attacks on other scientist, as well as trying to get them fired. To the humble outsider that looks precisely how climate science is done.

"Science is about seeking the truth and acknowledging the uncertainties in what we currently know; it cannot be about subjective, unscientific beliefs and personal attacks of the kind that some of us have had to endure."

See the pea under the thimble there? "...some of us have had to endure." The victim Bengtssom has neatly been replaced by the victim "Slingo".

"Just as we are very clear that climate models do not give us a definitive answer about the possible magnitude of future warming, neither do the estimates from observations as some in the climate sceptic community would claim."

More pea and thimble, actually very good at it too. She's managed to distance the climate models from their poor performance, while at the same time rubbishing observations. The whole climate sensitivity argument brushed under the carpets. How does she know the estimates from observations don't give a definitive answer. She must be guessing because we haven't entered a time when we can test the sensitivities assessed from observations. Anyway, while not valued against model outputs in her discipline, observations are held in high esteem in all the other scientific disciplines.

"I welcome scientific debate with those whose research challenges my understanding of climate change and scientists have a well established and robust peer review process for doing this. This process is there for good reason because it ensures the debate is rigorous but never personal."

WTF is all I can say. You would have to live on the planet Zog not to be aware that climate science peer review is filled with gatekeepers absolutely unwilling to see anything printed that challenged their scientific views. And as for it never being personal you'd have had to have been on your holidays in Alpha Centauri Bb for the last 20 years not to have seen the bile poured on those scientists who even came near to challenging the "consensus".

"Just as we are very clear that climate models do not give us a definitive answer about the possible magnitude of future warming, neither do the estimates from observations as some in the climate sceptic community would claim."

What about future cooling? Slingo should have said future change. She is biased.

Observations, such as of the sun and ocean are predicting  temperatures better than climate models.

Bengtssen's rejected paper  was not estimating future warming ( or lack of it ) from observations. His paper was comparing  models to observations . Clearly only models and observations can be used to do this.

I challenge any working scientist to repeat with a straight face and in all honesty that peer review "ensures the debate is rigorous but never personal".

We can say goalkeepers ensure nobody scores at football. Well, yes, apart from when somebody scores. Likewise, peer review is a tool to avoid personal debates and make science publishing more rigorous, however by no means it can be considered effective enough at "ensuring" its success at both tasks, in any scientific endeavour.

Or much else.

Basically observations tell us nothing- the Gospel according to Slingo.

But also a clear error "Just as we are very clear that climate models do not give us a definitive answer about the possible magnitude of future warming"

Tell that to Vicky Pope.

She is one of your employees isn't she? So her "very strong predictions of +0.3C (cf ) 2004 by 2014" would not have come out without approval from the top.

I welcome scientific debate with those whose research challenges my understanding of climate change and scientists have a well established and robust peer review process for doing this. This process is there for good reason because it ensures the debate is rigorous but never personal.

1089318616.txt "I can't see either of these papers being in the next IPCC report. Kevin and I will keep them out somehow - even if we have to redefine what the peer-review literature is !"

1054748574.txt where Briffa says "I am really sorry but I have to nag about that review - Confidentially I now need a hard and if required extensive case for rejecting"

1080742144.txt where Jones "went to town" rejecting two papers that had criticised his work.

1107454306.txt "The two MMs have been after the CRU station data for years. If they ever hear there is a Freedom of Information Act now in the UK, I think I'll delete the file rather than send to anyone".

1109021312.txt "I'm getting hassled by a couple of people to release the CRU station temperature data.

Don't any of you three tell anybody that the UK has a Freedom of Information Act !"

1182255717.txt "Think I've managed to persuade UEA to ignore all further FOIA requests if the people have anything to do with Climate Audit."

1212073451.txt "Can you delete any emails you may have had with Keith re AR4? Keith will do likewise.  Can you also email Gene and get him to do the same? ... We will be getting Caspar to do likewise." (May 29 2008). [Under paragraph 77 of the FOI Act it is an offence to delete information subject to an FOI request].

1228330629.txt "When the FOI requests began here, the FOI person said we had to abide by the requests. It took a couple of half hour sessions - one at a screen, to convince them otherwise" ... "About 2 months ago I deleted loads of  emails, so have very little - if anything at all."

1075403821.txt "In an odd way this is cheering news!" says Jones of the death of skeptic John Daly.

1255100876.txt "Next time I see Pat Michaels at a scientific meeting, I'll be tempted to beat the crap out of him."

1107899057.txt  Michael Mann claims to a journalist that "The McIntyre and McKitrick paper is pure scientific fraud."

1255352257.txt Kevin Trenberth admits that "I have my own article on where the heck is global warming" and "The fact is that we can't account for the lack of warming at the moment and it is a travesty that we can't".

1024334440.txt Keith Briffa says of Michael Mann's notorious 'hockey stick' picture: "I have just read this letter - and I think it is crap. I am sick to death of Mann stating his reconstruction represents the tropical area just because it contains a few tropical series." Ed Cook replies: "We both know the probable flaws in Mike's recon,"... "It is puzzling to me that a guy as bright as Mike would be so unwilling to evaluate his own work a bit more objectively."

1188557698.txt Tom Wigley acknowledges that Doug Keenan, who accuses a Jones co-author of fraud, "has a valid point. The statements in the papers  that he quotes seem to be incorrect statements, and that someone must have known at the time that they were incorrect."

1255553034.txt Tom Wigley tells Michael Mann that a graph of his is "very deceptive" and says "In my (perhaps too harsh) view, there have been a number of dishonest presentations of model results by individual authors and by IPCC".

1254756944.txt Wigley says to Jones "Keith does seem to have got himself into a mess  ...  how does Keith explain the McIntyre plot that compares Yamal-12 with Yamal-all? And how does he explain the apparent "selection" of the less well-replicated chronology rather that the later (better replicated) chronology?".

In 2003, Soon and Baliunas published a review paper in the journal Climate Research, listing papers that gave evidence for the existence of the Medieval Warm Period and Little Ice Age.

1047485263.txt In a sequence of emails, the climate scientists discuss their response to the Soon and Baliunas paper.  Despite words such as "junk" and "appalling", they are unable to identify anything actually wrong with the paper. Jones says "I will be emailing the journal to tell them I'm having nothing more to do with it until they  rid themselves of this troublesome editor.  A CRU person is on the editorial board, but papers get dealt with by the editor assigned by Hans von Storch."

1051190249.txt Tom Wigley in an email to Mike Hulme and Phil Jones writes "Mike's idea to get editorial board members to resign will probably not work -- must get rid of von Storch too". (von Storch did later resign as editor of Climate Research).

1057944829.txt An email from Chris De Freitas, editor of Climate Research,  talks about the Soon and Baliunas 2003 paper, responding to criticism from Mike Hulme regarding his role.  He says that the paper had 4 referees who made comments but none recommended rejection.  He points out that the paper is really just a literature review, and asks specifically if they can find any papers that S&B mischaracterized. Hulme and Phil Jones have no answer to this simple question.

1057941657.txt Otto Kinne, from the organisation IRSC that published the journal, confirms that he has consulted the reviews of the S&B paper and that de Freitas acted correctly as editor.   In response, Michael Mann calls Kinne "disingenuous" and Tom Wigley accuses him of being a "de Freitas clone".  Phil Jones concludes "Seems like we are now the bad guys".

That bullshit word again.

concentrations, and other external effects,

such as solar output and volcanoes.

predict the future.

You're obviously not the only one. (Thanks lapogus.) But another encouraging thought occurred to me as I read your words. Climategate consisted of too much material. Sure, there was plenty of evidence of academic bullying but there was so much else as well. The great virtue of the Bengtsson story is its simplicity. And with McCarthyism it's come pre-baked with a delicious historical analogy. Thus it made the front page of The Times within a day or so of breaking and a luminary like Slingo felt compelled to write a letter much more chastened in how it deals with critics of the tired old climate consensus.

So, it’s still definitely going to warm, it’s just that she is not sure by how much.  That is some sort of concession, I suppose.

…neither do the estimates from observations as some in the climate sceptic community would claim.

Of course, her “community’s” “debate” with Prof Bengtsson had nothing personal in them at all; why he should feel threatened by such rigorous debating tactics as veiled threats, shunning and yah-booing remains a mystery to her and her ilk.

In response, Michael Mann calls Kinne "disingenuous" and Tom Wigley accuses him of being a "de Freitas clone". Phil Jones concludes "Seems like we are now the bad guys".

What always puzzled me about the Soon and Baliunas situation (something which BBD used to get his knickers in a serious twist about) was that the paper that was being criticised was simply a review of the literature. Presumably S&B's sin was to gather all this "unhelpful" information in one place and demonstrate that the science wasn't quite as settled as Mann, Wigley and Jones wanted us to believe.

So much for Slingo's "science is about seeking the truth", unless of course you believe that in post-modern science truth is in the eye of the beholder.

Julia Slingo, one time pscientist but now all civil servant but neither servile nor civil.

She is,  a dissimulator of ill repute among a bunch of peers well practiced in that dark art.  That is her job to daub and to besmear.  This pathetic drivel, that,  she has just put her paw mark on - is utter tosh, actually she thinks nothing of the sort and everybody knows it.  Not least,  those preening berks sucking at the public money teat in Exeter and all over the Met Office fiefdom.

Expect the usual idiots to declare victory, as the objections look pertinent and technical.

However this is equivalent to have a reviewer reject a paper saying "it's authored by a woman" and then claim everything's ok because another reviewer said "it's wrong".

Even if it isn't (and I've not read it or the second review) there's still bullying on joining the GWPF and a culture making it acceptable to point to the encouragement to sceptics a paper may provide, as if that was a valid reason for rejection.

Notify me of follow-up comments via email.

Have a response on your own site?                        Use this area to link to your response directly.

References will be subject to editor approval before appearing. Your reference will not appear until it has been cleared by a website editor.

Copyright © 2006-2013, Bishop Hill  All rights reserved.
