
U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service photo The golden-cheeked warbler is endangered. It lives in the Texas Hill Country, where it is the only bird species with a breeding range confined to Rexas.

U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service photo The endangered Attwater prairie chicken lives in the Gulf Prairies and Marches ecoregion of Texas.

Photo by Dale Bounds Turkeys are a popular attraction in many areas of Texas.

Wildlife adds value and aesthetics to property and can provide enjoyment for family and friends. Revenue from wildlife can be derived through ecotourism enterprises such as hunting, fishing, nature trails and bird watching.

If indigenous wildlife doesn't naturally occur on a particular piece of property, it often is due to lack of habitat. A definition of habitat is an ecological site or environmental area that supports a particular species of animal, plant or other type of organism.

Greg Yarrow, of Clemson University Extension Forestry and Natural Resources said, "Every wildlife species requires a general environment in which to live.

To manage land properly for the benefit of wildlife, landowners must be aware of those things in the environment that the species need to survive and reproduce.

The environment or natural home where a wild animal lives is called its habitat. Just as humans, wild animals have specific requirements that they get at home.

Habitat for any wild animal must provide cover (shelter) from weather and predators, food and water for nourishment, and space to obtain food, water and to attract a mate."

"For technical help with wildlife habitat management, contact the Texas Parks and Wildlife Department wildlife biologist in your county," said Arlene Kalmbach, Landowner Incentive Program coordinator with the department. "Locate the biologist by opening the Texas Parks and Wildlife Department website at www.tpwd.state.tx.us . On the home page, click on wildlife in the dark colored bar at the top of the page. Then click on 'Find a Biologist' in the drop-down box."

"The next screen that you should see is a map of the eight ecoregions in Texas," Kalmbach said. "It helps to know the ecoregion in which your property is located. If you don't know, however, you can find your county by clicking on the ecoregions in the general area of your property.

"Once your county shows on the screen, click on it. You will then see a listing of the [Texas Parks and Wildlife Department] personnel that have responsibility for your county.

"The wildlife biologist is the first name on the list with the mailing address and telephone number.

"If the wildlife biologist position is shown to be vacant, contact the next person on the list, who is usually the technical guidance biologist. If that person can't help you, he or she can direct you to someone who can be of assistance."

Answers to the above questions will aid the biologist in his or her evaluations and make the initial visit more effective. During this visit, the biologist will help you with an ecological assessment of your land, review your goals and provide you with information regarding the various incentive and assistance programs available.

"If you decide that further help from Texas Parks and Wildlife is not necessary, there are no obligations to continue to work with them. If you want to continue, the wildlife biologist will help develop a wildlife management plan. For the Landowner Incentive Program to work effectively there needs to be a good relationship established between the landowner and biologist.

There are no fees for technical help from Parks and Wildlife Department.

"Cost-share money is available through the Texas Landowner Incentive Program, which is designed to meet the needs of private landowners wishing to enact good conservation practices on their lands," Kalmbach said.

"The highest priority for funding is for projects in the Edwards Plateau and Trans Pecos ecoregions that provide direct benefits to federally listed or candidate animal or plant species and their habitats. Funding applications for projects that provide benefits to listed or candidate species outside the two mentioned ecoregions are also rated high priority.

"Proposals showing direct benefit to a listed species may apply for a maximum of 75 percent [Landowner Incentive Program] cost share for a total of no more than $40,000."

Most of the circulation of the Land & Livestock Post is in the Piney Woods, Post Oak Savannah, and Gulf Prairies and Marshes ecoregions. An example of a listed (endangered) species in the Piney Woods is the red-cockaded woodpecker and a candidate for listing is the Louisiana pine snake. The Post Oak Savannah has the Houston Toad and the Navasota ladies' tresses (an orchid) that is endangered. Attwater prairie chicken and whooping crane receive a lot attention as endangered species in the Gulf Prairies and Marshes.

"Other wildlife projects that do not directly benefit a listed or candidate species, but provide direct benefits to native resident and migratory wildlife species and their habitats will be carefully considered for funding on a case by case basis," Kalmbach said. "Special consideration is given to habitat enhancement projects offering long-term protection, long-term monitoring, and greater than the required minimum landowner contribution. Proposals for these two types of projects require a minimum of 50 percent landowner contribution and are capped at $25,000 of Landowner Incentive Program funding. The Texas Parks and Wildlife Department biologist will assist in preparing and submitting a project proposal packet. The Landowner Incentive Program is partially funded through the Partners for Fish and Wildlife Program administered by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service."

"The Partners Program provides technical and financial assistance for private landowners to restore or enhance fish and wildlife habitats for the benefit of Federal Trust Species," said Chris Harper, private lands biologist with Fish and Wildlife Service. "A definition of Federal Trust Species is migratory birds and threatened, endangered and other declining species."

The cornerstone of the Partners Program is partnerships, not only with private landowners, but with non-federal agencies, conservation organizations, schools and other entities with an interest in wildlife. Partners Program works closely with the United States Department of Agriculture Natural Resource Conservation Service, Texas Parks and Wildlife Department, Texas A&M Forest Service, Ducks Unlimited, National Wild Turkey Federation, The Nature Conservancy and Environmental Defense. The program emphasizes conservation practices directed at restoring habitats which include, but are not limited to, wetlands, riparian areas, bottomland hardwoods, upland forests, native grasslands, savannahs and brushlands.

"Our most often used habitat management tools are prescribed fire and brush control," Harper said. "These management practices are not always part of the skills package of a landowner, so we are available to assist in the planning and execution. For assistance in wildlife habitat management, we can be contacted directly or we can participate through Texas Parks and Wildlife.

Your wildlife management plan may involve the Natural Resource Conservation Service and/or Texas A&M Forest Service depending upon the type of project. These two agencies have cost-share monies available as well. There are no fees associated with technical assistance from any of the mentioned organizations."

Even though Parks and Wildlife Department and Fish and Wildlife Service prioritize listed and candidate species, habitat improvement benefits game species as well. For example, quail can thrive in the same habitat required by the prairie chicken. Golden cheeked warblers and black capped vireos like the same environment as deer and turkeys.

Contacting your county wildlife biologist with the Texas Parks and Wildlife Department is always the easiest way to request assistance in wildlife habitat management. The department will involve the appropriate partner agencies. It also will recommend the most appropriate practices and programs available for your unique situation.

Posted in Landandlivestockpost on Monday, May 19, 2014 12:00 am.

1 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language.

2 Don't Threaten or Abuse. Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated. AND PLEASE TURN OFF CAPS LOCK.

3 Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.

4 Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.

5 Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.

6 Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness accounts, the history behind an article.

Welcome to the discussion.
