
BHUBANESWAR: The Health and Family Welfare department is set to establish around 30 more urban Primary Health  Centres (PHCs) and three Community Health Centres (CHCs) across five municipal corporations and 11 Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) under National Urban Health Mission (NUHM) programme.

The Department has also decided to overhaul the existing health centres and hospitals in 42 cities and towns that have been included in the NUHM programme launched by Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik in February.

Of 92 existing health facilities identified for upgradation and renovation, 46 will be provided new buildings and the rest will undergo comprehensive renovation. Land for the new buildings should be expeditiously allotted to start the construction work, Health Secretary PK Mohapatra stressed.

All the hospitals and health centres in the NUHM cities and towns which are under the control of the respective ULBs will now be under the control of Health Department. At present, 19 health institutions including 18 urban PHCs and one CHC are functioning under Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation, Cuttack Municipal Corporation, Sambalpur Municipal Corporation along with the ULBs of Puri, Keonjhar, Baripada and Malkangiri.

The Health Department runs 85 urban PHCs and seven CHCs. The NUHM programme seeks to provide quality healthcare services to urban poor and vulnerable sections, particularly slum dwellers. In the first phase, the programme would be implemented in 18 ULBs including municipal corporations of Bhubaneswar, Cuttack, Berhampur, Sambalpur and Rourkela along with Puri, Balasore, Bhadrak, Baripada, Balangir, Jharsuguda, Jeypore, Bargarh, Raygada, Bhawanipatna, Paradip, Sunabeda and Koraput municipalities.

Reduction of infant mortality rate (IMR) and maternal mortality rate (MMR) will be the focus areas of the programme along with universal access to reproductive healthcare and convergence of all health related interventions.

The NUHM will see establishment of city and district-level Health Missions and programme management units. As many as 785 ASHA workers would be engaged for the programme, one for every 1500 people. Similarly 294 ANMs at one per 10,000 population will be employed.

A Mahila Arogya Samiti will be formed for every 500 slum population which would monitor health needs of the women. Similarly, 2,772 such samitis would come into being with each provided `5,000 unattended fund. These would be complemented by Ward Kalyan Committees. Work on the front has commenced with the Government already allocating `28.76 crore for 2013-14 fiscal.
