
MANILA, Philippines—A partylist lawmaker has urged the House of Representatives to conduct an inquiry on the pork barrel scam.

Abakada Representative Jonathan Dela Cruz, in his privilege hour, took it to the floor to call on a congressional inquiry on the scam that has implicated even his fellow lawmakers on the alleged diversion of public funds to ghost projects for kickbacks.

“Let us put an end to this circus that is detrimental to the institution that we represent,” Dela Cruz said.

But his suggestion did not sit well with some lawmakers in the chamber, where the leadership under Speaker Feliciano Belmonte Jr. is not amenable to an investigation.

Cavite Rep. Elpidio Barzaga Jr. said a congressional inquiry would only muddle the issue since the Department of Justice and the Senate are conducting their own probe already.

Buhay Representative Lito Atienza said the chamber should just urge the executive department to file cases before the court instead of having their own investigation.

“Let us make the law take its course. We have more equally important matters [to do],” Atienza said.

One of the accused in the scam also spoke up against Dela Cruz’s suggestion – Cebu Rep. Raul Del Mar, who was included on Janet Lim-Napoles’ and Benhur Luy’s list of alleged scam beneficiaries.

Napoles is the alleged mastermind of the scam, while Luy is Napoles’ employee who turned whistleblower.

In his interpolation, Del Mar said he had no transactions with Napoles’ bogus non-government organizations using his Priority Development Assistance Funds (PDAF).

Instead of a congressional probe, the chamber should instead file a resolution urging the authorities to fast track its investigation on the scam, Del Mar said.

The veteran lawmaker maintained that most of his colleagues are innocent from the allegations.

“I am sure most of our colleagues will be cleared… The list has caused me disappointment. Even if I was very careful with the use of my PDAF… I was still on the list,” Del Mar said.

“The perpetrators could easily include us in the list and we are convicted through publicity,” he added.

To subscribe to the Philippine Daily Inquirer newspaper in the Philippines, call +63 2 896-6000 for Metro Manila and Metro Cebu or email your subscription request here.
