
ST. PAUL, Minn. – More than 200 Soldiers and families from the Minnesota National Guard’s 34th Combat Aviation Brigade Headquarters Company and 2nd Battalion, 147th Assault Helicopter Battalion were honored, May 17, 2014, at the St. Paul River Centre prior to deploying to Kuwait.

Serving Our Troops, a Minnesota-based volunteer group, showed its gratitude to the deploying Soldiers and their families by providing them with a steak lunch. This event was the organization’s tenth event serving steaks for Soldiers overseas and stateside.

“Thank you, Serving our Troops, for exemplifying the Best of Minnesota,” said Minnesota Gov. Mark Dayton.

While deployed, the Soldiers will conduct aviation operations and security cooperation activities as part of a task force of more than 1,200 Soldiers from the National Guard, Army reserve and active Army.

The units recently completed two weeks of training at Camp Ripley, Minn., and will head to Fort Hood, Texas, in June for additional training prior to their departure for Kuwait. In addition to its several previous federal deployments, the 34th Combat Aviation Brigade regularly supports domestic response missions including wildfire suppression, flood response and search and rescue.

“Our track record of being an interchangeable, accessible, and highly professional, successful component of the total Army has been proven time and again,” said Thingvold.

Maj. Gen. Richard Nash, the adjutant general of the Minnesota National Guard spoke about the unique qualities that National Guardsmen bring to this type of mission.

Dayton praised the Soldiers for their service and dedication to the state and nation.

“Our country is free today; our country is strong today; our country exists today; because for almost two and a half centuries, men and women like you have answered that call,” said Dayton.

This work, Deploying Soldiers and families honored with steak lunch, by SFC Blair Heusdens , identified by DVIDS , is free of known copyright restrictions under U.S. copyright law.
