
A groundbreaking ceremony for the construction of a US$11,000 Peace Palava Resource Center (PPRC) in Kpolokpala Town, Bong County, has been launched.

The PPRC’s initiative is been implemented under the auspices of the Universal Peace Federation (UPF) with generous donations from support partners around the world.

The main person behind the construction of the resource center in Bong County is Ambassador Beverly Goll Yekeson.

Regrettably, Kpolokpala Town is the notorious venue where the Liberia Peace Council (LPC) allegedly massacred more than 500 Liberian citizens in 1994.

LPC was one of the warring factions in Liberia’s 15-year civil war.

Speaking at the groundbreaking recently in the Bong town, Nimba County lawmaker Ricks Y. Toweh urged all Liberians irrespective of political and socio-economic backgrounds to cultivate the virtue of forgiveness.

Lawmaker Toweh also urged everyone, including the massacre survivors that they should “swallow” the bitterness of the past and embrace the cardinal virtues of forgiveness and reconciliation.

“Consider and accept the PPRC project as symbol that would end the tears from eyes and minds for the overall development, growth and progress of Kpolokpala Town in Bong County,” Rep. Toweh admonished the survivors.

He also explained that UPF Ambassador Yekeson, support partners and team of workers have come through the grace God to assist the citizens and residents of Kpolokpala to move on with their lives in peace, harmony, forgiveness and reconciliation.

In recognition of the PPRC’s vitality to residents of the town, he donated five bundles of zinc as an initial contribution and promised to support the completion of the project in Kpolokpala Town.

In remarks, survivors Reverend John K. Kennedy and Joseph Katama narrated the gruesome murder of their kinsmen, including women and children at the hands of the LPC fighters during the 1994 famous Gbarnga fall.

“We took all the bodies of those who were killed that fateful morning, with machetes and axes to the bush. This flat rock is where our brothers and sisters were murdered in 1994 by the LPC fighters; it is the symbol of their graves,” Kennedy and Katama narrated.

For her part, survivor Betty Katama, with tears rolling down her cheeks pointed out that her 14-year-old daughter was among the more than 500 persons murdered during the onslaught of the LPC forces on Kpolokpala Town in Bong County.

“I personally want the leaders of LPC to appear before us and openly apologize and seek our total forgiveness and reconciliation,” Madam Katama pleaded.

Earlier two elders and town chief of Kpolokpala welcomed Amb. Beverly Yekeson and co-workers and pledged to work and cooperate in the implementation of the peace palava resource center.

The town’s elders extended thanks and appreciation to Mr. Yekeson and team for thinking about them during these critical times in the country.

“We will ever remember and cherish this gesture of this peace symbol that will serve as fond memories in our hearts and minds,” citizens and residents said.
