
BELGRADE --  France has put at Serbia's disposal almost half of its total capacities for fighting floods, French Ambassador to Serbia Francois-Xavier Deniau has told B92.

The ambassador on Sunday joined other diplomats who made donations for the flood victims at the the Cultural Center REX, at the invitation of the B92 Fund.

Deniau said he was impressed by the solidarity of the citizens of Belgrade and Serbia. "I congratulate B92 on this initiative. Again you show that you are a medium that knows how to react in emergency situations and has a sense of solidarity. I'm impressed because I saw at REX dozens of volunteers who gathered to distribute the collected aid," he said.

"Therefore, the reaction in France was immediate and we have put at Serbia's disposal almost half of our total capacities specialized to fight against floods."

Deniau added that for four years now members of the civil defense in Serbia have been cooperating with similar organizations in France and have repeatedly worked together. "They know each other well, and that is important."

Deniau also expressed his regret over the losses suffered by the people in areas affected by the floods. "Unfortunately, Serbia is often affected. Three years ago you had an earthquake in Kraljevo, today this disaster where there are casualties and huge economic losses. I hope that rescuers will save lives and that later, assistance of the international community will arrive in Serbia when the time for reconstruction comes," said the French ambassador.

The B92 Fund's campaign has also been joined by representatives of a small French community of Belgrade.

The campaign continues at 16 Jevrejska Street in Belgrade, where the doors of the REX center remain open every day from 10:00 until 20:00 CET for all those who want to help the victims of the floods.

BELGRADE -- Novak Đoković, who on Sunday won the Rome Masters tournament, has decided to donate the prize money to the flood victims in Serbia.

BELGRADE -- The epidemiological situation in Serbia is under control, and is being constantly monitored, said Doctor Bojana Grgić.

BELGRADE -- As of Monday, donations for the flood victims in Serbia can be made via PayPal from 193 countries and regions, the Serbian Ministry of Finance said.

BELGRADE -- The Serbian Interior Ministry said on Monday morning that so far 25,070 people had been evacuated from their homes due to the severe flooding.

BELGRADE -- Serbian President Tomislav Nikolić sent a telegram of condolences to the family of late Dobrica Ćosić, Serbian writer and politician.

ROME -- Novak Đoković won the Rome Masters ATP as he beat the former champion, Spain's Rafael Nadal, in the final match on Sunday, 2-1 (4-6, 6-3, 6-3).

BELGRADE -- Repairing the damage caused by the floods will cost a lot and the European Union is ready to allocate funds for assistance to Serbia.

ROME -- Serbia's top tennis player Novak Đoković qualified for the Rome Masters by defeating Canada's Milos Raonic on Saturday 6-7 (5-7), 7-6 (7-4), 6-3.

BELGRADE -- Italian Ambassador Giuseppe Manzo was the first diplomat who responded to B92's call to join in efforts to collect aid for the flood victims.

BELGRADE -- All those who wish to help the citizens affected by the flooding in Serbia can do so by donating food, water, clothes and blankets.

BELGRADE -- So far 6,175 people have been evacuated from their homes in Serbia as rivers burst their banks in several areas of the country after two days of heavy rains.

BELGRADE -- According to unofficial reports, a 42-year-old firefighter lost his life on Thursday morning as he was taking part in a rescue operation on the Jasenica River.

CRNA TRAVA -- A strong storm described as "tornado-like" on Wednesday hit the village of Mlačište near the municipality of Crna Trava in southern Serbia.

BELGRADE -- May 15 marks 25 years since Radio B92 first started broadcasting in Belgrade on the 92.5 FM frequency.

BELGRADE -- NASA has published a satellite photo showing Europe seen from space, where a huge cloud system, covering Serbia at its center, dominates.

BELGRADE -- A new survey carried out by the U.S. NGO NDI and CeSID showed that only 30 percent of Serbian citizens believe that democracy is the best type of government.

BELGRADE -- Former high ranking official of the Democratic Party (DS) and one of the closest associates of Boris Tadić, Miodrag Miki Rakić, has died.

B92 is an environmentally responsible organisation.
