
PLEASANT HILL -- City Clerk Kim Lehmkuhl, under fire for months for failing to produce meeting minutes for an entire year and the subject of a recall effort, resigned Monday.

Lehmkuhl, who was elected in 2012, emailed a brief but scathing resignation letter to Mayor Tim Flaherty, noting that she has accepted an undisclosed new job in Washington, D.C.

"This has been an atrocious, incredibly depressing and mind-numbingly inane experience I would not wish on anyone," Lehmkuhl wrote, adding that she wishes the city luck in finding a "schmuck" eager to transcribe the record of council meetings.

She went on to lambaste the council and members of the public for "misogynistic jokes," "racist asides" and "tinfoil hat" conspiracy theories uttered during meetings.

Although Lehmkuhl never produced any minutes during her first year in office, she was a prolific Twitter user who employed the social media platform to tweet updates during council proceedings. The posts under the account she used for official city clerk's business were often salted with personal opinions, a controversial practice that raised the ire of council members and the public.

All five council members and several residents had called on Lehmkuhl to step down as the saga over the missing minutes dragged on for months. But Lehmkuhl defiantly refused and downplayed both the seriousness of her failure to do her job and the recall effort.

Lehmkuhl could not be reached for comment Monday, and there was only brief acknowledgment of her departure during Monday night's City Council meeting.

"I'm very happy to hear that the City Clerk has resigned," said Councilman Jack Weir before giving plaudits to members of the recall team. "Thank you very much for all the effort you put into this. I think it made a difference."

Mayor Flaherty prefaced the announcement of the resignation by saying, "To paraphrase Gerald Ford, our long municipal nightmare is over."

Flaherty was the last council member to call publicly for Lehmkuhl's resignation, which he did at the May 12 meeting. Although he encouraged her to step down privately, Flaherty said he was concerned about having an undue influence on the public's opinion of the situation.

"For me the final straw was when I was informed that the county clerk had a workshop for all city clerks for the upcoming (November) election," he said earlier. "She did not show up for the county clerk's workshop nor did she even respond to the invitation."

The city sent two staffers in Lehmkuhl's place for the May 8 workshop, and that was how they learned she didn't attend, he added.

The council will have 60 days to either appoint a replacement for Lehmkuhl or call a special election, according to City Manager June Catalano.

Whether the Lehmkuhl era could have lasting repercussions remains to be seen.

In March, the council agreed to place a measure on the November ballot asking whether the city clerk's position should be changed from an elected to an appointed office. If voters approve making the position appointed, a staff member who answers to the city manager will assume the clerk's duties. The election will cost Pleasant Hill about $19,000.

A group of residents in February launched an effort to recall Lehmkuhl. If it had qualified for the November ballot, the election would have cost Pleasant Hill an estimated $23,712, according to the Contra Costa County Elections Division. But even though Lehmkuhl's resignation makes the recall a moot point, Pleasant Hill did have to spend some money on it.

The council in March agreed to pay a former employee $80 per hour to manage the recall process, because Lehmkuhl -- who was the city's elections official -- could not oversee her own recall.

Lisa P. White covers Concord and Pleasant Hill. Contact her at 925-943-8011. Follow her at Twitter.com/lisa_p_white .
