
Malawi's unpredictable general elections are sparking widespread interest even in rural villages, where flags with colours of the different parties hang on rooftops or from trees, while campaign vehicles pass through blaring election propaganda.

Voters are to cast their ballots Tuesday in the tightly contested presidential, parliamentary and regional polls, with President Joyce Banda facing three strong candidates.

About 7.5 million people - more than 90 per cent of eligible voters -have registered. "Before Cashgate, Banda would have taken a clean victory," political analyst and journalist Wisdom Nelson Chimgwede says.

But then came the affair in which civil servants, politicians and entrepreneurs were found to have pocketed at least 25 million dollars in government funds.

"That gave the opposition something to campaign on," says Chimgwede, who sees the main political parties in the southern African country as being built around personalities rather than ideologies.

"They all stress the same issues: ending poverty, improving health care and fighting corruption."

Social commentator and human rights activist Billy Mayaya attributes the personalization of politics to the youth of Malawi's democracy, where "the structures of the one-party system have been carried over."

Malawi's first president, Hastings Kamuzu Banda, served from 1966 to 1994. Vice-president Banda rose to the presidency upon the sudden death of 2004-2012 president Bingu wa Mutharika, whose overspending, human rights violations and perceived arrogance prompted donors to withdraw much of the aid that had contributed a large part of Malawi's budget.

Banda quickly restored relations with donors, devaluing the kwacha by 50 per cent. Africa's second female president after Liberia's Ellen Johnson Sirleaf won international applause for her liberal economic reforms and for her work in favour of women's rights.

But the devaluation hiked up prices of foodstuffs and fuel, deepening poverty and sparking protests in what was already one of the world's poorest countries. The big blow to Banda's reputation came with Cashgate, which led to donors suspending aid that had made up 40 per cent of Malawi's budget.

The withdrawal of budgetary support left hospitals without drugs, schools without teaching materials and teachers without salaries.

"People are dying at hospitals" of preventable diseases, said Joss Kuppens, director of the Catholic non-governmental organization Centre for Social Concern.

Donors will not resume aid channelled through the government until Malawi cleans up its act - a process that could take years, Western diplomats said. The worsening living conditions have sparked widespread anger. "A poor rural man spends days collecting firewood which he sells for a few pennies, while those in power live it up with taxpayers' money," said George, driver with a car hire company.

Malawians differ on whether Banda herself siphoned money. But at least her People's Party had close links to some out of a total of about 70 defendants in the ongoing Cashgate trial, they point out.

Malawi's Anti-Corruption Bureau has generally done some good work in chasing up lower-level corruption suspects, but it never reaches the top of the pyramid, analysts said.

Corruption is a long-standing problem in Malawi, a country so poor that about 80 per cent of the population live off subsistence farming.

"There are only two ways to get rich," Chimgwede said. "They are to enter politics, or to bribe politicians to give contracts to one's company."

Banda's main challengers in the elections are Peter Mutharika from the Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) - brother of the late president - and Lazarus Chakwera from Malawi Congress Party (MCP) that once ruled the one-party state.

The fourth contender is Atupele Muluzi from the United Democratic Front (UDF), son of 1994-2004 president Bakili Muluzi, but he is thought to have less chances than Banda's two other main challengers.

Law professor Mutharika has the disadvantages of having lived years away from Malawi in the United States and concern that he could follow in his brother's footsteps in trying to limit freedom of expression. But Bingu wa Mutharika is also remembered for introducing fertilizer subsidies that produced bumper harvests between 2005 and 2009.

Chakwera, an evangelical pastor, has the advantage of being a new candidate untainted by scandals. If the DPP wins, it will not form a coalition with another party, but will create a national council involving the main parties and experts to plan long-term policies, former health minister and DPP Secretary General Jean Kalilani told dpa.

But there have been coalition governments in the past, and analysts do not exclude that possibility.
