
CEDAR RAPIDS | Rarely does an endorsement make or break a campaign, but a state lawmaker’s choice of candidates in the five-way Democratic 1st District primary created a bit of a stir Monday when a rival cried foul.

An endorsement by a popular local leader or personality often is seen as a way to generate “earned media” – news coverage as opposed to paid advertising. It also can validate a candidate among a subset of voters.

No doubt that was the goal of Monica Vernon’s campaign when state Sen. Liz Mathis, D-Cedar Rapids, announced her endorsement of the Cedar Rapids City Councilwoman and former small business owner Monday.

In endorsing her University of Iowa classmate two weeks ahead of the June 3 primary election, Mathis said it’s time for Iowans to finally elect a woman to Congress.

However, another of the three women in the race, Swati Dandekar, who previously served in the Iowa Legislature and on the Iowa Utilities Board, said Mathis had gone back on a promise not to get involved in the campaign.

A little background: Mathis succeeded Dandekar in representing a Senate district that included much of Marion, Hiawatha and Robins. The 2011 special election after Dandekar resigned from the Senate to accept Republican Gov. Terry Branstad’s appointment to the utilities board was competitive. Democrats needed to hold the seat to maintain their 26-24 majority. Republicans sought to gain a tie.

Mathis, whose campaign benefited from a sizable donation from Dandekar, won with 56 percent of the vote.

Mathis, who was re-elected with 60 percent of the vote in 2012, cited Vernon’s experience as a working mother who started a business, and her service in several positions in the community including as a member of the city council in the years following the 2008 flood.

“She wants this job, she wants to represent the 1st District and she’s willing to put in the time and make the commitment and make the sacrifice,” Mathis said at a news conference at the downtown Cedar Rapids Public Library.

Mathis did not respond to questions about Dandekar’s comment.

The Vernon campaign issued a statement saying it was proud of Mathis’ endorsement.

Dandekar’s spokeswoman said the statement was issued in response to questions the campaign was receiving.

Copyright 2014 Sioux City Journal. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Hint: Enter a keyword that you are looking for like tires, pizza or doctors or browse the full business directory .

Username & Password Required!
