
Foxwoods and the city of Fall River, Mass., are looking for a larger site to build a resort casino — four times as big as the original 30-acre site, Fall River Mayor Will Flanagan said Monday.

"We work very closely with Scott Butera, who is the CEO of Foxwoods, in scouting land in our community that would allow us to build a resort-style casino," Flanagan said.

They had their eye on a site of about 30 acres in the south end of the city, he said. It was sufficient, but the city has time now to look for a larger site after the Massachusetts Gaming Commission pushed back its application deadline from July 23 to Sept. 23 for casino proposals in southeastern Massachusetts, Flanagan said.

"That gave us an opportunity to re-examine our project, and right now we're scouting sites along our city's waterfront that would allow for us to have more buildable acreage and would allow for us to really develop a project that we can be proud of," Flanagan said.

It's too early to announce any particular location, he said, but the city hopes to come up with a 120-acre site near a highway for easy access.

The Foxwoods development in Fall River could be one of several vying for the sole casino license in southeastern Massachusetts. The state legislature passed a law in 2011 allowing three resort casinos, one in each region: Western Massachusetts, Greater Boston, and southeastern Massachusetts.

Fall River is about a 20-minute drive southeast of Providence, R.I., but Flanagan said he hopes a casino in his town would draw from a much wider area than Greater Boston, Rhode Island and eastern Massachusetts.

There are no details of the Foxwoods proposal yet for Fall River. The city has yet to write up a host community agreement, which would outline details such as the number of hotel beds, restaurants, retailers and slot machines.

Flanagan said he hopes to have a host community agreement once the site is chosen, and residents could vote on the agreement by late summer.
