
COTTONWOOD -- It was a packed house for the Yavapai County Supervisors hearing Monday on the rezoning application for Camp Soaring Eagle in Cornville. The question of whether to rezone the 14 acres has dogged the North Aspaas Road neighbors and the CSE Foundation for months. Now there is finally an answer.

Most of the board members of Camp Soaring Eagle were on hand as well as with the organization's founder, Max James.

The opposition was also well represented.

Chris Ballard, the realtor who has the listing on the property, said Camp Soaring Eagle was the only applicant that was not a church use. Religious organizations would not have any restrictions as a legal non-conforming use.

There were 27 people who either spoke or noted they supported to the Planned Area Development zone change; 10 said they were against it. But one neighbor, Ken Croft, claiming to represent 55 others, said it "was too big a change" and worried about traffic, narrow streets and property values. He said CSE should be granted "a conditional use permit to prove they will be a good neighbor."

That's exactly what was granted to the non-profit organization when the supervisors voted.

Veteran Supervisor Chip Davis told the crowd that, "We have failed in our process." While Camp Soaring Eagle is a fantastic program, Davis said, "With so much opposition to the PAD zoning, I could not support it."

County Community Development Director Steven Mauk told the supervisors they could consider other options if not the PAD.

Supervisor Tom Thurman said the property is now in his district. "If we say 'no,' it will go into disarray. Living Waters has been keeping up the property. The county can't afford to buy it as a park or open space. It will be under administrative enforcement. The PAD is the big concern, whether it will morph into something else under future owners. So what is the problem with a conditional use permit?"

Board Member Rob Olsen said the organization has already secured funding for the acquisition. "We wanted a PAD to give us stronger property rights, but we could accept a permanent use permit."

I predicted a couple of months ago that Max James, the founder of CSE, was the mysterious "mortgage backer" who insisted on a Planned Area Development. If CSE couldn't make a go of it on N. Aspaas, Mr. James would just take it back and have himself a fully fledged PAD. He wins either way. What a sweetheart deal.

Only when he could see that it wasn't going to happen did he cave and agree to the financing with a CUP. Only when the VERY LAST DOG was about to be hung did we find out who was behind this demand. It was used as a not very veiled threat throughout the process. "We MUST have a PAD or we can't buy the property. Our backers won't fund the purchase without it. You better give it to us or God only knows who'll buy the place. THEN you'll be sorry."

This is indicative of the kind of people those of us in the neighborhood have been dealing with for almost a year. Now we get to continue to deal with them. When they violate the terms of the CUP, it'll be those nearby who'll report to the county. Mr. Thurman says they'll "be watched". I hope so.

The CUP is more than I was hoping for frankly, after the absurd fiasco of the Yavapai Planning and Zoning Commission hearing. Too bad those bozos aren't elected, I'd go out of my way to campaign against every one of them.

Kudos to Mr. Davis for speaking his mind. Kudos to Ken Cruff and everyone else who gave their time and energy and restful SLEEP to stand up, unrepresented and outgunned to a group with very deep pockets and expensive lawyers who made outrageous demands and silly threats and expected the country bumpkins to roll over and give up.

Welcome to the neighborhood CSE. Don't bother US, and WE won't bother YOU.

With a 3 year or 5 year CUP, as I understand the process, with compliance,that a party can then re-apply for a Zoning change with the P and Z board..............A CUP can be REVOKED with non-compliance, even though a PAD with non-compliance, only results in fines and sanctions.  NO REVOCATION.  If it is a perpetual CUP, then the applicant is bound to comply with no option for any other use.  The zoning remains rural/residential. Period.  I am sure the COUNTY website will post all the ramifications of their ruling..........it is required by law, so the District 2 constituents have the avenue for proper research and procedures to register concerns. This is how a government works, or at least should work..............And as the song goes.." you can't always get what ya want, but if ya try sometime......you'll find ya get what ya need........"

Respectfully disagree with Supervisor Davis.  The process worked exactly the way it should.

There was significant opportunity for an open and transparent public due process.  The issue was debated with both sides fairly represented.

And to me the best decision was made ... approval with conditions to minimize negative impacts, and no change in zoning.

I do disagree with Supervisor Thurman's idea of a "permanent" CUP.  It should be made clear to the applicants if they don't deliver what they say they're going to do, their permit goes away along with their use.

Chip Davis is a politician.To deny any child a better life for a vote is insane.Cornville cannot stop progress or the payoffs that come with it.

To change in mid-stream is cowardly.

Hmmm... Perpetuity seems like an awfully long trial period, but otherwise the Five-Supe System seems to have worked well today. A PAD zoning should almost never be approved deep within these older, established rural-residential areas. They do indeed tend to "morph" over time, and once approved, are vested with the land with no control whatsoever.

Article comment by: Surprise. Surprise.

So Camp Flying Eagle could get financing without a PAD.

Comments are not posted immediately. Submissions must adhere to our Use of Service Terms of Use agreement. The email and phone info you provide will not be visible to the public. Rambling or nonsensical comments may not be posted. Comments are limited to 1700 characters or less. In order for us to reasonably manage this feature we may limit your comment entries to five(5) per day.
