
Mitt Romney, the former presidential candidate, has joined calls for the resignation of a New Hampshire police commissioner who used the N-word when referring to President Barack Obama.

Mr Romney, who stood against Mr Obama in the last presidential election, is one of a growing list of political leaders and residents in Wolfeboro asking for Robert Copeland to step down.

Local resident Jane O'Toole, says she heard Mr Copeland use the racial slur in a restaurant.

But now, Mr Romney, who owns a home in the New Hampshire town of Wolfeboro, has called for his resignation.

In a statement the former Massachusetts governor said: 'The vile epithet used and confirmed by the commissioner has no place in our community: He should apologize and resign.'

His remarks echo the sentiments of some of residents of the predominantly white town, who are upset with the racist remarks.

The incident came to light when in an email to Mrs O'Toole obtained by The Associated Press; Mr Copeland acknowledged using the ‘N’ word in referring to the president and said he will not apologize.

Mrs O'Toole, who moved to Wolfeboro four  months ago, said she overheard Mr Copeland use a racial slur to describe  Obama at a local restaurant earlier this year.

She claims she heard him say he hates turning on the television because every time he does, there's that 'f***ing n*****.'

'He sort of swung around and puffed up his chest and said, "Yeah,"' she told the Concord Monitor. 'And I said, "Not good, not good at all."'

Mrs O'Toole said she didn't know Mr Copeland  was the police commissioner until she returned to the restaurant the  next day and asked about him.

She  wrote to the town manager last month and he replied that he was  powerless to act.

She then wrote to Mr Copeland's two fellow police  commissioners. In an email response to her, Mr Copeland included an excerpt  from an email he sent to his fellow commissioners acknowledging his  remark.

Wolfeboro Town Manager David Owen said on Thursday that while he finds Copeland's comment ‘reprehensible,’ he and the board of selectmen have no authority to remove an elected official.

Mr Copeland has declined to be interviewed. Commission Chairman Joseph Balboni Jr. told the Concord Monitor he doesn't plan to ask Copeland to resign.

Meanwhile, board of selectman chairwoman Linda Murray said: 'I feel Mrs O’Toole did what was appropriate.

'She informed the public.There are people in the public who are coming out dismayed by the kind of language and disrespect for the president of the United States, and they are going to stand up.'

About 20 African Americans live in Wolfeboro, a town of about 6,300 residents in the scenic Lakes Region, in the central part of New Hampshire.

The town manager's office said none of the police department's 12 full-time officers is African American or a member of another minority. One of its part-time officers is black.

Mr Copeland is one of three members of the police commission, which hires, fires and disciplines officers and sets their salaries.

The comments below have been moderated in advance.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
