
Melissa Holmes has felt good since she started going to NAMI-Bowling Green’s Wellness Connection at 428 Center St.

The organization is also looking for local businesses that will help send between two to 50 people to the Hot Rods game. Those who donate under $500 will get their name on an 8-foot banner, while those who donate $500 or more will get their names on the video board at the ballgame.

“Without community partners, we wouldn’t be able to provide support, education and advocacy for people in recovery from mental illness. Those two fundraisers allow us to do that,” Gregory said.

The Wellness Connection has been open since 2013 through a $50,000 grant, which NAMI and LifeSkills applied for through the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Administration under the U.S. Department of Health and Human Resources, Gregory said.

“We just got word that we got another grant for $50,000. We’re excited about that,” he said.

At the center, there are family-to-family education programs, individual and family support group meetings at 7 p.m. the first and third Tuesday of each month and Learning Increases Necessary Knowledge, which are classes designed to help consumers.

Some classes include anger management, line dancing, art in recovery, healthy boundaries and double trouble, which addresses substance abuse and mental illness. The center also has seven peer support specialists.

Tami Brucato is a peer support specialist.

Wellness Connection and the peer support specialists are helping people rebuild their lives, Brucato said.

“We’re seeing so much positive. They get their drive for life back,” she said.

The Wellness Connection is helping Holmes learn about herself, she said.

Wellness Connection hours are from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Tuesdays through Fridays and from noon to 4 p.m. Saturdays.

— Follow features reporter Alyssa Harvey on Twitter at twitter.com/bgdnfeatures or visit bgdailynews.com .

Posted in News on Monday, May 19, 2014 10:32 am.

1 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language.

2 Don't Threaten or Abuse. Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated. AND PLEASE TURN OFF CAPS LOCK.

3 Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.

4 Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.

5 Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.

6 Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness accounts, the history behind an article.

Welcome to the discussion.
