
Lynchburg, VA - The Diamond Hill community of Lynchburg is divided on how to handle a fading historic property.

The public hearing turned into a spirited debate over how to handle the property on the 600 block of Washington Street Monday.

The two story duplex has been standing since 1893. However, over the years, the house has fallen into disrepair.

The property was acquired by the Lynchburg Redevelopment and Housing Authority in 2009.

Now, the Authority wants to demolish the building, but they need the approval of the Historic Preservation Commission to do so.

Despite multiple attempts to find new owners, Dawn Fagan from the Housing Authority says that the size of the repairs has scared off potential buyers.

"…And when they go in and see the status, it just becomes more than they want to tackle," Fagan said.

Residents like Margaret Patterson spoke out against the proposed demolition, saying that not all options have been considered.

"Do not condone the demolition of this lovely, historic building, unless and until, all possible actions for renewal have been explored and exhausted," Patterson said.

The Historic Preservation Commission denied the request to demolish the property on Washington Street Monday night.

Lynchburg, VA - Federal prosecutors say eight people have been charged in connection with a drug ring investigation that dates back to 1998.

Bedford Co., VA – A former physical education teacher in Bedford County has been charged with aggravated sexual battery of three students at Montvale Elementary.

 Pittsylvania Co., VA- State Police say a Danville woman was killed in a crash Sunday morning in Pittsylvania County.

Update 10:18 a.m.

Fort Lee, VA (AP) - All clear given at Fort Lee Army base in Virginia where active shooter had been reported.

Henry Co., VA – Two men have been sentenced for killing a Henry County convenience store clerk four years ago.

Lynchburg, VA- A local church has challenged their members to unleash love on those around them.One Community Church in Lynchburg has a goal to provide 500 hours of community service in the next 30 days.

All content © Copyright 2000 - 2014 WorldNow and WSET. All Rights Reserved.
