
Jeddah, KSA, 19 May, 2014: In recognition of Canon Middle East’s success in Saudi Arabia, the leader in imaging solutions handed out channel awards to their best-performing IT Channel partners. Four top performing OPP (Office Personal Products) IT dealers of Saudi Arabia drove away with coveted mega prizes of delivery vans for their efforts to boost the sales of Canon printers in the Kingdom.

Top performing IT dealers from Riyadh were Light Start Trading and Microware Trading, while Al Manaa Trading and Farouqi Trading won from Jeddah. The winners were announced and keys to the four delivery vans were handed over during the launch of the 2014 channel partner programme held recently in Jeddah, Riyadh and Khobar.

“Canon is a leader in the imaging and business solutions category in terms of technology, performance and range. This success has been built on many factors, including our product range, the service we offer, and most importantly, our ongoing programme for the development of channel partners and dealers in the Kingdom. The Canon Channel Partner programme seeks to continuously recognise the contribution of key players and team members of the Saudi IT dealer channel who contribute to our success,” said Hendrik Verbrugghe, Marketing Director, Canon Middle East.

The initiative launched last year saw 114 IT dealers in the Kingdom register for the channel partner programme. Building on this success, over 300 IT dealers attended the launch of the 2014 channel campaign. The current channel programme focusses on sales targets set for both the OPP consumables and main body business in the Kingdom.

“Canon Middle East is committed to developing its channel relations in the Kingdom and incentive programmes such as this enable us to work closely with our distributors. Our channel partners are invaluable in fuelling growth and combined with Canon’s robust channel support, incentives and marketing programmes for the channel, we are creating ever-more rewarding relationships between the vendor and channels. We look forward to achieving greater success with the next edition of this channel initiative,” concluded Verbrugghe.
