
An international police operation against cyber-criminals in 16 countries in Europe and America involved in BlackShades malware has been carried out, according to European police co-operation agency Europol.

During two days of operations taking place in the 16 countries worldwide, co-ordinated by Eurojust in The Hague and supported by the European Cybercrime Centre (EC3) at Europol, creators, sellers and users of BlackShades malware were targeted by judicial and law enforcement authorities.

During both action days, 359 house searches were carried out worldwide, and more than 80 people were arrested.

More than 1100 data storage devices suspected of being used in illegal activities were seized, including computers, laptops, mobile telephones, routers, external hard drives and USB memory sticks. Substantial quantities of cash, illegal firearms and drugs were also seized.

A recent case in the Netherlands of BlackShades malware being used for criminal purposes was that of an 18-year-old man who infected at least 2000 computers, controlling the victim’s webcams to take pictures of women and girls.

Countries that undertook action against creators, sellers and users of the malware included the Netherlands, Belgium, France, Germany, UK, Finland, Austria, Estonia, Denmark, the United States, Canada, Chile, Croatia, Italy, Moldova and Switzerland.

Three co-ordination meetings were held at Eurojust prior to the action days, attended by most of the involved countries.

During the action days, a co-ordination centre was set up at Eurojust, assisting the different countries by delivering overviews of the state of play in the countries involved, as well as providing judicial assistance, if needed. Representatives of Eurojust, Europol’s EC3 and the FBI were present at the co-ordination centre.

As a further demonstration of the level of co-operation achieved by this co-ordination centre, Europol’s EC3 was present during the action days, and provided real-time analytical support. EC3 will be instrumental in the follow up, identifying victims and analysing data, Europol said.

Troels Oerting, Head of the European Cybercrime Centre (EC3) at Europol said: “This case is yet another example of the critical need for co-ordinated law enforcement operations against the growing number of cyber criminals operating on an EU and global level.

“EC3 will continue – together with Eurojust and other partners – to work tirelessly to support our partners in the fight against fraudsters and other cyber criminals who take advantage of the Internet to commit crime. The work is far from over, but our cooperation to work together across borders has increased and we are dealing with cases on an ongoing basis,” Oerting said.

Koen Hermans, Assistant to the National Member for the Netherlands, commented: “This case is a strong reminder that no one is safe while using the internet, and should serve as a warning and deterrent to those involved in the manufacture and use of this software.

“This applies not only to victims, but also to the perpetrators of criminal and malicious acts. The number of countries involved in this operation has shown the inherent value in Eurojust’s co-ordination meetings and coordination centres,” Hermans said.

The Sofia Globe - Bulgaria’s independent and genuinely quality journalism English-language news and features website. Sign up to subscribe to sofiaglobe.com's daily bulletin by using the form on the homepage of our website. Click to support our advertisers!

The Sofia Globe team can testify that upholding the globe is reminiscent of the work of Atlas.

Please support us in continuing to offer - as we set out to do when we launched in June 2012 - journalism that is truly independent and informed. All donations are gratefully received as we put in place our plans to grow in the years ahead.

The Sofia Globe provides news, features, insight and analysis about Bulgaria, Central and Eastern Europe and the wider world according to the high professional standards of independence and objectivity that we have set ourselves in our Editorial Charter. Read more about us .
