
In enforcing the Clean Water Act (CWA), the US Environmental   Protection Agency (EPA) and the US Army Corps of Engineers (COE) have  clear  jurisdiction over “[1] traditional navigable waters; [2]  interstate waters,  including interstate wetlands; [3] the territorial  seas; [and 4] impoundments  of traditional navigable waters, [and]  interstate waters, including interstate  wetlands, [and] the territorial  seas.” The further upstream a water body,  intermittent stream, or  wetland is from one of these, the less clear it becomes  that the EPA  and the COE have jurisdiction.

This lack  of clarity has resulted in lawsuits on behalf of  landowners, several of which  have ended up before the US Supreme Court.  In the 2001 and 2006 cases, justices  argued that there must a “significant nexus” between other waters and those  over which the  agencies have clear jurisdiction for the agencies to exercise   regulatory control. The purpose of the April 21, 2014 proposed rule, “Definition of ‘Waters of the United States’ Under the Clean Water Act,” is in  part to clarify what that “significant nexus” is and what waters  would fall  under the jurisdiction of the EPA and/or the COE. All  quoted material in this  article comes from the Proposed Rule.

To  accomplish this goal, the “EPA’s Office of Research and  Development prepared a  draft peer-reviewed synthesis of published  peer-reviewed scientific literature  discussing the nature of  connectivity and effects of streams and wetlands on  downstream  waters.... The draft Report provides a review and synthesis of the   scientific information pertaining to chemical, physical, and biological   connections from streams, wetlands, and open waters such as oxbow  lakes, to downstream  larger water bodies such as rivers, lakes, and  estuaries in watersheds across  the United States and the strength of  those connections.” For the EPA, the  first step is to identify the ways  in which the scientific literature makes the  connection between  upstream tributaries and adjacent wetlands and downstream  larger  waters.

“Connectivity (emphasis added) is the  degree  to which components of a system are joined, or connected, by various   transport mechanisms and is determined by the characteristics of both  the  physical landscape and the biota of the specific system. The  structure and  function of downstream waters are highly dependent on the  constituent materials  contributed by and transported through waters  located elsewhere in the  watershed. Connectivity for purposes of  interpreting the scope of ‘waters of  the United States’ under the CWA  serves to demonstrate the ‘nexus’ between  upstream water bodies and the  downstream traditional navigable water, interstate  water, or the  territorial sea.

The  proposed rule says, “the Report concludes that the  scientific literature  clearly demonstrates that streams, regardless of  their size or how frequently  they flow, strongly influence how  downstream waters function. Streams supply  most of the water in rivers,  transport sediment and organic matter, provide  habitat for many  species, and take up or change nutrients that could otherwise  impair  downstream waters.

“The Report  also concludes that wetlands and open waters in  floodplains of streams and  rivers and in riparian areas (transition  areas between terrestrial and aquatic  ecosystems) have a strong  influence on downstream waters. Such waters act as  the most effective  buffer to protect downstream waters from nonpoint source  pollution  (such as nitrogen and phosphorus) [it should be noted that much of  the  potential pollution caused by farming is nonpoint source pollution],   provide habitat for breeding fish and aquatic insects that also live in   streams, and retain floodwaters, sediment, nutrients, and contaminants  that  could otherwise negatively impact the condition or function of  downstream  waters.

“Regarding  wetlands and open waters located outside of  floodplains and riparian areas, the  Report finds that they provide many  benefits to rivers, lakes, and other  downstream waters. If the wetland  or open water has a surface or shallow  subsurface water connection to  the river network, it affects the condition of  downstream waters.

“Where the  wetland or open water is not connected to the river  network through surface or  shallow subsurface water, the type and  degree of connectivity varies  geographically, topographically, and  ecologically, such that the significance  of the connection is difficult  to generalize across the entire group of waters.

Based on  the draft report, the agencies conclude that both “tributary streams” and “adjacent waters,” as defined in the proposed  rule, “perform the requisite  functions for them to be considered ‘waters of the United States’ by rule.” In  addition, “other waters” may, in some cases, perform these requisite functions.” But the  agencies are proposing that these would be evaluated on a case-specific   basis.

Furthermore, “These chemical, physical, and biological  connections affect the integrity of  downstream traditional navigable  waters, interstate waters, and the territorial  seas through the export  of channel-forming sediment and woody debris, storage  of local  groundwater sources of baseflow for downstream waters and their   tributaries, and transport of organic matter. Wetlands and open waters  located  in riparian and floodplain areas remove and transform nutrients  such as  nitrogen and phosphorus. They provide nursery habitat for  fish, and  colonization opportunities for stream invertebrates.

All the claims , reviews and "peer" reviews were done by the Enviro-Nazi weenies in the  EPA to fit their desire to Control ALL the water in the United Sates, including that  which drips from the roof of your house in a rainstorm. Most of it has No basis in fact and DOES NOT fit the limitations of the US Constitution  limiting Governmental control to ONLY NAVIGABLE waterways.

The EPA has no authority to manage land, so they concoct a basis for "connecting" land  use to waters.  The rules are unconstitutional.      If the EPA wants to use peoples property as filters or sinks for sedimentation,  under the 5th amendment of the constitution the taxpayer will have to pay just  compensation for that privilege.
