
Print or digital subscribers please login to bypass the surveys, if you do not have a gazette.com account please visit our register page.

The Denver-based bank, owned by CoBiz Financial Inc., had considered opening a Springs branch in 2006 and again in 2008, but bank officials decided against it, citing the challenge of completing several acquisitions in 2006 and opposition from regulators to expansion during the financial crisis of 2008, said Tim Stack, who heads the bank's local operations.

That didn't stop the bank from making loans in the Springs, however, and it eventually accumulated a $30 million local portfolio even before Stack and another lender, longtime local banker Steve Ingham, began operating out of temporary offices in November.

The bank, which moved into its 4,000-square-foot office at 118 E. Pikes Peak Ave. in April, has made another $10 million in local loans since opening the temporary office, and has impressive goals for more: It hopes to grow its loan portfolio to $75 million to $100 million within two years, and $400 million to $500 million within five years.

"We made a decision to invest in space and people to come here, but we believe it has the potential to pay off, given what the community is experiencing right now," Stack said. "Colorado Springs has historically relied on real estate and the military for economic growth, and while there are big questions about military (spending), we believe there are also big opportunities."

The branch, which opened with five employees, doesn't look like a typical bank. It has no teller line or drive-through lanes, because it targets businesses and business owners, not everyday consumers. And, unlike many other local banks, it shies away from making loans on speculative development projects. The bank also can offer customers a wide array of financial services through CoBiz, including public finance, health care lending, structured finance and investment banking services, Stack said.

Colorado Business Bank isn't the only business-to-business lender in the Colorado Springs area, but its parent company is the largest in the state serving that niche. CoBiz operates 18 other branches along the Front Range and in the Phoenix area, with assets that totaled $2.85 billion as of March 31, the most recent data available. In the first quarter, the bank's earnings fell 8.8 percent from a year earlier to $5.52 million, or 13 cents a share, largely due to writing down the value of an investment in a limited partnership.

Send me a copy of this email.
