
Updated at 9 p.m.

KINGSPORT  —  The Sullivan County Sheriff's Office confirmed Monday afternoon that it is investigating a possible case of animal cruelty that was allegedly captured on video.

A criminal summons was issued for Buster Allan Jackson, 54, High Ridge Drive, Kingsport, on a single misdemeanor count of animal cruelty as a result of the investigation.

An SCSO spokeswoman said detectives were made aware of the alleged incident on Sunday after receiving a video from an unnamed source.

As a result of viewing the video, and consulting with the Sullivan County district attorney, authorities took out the summons on Jackson, who was served Monday afternoon.

Sullivan County Animal Control took possession of the animal allegedly depicted in the video, authorities said.

A short mobile phone video of the alleged incident was originally posted on Facebook over the weekend by an area resident.

The video was shared publicly between multiple profiles and garnered roughly 1,400 comments, before it was pulled from the social media site Monday.

The Sullivan County Sheriff's Office declined to release the video, citing its use as evidence in an ongoing investigation.

However, a copy of the 43-second  video was posted Sunday evening on a video streaming website and was still available Monday at 8 p.m.

In the video, a white male wearing a white T-shirt and khaki shorts can be seen grabbing a white dog with black or brown spots on its back by one of its hind legs.

The man can then be seen dragging the dog down a hill through a yard as the animal appears to struggle in an attempt to free itself from his grasp.

KINGSPORT  —  The Sullivan County Sheriff's Office confirmed Monday afternoon that it is investigating a possible case of animal cruelty that was allegedly captured on video.

A criminal summons was issued for Buster Allan Jackson, 54, High Ridge Drive, Kingsport, on a single count of animal cruelty as a result of the investigation.

An SCSO spokeswoman said detectives were made aware of the alleged incident on Sunday after receiving a video from an unnamed source.

As a result of viewing the video, and consulting with the Sullivan County district attorney, authorities took out the summons on Jackson, who was served by an SCSO detective Monday afternoon.

Sullivan County Animal Control took possession of the animal allegedly depicted in the video, authorities said.
