
Eli Sukin and Elizabeth Cantu dance before an annual walk hosted by the Angelman Syndrome Foundation at Rob Fleming Park in The Woodlands Sunday. The event raised more than $58,000 and will go toward research. To view or purchase this photo and others like it, visit HCNpics.com.

Angelman Syndrome Foundation hosts an annual walk at Rob Fleming Park in The Woodlands Sunday. The event raised more than $58,000 and will go toward research. To view or purchase this photo and others like it, visit HCNpics.com.

Angelman Syndrome Foundation hosts an annual walk at Rob Fleming Park in The Woodlands Sunday. The event raised more than 58,000 and will go toward research. To view or purchase this photo and others like it, visit HCNpics.com.

Eli Sukin and Elizabeth Cantu dance before an annual walk hosted by the Angelman Syndrome Foundation at Rob Fleming Park in The Woodlands Sunday. The event raised more than 58,000 and will go toward research. To view or purchase this photo and others like it, visit HCNpics.com.

Angelman Syndrome Foundation hosts an annual walk at Rob Fleming Park in The Woodlands Sunday. The event raised more than 58,000 and will go toward research. To view or purchase this photo and others like it, visit HCNpics.com.

Angelman Syndrome Foundation hosts an annual walk at Rob Fleming Park in The Woodlands Sunday. The event raised more than 58,000 and will go toward research. Participants released balloons before the walk to honor those with Angelman syndrome who have passed. To view or purchase this photo and others like it, visit HCNpics.com.

Over 450 people poured into Rob Fleming Park Sunday morning for this year’s annual Angelman Syndrome Foundation charity walk.

Now in its ninth year, the event has continued to grow in fundraising amounts and attendance, St. Luke’s Hospital marketing director John Nguyen said. The 5k charity walk aims to not only raise funds for the Angelman Syndrome Foundation, but also raise awareness about the genetic disorder which affects 1 in 15,000 live births.

Individuals with Angelman syndrome, dubbed “Angels” by the foundation, show symptoms such as developmental delay, lack of speech, seizures, inappropriate laughter and walking and balance disorders, according to the ASF’s website. Each year, more than 10,000 walkers and 1,500 volunteers participate in walks for ASF nationwide.

The event also honored the memory of those who have died due to complications of Angelman syndrome with a ceremonial balloon release.

Families came dressed in colorful T-shirts, proudly displaying the names and photos of friends and loved ones affected by the disorder. Among them, Ana and Wayne Woodall came out to support their 4-year-old daughter, Antonella.

At the conclusion of the walk, volunteers and supporters enjoyed a morning of live music, dancing and food. Youngsters could also have their face painted and enjoy a number of other activities.

In a short speech to attendees, organizer Debbie Sukin said the event raised more than $58,000 for the foundation along with $11,600 from corporate sponsors.

Wayne Woodall said he continues to be happy not only with the local support from Woodlands residents, but also the continued work by the ASF to raise money and awareness for the disorder.

“I don’t think there is any other national program that has this kind of fundraising power and can gather people like this every year for such a great cause,” Wayne Woodall said. “It’s a great time of year to do it and there are always great people coming out year after year.

For more information on the ASF and Angelman syndrome, visit www.angelman.org .

Posted in News on Sunday, May 18, 2014 10:10 pm.

1 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language. PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.

2 Don't Threaten. Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated.

3 Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.

4 Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.

5 Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.

6 Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness accounts, the history behind an article.

Welcome to the discussion.
