
An award-winning writer, editor, and content strategist, Fredric Paul is Editor in Chief for New Relic, Inc., and has held senior editorial positions at ReadWrite, InformationWeek, CNET, and PC World.

The Federal Communications Commission says that it wants to allow “commercially reasonable” traffic management, including allowing some companies to pay for a guaranteed level of better service. This so-called Internet fast lane is OK, the proposal reasons, as long as there’s no “blocking” or “slowing” of other services, which would retain a baseline level of acceptable service.

That might be fine as long as the practice is only used occasionally in unusual circumstances (see my January post with 3 reasons AT&T’s sponsored data plan isn’t the end of the world … I was so naive to think it would all stop there), but any honest observer knows that commercial pressures will immediately begin encouraging characters to make that “fast lane” the default—turning the baseline into the de facto slow lane.

Under that eminently predictable scenario, it won’t be long before the fast lane is the real baseline standard, and the baseline becomes the slow lane. Because let’s face it - this all a matter of semantics. If you have a fast lane, pretty much by definition you also have a slow lane. And simply calling the slow lane the baseline doesn’t make it go any faster.

Wheeler may not be a rocket scientist either, but he can’t really believe that his proposal wouldn’t result in exactly that situation in the real world. His proposal comes off as little more than a cynical ploy to recast the debate from slow lanes to fast lanes, but perhaps Wheeler is caught in the wheels of much larger market and political forces.

After all, he’s also proposing to look into classifying broadband as a “common carrier service,” like phone service providers, subject to a wide variety of regulations designed to ensure fair and universal service.

I thought so.

Sign up and receive the latest news, reviews and trends on your favorite technology topics.
