
Meet Shamma Al Bastaki and Hayat Al Hassan, the first Emirati students to win a major honour at the world’s largest science fair. The duo discovered a new way to save water by more than 50 per cent using hydrophobic sand for agriculture.

Shamma and Hayat were placed second worldwide in the environmental sciences category, earning them global recognition and a cash prize of $1,500 at this year’s Intel International Science and Engineering Fair (Intel Isef) hosted in Los Angeles.

“Our generation has the potential to create an amazing future and I want to be part of this future which will be created by us,” Shamma told Khaleej Times.

With more than 1,700 finalists from 70 countries participating, Intel Isef honours the world’s most promising student entrepreneurs, innovators and scientists. The finalists are selected annually from hundreds of affiliated fairs and their projects evaluated by more than 1,200 judges from nearly every scientific discipline.

The Society for Science & the Public, a nonprofit membership organisation dedicated to public engagement in scientific research and education, has owned and administered the competition since its inception in 1950 as the National Science Fair.

A group of 16 students from the UAE were sent to Intel Isef this year by the Emirates Foundation. They were selected by a scientific committee which evaluated projects presented at the Emirates Foundation Think Science Competition in April.

Nathan Han, 15, of Boston was awarded first place for developing a machine learning software tool to study mutations of a gene linked to breast cancer. Using data from publicly available databases, Nathan examined detailed characteristics of multiple mutations of a BRCA1 tumor suppressor gene in order to “teach” his software to differentiate between mutations that cause disease and those that do not. His tool exhibits an 81 per cent accuracy rate and could be used to more accurately identify cancer threats from BRCA1 gene mutations. Nathan received the Gordon E. Moore Award of $75,000, named in honour of the Intel co-founder and fellow scientist.

Lennart Kleinwort, 15, of Germany developed a new mathematical tool for smartphones and tablets. It brings capabilities to handheld devices that previously required more sophisticated and expensive computing tools. His app allows users to draw curves, lines and geometric figures on the touch screen and watch the system render them into shapes and equations that can then be manipulated at will. He received one of the two Intel Foundation Young Scientist Awards of $50,000.
