
Welcome Back!

Thanks for being a frequent visitor to globegazette.com . You have now viewed of your FREE premium pages this 30-day period. After you have viewed FREE pages, we will ask you to purchase a subscription.

As community leaders, the Cerro Gordo County Department of Public Health understands the impact of healthy initiatives and appreciates community members who support, endorse and enact healthy behaviors.

Through assessments of multi-unit housing in the county, we've been pleasantly surprised at the response of property managers and their tenants to become smoke free.

Smoke Free Homes is a free program offered through the Iowa Department of Public Health providing assistance to property managers and tenants in efforts to provide a healthier, safer living alternative for families.

Iowa's multi-unit property owners can enjoy the benefits of happier tenants, lower cleaning costs, shorter turnover time and potentially decreased insurance premiums by joining the Smoke Free Homes program.

Tenants can utilize the search registry at www.Smoke-FreeHomes.Iowa.gov to narrow their search for multi-unit rentals that are smoke-free.

By living in a smoke-free location, tenants are protecting the health of their family by decreasing exposure to second- and third-hand smoke.

Cerro Gordo County currently has nine smoke-free properties registered and many more in the process. Two of these properties are assisted-living facilities.

Additional resources are available through the program, such as a guidebook for property managers, sample surveys and free signage when property qualifies for the registry.

Becoming a smoke-free property is a win-win deal for everyone involved. Working with the registered multi-unit properties has been a positive experience. They serve as great role models for other multi-unit owners.

Copyright 2014 Mason City Globe Gazette. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Keep it clean. Avoid language that is obscene, vulgar, lewd or sexually-oriented. If you can't control yourself, don't post it.

Don't threaten to hurt or kill anyone.

Be truthful.Don't lie about anyone or anything.

Be nice. No racism, sexism or any other sort of -ism that degrades another person. PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK, and forgive people their spelling errors.

Let us know if it's getting out of hand. If you see offensive comments, don't quote or respond to them. Please use the "Report Abuse" button to bring it to our attention.

Stay focused, and ask questions. Keep on the story's topic.

Hint: Enter a keyword that you are looking for like tires, pizza or doctors or browse the full business directory .

Login here with a previously connected Facebook account.

Username & Password Required!
