
KRUPANJ --  Serbian President Tomislav Nikolić on Monday visited Krupanj, a municipality in western Serbia that has been hard-hit by floods which also killed one resident.

Krupanj is where the situation is the most difficult, because it is now cut off, and residents need all types of assistance, Nikolić told reporters after visiting parts of the municipality where villages have been devastated by the torrential floods.

"A great tragedy has befallen the residents of Krupanj, but they are not alone, and no one in Serbia is alone today," the president said, adding that the government will send the first aid convoy urgently.

The village roads destroyed by landslides and mudslides must be rebuilt first, but homesteads must be provided with the machinery needed for agricultural production, he said.

The condition of agricultural crops must be assessed, especially raspberry plantations, Nikolić said, adding that raspberries are the only source of income for the people living in the area.

The state will help all residents of the local Zmajevac neighborhood to build new homes, but they need to decide whether they want to stay in a settlement situated in a riverbed that has been destroyed by the floods as a result, he said.

"We intended to implement measures aimed at economic recovery but now we are carrying out measures to rescue the population," Nikolić said, urging citizens and businesspeople to help those in danger.

Faced with the floods, Serbia has shown courage, and now, after lives have been saved and people evacuated, a different kind of humaneness and solidarity is needed, he stressed.

The Serbian president said that experts will assess the damage caused by the floods and that a list of priorities will be made for rebuilding and aid for those in danger.

Few countries in the world have been hit by a disaster such as this one, Nikolić said, adding that he expects large amounts of aid to arrive from all over the world.

The floods killed one person in Krupanj, destroying 200 homes and endangering another 500, with 600 people evacuated.

The deluge completely devastated villages, destroying bridges and access roads, and rescue teams arrived as many as three days later as a result.

Nikolić visited Krupanj with his wife Dragica Nikolić, who heads a charity foundation, his son Radomir Nikolić, and Minister of Labor and Employment Aleksandar Vulin.

"Dissatisfied"

Earlier in the day, Nikolić's adviser Stanislava Pak Stanković said that people in Krupanj were "dissatisfied, and rightly so," and that the emergency HQ there had not been up to the task.

"There have been casualties in Krupanj, the material damage is huge," she told reporters in this underdeveloped municipality in western Serbia that, along with Obrenovac, suffered the most in the floods.

"The citizens are dissatisfied, and rightly so, and they are not holding back in showing their dissatisfaction," Pak Stanković told Beta.

OBRENOVAC -- Prime Minister Aleksandar Vučić told foreign reporters on Monday that 13 dead bodies have been found so far in the town of Obrenovac near Belgrade.

BELGRADE -- Defense Minister Bratislav Gašić has thanked Austria's government for quickly deploying personnel that helped evacuate people from flooded areas in Serbia.

ŠABAC, OBRENOVAC -- Local authorities in the town of Šabac, in western Serbia, on Monday announced that two more people had lost their lives in the floods.

BELGRADE --  Serbia can count on EUR 1 billion worth of aid from the European Union Solidarity Fund in dealing with the long-term consequences of the catastrophic floods.

BELGRADE -- Serbian President Tomislav Nikolić on Monday sent a convoy of humanitarian aid to the places in Serbia most affected by the severe flooding.

BELGRADE -- The first part of a humanitarian aid shipment sent by the United Nations arrived in Belgrade late last night, the Ministry of the Interior (MUP) said.

MOSCOW, BELGRADE -- Russia has sent a relief cargo to Serbia hit by heavy floods, a spokesperson for the Russian Emergency Situations Ministry has told Itar-Tass.

Belgrade, Moscow -- A helicopter of the EU mission in Kosovo, EULEX, sent to assist in rescue efforts in flood-hit Serbia landed in Belgrade on Sunday.

BELGRADE -- The bodies of 12 flood victims have been recovered in the town of Obrenovac, but it is feared the number of those who perished in higher, says Aleksandar Vučić.

BELGRADE -- Serbia has been affected by "millennial waters" PM Aleksandar Vučić said on Sunday as he chaired an emergency HQ set up to deal with the catastrophic floods.

BELGRADE -- People cannot return to their homes in Obrenovac because there are still no conditions for that, while the rumors about the number of victims are false.

BELGRADE -- The intense fight to save lives continued on Saturday, as the situation is the most critical in the completely flooded Belgrade municipality of Obrenovac.

BELGRADE -- Ivica Dačić has said that Serbia now above all needs assistance in equipment, along with rescue teams to save the affected towns and their residents.

BELGRADE -- The flood-hit areas of Obrenovac and Barič near Belgrade, Sremska Mitrovica in the north and Krupanj and Šabac in western Serbia remain the most critical.

BELGRADE -- Foreign Minister Ivica Dačić on Saturday expressed his gratitude "to all the countries and the EU" for the help they provided to the flood-stricken Serbia.

BELGRADE, ŠABAC -- The bodies of those who perished in the flood in Obrenovac are being recovered on Saturday, MUP Emergency Sector chief Predrag Marić has said.

BELGRADE -- Prime Minister Aleksandar Vučić late on Friday described the situation in Serbia, struck by severe flooding, as "catastrophic."

MOSCOW -- Russian Emergency Situations Minister Vladimir Puchkov has announced that his country had launched a large-scale humanitarian operation to help Serbia.

BELGRADE -- More than 7,618 people have been evacuated in Serbia in the past two days as the country battles severe flooding, the Interior Ministry has announced.

B92 is an environmentally responsible organisation.
