
After two days on royal duty in Italy, Prince Harry turned tourist to take in one of Rome's most historic sights.

Sightseers were stunned to see the fourth-in-line to the throne wandering around the Colosseum dressed casually in a pale blue checked shirt and jeans.

The royal,  29, arrived for a tour of the amphitheatre, where gladiators once  fought to the death, paying for his own ticket and that of his staff.

Harry, famous for his love revelry, asked guide Barbara Nazaro if the spectacular monument 'was also open at night?'

They  watched amazed as Harry stood a few yards from them, listening to the  guide tell the gruesome history of the 2000 year old amphitheatre where  Rome's rulers watched animal hunts, reenactments of sea battles  alongside crowds of more than 50,000.

Mrs  Quenneville, who was on holiday with her husband Phil, 47, and daughter  Alysha, 21, and son Andrew, 23, added: 'I am all jittery now.'

Alysha, a student, said: 'It was crazy. It was unbelievable. Better than the Colosseum.'

Hundreds  of tourists looking down from the higher galleries, trained their  cameras on the royal visitor, cheered and shouted his name.

The  day before the prince had been mobbed by gangs of teenage girls waving  Union flags as he visited a contemporary art gallery in the capital.

Aides said the visit, described as a semi-official part of the Prince's visit to Italy, came out at the Prince's request.

'He wanted to do some tourism,' said one. 'He wanted to come and see some of the sights.'

The  relaxing evening came after the prince had spent a solemn day paying a  moving tribute to the veterans of a "forgotten campaign" of World War Two.

Harry praised the courage of the men who fought in the Battle of Monte Cassino as he visited the scene of the fighting on the second day of his tour of Italy.

The  serving Army officer, in military dress, was given a guided a tour of  the site and paid his respects to the fallen as part of commemoration  events marking its 70th anniversary.

Allied  soldiers had stormed Nazi positions near Rome again and again across  steep open ground in terrible weather conditions, knowing they or their  friends would very likely be killed.

The  Prince said their efforts deserved every recognition despite the  battle, which claimed the lives of more than 50,000 Allied soldiers  before they captured the strategically important Monte Cassino hilltop,  being known as the "forgotten campaign".

Harry  said: 'This has always been referred to as the forgotten  campaign - to me it makes no sense at all. Those guys in there are as  important as everybody else. They're still soldiers, a lot of them now  don't really want to talk about it - a lot of them are more than willing  to talk about it.'

The  29-year-old spoke to a number of veterans and said he was touched by  their stories - some of which had an element of humour despite the  horrific circumstances.

Harry said: 'Listening to some of the  stories and banter amongst them, German soldiers and British veterans  here together having a laugh, I think it's amazing.'

The young royal said he kept envisioning the area as it once was during his tour.

'The one thing  that I keep getting reminded about is it's fine for everyone to be here  and to see the ground the way that it's laid out, but actually from a  military point of view... you see all this vegetation trees, walls,  buildings everything - none of that was around then,' she explained.

'So  these guys  were being asked, directed to walk through open ground knowing they were  going to lose most of their friends and probably themselves as well -  so this deserves as much recognition as everything else. This was a huge  ask and to do it for four or five months - I mean up and down, up and down (Monte Cassino).

'So I take my hat off (to  them). I'm so privileged to be here on this spot, on this ground, to  share the last couple of days not only with the Brits but the New  Zealanders and the Polish as well, and everybody else who has taken  part.'

Harry  spoke about the veterans after spending more than an hour chatting to  them at a reception in a nearby hotel following the open-air service at a  Cassino war cemetery where hundreds of servicemen were laid to rest.

The  Battle of Monte Cassino was a crucial campaign that saw Allied forces  launch four major attacks in 1944 to destroy Nazi forces holding a  strategically important rocky outcrop, home to the 1,400 year-old  Benedictine monastery of Monte Cassino. After fighting their way north  the Allies' progress to Rome was frustrated by the enemy forces at the  elevated location.

The  fighting force consisted of many nations from Americans and British, to  Indians, Poles, Canadians, French from North Africa, Indians, Gurkhas  and New Zealanders but all had to contend with icy mountain terrain,  mines and constant bombardments from the Nazi forces. Progress was slow  and the conflict claimed many lives, becoming the bloodiest battle in  Europe.

Controversially  the monastery was heavily bombed and destroyed in a bid to make a  breakthrough but the move failed and the holy site was later rebuilt.

During  his visit, the prince laid a wreath of poppies in memory of the British  and Commonwealth forces who fought and died in one of the bloodiest  battles of the Second World War. In a handwritten note on the wreath he  had written: 'In memory of all those who paid the ultimate sacrifice for  our country. Thank you. Harry'

Tens  of thousands of men fought and died to take the strategically important  monastery of Monte Cassino, which towers above the cemetery in southern  Italy.

The Venerable Jonathan Boardman, Archdeacon for Italy and Malta, welcomed the congregation and told them: 'Today is rather a nice day but there is still snow on the top of the mountain.

'It still reminds us that this country, which most people think of as a place of sun and warmth and friendship, also saw the worst in human beings, the worst bitterness in human conflict - much death and much suffering as well as rainy weather.'

Around the congregation were the white headstones of thousands of Commonwealth soldiers who had died fighting to take Monte Cassino.

During the open-air service hymns were sung, and a minute's silence was observed after a bugler had sounded the Last Post.

Prince Harry, 29, arrived in Rome over the weekend to a rapturous reception. Scores of men, woman and children lined the streets waving Union flags keen for a glimpse of the young royal.

Harry visited the famous Monte Cassino and was given a guided tour by Father Antonio Potenza, the Abbott's secretary.

As he walked into an exhibition chronicling the destruction of the holy site he saw a huge black and white image of its ruins and said: 'Unbelievable - they knocked the whole thing down.'

The 6th century monastery was rebuilt after the war and was restored to the original plans. Today, Monte Cassino is a working place of worship and continues to house the surviving relics of Saint Benedict.

During the tour Harry paused to view a manicured rose garden - before crowds burst into a spontaneous rendition of the British national anthem. Later he was taken to a balcony to view the spectacular surrounding countryside.

Harry also attended a reception in the monastery for injured Italian servicemen and women who will be taking part in his Invictus Games, a paralympic-style competition for wounded military which will be staged in September.

One of the service women he met was Colonel Monica Contratta in the Fusiliers, who told Harry how she lost her leg in Gulistan, Afghanistan, in 2012 under mortar fire when insurgents attacked the base.

She was saved by a colleague who dragged her to a bunker but was hit in the intestine, hand and femur artery.

The servicewoman has a prosthetic leg and her hand was rebuilt using a bone from her thigh.

She learnt to walk again after seven months and now runs 100 metres with a blade prosthetic.

She told Harry: 'I am a bionic woman.'

When he asked: 'How fast do you run the hundred metres,' she replied: 'I can't tell you.'

He said: 'It's a secret? Then we've got real competition.'

Good lad. He is a credit to the UK and his family.

The comments below have not been moderated.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
