
Oyo State police command yesterday, paraded a gang of  highway  robbers who allegedly robbed a woman of her Toyota Camry car at gun point  in Ajah area of Lagos. The suspects were later intercepted along Lagos/Ibadan expressway. They were said to have carried  the woman from Ajah and dropped  her on the Third Mainland Bridge before escaping to Ibadan.

The State Commissioner of Police, Mohammed Indabawa while briefing journalists yesterday, said a federal highway patrol team led by Inspector Ihedoro Emmanuel, intercepted the stolen  car marked DL 550 BEN with four occupants.

“As the patrol team was trying to interrogate the occupants of the vehicle, three of the occupants jumped out of the car and escaped into the bush in different directions, while the driver of the said car identified as Semiu (28) was arrested, “ he said, adding that the  unrelenting effort of the policemen led to the arrest of one of the fleeing suspects identified as Daniel (27) at Orita Challenge area of Ibadan.

He said effort is on to get other suspects arrested.

One of the suspects, Semiu, while speaking with Daily Sun, confessed to the crime, adding that he  drove the gang anytime they snatched cars, adding  that the vehicle was snatched from a woman in Ajah area of Lagos.

His co-suspect , Daniel also confessed to the crime, saying that immediately the car was snatched from the woman they drove her in the vehicle and dropped  her on Third Mainland Bridge and gave her N400 transport fare.

He stated  that he  escaped into the bush with two others when police stopped them but was arrested later in Ibadan, where they had gone to meet with a buyer of the vehicle identified as Sola.

Daniel  said the gang had successfully snatched four vehicles from their owners at gun point.

Also paraded was Uche (surnamed withheld) alleged to be  a member of another gang of  robbers arrested along Ogbomosho/Ilorin Road while in action.

He stated his gang had placed  two sharp irons on the expressway to trap unsuspecting motorists passing along the road.

Start receiving  Breaking News & Alerts by simply adding your email below. A confirmation email will be sent to you!

Take advantage of our impressive statistics, advertise your brands and products on this site.
