
We were all 14-years-old once and we remember those days with fond memories. All of us remember our carefree attitude towards life where the biggest worry in the world would be the result of our math test. I, like most 14-year-olds, would wake up for school, get ready and would be shovelling breakfast down my throat while the driver waited in the driveway.

Take a moment to remember those memories.

Turn the same page to October 2012, but in the life of Malala Yousafzai. She was just a student on her way to school in the battle ridden valleys of the once pristine Swat. Terrorists stepped onto the bus, asked her to identify herself  and then shot her  with the intent of killing her. Everything else that followed is history.

Now, let’s fast forward to 2014. A reputed and well-recognised advertising agency from India, Ogilvy and Mather, decides to use this incident in an advertisement . It portrays an effigy of the poor girl being shot, loosing blood, falling through time on a mattress, ‘bouncing back’ to life and receiving an award for her gallantry.

The world that we live in today is clearly a sad and sadistic one. There is no doubt that people are aggrieved about the fact that there were and are many similar or even more disturbing attacks on our youth that have gone unnoticed. Families of her fellow students are  still stuck in the melodrama  that was once their lives pre-attack. So why is all the attention, locally and internationally, being given to one Pakistani victim. This is a never ending debate between those who support and those who oppose Malala. The issue at hand with this advert, however, is much deeper and thought provoking.

These may well be some of the most trying times that the people of Pakistan have seen since its birth. Today, fighting terrorism has become a way of life for the people of this great nation. Every fragment of my being is furious and downright insulted by the brainchild behind this irresponsible, unethical and morally disdainful advert.

I have to come to terms with the fact that an Indian advertising firm finds it ‘creative’ to advertise terrorism. I have to come to terms with the notion that it is acceptable to badger a little Pakistani girl who is internationally recognised for having  advocated education for women . I have to realise that it is entertaining for these gurus in their tiny cubicles to show images of a girl being shot in the face. I have to understand that advertising has the right to choose, no matter what the content.

In today’s world of mass communication, let’s not forget how easy it is for people from all walks of life to access such demeaning adverts. Forget the people who are seeing this advertisement across the Atlantic or the ones on the 78th floor of some building in Manhattan, for a moment, picture yourself as kith and kin of this child. Her face will never be the same again; she has to live with a scar that is a constant reminder of that fateful day for the rest of her life. Let’s not forget that she is a child who probably likes playing monopoly or checkers, yet she has taken the responsibility upon herself to stand up against the atrocities in her region. She has represented this issue prevailing in Pakistan on numerous forums,  not only at the United Nations but globally .

Sarcasm cannot be limitless and without bounds, especially in the face of such a heinous crime. Terrorism is not welcome in any corner of this world, so how is it that a Pakistani citizen, and a child at that, can be disgraced internationally in such a mortifying fashion.

I cannot fathom what the culprits of this monstrous assault must have thought when they saw the advert. Terrorism thrives on such cheap publicity and Mr Carton needs to understand that a simple apology is not the solution to this muddle made by his firm.

In entirety, it is a shame that  such advertisements  will continue to cross our eyes day in and day out. It is dishonourable to think so little about the tragedy that struck a fellow human being, let alone a 14-year-old girl.

We are progressing as a human race on so many levels, yet we stoop to such dismal ethical levels that we forget that children will always be children. All of them have dreams and all of them love laughter but we choose to teach them about sadness and make them doubt themselves in this world, all due to the dreadful, acerbic and unpleasant choices made by us adults.

This blog is one of the very few I’ve read on the internet on this particular issue which is voicing an “opinion”. For those who found the advert creative need to understand that mass communication has boundaries to follow. This advert hurts sentiments associated with a “Pakistani Child”, especially a 16 year old.

I don’t think that ET is making a mountain out of a mole hill as suggested in one of the comments and this other comment where the person says that there’s “victim hood embedded” in a statement – well guess what! Pakistani’s are done being victims of cheap publicity stunts, that too on an international figure who represents your country. Good or bad, Malala is a Pakistani and this obnoxious advert is sickening.

Well done ET (though this came a little late from your end, but it’s a valuable post where the “opinion” is valued).

Unless otherwise stated, all content is copyrighted © 2014 The Express Tribune News Network.
