
"He had on a tee shirt and jeans," Sidney Overway told KTVU, as she recounted finding the body of a young Latino man crumpled at the bottom of a 100 foot rock. Overway was hiking the fire trail below about 2:30 Sunday afternoon.

"I kind of took a trail up past the rock, and noticed a body lying in the bushes, and it wasn't responsive," said Overway.

She called 911 and waited for U.C. Berkeley Police to arrive.

"It doesn't look like it's been here for very long, no decomposition or anything," UCPD Lt. Eric Tejada told KTVU as police taped off the scenic turn-out above the boulder.

It appeared the victim parked his Honda Civic at the overlook on Sunday, and hiked down alone to climb the rock, and then slipped.

It's not the first fatal climbing accident here. In November 2012, a man in his mid-twenties plunged from the same outcropping and died.

He was with friends, who told police they had all been drinking.

"That time, we had witnesses who saw the person go up the rock and fall off," added Lt. Tejada, "but this time, we don't have witnesses so we treat it as an unattended death, like a crime scene."

As crime scene investigators examined the body and collected evidence to rule out foul play, word spread among sightseers who come to Grizzly Peak Road to soak up the "top-of-the world" views of the East Bay and beyond. It's a photographer's dream, but the edge can be deceptively steep.

"One wrong step," Vallejo visitor Bryce Williams observed. "And you got to get the best picture from the edge, that's the best."

Cal senior Victoria Parenti said she has seen people venture over the side and into the ravine, looking for a better shot.

"My friends wanted to take pictures, and I was like, I'll take the picture from up here, you guys can go down," said Parenti, "to me it's not worth the risk."

As evening came, the body was put on an all-terrain vehicle and driven up the fire road to the coroner's van.

"I'm very sad for him," said Overway, as she left the scene, still shaken by her discovery.

Overway lives in the Berkeley Hills and knows the trails well, and says she has never climbed that particular rock. But she knows people do, because it's covered with graffiti.

"It's really steep and dangerous, and it's got so much painting on it, it's slippery," she noted, sadly.

His car was towed from the overlook, a stop that turned unintentionally deadly.

Thank you for registering!

We have sent you a confirmation email. Please check your email and click on the link to activate your account.

Thank you for registering!

We look forward to seeing you frequently. Visit us and sign in to update your profile, receive the latest news and keep up to date with mobile alerts.

Don't worry, it happens. We'll send you a link to create a new password.

We have sent you an email with a link to change your password.

We've sent an email with instructions to create a new password. Your existing password has not been changed.

To sign in you must verify your email address. Fill out the form below and we'll send you an email to verify.

Check your email for a link to verify your email address.
