
May is Mental Health Month, a time when mental-health organizations focus on raising awareness about mental health, mental-health recovery and mental-health advocacy.

The Mental Health Association of Lebanon County has participated in these efforts since 1954, when the first mental health week was established in Lebanon County.

This year, as the MHA goes through a period of transition, the board of directors voted to renew the MHA's commitment to the community. The board president was asked to put our commitment in writing and share our message with the community. Today's column is the first step in sharing that message.

The MHA has been working hard over six decades to engage and collaborate with the community about mental illness and wellness. Engagement and collaboration are important to us, because we want to actively, rather than passively, relate to our community members and partners. The desire to engage drives us to participate in, become involved in, and share in what matters to our community. The intent to collaborate leads us to listen, dialogue and exchange ideas. We cannot engage if we simply observe or criticize from a distance. We cannot collaborate if we develop plans in isolation and just "do our own thing."

So, the MHA board is renewing its commitment to community engagement and collaboration.

The MHA has entered into a strategic planning process to set a direction to take us where we need to be in the next 1-3 years to best serve the community through education, advocacy and support regarding mental wellness and recovery from mental illness. A core commitment in this process is to engage and collaborate with the community throughout the process.

The leadership of the MHA is arranging meetings with community members and partners over the next few months to gather feedback that will help us to assess the community's needs, as well as share what they believe is working and what is not working with the services the MHA is currently providing.

As the new president of the board of directors of the MHA, I am excited to be engaging and collaborating with you. I am looking forward to joining, partnering and talking with you around shared concerns about the mental-health needs of our community. I am confident that if we combine our shared concerns with shared ideas and shared efforts, we can achieve greater understanding of mental wellness and mental illness, improved mental-health services, and increased mental-health supports for our community, family, friends and neighbors.  Please join me in partnership.

As Mental Health Month starts to wind down, I encourage you to make a commitment to assess your mental health and make the lifestyle changes necessary to maintain and improve your mental health. Your mental health is essential to a healthy and productive life.
