
By using this website, you consent to our use of cookies. For more information on cookies see our Cookie Policy .

Percentages for leading European candidates as reflected in today’s Irish Times/MRBI poll.

Minister for Communications Pat Rabbitte has insisted he does not believe the electorate will “forsake” the Government parties in this week’s local and European elections.

Mr Rabbitte was speaking in Tallaght this morning following the publication of political opinion polls in The Irish Times and elsewhere which predict a poor showing for the Labour Party.

“In 2011 we got more than 19 per cent of the vote; 81 per cent of people didn’t vote for us but we’re taking 81 per cent of the criticism,” he said. If all the people who criticise Labour had voted for the party it would have two overall majorities, he added.

Labour cabinet colleague Minister for Social Protection Joan Burton said it was still “all to play for” despite challenging polls for her party. The party’s advantage was that it had people in the field who voters will recognise on Friday, she said.

Her party colleague Minister for Education Ruairi Quinn said Labour was “in the hunt for” the last seat in “two out of the three” constituencies. The commentary on polls was “misleading” because it was “virtually impossible” to predict the three seats in a three seat constituency with such a large number of candidates, he said.

Tánaiste Eamon Gilmore has said there will be a “straightforward fight between Emer Costello and Fianna Fáil” for the third and final seat in the Dublin constituency in the European election.

The Fianna Fáil candidate is Mary Fitzpatrick. Polls predict Sinn Féin’s Lynn Boylan and Brian Hayes of Fine Gael will take seats, with the Green Party’s Eamon Ryan also in contention for the third seat.

Mr Gilmore said an interesting feature of recent opinion polls was that a very large number of people had not yet decided how to vote on Friday.

“With one third of the people yet to make up their minds how they’re going to vote we will certainly be drawing to people’s attention the choice that they face on Friday,” he said.

Mr Gilmore said he believed the Labour Party had always been “transfer friendly”.

The low support for the Labour Party and the strong prospects for Sinn Féin shown in today’s Irish Times Ipsos/MRBI poll is reflected into two other polls published today.

With voting in the local and European elections due on Friday, a Red C poll for The Irish Sun today puts Labour at 8 per cent, 11 percentage points below its 2011 General Election showing of 19 per cent.

The Irish Sun poll also reflects the increase in support for Sinn Féin which is up 10 percentage points on the 2011 General Election result to 20 per cent.

The party’s support is up two percentage points since the last Red C poll on May 4th.

Mr Rabbitte said the Government had a plan for economic recovery while Fianna Fáil had “wrecked” the economy and Sinn Féin would do the same, if given the chance.

“I don’t think that the people will forsake the Government,” he said.

Mr Rabbitte said he understood why people were running out of patience having endured a long recession.

“There are other parties out there who have a soundbite for everything but they don’t have a plan for anything,” he said.

We reserve the right to remove any content at any time from this Community, including without limitation if it violates the Community Standards . We ask that you report content that you in good faith believe violates the above rules by clicking the Flag link next to the offending comment or by filling out this form . New comments are only accepted for 3 days from the date of publication.
