
A big turnout of registrants was reported during the launch of the Commission on Elections (Comelec) walking event “Walkah Walkah: Step Juan Tungo sa Mulat na Botante,” to drum up public awareness and support for new voters’ registration and validation of registered voters’ biometrics for the 2016 national elections. The poll body expects three million new voters to sign up. Apart from processing new voters’ applications, Comelec will do validation, transfer, and deactivation in the registration period.

Comelec embarked on early voter education this year and called on the public not to wait until the last minute to avoid long queues and delays. Launching activities included clinics in which local Comelec officials lectured on biometrics and the automated fingerprint identification system. The campaign also targets indigenous people and persons with disabilities, the sectors that commonly have low number of registrations.

Walkah-Walkah will traverse the length of Luzon to promote voter’s education. The Comelec team started the walk on May 6, 2014, in Laoag, Ilocos Norte, and is expected to reach the poll body’s main office in Intramuros on June 1. After two weeks, it will again walk from Rizal Park in Manila to Matnog, Sorsogon. The project will end on October 31, 2015. At major stop in a city or municipality, the team holds lectures and a voter education clinic, gives away materials, and urges voters to validate their registration.

Comelec will register voters who do not yet have their biometrics data recorded. It will reactivate the registration of those who failed to vote consecutively in the past two elections. It will register new voters who will turn 18 years old on or before the May 9, 2016, elections.

Some 9.6 million of 53 million registered voters whose biometrics data have yet to be recorded by Comelec may be disqualified to vote in the 2016 polls if they failed to undergo biometric registration before November 1, 2015. Under Republic Act 10367 enacted on February 15, 2013, all voters must undergo the biometrics procedure of registration which will record their digital photographs, fingerprints, and signatures. The aim is to curb multiple registration and multiple voting.

Overseas Filipino workers (OFWs) are also urged to register under the overseas absentee voting scheme. Records showed there are 12 million OFWs but Comelec said that only 700,000 of them are registered, as of the 2013 polls. For the 2016 elections, the Comelec is targeting to register one million overseas Filipinos.

It is the right and duty of every qualified voter to exercise the right of suffrage. The Commission on Elections’ project serves as platform to reach them directly and encourage them to register and take part in the elections. Register and vote!

Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
