
"We make every effort to see that our actions live up to our words and be vigilant with regards to our behavior."

A thirty-year old Mohamed Sesay who was formerly a resident of 46c City Road, Metchem at Kissy Mess Mess on Friday hung himself to death from a Mango Tree at the Kuntoloh Community.

His reason was as a result of frustration caused by unemployment.

The deceased who was a father of two children was found hanging from a Mango tree in the early hours of Saturday, after several attempts were made by the community people the previous day, for him to climb down the tree.

According to an eyewitness, who was also a friend and former boss of the deceased, Osman Kabba, he was from a Zuhr Prayer at around 2:00pm when he was alerted by the wife of the deceased, that his husband was up the tree and had refused to climb down threatening to hang himself.

It was on his arrival at the scene that he recognized the deceased and equally encouraged him to climb down but the deceased insisted that he wanted to die as he had a lot of problems that he could not solve, as a result of unemployment.

The eye-witness told Awoko that the deceased was in recent times working as a driver in one of the beverage companies, G. Shankadas but was sacked from the job.

It was confirmed by some community people that they dispatched some youths to forcefully pull the deceased down but anytime they climbed the tree, he climbed higher. “One man even offered him money and promised to find him a job but he refused to climb down, and we also lit tires under the tree hoping that the smoke could suffocate him but he could not climb down until night when we left for our houses” Osman explained.

It was also revealed that the deceased had initially climbed a roof at Metchem but his aunt succeeded in threatening him down before he left to visit his wife in the Kuntoloh community, where he climbed the tree while strolling down a sloppy road together with his wife and children.

Speaking to journalists at the scene, the Local Unit Commander of the Kissy Police Division, Alie Curtis Koroma expressed dissatisfaction over the negligence of the community people to alert the police immediately they noticed the man in the tree.

L.U.C Koroma told journalists that information about the incident only reached the police station at around 6:00am on Saturday when he together with some police offers walked to the scene and saw the deceased hanging naked in the Mango tree in the Community.

He argued that it was as a result of the negligence of the community people including the chief to alert the police in time that the youngman lost his life. He encouraged the community people to be vigilant and always alert the police.

However, Chief Alimamy Kanu II, a tribal head in the Kuntoloh Community told Awoko that he immediately alerted the Kissy Police Division about the incident at the very moment on Friday when he was informed.

Chief Kanu explained that he was preparing to visit a hospital when a woman rushed to him, saying that a man has climbed one of the Mango trees in the community and was threatening to hang himself because he was unemployed and had a lot of problems unsolved.

“I immediately accompanied the woman to the police who obtained statement from her and I even offered the police Five Thousand Leones when they grumbled of transportation to get to the scene” he alleged.

According to him, it was when two police officers were dispatched to the scene that he continued his journey to the hospital as he was not well over the past weeks.

On his return, he met the police on their way back to the station who told him that they together with the community people had done all they could to get the deceased down the tree but he refused for which they took snapshots of him and left the scene.

The body was pulled down by some youths in the community with the supervision of the Local Unit Commander and later carried to the mortuary.

Awoko Newspaper Copyright © 2010-2011. All rights reserved.
