
Get Inquisitr's daily viral news by e-mail and never miss the internet's hottest stories!

Nigeria continues to make headlines today as traditional Nigerian hunters gather together to help find the nearly 300 girls who were abducted by Islamic extremists .

The Nigerian hunters are ready for the task at hand, and they are armed and highly skilled. The hunters arm themselves with homemade guns, poisoned spears, and amulets. They also have other materials wrapped in leather pouches, and they even use cowrie shells, animal teeth and leather bracelets to protect them from bullets. The hunters believe they have supernatural skills that will aid them in finding the abducted girls, and they were each specially selected by their peers due to their supernatural skill.

Before beginning their mission, the hunters showed off their skills to an Associated Press reporter. Using cow horn trumpets for war cries, the reporter witnessed the men twirling knives and swords skillfully while cutting themselves without harm. The hunters believe that their magic charms prevent blood from being drawn from them.

In total, there is about 500 Nigerian hunters joining the search for the girls. The age of the hunters ranges from 18 to 80 years old. The hunters have been waiting for two weeks in Maiduguri, the Borno state capital so they can aid the military in their search.

Citizens of Nigeria feel their government and military haven’t been doing enough to find the abducted girls. The Nigerian hunters believe they can influence the success of the search.

U.S aircraft and drones with cameras are also helping in the search for the girls, in addition to other military teams from America, Britain, France, Spain and Israel.

Hopefully, the Nigerian government will make use of the skills of the Nigerian hunters because they need all the help they can get to find the abducted girls.

Join Us!

Get Inquisitr's daily viral news by e-mail and never miss the internet's hottest stories!
