
Police have issued CCTV stills after a man and woman shoplifted more than £1,300 worth of clothes in two days.

The thieves targeted two branches of River Island in the Merseyway Precinct in Stockport and George Street, Altrincham.

On Monday, May 12, they walked into the Stockport outlet, filled a foil-lined bag with items worth £600 and left.

The following day they stole £740 of clothes from the Altrincham store.

In both cases a man opened up a holdall and a woman placed the goods inside.

Officers have now issued security images of two people wanted in connection with the thefts.

PC Geoff Donley, said: “These two are very organised and commit their thefts in a very efficient way so as not to arouse suspicion from staff.

“They are in and out in a matter of moments with the sole intention of stealing as many clothes as possible.

Anyone with information should call police on 0161 856 7530, or Crimestoppers, anonymously, on 0800 555 111.

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

The Manchester Evening News and www.manchestereveningnews.co.uk conform to the newspaper industry's voluntary Code of Practice, administered by the Press Complaints Commission.

If you feel we have made an error in a report, or have fallen below our usual high standards, please write in the first instance to: Rob Irvine, editor, Manchester Evening News, Mitchell Henry House, Hollinwood Avenue, Chadderton, Oldham OL9 8EP.

M.E.N. Media is one of the north west’s largest media providers and reaches 7 out of 10 people in Greater Manchester every week.

Online, manchestereveningnews.co.uk welcomes 2.4million unique users who experience12.4million page views every month.

Our newspapers include the flagship Manchester Evening News - Britain's largest circulating regional daily with up to 130,485 copies - as well as 20 local weekly titles across Greater Manchester, Cheshire and Lancashire.

Free morning newspaper, The Metro, published every weekday, is also part of our portfolio, delivering more than 200,000 readers in Greater Manchester.

Greater Manchester Business Week is the region’s number one provider of business news andfeatures, targeting a bespoke business audience with 12,687 copies every Thursday.

Every month, M.E.N. Media’s print products reach 2.2 million adults, spanning from Accrington in the north to Macclesfield in the south.

Rob Irvine was appointed editor-in-chief of MEN Media and Trinity Mirror Huddersfield in April 2012.

Rob joined Trinity Mirror in 2001 and was editor of the Daily Post North Wales for seven years. He was also publishing director for Trinity Mirror North Wales and Cheshire.

He grew up in Stockport, Greater Manchester and has worked in the local newspaper industry for 27 years.
