
We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. By continuing to browse our site, you are giving your consent for us to set cookies.

However, if you would like to, you can change your cookie settings at any time. Read our cookie policy .

[MANILA] Nights are getting hotter and scientists are sweating over the possibility that rice yields may fall as a result.

Decreasing rice  harvests  mean higher prices. That would be a scary scenario in Asia where rice is considered not only a basic food staple but also a political commodity.  Shortages of the commodity in 2007-2008 angered consumers across the region and caused some governments to wobble.

A 35-year climate trending by the International Rice Research Institute (IRRI) under its Long-Term Continuous Cropping Experiment shows a “clear trend” that night temperatures are increasing while day temperatures are less consistent.

“The night temperature has now increased to a critical threshold of 23 degrees Celsius, above which there can be a penalty of reduced yield,” Buresh tells SciDev.Net in an interview.

Centeno participated in  an earlier  study  of weather data at IRRI’s rice farm from 1979 to 2003, which found that during the dry  cropping  season (January to April), grain yield declined by 10 per cent for a one-degree Celsius increase of night temperature above 23 degrees Celsius in the growing season.

That study — which showed that mean night temperature increased by 1.13 degrees Celsius in the 25-year period — provided direct evidence of decreased rice yields from increased nighttime temperature associated with global warming .

“Definitely, global warming is upon us,” William Padolina, president of the Philippines’ National Academy of Science and Technology, tells SciDev.Net.

This means we should breed varieties that are tolerant to high temperatures and drought, “and that’s the goal not just for rice but for all crops”, Padolina says.

This article has been produced by SciDev.Net's South-East Asia & Pacific desk.

We welcome comments that advance the story through relevant opinion, anecdotes, links and data. If you see a comment that you believe is irrelevant or inappropriate, you can flag it to our editors by using the report abuse links. Views expressed in the comments do not represent those of the Thomson Reuters Foundation. For more information see our Acceptable Use Policy .
