
If you have tried to keep up with the changing stories surrounding the same-sex marriage issue and the voter ID legislation, you’ve found your hands full. Sometimes it seems as if the stories change hourly.

One thing hasn’t changed, though: Tuesday is Arkansas’ day for party primaries and nonpartisan judicial elections.

Among contested races at the state level are governor (on Democratic and Republican primary ballots) and lieutenant governor, attorney general and auditor of state (on the Republican ballot). Those who live in congressional District 4 will see a contested race on the Republican ballot. Depending on where voters live, they also may see contested races for state House and Senate seats. The House District 75 Republican face-off between Mat Pitsch and Bobby Altes has been especially contentious.

In the nonpartisan judicial elections, which are on both Democratic and Republican ballots and available by themselves for those who do not wish to vote in the partisan primaries, there are many contested seats for judges and prosecuting attorneys. In Sebastian County, there is a contested race between Paul Post and Leigh Zuerker for the circuit judge position that handles juvenile cases.

No matter how tired of political ads you may be already, it remains important to vote in this primary. Some races will be close, and, as always, if you don’t vote and wrong candidates gets elected, you have no one to blame but yourself.

Voting in this election is different from previous votes because it is the first time statewide voters will need to show a photo ID. Before you head to the polls, make sure you know the rules.

Valid forms of ID include an Arkansas driver’s license, a U.S. passport, a student ID from an accredited Arkansas college, a military ID, a state or federal ID badge and a concealed carry permit. If the ID has an expiration date, it cannot have expired more than four years before the election in which you are voting.

Those who don’t have one of these IDs can contact their county clerk to get a free ID card. Be aware that you can’t just walk in the clerk’s office with empty hands and get a card. You will need some form of documentation with your full legal name and date of birth, like an original birth certificate, a school transcript or paycheck stub, and documentation of your address, like a utility bill or W-2.

Those who do not show up at the polls with a photo ID will be allowed to vote a provisional ballot that would be counted when ID is presented after the election.

But you don’t want to vote a provisional ballot, and you don’t want to see your friends and relatives vote one either.

Take some time today to make sure you have what you need to make your vote count on Election Day. You may think it’s “only” a primary, but the judicial results will be final, and so will primary results if the spot is uncontested in the general election.

It may seem like a chore, but it’s one we should be glad to do in exchange for the privilege of living in a democracy.

Yes, I would like to receive SWTR NewsBreak (afternoon).

Yes, I would like to receive SWTR Football Insider.
