
Share This Story!

Stoneledge at North Canyon and PulteGroup's La Solana to open this summer.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

A rendering of Stoneledge at North Canyon, which is part of Canyon Crossroads and will feature 250 homes in a gated community.

One can't help but notice the pattern of house lots outlined on the slope of a hill as motorists travel Interstate 17 in north Phoenix.

Meritage Homes Corp.'s  newest subdivision, Stoneledge at North Canyon, is projected to have model homes finished by late July. It's south of Carefree Highway and north of North Valley Parkway, and west of 27th Drive, against a hill that developers say will offer stunning views.

"It's so visible, people say, 'What's that?' " said Michael IIesCremieux, Meritage Homes regional vice president for land acquisition. "You can see where the roads will be, where all the houses will be."

Stoneledge and PulteGroup's La Solana are part of two new subdivisions underway south of Carefree Highway and north of Dove Valley Road in Phoenix Council District 2.  City Planning and Development Department officials say nearly 1,600 rooftops are zoned for the area.

After the Great Recession, much of the area's growth was spurred by mall developer Westcor and infrastructure improvements undertaken by the city. Macerich Westcor connected Dove Valley Road westward to I-17. Phoenix completed the 7-mile stretch of road east to Cave Creek Road in 2013.

"Having been a part of the planning process since the beginning, it's great to see the city's long-term vision for the area continue to take shape," said Rob Bassett of Macerich development. "We are certainly looking forward to the residential developments, bringing more density to the area."

Westcor also sold a portion of the property to John C. Lincoln Health Network, which opened the Sonoran Health and Emergency Center, 33423 N. 32nd Ave., in December.

"The John C. Lincoln Sonoran Health and Emergency Center was planned and built to serve the growing north Phoenix area," said Scottsdale Lincoln Health Network spokeswoman Kaitlan Schick. "From the time the center opened, it was clear that the community welcomed this facility and the services it provides. We are pleased to be a part of this dynamic area and look forward to serving our neighbors."

The network plans to build a 120-bed hospital on the site. The hospital and added medical office buildings will be developed at a later time to be determined by developments in the area's economy and population growth, according to Health Network officials.

The two subdivisions near the clinic are the Canyon Crossroads planned community and the Schneider Trust area.

City officials said Canyon Crossroads is zoned for 1,025 residential units in a mix of multifamily and attached townhouse/patio homes. The Schneider Trust land is zoned for 558 residential lots.

Stoneledge is part of Canyon Crossroads and will feature 250 homes in a gated community. It will offer four models for its grand opening in late July, IIes-Cremieux said.

PulteGroup Inc. is building La Solana along North Valley Parkway and Dove Valley Road. Pulte is developing 109 home sites and plans to offer four new furnished models in June, said Jacque Petroulakis,  a company spokeswoman.

Petroulakis said La Solana will feature many of Pulte's new "life tested" home designs.

"These designs reflect home plans developed directly from input and ideas from actual homeowners and homebuyers," she said. "Here in the Valley, we built physical prototypes of home designs, had people walk through them and provide feedback to make them even better. Some of the features specifically are super laundry, everyday entry, a place to drop off keys, bags ... oversized pantry."

The location offers quick access to I-17, nearby restaurants and shopping, and outdoor recreation at Lake Pleasant, she added.

Meritage Homes' IIesCremieux said there are plenty of used homes but not new homes in north Phoenix.

The company bought the property on the side of the hill for $13.7 million, he said, and it will cost an additional $9 million to develop.

Unlike much of the Valley's flat terrain, Stoneledge is rising on the side of a hill, with prized views near the top.

"You are at a pretty high elevation," IIesCremieux said. "You can see the city lights to the south at night and the sunset to the west."
