
Sign in with your TWC ID to access our video clips.

install Adobe Flash 9 or above. Install now .

Then come back here and refresh the page.

RALEIGH-- Recently filed legislation could reduce the backlog of cases at the State Crime Lab by giving workers an incentive to stick around. The bill would provide crime lab employees with a ten percent salary increase.

State Crime Lab Director Judge Joe John said more evidence continues piling up and forensic scientists are struggling to get through the case load because low pay  is causing high turnover.

The crime lab lost 56 scientists since 2010.

"Fifty-six scientists is essentially half of our work force,” described John. “28 of them leaving for better pay says one thing very clearly, the state of North Carolina isn't paying enough."

John said there's little incentive to stick around when workers can get better salaries in neighboring states. The vacancies have scientists working around the clock.

"Over the past four fiscal years, we've averaged 38,000 case submissions coming into the laboratory," explained John. “It's over 5,000 hours of overtime done, worked by the current staff. That's not a satisfactory solution."

Bill co-sponsor Rick Glazier believes the bill providing a ten-percent salary increase to about 150 scientists would help.

"I think it would be a great signal to the scientific personal who are thinking of leaving of leaving for Virginia or Tennessee or Georgia or any other lab, that we understand the problem and are trying to fix it," said Glazier, a democratic representative from Cumberland County.

The recommended pay raise for the crime lab scientists is more than any salary increase the governor recommended in his budget proposal which includes a $1,000 salary and benefits increase for all state employees, larger pay increases for some highway patrol officers, magistrates and clerks and also raises starting teacher pay by about seven percent to $33,000 a year.

"We've got a real crisis that's been identified for several years and now it is almost  epidemic at the crime lab. and if we just try to do small things, its not going to change," Glazier said.

Considering you can't try a case without the evidence, John believes his scientists are the backbone of the criminal justice system and wants to see them get relief.

"These are folks that deserve a break."

Nearly a million dollars of state funds would be used to foot the bill for the salary increases. If the bill passes, the raises would take affect on July 1.

© 1999-2014 Time Warner Cable Enterprises LLC. All Rights Reserved.
