
BHUBANESWAR: Kalahandi  Congress Lok Sabha (LS) nominee Bhakta Das failed to see the writing on the wall. Going by what the villagers, living near Niyamgiri Hill at Lanjigarh, had told the Times of India team nearly a month ago, the message was loud and clear.

The villagers had said, without naming anybody, that local leaders used or rather misused Niyamgiri, Vedanta Aluminium Limited (VAL) wanted to mine, to gain political mileage. But they overlooked the basic needs of thousands of tribals living in the foothills.

Bhakta won the 2009 elections at a time when Niyamgiri was the burning issue. He cashed in on the ant-VAL sentiment of tribals, projecting himself as the savior.

In the interim, Bhakta remained aloof from the people, said a villager. "Niyamgiri is not the lone issue. Many villages, including mine, are shorn of development. Vehicles struggle to negotiate 'kuccha' roads, There are no hospitals worth the name. Education has taken a back seat due to lack of schools," said  Satyabadi Gouda of Tadijhola village during TOI's visit in April. Bhakta, who had started anti-VAL campaign in the last elections, won with an impressive margin. In August 2010 Congress vice president Rahul Gandhi called himself a 'sipahi' in New Delhi for tribals in the fight against mining. He was addressing a public meeting at Jagannathpur in Lanjigarh. In 2008, he had been to Ijurpa village, where tribals expressed their woes. Rahul then promised to be with them till Niyamgiri was secure. Bhakta, basking in central leaders' glory, lost the plot, said a poll pundit.

Outgoing Union rural development minister Jairam Ramesh visited Jamguda in 2013 and granted tribal villagers rights over bamboo under Forest Rights Act (FRA) 2006. UPA chairperson Sonia Gandhi also flew down to Khariar to play tribal card. And Bhakta took the tribals for granted and hoped poll victory would be cakewalk, but it was not to be, said a Congress insider.

"When 2014 elections were knocking, the Niyamgiri Hill was already 'secure' following  Supreme Court order to hold gram sabha to decide fate of the sacred hill. The gram sabhas dashed the VAL hope of mining bauxite from the hill. Although Bhakta claimed to have been instrumental behind the success, he failed to address other major concerns of the tribals like bread and butter," said an expert.

Bhakta's decline was so swift that he finish third. Arka Keshari Deo of BJD won the seat bagging 3,70,871 votes.
