
On Saturday, Mr. Venu Srinivasan, Chairman of TVS Motor Company was conferred an Honorary Doctorate of Management degree by Purdue University, USA during spring commencement ceremonies at Purdue’s West Lafayette campus. This was in recognition of his contributions in the field of management. Mr. Venu Srinivasan was present for a photo op with Purdue President and Former Governor of Indiana Mr.Mitchell Daniel.

An engineer with a master’s degree in management from Purdue, Venu Srinivasan has been awarded the Padma Shri for his contribution in the field of trade and industry. He is a recipient of the civilian honor ‘Order of Diplomatic Service Merit’ (Heung-In Medal) conferred by the president of Republic of Korea, His Excellency Lee Myung-bak, in recognition of his contribution in promoting Korea-India bilateral relations.

The Indian Institute of Technology has conferred upon him with a “Doctor of Science”. His work in manufacturing, R&D, technology and quality excellence saw him recieve a “Doctor of Science” by the University of Warwick. The Ishikawa-Kano award was presented by the Asian Network of Quality (apex body for quality in Asia,which covers 18 countries including Japan, China, India, Korea, and Thailand).

He’s also a JRD Tata Corporate Leadership Award recipient from All India Management Association for his contribution to leadership and management, and the Jamsetji Tata Lifetime Achievement Award by the Indian Society for Quality.

While being Honorary Consul General of the Republic of Korea, Chennai, India, and member of the Prime Minister’s Council in Trade and Industry, he’s also a member of both the Prime Minister’s Scientific Advisory Council and the National Manufacturing Competitiveness Council. The chairman of the National Safety Council, Government of India, he is also president of the Confederation of Indian Industries (CII). Under his leadership, Sundaram Clayton Limited and TVS Motor Company were awarded the Deming Prize by the Union of Japanese Scientists and Engineers (JUSE).

Enter your email-address below to signup for receiving weekly and breaking stories newsletter in your inbox.
