
A SUICIDE prevention centre in Limerick  is ensuring the legacy of teenager Donal Walsh will live on by dedicating two rooms in his name.

Console suicide prevention and bereavement centre in Raheen has opened two special rooms in honour of the Kerry teenager, who passed away from cancer just over a  year ago.

Donal had strong links to Limerick as his father Fionnbar is a native of Knocklong so the dedication is an appropriate one and Console are aiming to further enshrine the inspirational teen’s message to young people not to take their own lives.

“We have created two rooms specially designed so that children and teenagers in distress can feel safe and where they can get immediate professional help, counselling and support,” said Console CEO Paul Kelly of the rooms, which were funded by the Donal Walsh LiveLife fund.

Donal’s mother Elma thanked the community in Limerick for their fundraising efforts to the fund, which has created a room for both teens and children in Console’s Raheen facility.

“The money to refurbish these rooms was raised in Limerick and it’s great to be able to use it for such a worthwhile facility,” she said.

“We raise funds specifically for facilities for teenagers, and we hope to open more Donal’s Rooms in Console’s Galway centre soon.

“We’ve got fantastic support from the local community and I’d like to thank everyone who took part in the great Limerick run, Olive Foley who sold Munster rugby jerseys and all the schools who helped raise funds,” added Elma.

The Console centre at 114 The Grange, Raheen, provides a broad range of community-based supports, services and resources for those affected by, or at risk of suicide.

Centre manager Emer O’Neill said the rooms, which have only just opened, are already “proving a great success in helping troubled teenagers and children to open up to counsellors”.

Create your own advertisement or send someone a special message.

© 2014 Johnston Publishing Ltd.

Limerick Leader provides news, events and sport features from the Limerick area. For the best up to date information relating to Limerick and the surrounding areas visit us at Limerick Leader regularly or bookmark this page.

For you to enjoy all the features of this website Limerick Leader requires permission to use cookies.

Cookies are small data files which are sent to your browser (Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome etc) from a website you visit. They are stored on your electronic device.

This is a type of cookie which is collected by Adobe Flash media player (it is also called a Local Shared Object) - a piece of software you may already have on your electronic device to help you watch online videos and listen to podcasts.

Yes there are a number of options available, you can set your browser either to reject all cookies, to allow only "trusted" sites to set them, or to only accept them from the site you are currently on.

However, please note - if you block/delete all cookies, some features of our websites, such as remembering your login details, or the site branding for your local newspaper may not function as a result.

A tool used by some of our advertisers to target adverts to you based on pages you have visited in the past. To opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

Our sites contain advertising from Google; these use cookies to ensure you get adverts relevant to you. You can tailor the type of ads you receive by visiting here or to opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

This is used to help us identify unique visitors to our websites. This data is anonymous and we cannot use this to uniquely identify individuals and their usage of the sites.

This comes from our ad serving technology and is used to track how many times you have seen a particular ad on our sites, so that you don't just see one advert but an even spread. This information is not used by us for any other type of audience recording or monitoring.

ComScore monitor and externally verify our site traffic data for use within the advertising industry. Any data collected is anonymous statistical data and cannot be traced back to an individual.

Our Classified websites (Photos, Motors, Jobs and Property Today) use cookies to ensure you get the correct local newspaper branding and content when you visit them. These cookies store no personally identifiable information.

We use Grapeshot as a contextual targeting technology, allowing us to create custom groups of stories outside out of our usual site navigation. Grapeshot stores the categories of story you have been exposed to. Their privacy policy and opt out option can be accessed here.

Our partner for Newspaper subscriptions online stores data from the forms you complete in these to increase the usability of the site and enhance user experience.

Add This provides the social networking widget found in many of our pages. This widget gives you the tools to bookmark our websites, blog, share, tweet and email our content to a friend.
