
CEBU, Philippines - After the usufruct contract between the Land Transportation Office-7 and the Mandaue City government expired early this year, the licensing center in Barangay Looc will probably be transferred to LTO-Motor Vehicle Inspection Center in Barangay Subangdaku.

"LTO is not amenable to renew the contract as it might be tainted with political implications," said LTO-7 regional director Arnel Tancinco.

The lot occupied by LTO-Licensing Center is owed by the Mandaue City government.

Tancinco said he has until the end of the month to make a report to their head office about the possible transfer, then their head office will submit this report to the Department of Transportation and Communications for final approval.

The current licensing office has been a subject of criticism among the transacting public, especially when it rains and the surrounding gets muddy and full of potholes.

"Mao sad gyud ni ang problema kay lapok kaayo nang dapita labi na mag-uwan," said Tancinco, adding this will also be included in his report.

Tancinco further said he was also informed of a directive that they cannot transfer their office to any mall amid the popular trend involving government agencies holding offices inside malls for more convenience. He did not, however, mention the reason for the prohibition.

Meanwhile, LTO will probe motorcycle dealers who are reportedly selling brand new units that are allegedly "having problems and are taking long to be registered."

Tancinco said LTO assistant secretary Alfonso Tan will initiate the investigation as this problem was not only raised by some customers in Cebu but on a nationwide scale.

"Daku na man ning problemaha. Si Tan na ang mo imbestigar ani," said Tancinco.

Tancinco cited, for instance, that he did not allow yet the registration of ten units of motorcycle of a dealer here due to lack of documents, including certificate of payments from the Bureau of Customs.

Tancinco added that more than a thousand units of motorcycle from the said dealer could not also be registered yet in Manila.

He said aside from motorcycle dealers, LTO will also investigate auto dealers to get into the bottomlime of this problem.

"Iyaha (Tan) ning tuki-on og ngano ni," said Tancinco. He added that in view of this mounting problem, the Chamber of Automotive Manufacturers of the Philippines and the Motorcycle Dealers Association of the Philippines will have a dialogue with LTO officials probably next week in Manila.

Tan was in Cebu last Friday for the unveiling of new license plates.

Rady Abbarientos, officer-in-charge of the Assessment Division of the BOC-Port of Cebu, said as a matter of procedure, units of motorcycle, automobile or any other vehicle being sold should have already CP from BOC.
