
The same union that sent out emails attacking Marin Clean Energy in March has launched a political hit piece against San Rafael Councilman Damon Connolly, MCE's chairman of the board and a candidate for county supervisor in the June 3 election.

MCE is a public agency founded in 2010 to reduce greenhouse gas production by boosting the use of renewable energy sources. It competes with the investor-owned Pacific Gas and Electric Co. as a retailer of electricity.

The mailer — put out by the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 1245, which represents PG&E's electrical workers — faults Connolly for MCE's use of power purchased from Shell Energy of North America. The mailer asserts that "the power his agency provides has dramatically more greenhouse gas emissions than the power it replaced." The mailer claims that the "power mix before Shell Oil" was 50 percent emission free while the "new Shell Oil power" is 23 percent emission free.

But Hunter Stern, a spokesman for the union, declined Monday to explain how the union came up with these numbers. The email blast the union sent out in March contained a link to a PG&E-backed organization that has waged a campaign against MCE, and other publicly owned providers of retail electricity, in the past. PG&E, however, disavowed any involvement with the email.

The union used different numbers in the email. In that letter, the union wrote, "the old energy mix Shell replaced was 62 percent emission-free."

On Monday, Stern offered no explanation for the discrepancy. The email cited the California Energy Commission as its source of information, and Stern said Monday that the energy commission was also a primary source for the numbers used in the mailer.

But regarding those numbers, Albert Lundeen, a spokesman for the energy commission, said, "I don't know what they're referring to."

Dawn Weisz, Marin Clean Energy's executive officer, said, "The metrics in that flyer are not based on any type of regulatory or voluntary metrics that exist that we're aware of. The numbers seem to be fabricated or at least not based on the actual utility market, regulatory environment."

Reacting to the mailer, Connolly said, "Those numbers have been discredited. In fact, the California Energy Commission numbers reported for Marin Clean Energy are that the power sources are 60 percent emission free while PG&E's power sources are 51 percent emission free."

Measured another way, MCE's aggregate portfolio emission factor in 2012 was 373 pounds of greenhouse gas per megawatt hour compared to PG&E's emission factor of 445 pounds of greenhouse gas per megawatt hour.

The gap between MCE and PG&E is much larger when it comes to renewable energy sources because PG&E's nuclear and large hydroelectric power sources don't qualify under state law as renewable. Currently, 50 percent of MCE's energy comes from renewable sources, while renewable sources account for 20 percent of PG&E energy.

The email that the union put out in March urged recipients to support a bill pending in Sacramento, AB 2145, that would make it virtually impossible for Marin Clean Energy, and other so-called community choice aggregators that compete with PG&E as retailers of electricity, to secure new customers.

Interest in community choice aggregation is growing. MCE currently serves all of Marin and the city of Richmond, some 124,000 customers, and the county of Napa and the cities of Albany and San Pablo have asked permission to join.

Stern said the union sent out about 6,500 copies of the mailer to Marin residents likely to vote in the June 3 election at a cost of about $7,500. Asked why the union mounted the effort, Stern said, "Just to let people know who Damon Connolly is and what he has done as board president of Marin Clean Energy."

But Connolly's opponent in the supervisorial race, Supervisor Susan Adams, is also a supporter of MCE. Adams denounced the mailer.

"One of the issues Damon and I have shared in common has been our support for Marin Clean Energy, which brings clean energy to thousands of homes in Marin," Adams said. "As a consequence of this misleading and inflammatory mailer, I have refused the endorsement and any donations from IBEW 1245."

Connolly said he doubts that he was the main target of the mailer.

"I believe it is an effort to attack the Marin Clean Energy program," he said. "We certainly don't need these kinds of deceitful campaign tactics in our local political campaigns."
