
NDP of Ontario Leader Andrea Horwath walks with NDP York West Candidate Tom Rakocevic after a media event at Nina D'Aversa Bakery in Toronto on Monday May 19, 2014.

As many Ontario residents relaxed this Victoria Day weekend, politicians were hard at work on the campaign trail.

1. If elected, the New Democrats promise $60 million annually would help protect schools on the chopping block in the province, said NDP Leader Andrea Horwath on Saturday.

The annual funding would help maintain and renovate schools so they could continue to operate, while allowing non-profit and community groups to take advantage of unused space, said Horwath.

PC Deputy Leader Christine Elliott questioned the feasibility of the plan.

2. Meanwhile, the Liberals ridiculed the NDP leader’s expense reports, which included muffins, taxi rides and a $0.25 parking fee.

“In another blow to her credibility, Andrea Horwath has been caught billing taxpayers for thousands of dollars in personal expenses all while pretending that she didn’t,” the Liberals said in a release Saturday.

Horwath defended her actions, saying she spends a lot of time travelling and has no choice to expense items she normally wouldn’t.

3. PC Leader Tim Hudak joined Horwath in calling for a judicial inquiry into the controversial cancellation of two Toronto-area gas plants.

But the Liberals say Hudak has a “reckless agenda,” which includes new powers for the Minister of Energy and/or municipalities to cancel projects and retroactively revoke approvals, and will cost the province up to $20 billion.

4. Ontario PCs released a new ad online Saturday with a message of hope.

Hudak took a jab against the Liberals and their negative approach.

“In this campaign you’ll see a PC party not saying what’s wrong with the other guys, what’s wrong with their party — we’re going to be talking about what’s right with our plan, our vision for Ontario,” said Hudak.

Ontario Liberal Party Leader Kathleen Wynne denied that she’s running a negative campaign.

Voters head to the polls June 12.

We encourage all readers to share their views on our articles and blog posts. We are committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion, so we ask you to avoid personal attacks, and please keep your comments relevant and respectful. If you encounter a comment that is abusive, click the "X" in the upper right corner of the comment box to report spam or abuse. We are using Facebook commenting. Visit our FAQ page for more information.
