
The chairman of Malawi’s Electoral Commission (MEC) says the electoral body is fully prepared to administer the country’s first tripartite elections scheduled for Tuesday.

Over 7 million prospective Malawian voters registered to vote in the presidential, legislative and local elections.

Justice Maxon Mbendera says ballot papers and other materials needed for the election have been distributed nationwide in readiness for the elections. He vowed the vote will be transparent, and credible that would meet international standards.

Mbendera called on Malawians to come out in large numbers to choose their leaders in an election he promises would be free and fair adding that the vote would be better than previously held elections in the Southern African country.

According to Malawi’s electoral law, there would be no run-off.

The MEC compiled a new voters list that would be used for the elections. But some opposition and civil society groups expressed concern about inaccuracies in the list, which they said could undermine the credibility of the vote.  Mbendera disagreed. He urged Malawians to repose confidence in the electoral body’s ability to organize a transparent vote.

Mbendera says the MEC is working with all political parties to address their concerns in the run up to the vote. He also says the electoral body has implemented measures to resolve electoral disputes.

“We have a complaint handling unit at the headquarters, but in the district we have what we call the Multiparty Liaison Committees. They are supposed to deal with any issues of complaints that arise at that level. If they are not able to decide, then they will refer them to us,” said Mbendera.

The MEC invited both local and international poll observers to monitor the general election.

Some of the poll observers include the African Union, the European Union, the Commonwealth, the Southern African Development Community (SADC), and the SADC Parliamentary Forum, according to Mbendera.

“The diplomatic missions that are in Malawi are also invited to observe these elections,” he said.

This forum has been closed.

Your JavaScript is turned off or you have an old version of Adobe's Flash Player. Get the latest Flash player .

Jewish people from across Europe and Russia have been immigrating to Argentina for hundreds of years. They brought with them dance music that was eventually mixed with Argentine tango. The result is Yiddish tango -- a fusion of melodies and cultural experiences that is still evolving today.  Elizabeth Lee reports on how one band is bringing Yiddish tango to Los Angeles.
