
The shooting happened at S.W. 2nd Ave. and Ash.

Police said the man’s injuries were not life-threatening.

Police said there were lots of witnesses, but no suspect description was available.

I know the answer. More guns. Had there been a 'good guy with a gun' someone else could have been shot. Let us celebrate our guns.

Whoa, the 'gang unit' is involved? Does that mean that all the arrested (with accompanying long felony records) will get 3 days in jail, instead of the usual 3 hours?Â  That has to be sending shockwaves of terror through the whole gangsta' community. Way to come down hard, Portland!

Well, this was inevitable. Â It was just a matter of time that we had one downtown. Â After all the shootings on the east side...they're bringing their crap downtown.

Yay! I figured we couldn't get through a weekend without a gang shooting.

"Police said there were lots of witnesses, but no suspect description was available."

That is typical of gang bangers.

@MellowOne Â It also covers the psychiatric help you require.

@swede999 Â  Well, the cops all had guns and apparently they wasted all the witnesses after they provided their worthless statements, so I guess you're right.

@Carjax Â Portland has become a cesspool so this isn't a surprise.

@MellowOne Â  @Carjax Â True...parts of Portland have become a mess..especially along SW 3rd ave and along W. Burnside. Â The City needs to get a handle on this mess or it's just going to get progressively worse. Â There are new faces of travelers/road warriors every week down there and it's getting out of hand. Â In regards to the gang shooting issues...with all of the clubs on the east side getting shut down due to all of the shootings, they will make their way downtown. Â The clubs downtown need to start patting patrons down and using a wand....I know this won't help out with a shooting outside (since the can just go to their car afterward) Â but it's a start. Â Some do this now, most don't.

@tullyB Â  @Carjax Â Actually they didn't...Lil' John or Lil' Wayne..not sure which one it was, had a concert downtown last night at the Roseland...plenty of police presence during the show. Â This incident happened between 215 to 230, well after the concert and were still a heavy presence. Â Officers were only a block away at 3rd and Ankeny when the shots rang out. Â Response was quick. Â In a situation like this..it's chaos with everyone running and no one usually talks to the police who are directly involved because they are afraid of someone getting back at them. Â There were a couple of witnesses who actually came forward last night.

Portland,

Copyright © 2014 Sinclair Interactive Media, LLC; a member of Sinclair Broadcast Group, Inc.
