
Konstantin Grishin / ReutersCrimean Tatars and local residents lighting candles during a memorial ceremony marking the 70th anniversary of the Soviet deportation. About 40% of the Tatars forced to leave Crimea in 1944 died due to disease or hunger.

Several hundred people marched in Kiev on Sunday to commemorate the brutal deportation 70 years ago of Crimea's entire population of Tatars.

Many Tatars later returned to Crimea. They strongly supported the new Ukrainian government and opposed Russia's annexation of the peninsula in March.

While the Kiev rally proceeded without incident, the new Kremlin-backed leaders of Crimea banned Sunday's main rally in the Crimean capital, Simferopol. Some Tatars instead gathered near a mosque on the city's outskirts.

In May 1944, shortly after Soviet troops drove German forces from Crimea, Stalin accused the Tatars of collaborating with the enemy and ordered their deportation. About 250,000 Tatars were shipped in freight trains to Central Asia, where more than 40 percent died of hunger and disease.

Any comment deemed non-constructive, personal attacks, spam and abuse will not be tolerated and will lead to you being banned from our website.

Russia's Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said Monday Russia had told Ukraine it intends to send another humanitarian aid convoy.

Chechen leader Ramzan Kadyrov has been inducted into Russia's biggest black-leather clad biker gang, the 'Night Wolves.'

Russian diplomats say they have been excluded from an upcoming summit of NATO member countries in Wales, Kommersant reported Monday, citing an unidentified diplomatic source.

Russia's space agency, Roscosmos, has launched an independent investigation into the cause of Friday's botched launch of two brand-new European navigation satellites aboard a Soyuz rocket.

A fiscal rule that prevents Russia from raising government spending reflects "old realities" and should be relaxed, Russian Economic Development Minister Alexei Ulyukayev said in an article published Monday.

Tsars, revolutions, two World Wars and the Soviet Union — if you're interested in Russia's rich history, these are the websites to explore.

Residents of Moscow's Taganka district woke up Wednesday morning to find a Ukrainian flag attached to the Soviet star on the spire of one of the area's iconic Stalin buildings.

Hollywood star Vin Diesel has challenged Russian President Vladimir Putin to pour a bucket of ice cubes over his head, as part of a global action to raise awareness for a degenerative motor neuron disease.

Two brides wed in Moscow earlier this month, with teeth-grinding authorities unable to prevent it despite a ban on same-sex marriage — because one of the brides was a man.

A children's fashion show in Moscow triggered outrage among bloggers after the show, titled "Children of the World Against War," depicted a child dressed up as Ukraine holding a gun to her head.
