
Posted: Monday, May 19, 2014 7:03 pm | Updated: 7:15 pm, Mon May 19, 2014.

In Catoosa County, there are two contested races for commissioner seats and no contested seats in the school board election.

In the Board of Commissioners race, incumbent Bobby Winters from District 2 is running against Fred Loyd. Incumbent Dewayne Hill from District 4 is running against Ray Johnson. All candidates are Republican, which means Tuesday’s races will decide who serves.

The Catoosa County school board race is non-partisan and has two seats up for election: Jane Everett’s seat in District 2 and David Moeller’s seat in District 4. Everett is not seeking re-election. For school board District 2, Jack Simms is running uncontested, while for District 4 Moeller is running uncontested.

In Walker County, there are no local contested races. Two incumbents are seeking re-election to the Walker County Board of Education, but both are uncontested.

But Tuesday’s ballots will offer Walker voters something special: a chance to voice opinions on books and beverages. In addition to picking from state and federal candidates for placement on the November ballot, voters will find two local referendum items that each require a simple “yes” or “no” answer.

While the referendum related to library funding is concerned with distributing tax money from a property tax, the liquor by the drink referendum is about collecting revenue from sales taxes and licensing fees — and attracting new businesses.

As things now stand the sale of fermented alcoholic beverages such as wines and beers is allowed throughout the county. The referendum would only apply to sales in the unincorporated areas of the county.

The fate of these referendums will be decided by during the primary. If approved, they become effective immediately. If the distilled spirits measure fails, it could be revisited in one year. There is no time stipulation for the property tax initiative for library funding.

· Georgia Senate District 53 race: This district includes all of Catoosa, Walker and Dade counties and most of Chattooga County. For state Senate District 53, longtime incumbent Jeff Mullis, a Republican from Chickamauga, is facing challenger Tom Dooley of Ringgold.

· Georgia House District 1 race: This district includes all of Dade County and the western part of Walker County. First-term incumbent John Deffenbaugh, a Republican, faces Robert Goff and Alan Painter. The winner will face Democrat Thomas McMahan in the general election on Nov. 4.

· Georgia House District 2 race: This district includes the southern precincts of Walker County, from Rock Spring south and east to Armuchee Valley, as well as three precincts in southern Catoosa County and three precincts in western Whitfield County. Short-term incumbent Steve Tarvin, a Republican from Chickamauga, faces two challengers, Ebeth Edwards and Rebecca Ann Brown.
