
Terre Hill Mayor Bob Rissler stands in front of the recently closed Terre Hill Grill, which he bought at auction and plans to reopen in June as the Terre Hill Family Restaurant.

Nancy Marx, Jessie Rissler and Courtney Good will be on the staff of the Terre Hill Family Restaurant, which is scheduled to open in June.

This is how the Terre Hill restaurant bought by Bob Rissler looked in 1976.

Posted: Monday, May 19, 2014 5:35 pm | Updated: 4:29 pm, Tue Jul 8, 2014.

Owning a restaurant wasn’t on Terre Hill Mayor Bob Rissler’s bucket list.

But to revive a former town hub and prevent it from being torn down or converted into housing, Rissler stepped in and paid up.

“The restaurant is important to our town. It’s a gathering place for residents and visitors,” he said.

Rissler placed the winning $300,000 bid at a recent auction of the 213 E. Main St. property, topping one other bidder.

The business was sold by Joe Dempsey, who had closed the business, operating as the Terre Hill Grill, on March 5.

The restaurant has seating for 130, a full-service kitchen with all commercial appliances, an 8-by8-foot walk-in cooler, a pantry, an office and a second-floor banquet room.

A two-story, three-bedroom house and apartment also are part of the property.

With a new name — Terre Hill Family Restaurant — and new management, Rissler hopes to return the eatery to the social hub of the community.

The restaurant, which dates to the 1940s, originally was the M&G Cutrate, a drug store with a soda bar.

Over the years it also operated as the Terre Hill Restaurant & Cut Rate, Del’s Family Restaurant and, most recently, the Terre Hill Grill.

Marx brings nine years of food industry experience to venture.

Also on the management team are Jessie Rissler, kitchen manager and the mayor’s daughter, who has worked in the food industry for 11 years, and Courtney Good, wait staff manager, with eight years.

“Our combined experience enables us to fill in and help one another,” said Good.

Remodeling, said Rissler, required some TLC with installation of new flooring, ceiling tiles replacement, roof repairs, painting and general cleanup.

Cosmetic touches such as replacing open beams in the ceiling with rustic wood and adding decorative stone throughout adds ambiance to the restaurant.

Patrons can eat at the cozy counter with stools, in comfortable booths or in the spacious dining room with open beam ceiling and fireplace.

Rissler, who also serves the borough as public works superintendent and is a recognized artisan too, will showcase his creative wood carvings plus his collection of artwork by local artists as part of the restaurant décor.

“Community support has been great. Everyone wants to help in some way to get our doors open,” said Jessie Rissler.

Plans are to hire 10 to 12 employees for the kitchen and wait staff, then open the restaurant in late June.

Hours will be weekdays 6 a.m. to 8 p.m., Saturday 7 a.m. to 8 p.m. and Sunday 8 a.m. to 3 p.m.

“We are excited to open our doors and invite everyone to come for good food, good service and good conversation,” he said.

Carole Deck is a correspondent for Lancaster Newspapers.
