
As one reaches a certain age, people will not seem to get over stories of what the person has achieved, oftentimes amazed and awed by the amount of things the person has accomplished. Considered as a highly influential presence in Negros Oriental up to this day is 94-year-old Herminio “Meniong” GuivelondoTeves.

One would expect that because of his advanced years, he would prefer to stay in the sidelines and rest on his laurels, so to the 11th Congress, he filed 42 bills of which 13 had been enacted into law. For the 12th Congress, he filed 52 bills of which 6 had been enacted into law, while during the 13th Congress, he filed 13 bills and one had been enacted into law.  Out of a total of 107 bills, 20 had been enacted into law. At the end of his three terms, there were several of his bills approved on third reading by Congress and transmitted to the Senate for concurrence. “I lament that Senate did not act on them,” he would say today.

1. Pioneered the feeding program of public school students with the hope of increasing their Intelligence Quotient (IQ) and enticing 100 percent attendance as most of the students do not go back to school after going home for lunch;

2. Provided P40.7 million as equity to the Third Elementary Education Project (TEEP) for the construction of 144 new classrooms and repair of 551 classrooms, among them are Actin Elementary School, Baisan Elementary School, and Bacong National High School;

3. Under the Secondary Development and Improvement Project (SEDIP), 75 new classrooms were constructed with an equity of P3.6 million, among them are a two-storey 4-classroom with science and faculty room and toilet at Bacong High School; 2-classroom at Actin High School; Science laboratory building at Narra High School; Science laboratory building at Tayasan High School; 2-classroom building at Tabuan  High School; 3-classroom building at Dawis High School; 4-classroom building at Kalumbuyan High School;Bacong National High School at Sacsac, Bacong; 2-storey 4-classroom building with toilet at Sta. Catalina High School; 2-storey 4-classroom building with toilet at Valencia National High School;

4. Fifty-two classrooms of the old Gabaldon buildings from Valencia to Bayawan were repaired with an allocation of P12 million as well as P10 million for their construction;

5. Sent 2,551  poor and deserving students to finish college as scholars;

6. Allocated P12.3 million as assistance to about 2,147 poor patients in getting medical attention from different government hospitals in Dumaguete, Cebu, the Philippine General Hospital, National Kidney and Transplant Institute, and the Philippine Heart Center in Manila;

7. Financial assistance of P48 million to the LGUs in the 3rd District for various projects;

8. Financial assistance of P13 million to the barangays for various projects;

9. Construction of various roads such as Bayawan-Kabankalan Friendship Highway, Bacong-Valencia Road;

10. Initial construction of the boulevard from Barangay Suba to Barangay Villareal;

11. Construction of the Basay Flood Control and Sangumayon Bridge;

12. Construction of various barangay halls, multipurpose buildings, municipal gymnasiums, and irrigation facilities;

13. P6 million for the construction of the Third Engineering District Building;

One of his proposed bills, “An Act instituting full transparency in tax collection and repealing Section 270 and Section 278 of the National Internal Revenue Code,” including its revisions were approved by the House of Representatives’ members of Congress on May 16, 2000 and March 7, 2002, respectively and transmitted to the Senate.  However, it was never discussed in the Senate, but whose approval would have enabled the BIR total transparency in tax collection.

Another pressing issue he had been communicating to President Noynoy Aquino was the disparity of the report of the Securities and Exchange Commission with regard to top corporations vis-à-vis the report of the BIR on taxes paid by these top corporations. He also explained that there should be an amendment of the excise tax, otherwise known as “sin taxes,” generated from alcohol and cigarettes. Since these taxes are collected by the BIR, 40 percent of the revenue should likewise go to the Internal Revenue Allotment (IRA) of the LGUs, instead of 85 percent going to the Department of Health and 15 percent for the rehabilitation of tobacco planters and the industry.

When asked if he will mind  if other Congressmen re-files the very bills he proposed, but not passed into law, Teves expressed, “My concern is for the betterment of the country so it does not matter who gets the credit as long as it will help the Filipino people.” It is no wonder, then, that the Philippines Free Press named Teves as Outstanding  Congressman in the 12th Congress.

To this day, he continues writing suggestions not only to President Aquino, but also to Vice-President Jejomar Binay and Speaker Sonny Belmonte on matters that benefit the Filipino people, most especially on ways and means to increase the IRA of LGUs, on issues of devolution, bank secrecy law, carper law, sin tax law, as well as his advocacy for renewable energy.
