
Participants in the third annual Run The Gap to be held on Sunday, May 25 will have the chance to test their speed and endurance in the newly introduced 21 kilometre trail run.

Participants in the third annual Run The Gap to be held on Sunday, May 25 will have the chance to test their speed and endurance in the newly introduced 21 kilometre trail run.

A new trail run will test competitors in this year's Run The Gap event.

The event, which is open to people of all ages and held in Halls Gap, supports tourism, community, good health and fitness.

Entrants can this year complete either a six kilometre walk or run along Fyans Creek trail, run 12 kilometres including a lap across the wall at stunning Lake Bellfield, or test themselves in the new 21km trail run.

The 21km trail run is for experienced trail runners and not recommended for road runners or those starting out.

Entrants will encounter varying degrees of undulating terrain and find themselves tested in the second half of the track with sandy tracks, sandstone rocks and mud.

Runners will be exposed to spectacular views of Mt Rosea and the Pinnacle in the first half and glimpses of Lake Bellfield in the second half.

The six kilometre trail will follow the walking path from the Parklands to Tandarra Road, picking up the Fyans Creek trail to Brambuk Aboriginal Cultural Centre and return.

The 12 kilometre run continues along the Fyans Creek trail through to Tymna Drive and up to Lake Bellfield (for a lap of the wall) and return.

All courses will be clearly marked with cones, kilometre markers plus a lead bike.

Proceeds from the event go towards the enhancement of the walk/bike paths and leisure areas between Halls Gap and Lake Bellfield.

In 2012 money raised from the event established a fitness station with a view installed at the corner of Grampians Road and Tymna Drive.

Funds from last year's event enabled the completion of the Fitness Trail Park with rowing machine, parallel bars and the extension of the Grampians Road bike/walk track.

A complimentary barbecue brunch will be provided by the Halls Gap Community Group with medals awarded to overall place getters in the run events and to all children participating.

The first three males and first three females in both the 12 kilometre and six kilometre runs will be presented with their medals on the morning of the event at the assembly area.

For more information phone 5356 4664 or visit www.runthegap.com.
