
OSHAWA -- Brad Mavin, a member of the Paranormal Researchers of Ontario, used a mel meter during a tour of the Henry House study. The group was conducting a search for ghosts in the historic houses at Lakeview Park. April 25, 2014.

OSHAWA -- Ben Stacey, a member of the Paranormal Researchers of Ontario, recorded video of Melissa Cole, curator of the Oshawa Community Museum, as she gave a tour of the Henry House study. The group was conducting a search for ghosts in the historic houses at Lakeview Park. April 25, 2014.

The acronym of the organization is straightforward: proo(f), for Paranormal Researchers of Ontario. The (f) stands for fear. It’s the only variable.

The researchers were there to document the presence, or lack thereof, of ghosts in two of the historic houses located at the foot of Lakeview Park, Henry House and Robinson House. I was there to document them and anything that might go bump in the night.

Brad Mavin, co-founder of proo(f), said while he’s intrigued by the possibility of the supernatural, his main role is to challenge the evidence and look for a more earthly explanation for alleged hauntings. If his team cannot find evidence a house isn’t haunted, he’s honest with his clients.

“It’s always the worst part telling the people their house is not haunted,” he said.

That’s what appealed to Laura Suchan about proo(f). She’s the executive director of Oshawa Community Museums and over the years her staff has reported strange happenings in the two houses. To have an organization come in with objective minds to investigate was what she wanted.

“That’s what I liked about them,” she said.

Mr. Mavin went about setting up night-vision camera and sound equipment with three other proo(f) members in each room of Henry House. A computer was set up in the front hall of the historic home where Katie Mavin, the other co-founder of the organization, monitored any suspicious activity. Given the time constraints for this investigation, Robinson House was not wired with cameras.

When everything was in place the lights were shut off. Darkness swallowed everyone except Katie, whose face was lit up by the lonely computer monitor.

Our ghost hunt began.

Reverend Thomas Henry, his wife Lurenda and their children moved into the stone house in 1850. Rev. Henry lived there until his death in 1879. He died in the house, explains Melissa Cole, curator at Oshawa Community Museum.

In Rev. Henry’s study, just to the left of the front door, is his desk and chair. It’s a room where more than one person has reported terrifying experiences.

Ms. Cole said one little boy who was on a public tour of Henry House saw or sensed something at Rev. Henry’s desk that affected him.

At the back of Henry House on the main floor beside the kitchen is a bedroom. Ms. Cole said it’s the only room in Henry House where she’s experienced anything out of the ordinary. One day a few years ago she noticed the bedding was rumpled as if somebody had sat where a person would normally swing his or her legs out of the bed. But nobody has slept in the room in decades. She straightened the covers and asked staff members if anyone knew how the covers got rumpled. Nobody had any answers and she soon forgot about it. A week later she walked into the room and noticed again the bed sheets had been disheveled.

“It happens in the same spot all the time,” she said.

With that in mind proo(f) investigator Rob DiVenanzo placed an EMF detector on the bed.

“If any spirit is in this room give us a sign. Go near our device or tap us,” he said.

My eyes were fixated on the green light. What would I do if it flashed yellow? Where would I go? I was distinctly aware of everything around me despite the fact I was surrounded by darkness.

Feeling a little skittish, we move on from the room, having unsuccessfully detected anything paranormal. I suspected we would head to another bedroom. I was wrong. Mr. DiVenanzo led us to the basement, the same basement where caskets are stored. They were donated to the museum from Humber College a number of years ago and are used for special exhibits throughout the course of the year. If there was going to be a paranormal experience on this night I fully expected it to be by the caskets.

The other part of my ghost hunting tour took us to Robinson House. John Robinson and his wife Ruth were the original landowners and built the house in 1856. It remained in the family until 1965 when it was turned over to the Oshawa and District Historical Society.

Mr. Mavin and proo(f) investigator Ben Stacey remained at Henry House while I accompanied Mr. DiVenanzo and Mr. McLaren to the historic Dutch colonial style building with Ms. Cole. Ms. Cole explained to us many people have said they’ve seen the lights flickering off and on inside the house at night. On one occasion while a group of Brownies was being given a tour of Robinson House, one of the girls in the group became uncomfortable and sweaty. She couldn’t explain what was wrong, just that she didn’t feel right being in the house. It frightened her.

“I don’t know if she actually finished the tour or not,” Ms. Cole said.

Inside the house the lights were again turned off. We all stood there in the dark waiting for our eyes to adjust.

When enough time had lapsed Ms. Cole led us to the top of the stairs. Looking back at Mr. DiVenanzo, she stopped.

“I was going to ask you if you were OK,” she said.

Mr. DiVenanzo shook his head no.

“It feels warm, very uncomfortable,” he said.

Then, as quickly as the feeling hit him, it left.

“That’s strange,” he said.

Mr. McLaren admitted he too didn’t feel quite right at the top of the stairs. As for myself I felt a little disoriented but I attributed it to the darkness and the fact I’d just walked up about 14 steps.

Not on that night, he said.

Of course that doesn’t mean strange things haven’t happened at either house, they just didn’t happen on that night. During other investigations, proo(f) has gone back on a number of occasions and had completely different experiences. In other places they’ve left their equipment behind and it’s picked up some bizarre activities.

Mr. Mavin said he would like to return to both houses for further investigation.

I wish I could have said the same. Then again I don’t have as much experience walking through suspected haunted houses in the dark.

I think it's awesome!

Wannabes are spoiling it.
