
It has happened before.  Several New Sudan advocates have attacked our great novelist Tayeb Salih and added my name too.  I have responded to most.  This time Dr. Haydar Ibrahim Ali, founder of the Sudanese Studies Centre has done it again.  Sadly Tayeb Salih is no longer with us.  I’ll take it upon myself to defend him.

In what is now known as post-colonial literature, the vast majority of writers chose the tongue of the former colonial power, mainly English and French.  Some (e.g. Wole Soyinka) were rewarded with a [token?] Nobel prize.  There was however, another line represented by James Ngugi (Ngugi Wa Thiongo) who wrote the seminal book “Decolonizing the Mind” which advocated writing in African languages.  He wrote in Kikuyu, his mother tongue and proved his point with overwhelming success.

Tayeb Salih was one of very few others who chose this path.  He too succeeded and, eventually, his novels were translated into the colonial language and other languages too.  If talented writers neglect their mother tongues, African languages would gradually die out and be lost.  Moreover, continued psychological subservience would be promoted, depriving the former colonies of their national pride in heritage including proverbs, poetry and mythology.

What Tayeb Salih and Ngugi Wa Thiongo did was similar to what Chaucer and Shakespeare did to England.  Both wrote in English at a time when Latin and French had more prestige and weight.  When asked in an interview, Tayeb Salih said that he wrote in Arabic as a “matter of principle”.

This is why he is great and is loved.  He did not make money from his novels and in a sufi disdain of wealth saw Beirut publishers cash in on his genius without bothering to go to court.  I visited his modest flat in Wimbledon once and was amazed at the frugility of his surroundings.

Politically, Tayeb Salih has demonstrated that life for tens of years in London has left its mark on him.  He opposed the first phase of the “Ingaz”; but, when the Comprehensive Peace Agreement was signed and an interim constitution adopted recognising the multi-cultural multi-religious identity of our country, he returned home, met President Bashir and took part in the events of “Khartoum, Capital of Arab Culture”.  Weeks before his death, he recorded an interview with Khalid Al Ieseir in which he criticised the opposition.

Dr. Haydar Ibrahim Ali thinks that Tayeb Salih’s question (which was widely publicised in the early 1990’s) was racist.  “Where did these people come from?” Actually, it was political.   A reference to the uncharacteristic severity of some verdicts.  He was objective enough to change his mind when policies changed.  A man of Tayeb Salih’s stature should not be selectively condemned for a single out-of-context statement.  The whole cannon of his works including his political articles that criticized the policies of neo-liberal unfettered deregulation provides a better picture.

Tayeb Salih’s integrity and national credentials are above reproach.  When he discovered that the magazine “Hiwar” was financed by the CIA, he said openly that he didn’t know and nobody else knew.

By contrast, the replacement of the CIA in cultural affairs, The US National Endowment for Democracy is supporting many Sudanese institutions and centres.

Dr. Haydar Ibrahim Ali’s Sudanese Studies Centre has been receiving many thousands of US taxpayers money for over 20 years without accountability (no elections for the top jobs, no published audited financial reports). The benefactor, the NED which paid the latest instalment of $49,600 (almost fifty thousand dollars) is not a philanthropic organisation.   It is not independent as it claims.  The US Georgetown University Historian Professor A. Weinstein admitted in a Washington Post article (22 September 1991) “a lot of what we do today was done covertly 25 years ago by the CIA”.  Dr. Haydar I. Ali, Al Khatim Adlan Centre and other recipients of NED largesse are not dealing with the open democratic face of the US which is admired by non-Americans; but with the forces that worked behind the scenes against Nelson Mandela, Patrice Lumumba, Mohamed Mosadaq, Kwame Nkrumah and were involved in the illegal invasion of Iraq.  Moreover, Dr. Haydar I. Ali writes about “civil society”.  Civil Society should have its roots in its society and be funded by forces in its society.  When civil society is funded from abroad, it is bound to be influenced by what the paymasters approve of.  If it doesn’t do what is hinted at or spelled out, the next cheque might not arrive, because “there is no free lunch” as the Americans say.

In a previous piece I have cited Dr. Carol Lancaster’s summary of the aims of US aid as a tool of US policy.  Those who receive it get a measure of “insurance” against arrest or assassination.

Since 1938, the US itself is protecting itself with the “Foreign Agents Registration Act” which applies to all foreign-financed organisations active in the US.
