
In my work at Action for Children Scotland, I hear about boys – some as young as eight – getting their “start” by delivering drugs on bikes for men on the scheme who have flashy cars and designer clothes. The boys are paid for what they do – small amounts, but to them it is a fortune. They are being groomed for more serious activity and before they know it, are embroiled in a dangerous world that is hard to escape.

Serious organised crime may seem like the stuff of gangster films, but it affects ordinary people in this country. These people are preyed on by criminals living amongst them; criminals who have made a career from loan sharking, drug dealing and prostitution. And in environments where money and opportunity are scarce, young people are easily seduced by what is perceived to be a glamorous, profitable lifestyle.

This week, the Cabinet Secretary for Justice addressed leaders from Police Scotland, local authorities and the third sector at the Divert Conference, a unique event which explored how we can reduce the probability of people becoming involved in organised crime when they are too young to understand the consequences.

Through Action for Children Scotland I have set up employability programmes for those who leave school with no qualifications, launched projects to reduce levels of youth offending and taken babies into classrooms to tackle bullying. My career has been defined by a belief that people who make a mistake – and sometimes several mistakes – deserve to be given another chance to succeed in life. Scotland has one of the most robust strategies for dealing with serious organised crime in the world, but there has never before been a focus on children and young people. So when I was asked to represent the third sector on the Scottish Government’s Serious Organised Crime Taskforce, I gave myself a clear goal: to prevent vulnerable young people from becoming the next generation of serious criminals.

I set about trying to understand how they became involved, what their motivations were, and how they could be prevented from choosing this lifestyle. Following conversations with colleagues in the police and the social work sector, as well as affected young people, I launched a new Action for Children Scotland service. This service is a first of its kind in Scotland and the UK. Our co-ordinator secures the buy-in of families, many of whom are pro-criminal and have raised their children not to trust the system, whilst our mentor works directly with the young people. Our mentor is in his early twenties and was involved in organised crime himself from the age of 13. He has received support and training from Action for Children Scotland, and is now using his experience to help others. This is vital. The young people we are working with already look up to dangerous criminals – we need to provide them with a credible alternative role model.

The service is already showing positive results. There has been a change in the offending patterns of the young people involved, with police reporting that some have completely turned their backs on criminal activity. We are pleased to be able to offer training opportunities and paid work placements to those who choose to engage, thanks to funding of £500,000 from CashBack for Communities. This money is seized from criminals using the Proceeds of Crime Act and put back into communities, and it feels apt that it is now being used by Action for Children Scotland to help young people build a future away from organised crime. These young people have been indoctrinated from an early age – we need to help them understand that they can have friends without getting into trouble, be safe without being part of a gang and earn money without breaking the law.

Serious organised crime is an issue that is largely hidden from mainstream society, having a disproportionate effect on the most marginalised communities. It is therefore right that the third sector should use its expertise to stop young people ruining their lives. When the Scottish Government invited Action for Children Scotland to sit on its taskforce, it sent a very clear message: disrupting and dismantling serious organised crime isn’t just a job for law enforcers, we all have an important role to play.

© 2014 Johnston Publishing Ltd.

This website and its associated newspaper adheres to the Press Complaints Commission’s Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion, then contact the Editor by clicking here .

If you remain dissatisfied with the response provided then you can contact the PCC by clicking here .

The Scotsman provides news, events and sport features from the Edinburgh area. For the best up to date information relating to Edinburgh and the surrounding areas visit us at The Scotsman regularly or bookmark this page.

For you to enjoy all the features of this website The Scotsman requires permission to use cookies.

Cookies are small data files which are sent to your browser (Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome etc) from a website you visit. They are stored on your electronic device.

This is a type of cookie which is collected by Adobe Flash media player (it is also called a Local Shared Object) - a piece of software you may already have on your electronic device to help you watch online videos and listen to podcasts.

Yes there are a number of options available, you can set your browser either to reject all cookies, to allow only "trusted" sites to set them, or to only accept them from the site you are currently on.

However, please note - if you block/delete all cookies, some features of our websites, such as remembering your login details, or the site branding for your local newspaper may not function as a result.

A tool used by some of our advertisers to target adverts to you based on pages you have visited in the past. To opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

Our sites contain advertising from Google; these use cookies to ensure you get adverts relevant to you. You can tailor the type of ads you receive by visiting here or to opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

This is used to help us identify unique visitors to our websites. This data is anonymous and we cannot use this to uniquely identify individuals and their usage of the sites.

This comes from our ad serving technology and is used to track how many times you have seen a particular ad on our sites, so that you don't just see one advert but an even spread. This information is not used by us for any other type of audience recording or monitoring.

ComScore monitor and externally verify our site traffic data for use within the advertising industry. Any data collected is anonymous statistical data and cannot be traced back to an individual.

Our Classified websites (Photos, Motors, Jobs and Property Today) use cookies to ensure you get the correct local newspaper branding and content when you visit them. These cookies store no personally identifiable information.

We use Grapeshot as a contextual targeting technology, allowing us to create custom groups of stories outside out of our usual site navigation. Grapeshot stores the categories of story you have been exposed to. Their privacy policy and opt out option can be accessed here.

Our partner for Newspaper subscriptions online stores data from the forms you complete in these to increase the usability of the site and enhance user experience.

Add This provides the social networking widget found in many of our pages. This widget gives you the tools to bookmark our websites, blog, share, tweet and email our content to a friend.

We use Advertising agencies to provide us with some of the advertising on our websites. These include (but are not limited to) Specific Media, The Rubicon Project, AdJug, AdConion, Context Web. Please click on the provider name to visit their opt-out page.
