
Fingerprint Cards (FPC) has acquired all outstanding shares of Anacatum Design AB (Anacatum), a Linkoping-based Swedish technology licensing and ASIC developing company. FPC has previously announced that it has licensed Anacatum's industry-leading Analog to Digital Converter (ADC) technology and used the ASIC development services provided by Anacatum in the development of FPC's touch and swipe fingerprint sensors.

Anacatum is as of today an owned subsidiary of FPC. The acquisition price for Anacatum will not be disclosed.

Johan Carlström, President and CEO at FPC, comments: "This acquisition provides FPC with world-leading technology that will further strengthen our intellectual property portfolio. FPC also gains access to leading analog IP and ASIC development competencies and, by integrating Anacatum's development team into FPC, we will further accelerate our development of the industry's most ambitious portfolio of touch and swipe fingerprint sensors for the mobile devices industry. We are very much looking forward to welcoming the Anacatum team into FPC."

Lars-Erik Nordell, Chairman of the Board of Anacatum, comments: "We are very pleased to see this step for Anacatum. Through its leading technology and highly skilled engineering team, Anacatum will make a great contribution to FPC. As the leading fingerprint biometric sensor company, FPC will be the perfect home for Anacatum's technology and employees."

Rolf Sundblad, CTO and Managing Director of Anacatum Design AB, comments: "This acquisition marks the continuation of the strong collaboration FPC has had with Anacatum since Anacatum was founded and the start of a new phase when Anacatum becomes fully integrated with FPC. We will bring our patented ADC technology into FPC as well as a team of highly skilled engineers and we are very much looking forward to creating even more competitive technology while being a part of FPC."

Fingerprint Cards AB (FPC) markets, develops and produces biometric components and technologies that through the analysis and matching of an individual's unique fingerprint verify the person's identity. The technology consists of biometric sensors, processors, algorithms and modules that can be used separately or in combination with each other. The competitive advantages offered by the FPC's technology include unique image quality, extreme robustness, low power consumption and complete biometric systems. With these advantages and the ability to achieve extremely low manufacturing costs, the technology can be implemented in volume products such as smart cards and mobile phones, where extremely rigorous demands are placed on such characteristics. The company's technology can also be used in IT and Internet security, access control, etc.

Fingerprint Cards AB (publ) discloses this information pursuant to the Swedish Securities Market Act (2007:528) and the Swedish Financial Instruments Trading Act (1991:980). The information was issued for publication on May 19, 2014 at 08.00 am CET.

Issuance, publication or distribution of this press release in certain jurisdictions could be subject to restrictions. The recipient of this press release is responsible for using this press release and the constituent information in accordance with the rules and regulations prevailing in the particular jurisdiction. This press release does not constitute an offer or an offering to acquire or subscribe for any of the company's securities in any jurisdiction.

Visit PR Newswire for Journalists for releases, photos and customised feeds just for Media.

View and download archived video content distributed by MultiVu on The Digital Center .

Enhance your website's or blog's content with PR Newswire's customised real-time news feeds.
