
While it might be a happy day for Modi and his supporters, for others, it marks the start of a potentially  dangerous time  for the world's largest democracy.

Modi is a lifelong member of a paramilitary Hindu nationalist group called Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), which has carried out assaults on the country's religious minorities. The right-wing group was created back in 1925, directly inspired by Europe's fascist movements.

The riots took place in Gujarat, while it was under Modi's leadership.

The massacre began after reports that Muslims  had set fire  to a train carriage, killing 59 Hindu pilgrims. Anti-Muslim riots were sparked in relation over the course of the next few months,  leaving 2,500 dead  — most of them Muslim.

Writing for the Guardian, Pankaj Mishra described the riots as "carefully planned and coordinated attacks of unprecedented savagery."

However, according to a 2002 Human Rights Watch  report , "the attacks against Muslims in Gujarat have been actively supported by state government officials and by the police."

While India's Supreme Court did not find sufficient evidence to convict Modi, the Gujarat High Court  called the riots  a "negligence of the state."

Still, Modi's inaction during the tragedy, as well as his leadership's  track record  for discrimination against minorities, leave many reasons to worry for India's future.

1.

2.

At least 50 buildings, mostly Muslim-owned, were burned in Ahmadabad.

3.

4.

Nazir Khan, 20, looks out from a refugee camp for Muslims forced to leave by religious violence in Ahmadabad.

5.

At least 942 people had been killed in two months of sectarian violence between Hindus in Muslims in the Indian state of Gujarat.

6.

75 per cent of 8-year-old Hamid Roja's body was burned during Hindu-Muslim riots. The young Muslim boy recieved treatment at a civil hospital in Ahmadabad.

7.

A firefighter tries to douse flames in the Dudheshwer area of Ahmadabad.

8.

9.

A man walks through the rubble of a Muslim area near Ahmadabad, India.

10.

11.

Muslims from Zikkar Hussain Chowal salvage what is left of their ransacked and burnt homes.
