
. . . . . . .

A dispute between the Federal Hocking School District and Holzer Health System over taxes has just deepened, with Holzer filing a counter-complaint over a 2013 tax assessment to the Athens County Board of Revision.

Since April , Holzer and the Federal Hocking district have been locking horns over a tax exemption sought by Holzer at the state level that the eastern Athens County district has formally challenged and claims that, if granted, would cost it close to $100,000 in annual tax support.

The Athens County Auditor's Office sent a letter to the Federal Hocking School Board last week calling a representative to appear before the county Board of Revision to discuss the county-level tax complaint issue.

In the letter dated May 14, the school board was notified to appear before the Board of Revision of Athens County on Wednesday, May 28, at 10:30 a.m.

The hearing, the letter said, is with regard to "a complaint, heretofore filed, as to the assessment for the tax year 2013 of certain real property belonging to Holzer Health System."

The county revision board is comprised of county Auditor Jill Thompson, county Treasurer Bill Bias, and the president of the Athens County Commissioners, Lenny Eliason.

The revision board hears formal complaints on property valuations and appraisals. At a hearing, property owners may present information such as recent appraisals or sales data for similar properties in support of their complaints.

Thompson said Sunday that the school district filed an orignal complaint questioning the Holzer property valuation, while Holzer is asking for a stay on a decision until its tax exemption request at the state level is determined.

Federal Hocking board member Tom McGuire said Sunday that the original sale price for the Holzer location pracels was $21 million but the property taxes collected have been on a valuation much lower than that.

In late April, McGuire approached the Athens County Commissioners on the tax exemption issue, urging them to rescind two actions they previously took on behalf of Holzer.

In 2011, the county commissioners gave their needed approval to a Gallia County bond issue for the non-profit Holzer Health System, revenue from which allowed the purchase of a number of health-care facilities in a merger, and the retirement of some old debt.

The following year, the commissioners approved Gallipolis-based Holzer's request to extend its charity-care policy - which reportedly brings a higher rate of Medicare-Medicaid reimbursement - to its clinic in Athens.

Now Holzer is seeking an exemption from state taxes for Holzer Clinic in Athens, based both on the amount of charity care it provides, and on the 2011 bond issue. McGuire said that when the commissioners undertook these actions, Holzer had not shared plans to seek such a tax exemption.

He said that while the tax exemption could cost the Federal Hocking district $100,000, all told, under the exemption, Athens County could stand to lose a total of $200,000 in tax revenue annually.

Facing a May 2 deadline to file in opposition to the tax exemption with the state tax department, Federal Hocking attorney Robert Morrow sent a letter April 30 laying out the district's case . He also cited the charity care and bond issues.
