
This week’s Glazov Gang was joined by superstars Basil Hoffman, a Hollywood actor (“Rio, I Love You”), Ann-Marie Murrell, the National Director of PolitiChicks.tv and Ernie White, a Civil Rights Activist.

The Gang discussed The Cancer of Common Core, analyzing how Mao’s Cultural Revolution has now reached America’s public schools.

Don’t miss it!

To watch previous Glazov Gang episodes, Click Here .

LIKE Jamie Glazov’s Fan Page on Facebook.

This is one of the MOST disappointing shows I have ever seen here and is a key reason I find it hard to trust Frontpage as much as I would like to. This is a total misunderstanding and distortion of what Common Core is. “They’re going to be controlling children,” one of your guests says. What idiocy. Not a single mention of the intellectual rigor Common Core seeks to promote. It is a real insult to anyone who knows anything about it. And I do NOT mean lefties or liberals. I mean solid conservative education thinkers like Sol Stern and Chester Finn. This discussion was a joke.

Einstein, Henry Ford, Jobs, Gates, Babage, ……..no need to list the genius and brilliant men and women WHO DID NOT NEED the Feds and their Common Core BS! Your MSM certainly won’t tell you the truth about anything, many other websites are telling the truth also. This discussion was the TRUTH, if that annoys you, buzz off!

Steve Jobs was not a genius.

He was a guy with an oversized ego and slavish followers.

He may have been a sociopath.

I don’t think he ever gave away, donated block of his fortune has Bill Gates has.

Gates is also behind Common Core, however, concerning him, Jobs and the others i listed, none of them NEEDED the Feds roaring in with leftist indoctrination to turn out smart people. My doctor relatives didnt need Common Core, etc., etc.

I have kids struggling to make sense of this load of progressive claptrap dressed up as education. Obamacore is leftist indoctrination, incomprehensible math, and social engineering.

You don’t know what you are talking about.

I’d love to know how you combine leftist indoctrination with incomprehensible math. Nice trick. I guess social engineering is just not rocket science.

D. Islamophobia, straight up.

Common core is not supposed to help children, it indoctrinates children, the insane math causes stress, if you beat a child down long enough you can then put what ever you want in their minds. The host talked about common core coming between parents and children, here is a question from 2nd grade vocabulary paper. 4. To LURE her grandson, Grandma might say,_____________. Then on the bottom of the page drawing lines to make complete sentences, 9. A PREDATOR tries to LURE its prey to itself. To me this is calling grandma a predator, and it made me very angry. The paper is from “Harcourt”. so much more just plain evil things in this common core. It is not for education, but for indoctrination. It has to be thrown out completely and those pushing it charged with cognitive child abuse. please pray for our children.

This idiotic question for a vocabulary paper, aside from not even making any sense (unless something has been left out here, as seems to be the case), has NOTHING to do with Common Core. Harcourt has nothing to do with Common Core. Where do you people come up with this stuff? Nuts. Absolutely nuts.

I guess the collective thought must be the answer to all our problems. Let’s see how that goes over with the various world religions that have their own way of controlling folks.

Home School ! Government agents hate it when citizens choose liberty over dependency.

Home schools the children of regressive progressives and generational welfare industry patrons.

Fix the Public Schools – which have been the bedrock of the US for generations.

Get rid of incompetent teachers – employed due to their leftist credentials and skin color and send them to the Home schools.

I see from looking back here at these comments that they almost all exhibit the same paranoia, the same anger, the same contempt for different viewpoints as you see all the time when Common Core is debated. They are all pretty much worthless as to the actual nature of Common Core or even the problems associated with it. It ought to bother Frontpage mag that this is what the right comes up with when it discusses things. Almost now a mirror image of what the New Left once did. Worse than worthless.

The elders among you recognize Common Core for what it is, renamed failures of the past. Still trying to fool the citizens to keep the money flowing. It is not about students, but cookie-cutter standards to serve government’s purpose.
