
Residents of Casa de la Vista and Fern Lodge in Redlands are engaged in a fundraising effort to purchase fitness equipment for the communities’ fitness center.

Casa de la Vista and Fern Lodge are two of 32 American Baptist Homes of the West affordable housing communities. The two communities have been participating in a research study on the improvement of health outcomes in low-income older adults.

This has been a collaborative effort involving the University of Michigan, Masterpiece Living and the MacArthur Foundation. Recently, Nustep of Ann Arbor, Mich., Keiser Corp. of Fresno and Kay Van Norman of Brilliant Aging have joined the project, led by Toni Antonucci, principal investigator, and Robert L. Kahn, co-principal investigator.

NuStep and Keiser have each contributed fitness equipment, and Kay Van Norman has created programming around the equipment and implemented Project Activate, an initiative by Brilliant Aging that is designed to inspire increased physical activity.

According to research, increased physical activity promotes cardiovascular health and endurance, while also reducing the risk of falls.

The fitness equipment has provided Casa de la Vista and Fern Lodge residents with the opportunity to maintain their health.

NuStep has donated two exercise machines, however, the remainder of the equipment is on loan.

Casa de la Vista and Fern Lodge residents have organized to raise funds to purchase the rest of the equipment.

The first fundraising attempt began with the NuStep Challenge during a week in February.

Inspired by walk-athons, residents used the NuStep exercise equipment in the communities’ fitness rooms to walk as many miles as possible, using the machines to track their steps and total distance. They also wrote many letters to recruit donors to sponsor participants for each mile completed. By the end of the NuStep Challenge,, the communities had raised more than $900 from various friends and family members. Donations have been coming in from Arizona, Florida, Maryland, Michigan and California.

Casa de la Vista and Fern Lodge residents are now seeking support from local businesses and service organizations to reach the goal of $27,000 to purchase the exercise equipment.

“During the week of the fundraiser, the only thing on my mind was completing my goal of 20 miles. Everything else fell by the wayside,” said Gladys Hernandez, a Fern Lodge resident. “To be honest, it was difficult to complete my goal, however, when you finish a goal like that it feels great to accomplish something so challenging.

“On behalf of the residents, I want to express my gratitude to all who supported our efforts. This fundraiser has been a new experience for most of us. We are hopeful that with the response from the greater community we will be able to own our own exercise machines,” Hernandez said.

“We truly appreciate NuStep, Keiser Corp. and Brilliant Aging for their roles in making the dream of a fitness center for our residents a reality,” said Ancel Romero, senior vice president of American Baptist Homes of the West.

“Our affordable housing communities inherently operate on very narrow financial margins, so their generosity and understanding of this resident need is especially appreciated. Residents and team members are of greatest importance to us and this allows us the opportunity to further enhance their well-being,” Romero said.

For information on how to make a tax-deductible donation toward the purchase of the exercise equipment, contact Linda Stowell, lifestyle coordinator, at 460 E. Fern Ave. Redlands, CA 92374, or at 909-335-7112.
