
Johannesburg - People in Africa carry sticks because it is their culture, and have no intention to kill with them, Amcu leader Joseph Mathunjwa said on Monday.

"This is South Africa, this is not New York," he said at a New Age breakfast briefing in Johannesburg.

"The traditional weapons a man [carries] when he walks out, he's used to carrying a stick but not with the intention to kill."

He said if government wanted this to change, it should show people "how not to be your culture and [instead] how to be western culture".

"We've been carrying sticks many times unless maybe we are not from Africa... we cannot change overnight."

Mathunjwa was referring to striking mineworkers who had been seen carrying traditional weapons and sticks during an almost four-month-old strike in the North West platinum belt.

Members of the Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union (Amcu) at Lonmin, Impala Platinum, and Anglo American Platinum in Rustenburg and at Northam in Limpopo downed tools on 23 January, demanding a basic monthly salary of R12 500.

The strike has reportedly cost the companies over R18.5bn in revenue and workers more than R8.2bn in earnings, according to a website created by platinum mining companies, www.platinumwagenegotiations.co.za.

Mathunjwa said his union was committed to peace.

The briefing got heated when Mathunjwa and his rival, National Union of Mineworkers (NUM) general secretary Frans Baleni , exchanged words.

Baleni said many mineworkers had been brutally murdered since 2012 in the platinum belt, and that 99% of the perpetrators were from Amcu.

He said female mineworkers from the NUM had been stripped naked and paraded in front of 10 000 men.

Mathunjwa said Amcu denounced violence and that the SA Police Service was biased as it did not arrest the perpetrators of crimes. He was referring to the NUM.

"As far as we know, we don't have a person that we have killed," Mathunjwa said.

"From 23 January to now, only Amcu members have been killed."

He claimed police had done nothing to stop the violence because it was colluding with the NUM.

"It is NUM attacking our members. The president of NUM [ Senzeni Zokwana ] is sitting in SAPS meetings," he claimed.

Baleni rejected the allegation, saying the NUM was not involved in anything.

The debate was broadcast live on SABC 2.

Travel - Look, Book, Go!

SMS Alerts Get breaking news stories via SMS.

Blogs Your opinion on you, me and everyone.

Calais Website keywords automated by OpenCalais.

© 2014 24.com. All rights reserved.

Creating your profile will enable you to submit photos and stories to get published on News24.

This username must be unique, cannot be edited and will be used in the URL to your profile page across the entire 24.com network.

* The image you selected could not be uploaded.

Hi News addict,

Join the News24 Community to be involved in breaking the news.
