
The US has announced criminal charges against five Chinese army hackers for stealing trade secrets from American companies, the first time the US has formally accused another nation of economic espionage. Attorney General Eric Holder released the indictment, which lists  31 charges of economic espionage, trade secret theft, identity theft, conspiracy to commit computer fraud, and other related crimes, against  five named officers of China's People's Liberation Army .

The indictment also lists six companies that allegedly had secrets stolen: Alcoa (aluminum), Westinghouse (nuclear energy), SolarWorld (solar energy), US Steel, Allegheny Technologies Incorporated (metals), and the US Steelworkers Union. Secrets stolen included pricing, cost, strategy, and plant designs.

The case has been in the works for a long time. The Justice Department began  training prosecutors in 2012 to prepare them for confronting cyber espionage and related crimes.

Cyber espionage is seen as a major threat to economic and national security. In addition to bolstering foreign companies with valuable US technology and business secrets, the knowledge could allow enemies to build better weapons and plan attacks on critical US infrastructure.

"We do not collect intelligence to provide competitive advantage to the US or to the US economic sector," Holder said in a press conference. The economy is "directly linked to national security," he added. "The success of American companies since our nation’s founding has been the result of hard work... this is how it ought to be across the globe."

China has been the most aggressive in using hackers to steal US trade secrets, according to a  national intelligence report . Other offenders include Russia and Iran. This cyber espionage costs the US economy somewhere between $24 billion and $120 billion annually, according to  experts' estimates .

The US isn't coming at this issue with an entirely clear conscience, however. The government-made  Stuxnet worm , reportedly targeted Iranian nuclear facilities. Holder says it isn't hypocrisy because the US does not engage in spying for commercial gain.

China denied the charges, saying they were "made up," according to  the BBC , and would "damage Sino-American cooperation and mutual trust." In response, China also  canceled a US-China cybersecurity forum.

It's unclear whether the accused will ever actually stand trial in the US, but officials stressed that more indictments of this type will be forthcoming. "This is the new normal," said Robert Anderson, executive associate director of the FBI.

Update, 12:33PM: This post has been updated to include new information from the Justice Department and on China's response.

As part of the new Verge launch, prior users will need to choose a permanent username, along with a new password.

Your username will be used to login to Verge going forward.

Please login to your Vox Media account.  This account will be linked to your previously existing Eater account.

As part of the new Verge launch, prior MT authors will need to choose a new username and password.

Your username will be used to login to Verge going forward.

We'll email you a reset link.

If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.

Almost done,

By becoming a registered user, you are also agreeing to our Terms and confirming that           you have read our Privacy Policy .

Great!

Choose an available username to complete sign up.

In order to provide our users with a better overall experience, we ask for more information from Facebook when using it to login so that we can learn more about our audience and provide you with the best possible experience. We do not store specific user data and the sharing of it is not required to login with Facebook.
