
The Lorain County Correctional Institution acknowledged Friday that pirated movies are being shown to prisoners there, even as inmates serve time for illegally downloading movies.

Richard Humphrey, 26, of North Ridgeville was sent to the Lorain County prison in February for a parole violation and remained there until May 6. According to a post on the site torrentfreak.com, while he was a prisoner guards showed inmates "Ride Along" and "The Wolf of Wall Street" before they were released on DVD.

He was on parole for a charge of unlawful sexual conduct with a minor, to which he pleaded guilty in 2010. A year earlier, he pleaded guilty to criminal copyright infringement in federal court for selling downloaded movies before their commercial release.

Humphrey served 29 months for his pirating. Maybe he can visit the guards who oversaw him.

A spokesperson for Lorain County Correctional Institution Warden Kimberly Clipper said prison officials are aware that pirated movies are being shown to prisoners and the issue is being investigated. But she said she couldn't comment further because the investigation is ongoing.

"How do you expect someone to be rehabilitated when there's authority figures that are running those institutions that are copyright infringing?" Humphrey said.

Whole story , courtesy of Deirdre Hall , an SEO specialist who punched the right buttons on this one!

Nick Gillespie  is the editor in chief of Reason.com and Reason TV and the co-author of The Declaration of Independents: How Libertarian Politics Can Fix What's Wrong With America, just out in paperback .

He was on parole for a charge of unlawful sexual conduct with a minor, to which he pleaded guilty in 2010. A year earlier, he pleaded guilty to criminal copyright infringement in federal court for selling downloaded movies before their commercial release.

"Have you ever heard of the movie, Snow Falling on Cedars?"

But she said she couldn't comment further because the investigation is ongoing.

If the police ever come to ask me questions, I'm going to refuse to answer on the grounds that there's an ongoing investigation.

Carl pointed out that people generally don't get in trouble for downloading, they get in trouble for uploading or selling.

For an audience like that I believe it would've been considered a public performance, and therefore against copyright unless they had an explicit public performance license to show it.

Of course how can we forgot that Hollywood exists because filmmakers wished to find a place away from the Patents Trust in New York. In other words Hollywood was built by pirated movies.

Electro Woman.

I'd say, "I'll be in my bunk", but in this case, it would be in my twin size bed with the Cincinnati Reds World Series posters behind it.

My that was a long time ago.

*I'm assuming that the second shot is from the remake, which I have not managed to make to the end.

Get off my lawn.

Samd Daddy So So says that aint gonna happen dude.

You must have an account and be logged in to comment.

Video Game Nation:  How gaming is making America freer – and more fun.

Matt Welch: How the left turned against free speech.

Nothing Left to Cut? Congress can’t live within their means.

And much more.
