
The upcoming Breaking Bad prequel Better Call Saul already boasts an impressive cast.

And now it looks like show creator Vince Gilligan may be adding twin brothers Daniel and Luis Moncada to the lineup.

Daniel, who played a hit man alongside his twin brother in Breaking Bad, is seen posing with Gilligan in Albuquerque, New Mexico, where the new AMC show will start filming this year.

'Went to visit the Legendary #VinceGilligan yesterday after I landed in Albuquerque, New Mexico. @BreakingBad_AMC,' Daniel captioned the Twitter snap of the pair.

He is seen staring stony-faced at the camera as he stands next to Gilligan, who gives a warm smile while placing his arm around Daniel's shoulders.

Daniel and his twin played ruthless killers Leonel and Marco Salamanca, known as 'the cousins', who barely said a word on Breaking Bad.

Earlier this month it was announced that Spinal Tap star Michael McKean had joined the cast of Better Call Saul, along with character actors Patrick Fabian (The Last Exorcism), Rhea Seehorn (Franklin & Bash) and Michael Mando (Orphan Black) have joined the AMC show, which is set to premiere in November.

Bob  Odenkirk reprises his role as unflappable criminal lawyer Saul Goodman  on the new series, which takes places prior to his character meeting up  with Walter White (Bryan Cranston).

According  to the website: 'Fabian will play Burt, a Kennedy-type lawyer; Seehorn  plays an attorney named Beth; and Mando will play Spanish-speaking  career criminal Eddie.'

Their  casting comes one week after it was revealed comedic actor Michael  McKean McKean, who is known for his work on show's like Saturday Night  Live, Laverne & Shirley and This Is Spinal Tap, would take on the  role of Dr. Thurber, a 'brilliant attorney who is now restricted by an  unusual affliction.'

Jonathan Banks is also set to reprise his role of private investigator Mike Ehrmantraut on the highly anticipated prequel.

It's  been reported that both Bryan Cranston and Aaron Paul have been talks  with creator Vince Gilligan to appear on the crime-drama.

Aaron would potentially having a recurring role, while Brian could show up in an episode or two, reported E!Online .

Getting in on the drama: It was announced last week that comedic actor Michael McKean would play Dr. Thurber, 'a brilliant lawyer with an unusual affliction'

In an interview in Details, Aaron voiced his interest in being in the spin-off by saying, 'Both Bryan and I want to be a part of that, if they'll have us.'

While there has been no official word if they will be involved, it would be a delight to fans of the series which went off the air last year with a record breaking 10.3 million viewers tuning into the finale.

Better Call Saul is scheduled to premiere on AMC in November.

The comments below have not been moderated.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
