
For the past year, Oak Ridge native Chloe Ashley has worked as an intern with the Tennessee Department of Environment and Conservation (TDEC) in Oak Ridge on various issues concerning the environment in and around Oak Ridge. She was working to get her master’s degree in environmental sciences at the University of Tennessee.

She recently told the Oak Ridge Reservation Communities Alliance (ORRCA) about the projects she has worked on and their potential impact on Oak Ridge’s environment. In attendance for the presentation were Oak Ridge Mayor Tom Beehan, Anderson County Mayor Terry Frank, and Roane County Executive Ron Woody.

The first part of her presentation was good news about the drinking water in and around Oak Ridge — it’s safe. Ashley has taken part in several surveys and tests of the drinking water in the area. According to her quarterly samples in five different locations, the water is safe for the public to use and consume.

She has also taken a close look at the area wildlife, specifically deer. Through a tagging and tracking program, white-tailed deer are monitored for their movements in the Oak Ridge area for one year. Through this monitoring and blood testing, scientists can determine what type of contaminants the deer are coming into contact with and where those contaminants are located.

This allows them to address the contaminants and contaminated areas before they become a problem for the human population. These efforts will also benefit the local wildlife.

Every month, Ashley and other scientists monitored surface water of the Clinch River and its tributaries. Additionally, they have monitored the groundwater and the Environmental Management Waste Management Treatment Facility (EMWMTF) at Y-12 National Security Complex twice every week. The teams monitored the pH, dissolved oxygen, hydraulic conductivity, and temperature of the water in these areas.

“Those were all normal,” Ashley said.

The EMWMTF is a facility being built to help contend with the waste created by environmental cleanup in and around Oak Ridge. The facility will allow the waste created locally to be dealt with locally and, according to U.S. Department of Energy-Oak Ridge officials, this will save significant transportation costs.

In an academic paper, Ashley compared the waste treatment facility in Andrews County, Texas, with the local facility being constructed. While Ashley said the Oak Ridge facility appears safe and will likely operate safely, there are some concerns to address with the Oak Ridge facility.

First is the geology of Oak Ridge compared to that of Andrews County. Oak Ridge is dotted with hills and slopes that must be dealt with, while the Texas facility doesn’t have that problem.

Another issue for Oak Ridge is the rainfall the region receives, according to Ashley’s paper. The Texas facility is located in a relatively arid climate that receives significantly less rainfall per year than Oak Ridge.

Page 2 of 2 - Excessive rainfall can make containing waste difficult.

Another big issue is the population base. The Texas facility is in a remote area, while the Oak Ridge facility is relatively close to the population. The recommended safe distance is two kilometers from a population center, Ashley said.

Beehan asked her if the Oak Ridge facility was outside that distance and she said it was not.

“The Oak Ridge facility is just under that — at 1.8 kilometers,” she said.

What does all of this data collection and scientific studying mean for Oak Ridge? According to Ashley, things seem pretty good. The drinking water and groundwater are safe, the deer aren’t encountering contaminants that cannot be dealt with, and the locality challenges of the EMWMTF can be overcome with sound engineering.

This meeting and presentation was the last for Ashley, as she will soon move on to her professional life.

Russel Langley can be reached at (865) 220-5514.

Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.

Your privacy is important, read our privacy policy.

Original content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted.
