
OMAHA (AP) — After spending nearly $1 million for the slimmest margin of victory in a primary since he was first elected to Nebraska's 2nd Congressional District, Republican Lee Terry might have some reassessing — and reinventing — to do.

Terry topped GOP challenger and political unknown Dan Frei on Tuesday, even though Frei raised less than $50,000 and produced no television ads to match the incumbent's pricey advertising blitz. But Frei, who billed himself as more conservative, still came within nearly 5 percentage points of a win, drawing nearly half the vote — a sign that Terry is losing more support among his Omaha-area base.

Since 2010, the 52-year-old Terry has faced at least one primary candidate who says he's more conservative, with those challengers consistently drawing about 40 percent of the vote. Still, Terry is favored to win a ninth term in the November general election, where he faces Democratic state Sen. Brad Ashford.

The district has more Republican voters than Democratic, but Frei has signaled that he and other conservatives might try to place one of their own on the November ballot, either through a write-in campaign or a petition drive. If Frei succeeds, that could draw some voters from Terry in November.

Even Ashford hinted that Terry's slim victory could provide a much-needed edge; in 2012, Democrat John Ewing drew more than 49 percent of the vote.

"Everywhere I go, people share with me their anger with a Congress, and congressman, who continue to ignore solving the real issues facing America," Ashford said.

"This raises a lot of concerns for (Terry)," said Randall Adkins, chairman of the political science department at the University of Nebraska at Omaha. "At the national level, Democrats will look at his primary performance and think the seat is vulnerable. And they have money they could spend on this race."

Several Republican voters who cast ballots for Frei on Tuesday said they did so because they feel Terry hasn't accomplished enough during his eight terms.

"It's past time for a change," said Jessica Rockwell, 35, of Omaha.

Scott Gass, 54, said he voted for Frei, even though he prefers more moderate Republican candidates.

"I don't think he's been considered a serious congressman of any consequence in Washington," Gass, of Omaha, said. "Frankly, after 16 years, you should have some noteworthy accomplishments under your belt."

Even Terry's allies acknowledge he might need to adjust his tactics, such as highlighting his efforts to get the proposed Keystone XL oil pipeline approved and explaining that his seniority and title as chairman of the House Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade benefits Omaha businesses and industries.

"Maybe Mr. Terry does have to ... effectively market what he accomplishes more," said Hal Daub, a Republican who held Terry's congressional seat in the 1980s and a current University of Nebraska regent. "That's his campaign's job."

That's easier said than done, noted Daub, as anything a candidate says in the primary election can be used against him or her in the general election.

"This is a very different political world than it has been in the past, with the instant communication of Twitter, Facebook and social media, the stalking with video cameras," Daub said. "There are Democrats and independents that Mr. Terry has to represent, too; not just tea party Republicans."

But if Terry's concerned about slimmer-than-usual primary win, he isn't showing it, brushing off questions about the close race despite outspending his opponent 20-to-1.

"That doesn't concern me," Terry said. "I'm just happy for the victory."

Copyright 2014 Fremont Tribune. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Hint: Enter a keyword that you are looking for like tires, pizza or doctors or browse the full business directory .

Login here with a previously connected Facebook account.

Username & Password Required!
