
Share This Story!

Louis A. Frank, a retired University of Iowa scientist, died Friday.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Louis A. Frank, a retired University of Iowa scientist who believed small comets made of ice and water crashed into the Earth to create the planet’s lakes, rivers and oceans, died Friday. He was 75.

In 1981, Frank and his UI colleagues analyzed data from the NASA satellite Dynamics Explorer I, which looked at Earth in ultraviolet light. Frank and his team were interested in small black dots found in the images.

While some believed the dots were transmission errors, Frank and his team concluded the spots were caused by the disintegration of small comets — each weighing about 20 to 40 tons.

In 1986, Frank published his findings in Geographical Research Letters, a scientific journal. He argued that as many as 25,000 small comets disintegrated in the Earth’s atmosphere each day.

Eleven other researchers published responses refuting Frank’s claims, and Frank and his co-other responded to 10 of them.

In 1999, Frank, a Chicago native, compared his earlier research to images from NASA’s Polar satellite, which he believed supported his theory. However, again, scientists in the field objected to his findings.

In an opinion piece published by the Washington Post and The Des Moines Register, Frank described the painful experience of advocating for an unpopular idea in the scientific community.

Frank also discovered the theta aurora, a light phenomenon that looks like the Greek letter theta hovering above the polar cap.

Frank is survived by two daughters, Jessica Frank of Iowa City and Suzanne Frank of Waterloo, a brother, Clyde Frank of Virginia, a sister, Emilou Woods of Colorado and a grandson, Taylor Bergstrom of New York.

A memorial service is scheduled for 10 a.m. Tuesday at the Gay & Ciha Funeral and Cremation Service in Iowa City. Friends may call from 4 to 7 p.m. today at the funeral home. A private interment is planned.
