
A pile of garbage is heaped on a road in the El Omrane neighborhood of Tunis. While there is no apparent human effort to remove it from this residential area, a group of cows has encircled the trash, picking through it for something to eat.

Waste management has been a persistent problem in Tunis. Trash overruns some streets and mountains of garbage accumulate in certain corners of the city. A new Facebook campaign calls for citizens to take “selfies” of themselves near piles of garbage to create awareness of the problem.

Khamais Ghanem owns a shop near the Sidi el-Bahri market in Tunis, and complains of the effects scattered trash has on the neighborhood’s well-being.

“Near the market, cats, rats, and other animals proliferate near garbage. This can cause serious health problems for all the residents,” he told Tunisia Live.

In Tunisia, 2.2 million tons of domestic garbage are produced every year, according to the National Waste Management Agency.

The trash problem has reached the point where a special municipal police force will be deployed by the Ministry of Interior to monitor and enforce rules of cleanliness and environmental protection, state news agency TAP reported earlier this month .

“The major problem is lack of human and financial resources and the absence of a good waste management policy,” Khamais Ghanem said.

Some, however, blame municipal waste management workers.

Hafedh, who runs a small shop, says trash workers will often not work unless they are directly supervised by a superior.

“They are not committed,” he says.

Trash collectors reject this criticism.

He says waste management services are undermanned and under-resourced.

Workers “are not complaining about their situation even if there is a lack of protective equipment and of staff,” Ouerteni said. “There is a lot of work to do with little staff,” he added, saying more dumpsters, workers, and trucks are needed.

Multiple attempts to reach the municipal government of Tunis for a response were unsuccessful.

Saber Ouni, a young trash collector in Tunis, says residents freely litter.

“Some people are really careless. They do not respect the environment and their neighborhood, throw their garbage in the middle of the street or just in front of their houses,” he said.

“The dangerous waste, the poor protection equipment and the very low wages (minimum wage),” are the reasons of dissatisfaction of the municipality workers, according to Bechir Ghidaoui, a trash collector in Ariana. While some work with modern garbage trucks, others like Ghidaoui are armed with only a small cart and a broom.

He feels waste management workers are unfairly criticized for the Tunis’ trash problems.

I have been living in Tunis for ten months and the garbage problem should be a national disgrace.  I agree that there should be more resources directed at garbage pickup and trash collections.  There should also be receptacles in parks for people to throw away their trash.

But for some Tunisians to blame this all on the government is ridiculous.  People throw things on the ground and make no attempt to find a trash can.  Children eat snacks and throw the paper on the ground.  Men throw their cigarettes and packages on the ground.  Rather than paying for garbage service, people pile garbage on the street.

Carthage Theater Days statue display in downtown Tunis.

Carthage Theater Days statue display in downtown Tunis.

Carthage Theater Days statue display in downtown Tunis.

Carthage Theater Days statue display in downtown Tunis.

Carthage Theater Days statue display in downtown Tunis.

Carthage Theater Days statue display in downtown Tunis.
