
United Nations peacekeeping missions routinely avoid using force to protect civilians who are under attack, intervening in only 20 percent of cases despite being authorized to do so by the UN Security Council, an internal UN study found.

"There is a persistent pattern of  peacekeeping operations not intervening with force when civilians are under  attack," the report by the Office of Internal Oversight Services  said.

"Peacekeepers are absent from many locations when civilians come  under attack, and when they are present, are unable or unwilling to prevent  serious physical harm from being inflicted," the 26-page report said.

Of 507  incidents involving civilians that were included in UN reports between 2010 and  2013, 101 sparked immediate response from peacekeepers, the report  said.

Presented this week to the UN General Assembly Fifth Committee,  which deals with the UN budget, the report focused on eight of 10 UN  peacekeeping missions with a Security Council mandate to protect civilians:  Lebanon, Liberia, Ivory Coast, Haiti, Democratic Republic of Congo, Darfur,  Abyei and South Sudan. It excluded the newest operations in Mali and Central  African Republic.

"While no mission can be expected to protect all  civilians all the time, each can reasonably be expected to provide protection in  areas of highest risk," the report said.

"Force was mostly likely to be  used to protect civilians when troops were engaged in self-defense or defense of  UN personnel and property."

The top 10 contributors to the UN's almost $8  billion a year peacekeeping budget are the United States, which contributes 28  percent of the budget, Japan, France, Germany, United Kingdom, China, Italy,  Russia, Canada and Spain.

Countries interviewed for the report that  provide peacekeepers for UN operations said the risk to their troops was higher  than they would accept. Some of them have entirely ruled out the use of force.  The biggest troop contributors are India, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Ethiopia, and  Rwanda.

"The reality is that the United Nations cannot fully protect  civilians while the troop contributing countries do not instruct their  contingents to do all they can, including using force as a last resort when  civilians are under attack before them," UN Under-Secretary-General for Internal  Oversight Services, Carman Lapointe, told the Fifth Committee on  Tuesday.

The report found that operational and political constraints  within missions were at odds with their legal authority and mandate to act and  that some missions "perceived themselves as weak, outnumbered and stretched  across vast areas, making the use of force only a paper option."

The UN  Department of Peacekeeping Operations and the Department of Field Support said  the study had missed the chance to fully assess implementation of mandates to  protect civilians.

"It focuses on a last resort option - the use of force  - which we should expect and hope will be a rare occurrence where missions have  so many other tools at their disposal," the departments said in a statement  included in the report.

"We are concerned that the approach of the report  overemphasizes one element of military action and devalues the importance of  political solutions and other aspects of the comprehensive approach peacekeeping  operations take in implementing their protection mandate," the statement  said.

Any unauthorised use or reproduction of bdnews24.com content for commercial purposes is strictly prohibited and constitutes copyright infringement liable to legal action.
