
Moves to transform the site of a landmark former church into a care home and medical practice have been thrown into limbo, it has emerged.

An outline plan for a three-storey building on the old Mellish Road Church site, which stands on a main gateway into Walsall town centre, was lodged with the council.

This was for doctor and dentist use on the ground floor and 38 bed care home on the first and second floors.

It was earmarked that the basement of the proposed building, on the corner of Lichfield Road and Butts Road, could be used as a public hall.

But the proposal for the land has been deemed void due to an incomplete application, according to a decision notice on the Walsall Council website.

It is the latest blow for the fire-ravaged site which is passed by thousands of motorists a day and has been standing derelict for several years.

The historic church was demolished in 2011 after suffering structural damage and becoming a target for vandals.

It had been empty since the early 1990s and the council was eventually forced to step in to make sure it was demolished.

The church was built on the site of an old limestone mine and the land is believed to be owned by an unnamed consortium.

The Government had to agree to demolition of the building after the owners eventually agreed it should come down.

There was initial objections to the pulling down of the church despite it being at the mercy of vandals and arsonists.

Objections were raised by the Victorian Society, Save Britain’s Heritage and 20th Century Society. Some residents sent letters to the council against demolition.

English Heritage eventually removed its concerns paving the way for the structure, which was left to rot, to be pulled down.

Regeneration chief councillor Adrian Andrew said there was a need for the site to be redeveloped and use as a health centre or residential would be a suitable use.

"I wish the owners would pull their finger out and get a valid planning application in," he said.

"The council had to step in to sort out the derelict building. We have got a nice little shopping area there. We need to get this site developed."

The council has been looking to step in with long-term empty buildings.

Vacant properties which have been standing derelict have been earmarked for compulsory purchase powers.

If steps are not taken to clean them up by owners the council could then acquire them by voluntary negotiation or compulsory measures.
