
Dimapur: Far away from their “God’s Own Country” started a tale of culture mix in the Naga valleys. The Malayalis have much to share than mere stories of their settlement in Nagaland.

Though the first ever Malayali community in Nagaland cannot be traced back, but the prominent migration of Malayalis was witnessed during the mid 1970’s to early 1980’s. The Gulf loving community (as 88% of the NRI’s from Kerala are settled in Gulf countries) came in huge numbers to Nagaland as teachers, government officers and a few business men.

Due to the insurgency problems in Nagaland then, the community kept very quiet until the first ever Kerala Samajam (Dimapur) was formed in 1983, largely as a library club. The Kerala Samajam dealt only with the circulation of Malayalam texts and magazines, so that the community people and the children don’t lose touch with their land and language. As time passed, the Malayali community saw many deaths among its members and obstructions came up in sending the bodies to their homes in Kerala. This was when the Malayalis felt an urgent need for a community living and an active Kerala Samajam.

Back then, in many areas of Kohima, where modern education was non existent, a lot of Malayalis worked as compounders. Though their basic occupation was to give away medicines, many Malayalis also acted as doctors, who were warmly welcomed by the Nagas. This was due to the absence of professional doctors in the interiors of Nagaland.

At the same time, many Malayali men married Naga girls, leading to cultural integration. “The Nagas gave Malayalis utmost respect and hence, they didn’t mind marrying their daughters away to Malayali men. Though not much of cultural integration could happen as the cultures vary widely but this resulted in many Malayalis settling in Nagaland permanently. Amalgamation of cultures wasn’t even a question as many a times, these marriages were forced. Sometimes, the man might already have a family in Kerala and he marries to a Naga girl, only to satisfy the Naga customs and traditions and settles down here permanently. But now the scenarios have changed”, said Radhakrishnan, a businessman in Dimapur.

At present, there are many young Malayali men are married to Naga women and are well accepted both in Nagaland and in Kerala. Maintaining a healthy relationship has become much easier between the two communities. The celebration of Onam festival is an example of growing relations between the Nagas and the Malayalis.
