
Now then, now then. The catchphrase of the now-disgraced cigar-wiggling TV icon used to raise a smile, or at least a squirm. Now it’s a chilling reminder of how determined, malevolent men can hide in plain sight.

Then Jimmy Savile was able to live a high-profile life in the full glare of TV cameras, with everyone knowing who he was, and yet still get away with the most despicable acts against children and vulnerable people, something which is now casting long shadows.

Then his fame, instead of making him curtail his behaviour, emboldened him. When he was interviewed by police, in a matey-matey, kindly-sounding atmosphere, he scorned his accusers. The finger-pointing – who turned their back, who looked the other way within the police, within the BBC, within the health service – continues.

Now though, one good outcome is that it is making others who indulged in seedy, unacceptable, illegal behaviour begin to think that their luck may have run out.

One such Savile-ite was a Welsh scoutmaster who, Mold Crown Court heard, was accused of being involved in a secret paedophile ring in the 1970s.

Martyn Tucker, watching the Savile scandal unfold from the safety of his Chester home, began waiting for that inevitable knock on the door. The 68-year-old knew his victims would be watching the toppling of the TV hero too and may have thought the time had come for their stories to be told – and listened to.

That big-fisted police knock on the door came last summer. Tucker, so the court heard, was relieved to come clean.

Yet, in further echoes of Savile, it emerged that the Scout movement had been told what was going on in the 1970s. The court was told that those in charge then asked a number of boys what had happened to them. Statements were written up and kept in the Scout movement’s HQ but the police were never informed.

Tucker abused Scouts he was entrusted to look after when he was assistant scoutmaster of the Whitchurch Scout troop on the Cheshire/Shropshire border.

He was also manager of Foster’s menswear in the town and would take boys to the changing rooms and abuse them there. He also took boys with him to Bristol, where he let another, unknown, man abuse them.

The list of shame continues. It is stomach-churning to read, a carousel of abuse masquerading as healthy lifestyles, wholesome activities.

While canoeing in Llangollen, he was joined by an unknown primary school teacher who also indulged in sex acts with the Scouts. In all, Tucker admitted 26 sexual offences – offences committed in plain sight. At one time Tucker even worked as a legal executive dealing in, wait for it, social welfare issues.

The charges originally included male rape but prosecuting barrister John Philpotts told the court that male rape was unknown to the criminal law at the time the offences were committed.

Tucker admitted, between 1968 and 1978, 12 charges of indecent assault on young boys, nine charges of indecency with a child and five charges of another illegal sexual act. The court heard how the defendant was domineering and the victims had been in considerable pain.

Judge Niclas Parry was scathing as he passed sentence, saying what Tucker had done was a grave betrayal of trust. He said there had been “a deliberate, calculated, sophisticated grooming process ... to fulfil your thirst for excitement and thrill-seeking” at the expense of victims.

“You created safe locations to offend against them, you exploited your power for your own sexual gratification, and showed a total disregard for their physical and psychological wellbeing,” he said.

Ironically, the publicity surrounding Savile was credited by Judge Parry himself as creating the environment in which victims of historic child abuse felt empowered to come forward.

In Tucker’s defence, it was said that “he knew that one day judgement day would come. Judgement day has come today”.

The court accepted that for 36 years he had not abused young boys, had supported his family and raised thousands for charity.

Now. Then. Now. Then.

What do you think about this story? Have your say by leaving your comments below.

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

Join us on social media.

For the latest local news straight to your Twitter, Facebook feed, e-mail inbox or tablet .

WalesOnline.co.uk conforms to the newspaper industry's voluntary Code of Practice, administered by the Press Complaints Commission.

If you feel we have made an error in a report, or have fallen below our usual high standards, please write in the first instance to: Ceri Gould, Online Editor, WalesOnline.co.uk, Media Wales, Six Park Street, Cardiff CF10 1XR. Tel: 029 2024 3672.

We reach over 1,384,563* unique users a month with dedicated coverage of all things Welsh.

WalesOnline is part of Media Wales, publisher of the Western Mail, South Wales Echo, Wales on Sunday and the seven Celtic weekly titles, offering you unique access to our audience across Wales online and in print.

Ceri has been editor of WalesOnline since April 2012. She was previously executive editor of Media Wales and deputy editor of the Western Mail. She started her career on the Glamorgan Gazette.
