
Several local towns received grants Monday from the state's Small Town Economic Assistance Program. The maximum award is $500,000.

Five local towns received grants Monday from the state's Small Town Economic Assistance Program.

Bethel, Newtown, Redding, Ridgefield and Sherman were among 28 towns to receive the grants, which fund economic development, community conservation and quality-of-life projects.

Ridgefield, which received the maximum $500,000 grant, will use the money for streetscape projects.

"We have been doing great work in improving Main Street and our business district," state Rep. John Frey , R-Ridgefield, said.

Ridgefield's grant includes $320,000 for Phase III of the Danbury Road Streetscape project. The work will include installing decorative streetlights, new sidewalks and retrofitted handicapped ramps for pedestrian safety.

Ridgefield will use another $180,000 for the final design and construction of exterior improvements to Town Hall. The work will include the reconstruction of existing walkways and stairs, installation of new lighting, and drainage improvements to improve site safety and aesthetics.

Bethel will receive $430,000 for the installation and repair of sidewalks for eight streets in town.

"This is something that we have been wanting to put together for quite some time," said First Selectman Matt Knickerbocker , who hopes to start construction on the project this summer.

"We have some broken sidewalks, at times, forcing people to walk in the road. Fixing them will make things safer for kids walking to school and commuters walking to the train station," he said. "It will put local contractors to work, too. I couldn't be happier."

The upgrades in Bethel will provide pedestrian and handicapped pathways to the Downtown Business District as well as the Metro-North train station.

Sherman will receive $205,000 to build a public works wash station, including an underground tank to catch any water-contaminating elements. The station will be used to clean road salt and magnesium chloride from public works vehicles to lessen corrosion on the vehicles.

"I became aware of the need for the wash station after I was elected. During a tour of the public works department, I was dismayed at the condition of our fleet," First Selectman Clay Cope said. "We have some very expensive equipment and no way to clean it.

"The wash station will also put us in compliance (with the state Department of Energy and Environmental Protection ). The tank will be pumped out and the contents disposed of properly. (Candlewood Lake) will be protected from runoff. We're one of the five lake towns and the health of the lake is always a concern."

Newtown will receive $500,000 for the Hawleyville Sewer Extension Project, while Redding will get $342,000 for parking lot improvements to the Mark Twain Library .
