
Share This Story!

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Franklin Special School District summer feeding program delivers food to children.

FRANKLIN  – Summer is an exciting time for children to enjoy time with friends and family. But for many children, summer can mean a time without food, Franklin Special School District officials say.

For the fifth year, the FSSD is partnering with the Tennessee Department of Human Services and  the U.S. Department of Agriculture to offer a summer food service program to local children. This program helps to bridge the hunger gap by providing free food to kids at community sites during June and July.

The 2014 Summer Food Service Program kicks off Tuesday, May 27. The program’s goal is to make sure any child who needs breakfast or lunch can receive it, so there are no forms to fill out or qualifications to meet.

Any child under 18 is eligible to receive breakfast and lunch through the program at no cost. Adults may purchase a meal for $3.

The FSSD will host three dining sites throughout the summer, excluding the week of June 30 through July 4.

Breakfast is available 8-8:30 a.m., and lunch is available from 12:15 to 12:45 p.m. Monday through Friday, May 27 through Aug. 5.

Please enter through the school’s multipurpose room entrance, adjacent to the staff parking lot at the side of the building.

Breakfast is available 8-8:30 a.m., and lunch is available from 12:15 to 12:45 p.m. Monday through Friday, June 9-20.

Breakfast is available 8-8:30 a.m., and lunch is available from 12:15 to 12:45 p.m. Monday through Friday, July 7-25.

Community partners receiving food service from these cafeterias include the FSSD Morning and Afternoon Care  program, FSSD WeeMAC, The Franklin/Williamson County Boys & Girls Club, Franklin Housing Authority, The Gentry Foundation, Williamson County Parks & Recreation at Academy Park, Franklin Estates Mobile Home Park and FSSD Young Scholars at Liberty Elementary.
