
All subjects in the police blotter are presumed innocent until proven guilty in a court of law.

Domestic Violence: Officers responded to the report of domestic violence between a female subject and her ex-boyfriend. The ex was determined to be the primary aggressor and was booked into Enumclaw jail for assault in the fourth degree and a no contact order was filed.

Trespass: Officers responded to the report of a possible trespass in progress at a vacant building. The suspect was arrested on an existing warrant.

Stolen Gas: A subject called to report her vehicle's gas was stolen while it was parked at a Bonney Lake retirement center. There was no suspect information available.

Animal Control: Officers assisted Metro Animal Control officers at a McGhee Drive residence to enforce a court order. After several lengthy attempts, the subject would not allow the officers to count her animals, as the judge ordered. She was informed she may face criminal charges and a copy of the report was sent to the city prosecutor.

Mail Theft: A resident of 107th Street East reported her mailbox had been stolen. It was found pried open on a nearby hill. There was no suspect information available.

Driving Under the Influence: An officer on DUI emphasis patrol responded to the 19200 block of state Route 410. A witness reported the vehicle drifting across the roadway. Officers later located the vehicle and determined the driver was impaired. He was booked into Puyallup jail.

Shoplift: A SR 410 retail store asset protection employee witnessed a customer conceal merchandise in a handbag before leaving the without paying. She was trespassed from the property and issued a citation for theft in the third degree. She was released at the scene.

Shoplift: An officer responded to the report of a shoplifter in custody at a SR 410 retail store. She was issued a citation for theft in the third degree and trespassed from the property.

Theft: An officer responded to a SR 410 gas station for the report of three stolen propane tanks. No suspect information was available.

Flagged Down: An officer was approached by a group of citizens that said a possible domestic disturbance was in progress nearby. The male subject was found to possess two warrants and was arrested. He struggled but eventually began to calm down and was placed in the back of a patrol vehicle. The vehicle was impounded and charges against the female for possession of stolen credit cards were forwarded to the prosecutor.

Controlled Substance: An officer was dispatched to a SR 410 convenience store for the report of suspicious activity. He stopped one of the suspect vehicles and the passenger was found to possess a warrant, which he was arrested for, in addition to unlawful possession of a controlled substance. The driver was issued infractions for defective equipment and no proof of insurance.

Firearm: Officers were dispatched to the report of a physical altercation and weapon brandished at 69th Street East. The suspect was involved in an earlier incident with the reporting party's father at the park. The reporting person was found to possess a warrant and was arrested. The suspect was not found at the time of report.

Warrant: The vehicle of a known subject possessing an arrest warrant was seen by police on state Route 410. She was arrested and booked in to Enumclaw jail.

Suspended License: A man was pulled over on SR 410 for talking on the cell phone while driving. He was found to possess two warrants and a suspended driver's license. He was arrested without incident and a family member took possession of the vehicle.

Juvenile Assault: A juvenile runaway returned home and engaged in a physical altercation with her parents. Charges were forwarded to Remann Hall for review by the juvenile prosecutor.

Identity Theft: A resident reported a credit card was opened in his name by an unknown suspect. The investigation was to be conducted by an outside agency and no suspect information was revealed.

Burglary in Progress: Shortly before midnight, it was reported that two men were seen breaking into the merchandise bin at a Bonney Lake thrift store. Both suspects were arrested and subsequently released. They were issued citations for trespassing and possession of burglary tools.

Vandalism: An officer responded to the report of stolen gasoline from a company vehicle owned by a retirement facility.  A witness reported finding a small knife and puddle of gas underneath the vehicle. There was no suspect information available.
