
Voters approved $1 million for a suite of wastewater studies, $900,000 to dredge Rock Harbor and $150,000 for two new firefighter- paramedics.

Voters approved $1 million for a suite of wastewater studies, $900,000 to dredge Rock Harbor and $150,000 for two new firefighter- paramedics.

They said “No” to taking Aspinet Road by eminent domain, a bylaw change designed to regulate “McMansions,” and citizen-set regulations on how the police department would use stun guns, commonly known as Tasers.

And those are just a few examples of what they accomplished in five and a half hours.

A smaller than usual crowd – about 350 of 5,263 registered voters – gathered at the middle school Monday to tackle a 48-article annual town meeting warrant as well as seven articles for the special. Many of those at town meeting will weigh in again at the ballot box on Tuesday, May 20, as five of the articles approved require a Proposition 2 1/2 overrides.

One of the headliners of the meeting was $1 million for a compendium of wastewater studies: $300,000 for a utility survey and mapping – which would help answer questions about whether cheaper directional drilling can be used for infrastructure and if innovative treatment, or siting treatment plants beneath parking lots, can be used downtown; $510,000 for wastewater and septage management planning which includes screening of potential discharge sites, and evaluation of new technologies for advanced treatment of wastewater and septage at the Tri-town site – treatment that would not involve any discharge near Namskaket Marsh. The article also asks for $50,000 to carry out recommendations that would restore Cedar Pond and $50,000 to move forward on efforts to classify Rock Harbor as a boat basin to help in water quality efforts. The article also asked for $135,000 in professional engineering services for further studies on Namskaket Marsh and what needs to be redone to restore it.

Selectman David Dunford said the studies would help fill in “gaps” and answer questions residents – and members of the board – have. When that information is gleaned a solution to the town’s nitrogen pollution problem could be crafted. Plans, including a sewage treatment facility at the site of the current Tri-town septage facility, were brought forward in recent years but didn’t receive the required two-thirds approval. Many saw this article, which was supported by groups that had been on opposing sides before, as a way to move forward.

“If you defeat this article you are up the creek,” said resident John Nichols.

Dredging of Rock Harbor, which Dunford called a “public safety, community economy and community heritage issue,” was also easily approved. That vote, like wastewater, has to be affirmed at the ballot box. Eastham, which shares the harbor, already voted $700,000 for its share of the maintenance dredging which is needed every 10 years or so. At low tide boats sit on the mud.

Voters opted not to give the town authority to take Aspinet Road by eminent domain. The town’s appraiser said taking the road that leads to Nauset Spit would result in a nominal fee, but many said the unfriendly taking would cost the town millions in litigation costs. The vote was 165 to 113, but required a two-thirds majority.

After town meeting ended, around 11:45 p.m., selectmen did sign a five-year agreement that allows oversand vehicles to leave Nauset Spit on weekend and holiday afternoons via Aspinet. The agreement is much the same as last year, but with a more detailed management plan – which includes giving out numbers and staging people at the town annex when the beach is full – Hodgson and others say this summer will go smoother.

There are still a number of residents who say taking the road is the only recourse as generations of beachgoers had used Aspinet, as well as the main passage, Callanan’s Pass. It is only within the last few years, they said, that new owners have drastically limited access to Aspinet, leaving Callanan’s overburdened.

“I don’t think this has been well thought out at all,” said David Lyttle, an engineer.

Town meeting approved approximately $1.1 million in community preservation projects, about half of which goes to the town’s remaining debt on open space purchases. New projects approved include $15,000 for a town-wide trail guide, $350,000 to help fund group housing for autistic adults and $30,000 for Orleans community playground enhancement, but, bowing to citizens concerns, voters agreed to an amendment that wouldn’t allow access to the elementary school playground through the nearby Clayton Circle.

Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.
