
Your Post Has Been Launched!

Fabulous! Don't forget to share with your friends on Twitter and Facebook.

The RNC picks fights with liberal media over race, while Rand Paul talks policy with black Democrats. But mixed signals continue.

RNC Communications Director Sean Spicer later said their decision to escalate the flap with Ebony was meant to show black voters that Republicans took their votes seriously. “This was not meant to be provocative,” Spicer told BuzzFeed. “What this was really about was letting the readers of a very prominent African-American magazine know the Republican Party is fighting for their vote.” The message may have been lost in translation: In the days immediately following Ebony’s apology, more than 20,000 tweets were posted by Lemieux’s supporters carrying the hashtag #StandWithJamilah.

In the wake of the GOP’s bruising 2012 defeat, Republicans universally agreed that their party needed to find a way to appeal to people of color, or else face political extinction. But they didn’t agree on how to get it done. The result of this party-wide epiphany has been a confused jumble of outreach messages, with high-profile politicians, official party committees, activist groups, and media figures tripping over one another as they pursue their own strategies — and send mixed signals to minority groups in the process. Turn on the TV and you’ll see Sen. Rand Paul decrying the social injustice of the war on drugs, but change the channel and black Tea Party hero Ben Carson is calling Obamacare the worst thing since slavery. Open a newspaper and read about the RNC’s unprecedented efforts to reach minority voters in the midterms, but flip the page and red-state legislatures are trying to pass voter ID laws that would depress turnout among those same voters.

Of course, no political party — with its constellation of constituencies and outsize personalities jockeying for position — ever marches entirely in lockstep. But at a time when the party is spending millions of dollars building an infrastructure to facilitate outreach, many Republicans wish they could present a more cohesive message to minority voters.

After announcing early in 2013 that the party would spend $10 million on an ambitious minority engagement initiative, the RNC has hired at least 42 black and Latino field representatives, spreading them across the country in key states with the mandate to lay a permanent groundwork for future Republican candidates. They have recruited local surrogates, identified sympathetic business organizations and churches, and organized grassroots voter contacting. At the national level, Priebus has spoken at black colleges and given interviews to minority media outlets, preaching a gospel of inclusion and diversity.

At the same time, the RNC has continued its strategy of picking fights with liberal institutions over racial issues. When MSNBC tweeted a crack earlier this year about how “the rightwing” would hate a commercial featuring a biracial family, Priebus announced that the RNC would boycott the network until they apologized. By the end of the day, MSNBC’s CEO had fired the staffer responsible for the tweet, and asked the party for its forgiveness. The RNC also repeatedly called out MSNBC host Melissa Harris Perry after guests on her show made fun of a Romney family photo featuring Mitt’s black adopted grandson.

Spicer said part of the purpose of all this goading is to illustrate how the political biases of community gatekeepers often prevent Republicans from reaching voters of color.

RNC officials stress that they’re investing in a long-term strategy and that the results won’t always be immediately visible, but they do have one favorite statistic they like to pass along to reporters: From January 2013 to January 2014, the Republican Party’s favorability among black voters increased from 12% to 16%, according to a Wall Street Journal–NBC poll.

Meanwhile, Rand Paul has taken a somewhat different tack in engaging with the black community. The Kentucky senator, whose libertarian following allows him more latitude in defying traditional GOP orthodoxy, has been an outspoken advocate for softening drug laws, reforming the criminal justice system, and creating major tax breaks for areas in financial distress, like Detroit. He has also given high-profile speeches at black colleges.

Rather than seek out strategic fights with liberal black institutions to make a point, Paul’s aides say he tries to get their input and look for areas where they can align. To help do that, he has enlisted Elroy Sailor, an influential Republican lobbyist and strategist, to set up roundtable conversations with black community leaders and business owners — most of them Democrats — in Detroit, Chicago, Atlanta, and Houston.

Sailor said Paul has plans to meet with the NAACP and the National Urban League in coming months.

Paul’s approach has not been without missteps. He has expressed concern about how the Civil Rights Act curtails property rights. He has made his own problematic Obamacare–slavery comparisons , a favorite Republican blunder. And when he made news earlier this month by urging his party to lay off its voter ID crusade, he was forced to walk it back days later. But there are signs that he’s building goodwill among people of color: A poll released Saturday showed 29% of black voters in Kentucky would favor Paul over Hillary Clinton in a 2016 matchup. Such an outcome would represent the best showing of any Republican presidential candidate in decades.

“If he runs in 2016, you might not see a lot of African-Americans switching over to becoming Republicans, but I think what you’re going to see is a lot of Paul Democrats,” said Sailor.

Not everyone is so sure. Greg Carr, chair of Howard University’s Afro-American studies department, credited Paul for giving a speech on his campus last year, but said he has a long way to go before he succeeds in changing students’ minds about the GOP. “A lot of them were asking, ‘Is this the Republican Party of Frederick Douglass or Ronald Reagan?’” he said.

Carr was also skeptical of the RNC’s claim that their dustups with black media were meant to appeal to black voters.

Ron Christie, a black Republican strategist and Fox News contributor, said that even if Republicans haven’t landed on a unified message, people of color recognize the party is taking an interest in their vote for the first time in many years.

I know, right? And there’s more where that came from.

Oops! It looks like you've already voted..

Sorry, you can only react up to three times.

Your link was successfully shared!

Note: once you save these links, they will no longer update automatically.

1.

2.

3.

4.

Note: once you save these links, they will no longer update automatically.

1.

2.

3.

4.

Hey! This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.

Don't forget to share! Want to add another one? Go for it!

This cannot be undone.

BuzzFeed is currently working with select partners to help them track what’s hot on their sites using the same advanced social tracking and analytics tools used on BuzzFeed.com.

Hey, I saw this on BuzzFeed and thought of you.

Your email has been sent!

Oops! We had a problem sending your message. Please try again later.

Great! You'll get your first email soon.

Thanks for sharing.

Please try again later.
