
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

WEST SPRINGFIELD - The Community Preservation Committee has advanced $237,500 in Community Preservation Act funds to the Department of Public Works water division to pay 45 percent of the cost of buying 43.5 acres in Southwick and Westfield adjacent to West Springfield’s main water supply at the Southwick Well Fields.

Currently, the Southwick Well Fields operates four wells, with roughly 380 acres owned by the city, said Mark Noonan, conservation officer.

There are no plans to develop the additional 43.5 acres for water supplies currently, he said. However, the purchase will allow West Springfield to add wells in the future.

The total price of the entire 43.5 acres, as of May 2014, is estimated at $579,310, said Paul Boudo, committee chairman. The owner of the acreage is the Popowich Realty Trust.

At total of about $252,000, or 45 percent of the cost, is being financed from Community Preservation Act funds approved by the Town Council, with an additional $246,500 coming from the Drinking Water Supply Grant, he said. The Conservation Preservation Committee advanced $237,000 of the $252,000 in funding.

The West Springfield Department of Public Works will provide $80,000, he said.

The 43.5 acres, as part of an agreement in the Drinking Water Supply Grant with the State of Massachusetts must be restricted to passive use and water supply consumption only.

The Department of Public Works will likely make the transaction for the property sometime before June 1, he stated.

In June, when the Department of Public Works potentially finishes its purchase, a house on the property must be torn down because it has an antiquated septic system, which will be decommissioned to avoid contamination, he said.

According to the West Springfield Department of Public Works, in 2013, water usage in West Springfield was 1.3 billion gallons of water. 1.29 billion gallons of that total water usage was from the Southwick Well Fields.

Check here if you do not want to receive additional email offers and information.

You are now signed up for our Breaking News newsletter. You will receive occasional emails from us as stories break.  To view and subscribe to any of our other newsletters, please click here .

© 2014 MassLive LLC. All rights reserved ( About Us ).
