
Share This Story!

For the third straight year, St. Paul residents have had to rescue ducklings from the same street grate where hatchlings always seem to fall.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

After two and a half hours of rescue efforts by neighbors and members of the St. Paul Fire Department, this mother duck was reunited with her 12 ducklings in St. Paul, Minn. on Saturday, May 17, 2014. The ducklings were stranded underneath a storm sewer grating.

ST. PAUL, Minn. - For the third straight year, a group of St. Paul residents have had to rescue ducklings from the same street grate where hatchlings always seem to fall.

The St. Paul Pioneer Press says the mother duck hatches her brood on someone's lawn, but the ducklings inevitably fall one by one through the grate.

Fourteen ducklings hatched Thursday. Trish Pearson, whose parents live nearby, heard a chirping in the storm sewer Saturday. She and other neighbors, along with firefighters, spent more than two hours herding the ducklings into an area where they could be grabbed using bare hands and a rake.

After grabbing the last of 12 ducklings trapped in a sewer, Nikki Syring, left, coddles it as Trish Pearson holds up a bucket filled with rest of the ducklings who fell into the street gutter in St. Paul, Minn. on Saturday, May 17, 2014. Neighbors and members of the St. Paul Fire Department saved all 12 ducklings.

Twelve ducklings were recovered alive. They were reunited with their mother, who has learned to wait nearby. She and a male duck rushed toward the babies, and the peeping pack waddled toward a golf course.

A St. Paul Fire Department rescuer attempts to grab some 12 ducklings trapped in the sewer in St. Paul, Minn. on Saturday, May 17, 2014. Neighbors and and fire department personnel saved all 12 ducklings.

Copyright 2014 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
