
A US court on Monday convicted Islamist preacher Abu Hamza of terrorism and kidnapping as well as promoting “violent jihad” in fiery sermons both before and after the September 11, 2001 terror attacks.

Hamza, whose real name is Mustafa Kamel Mustafa, faces a possible life sentence.

Egyptian-born Hamza, 56, was accused of providing material support to terrorist organisations by enabling hostage takers in the Yemen kidnapping to speak on a satellite phone, by sending men to establish an al-Qaeda training camp in Bly, Oregon, and by sending at least one man to training camps in Afghanistan.

He was extradited in 2012 from Britain, where came to prominence in for his fiery sermons at London’s Finsbury Park Mosque in the 1990s. These sermons reportedly attended by both September 11 conspirator Zacarias Moussaoui and shoe bomber Richard Reid. Hamza denied that he ever met them.

For much of the past month, jurors watched videotapes and heard audio clips in which Hamza shouted to his followers, telling them non-Muslims could be treated like animals and women and children who were not Muslim could be taken captive.

But they saw a gentler version of Hamza on the witness stand, one who spoke confidently in the tone of a college professor as he insisted he never engaged in acts of terrorism or aided al Qaeda.

His testimony over four days was derided by Assistant US Attorney Ian McGinley, who told jurors to ignore his lies and concentrate on evidence.

In his closing argument, McGinley read aloud the names of four European tourists who died in 1998 in Yemen after their convoy of cars was overtaken by extremist Islamic kidnappers to whom Hamza had given the satellite phone.  McGinley said a guilty verdict would provide a measure of justice for them and another dozen hostages who survived.

Hamza also explained how he lost both hands and part of his forearms in a 1993 accident when he helped the Pakistani military as a civil engineer.

Two women who were hostages in Yemen also testified. Margaret Thompson, of Texas, who was shot in the leg in a shootout between Yemeni forces and the kidnappers, limped into the courtroom to describe her harrowing 24-hour ordeal.

Mary Quin, a US citizen who now lives in New Zealand, testified that she escaped one kidnapper by putting her foot against his head and wrestling away his assault rifle after he was knocked to the ground by a bullet.

The government played clips of a taped interview Quin conducted with Hamza in his London mosque as she prepared to write a book about the kidnapping. McGinley told jurors Mustafa boasted to Quin about the kidnappings, saying: “Islamically, it is a good thing.” McGinley said that statement belied Mustafa’s claims that when he spoke to the lead kidnapper during the crisis, he tried to be a peacemaker.

In his closing, defense attorney Jeremy Schneider warned jurors not to let their judgment be overrun by the emotion of the terrorist acts they heard about repeatedly, including the 2000 bombing of the USS Cole that killed 17 American sailors and the September 11 attacks a year later, the memorial for which opened blocks from the courtroom during the trial.

“The vast majority of the evidence is his words, not his deeds,” he said, adding that his client’s statements were taken out of context.

“Many times, his words aren’t connected to what he did,” Schneider said.
