
Last Modified: Sunday, May 18, 2014 at 11:03 p.m.

The Norris High School Class of 1964 will have its 50th graduation anniversary this weekend. There will be meals and games, and even an “Amazing Race” that includes finding historic and favorite locations from their high school days, according to organizer John T. Smith.

Norris High served Attalla’s black community from 1949 until 1969, when it closed because of integration. Before that, Attalla Junior High was the city’s school for blacks.

Smith, who lives in Silver Spring, Md., said the Class of ’64 had 32 graduates, and 22 are still living. He said 16 graduates plan to attend the reunion.

The class had a reunion luncheon last year, Smith said, and everyone enjoyed it so much the decision was made to have a 50th anniversary this year. He said class members were close while they were in school, and the activities will give them a chance to renew friendships.

Helen Bothwell helped organize the event, and Smith said he’s pleased with the expected turnout.

There will be a catered lunch Friday at Norris Community Center, at which class members will be honored by the Attalla City Board of Education. There also will be a tour of Attalla, and class members will have an evening of “fun and games” at the Fairfield Inn.

At 11 a.m. Saturday, there will be a memorial service at the school’s location to remember classmates who have died.

At 11:30 a.m., Smith said, class members will be given clues to find various historic locations and other places in Attalla that were popular while they were in school.

“It’s finding locations that we shared and enjoyed as youth, or what was present in the neighborhoods throughout the city,” he said.

He said at those locations — all in Attalla — there will be orange and green (the school’s colors) mailboxes containing clues as to the next location.

There will be a class social Saturday evening.

Sunday, class members will attend a local church. That afternoon, they will visit four classmates in the area who are sick or have health issues.

Shopping, fishing trips and a cookout on Memorial Day will wrap up the activities.

Norris School has an overall reunion every two years. Smith said he plans to talk with organizers of that event about urging individual classes to have similar reunions to the Class of ’64’s.
