
An Adrian man who started his career as a corrections officer was recently presented a top award from the Michigan Department of Corrections for his work as a parole and probation officer.

Brian Teske said he had no idea he would be called up to receive the department’s 2014 Director’s Award during a ceremony in Lansing on May 7.

“I was very shocked, very humbled,” said Teske.

Teske was one of 19 department employees from around the state picked to receive professional excellence awards this year.

“The Director’s Award is presented to the employee who has demonstrated the most outstanding job performance and professionalism during the year,” said department spokes­man Russ Marlan.

The recipient is selected from employees who earn the professional excellence award, he said, which is based on exemplary job performance throughout the year or performance and professionalism shown in significant or long-term projects. The department’s executive policy team, made up of the director, the chief deputy director and the three deputy directors, selects the Director’s Award recipient, Marlan said.

Teske was nominated for his work in organizing the Monroe County Gang Coalition that involves federal, state and local law enforcement agencies. The project was in addition to his duties as a parole and probation officer at the department’s Monroe County office.

Local police were noticing unfamiliar people in the community, and Teske said he made connections with the other agencies and researched gang symbols, tattoos and information to help identify gang presence and activity.

“It’s making the community a little more aware,” he said.

Teske was recently transferred to the department’s parole and probation office in Washtenaw County, where he said he is starting a similar coalition project.

Teske started his career in corrections in 1997 as a uniformed officer at the Parr Highway Correctional Facility in Madison Township. He was promoted to sergeant after five years. He was promoted to parole and probation agent five years ago.

He said he welcomed the challenges that come with the assignment.

“We seem to be always working. We get contacts 24 hours a day,” he said.

“I like working with law enforcement, and I like helping the guys stay crime-free and to improve their lives,” Teske said.

Teske said his work in creating the gang coalition was possible because of the support of his supervisors, as well as his family.

“I was taught growing up if you work really hard you’ll definitely succeed,” Teske said. He said he is grateful to see that lesson proven true.

Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.

Your privacy is important, read our privacy policy.

Original content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted.
