
According to one of the residents James Kimondo, over 30 traders and residents suffered huge losses owing to the inferno.

He estimated the property lost from his retail shop and house to be worth over Sh200,000.

Nyeri OCPD Adiel Nyange said that police officers have started investigations to establish the cause of the fire.

He thanked the members of the public who rushed to the scene before the fire fighters arrived to put out the fire.

Property estimated to be worth millions of shillings was Friday night razed in Waka, Nyeri County by a fire whose cause could not be immediately established.

According to one of the residents James Kimondo, over 30 traders and residents suffered huge losses owing to the inferno.

Mr Kimondo said that he saw the fire emanating from a nearby salon at around 2.00pm and he rushed out of his house screaming.

“I was only half-dressed and well-wishers have given me the clothes I am wearing now. I salvaged nothing from my house,” he said.

He added that his affected neighbours were also unable to recover anything from their houses and business premises.

He estimated the property lost from his retail shop and house to be worth over Sh200,000.

Paul Murega is another resident counting losses following the fire incident.

Mr Murega said that he operated a shoes shop in the burnt premises which also housed him.

He said that on the fateful night, he was working as a night guard in a nearby estate when he was called and informed that his house was on fire.

“I work hard selling shoes during the day and then work as a guard at night so as to earn an extra coin, only to get these results. I feel totally helpless,” he stated.

He noted that he had left Sh50,000 in the burnt house as he had been unable to take the cash to the bank that day.

Mr Murega estimated the value of the entire burnt property to be worth millions of shillings as residents operated businesses and lived in the same premises.

He said there was a power blackout at the time of the incident and the residents were yet to find out the cause of the fire as it was unlikely that someone was cooking at the time of the incident.

While confirming the incident, Nyeri OCPD Adiel Nyange said that police officers have started investigations to establish the cause of the fire.

Mr Nyange said he could not immediately approximate the value of the property lost in the incident as some of the affected residents were in a still state of shock.

He thanked the members of the public who rushed to the scene before the fire fighters arrived to put out the fire.

“The damage could have been worse were it not for the quick response by the public and the fire department,” he stated.

He said that 24 residential houses and three shops were burnt.
