
The metro has a new superhero.

The Make-A-Wish Foundation made the dreams come true of a 6-year-old battling leukemia by letting him save the day as a crime-fighter named Muchacho de Hierro.

It all started with little Isai Rojas having breakfast with his family at Bob Evans, but then the evil villain KC Cucaracha struck, stealing a woman's purse.

Little did the evil villain know that Isai is really Muchacho de Hierro. He changed into his costume, stopped the evildoer in his tracks and returned the purse to the grateful citizen.

Isai's day wasn't complete, though, as he got word that KC Cucaracha struck again at LegoLand Discovery Center, stealing all of the Legos. Muchacho de Hierro showed up to a hero's welcome and proceeded to search throughout LegoLand, looking for the ne'er-do-well. He caught the villain in the act, taking him out with a punch - or three - and throwing him into Lego jail.

"It was very, very tense, very exciting so he arrived at the beginning, came through the doors, he looked through the attraction, located the villain and saved our Legos. What more could we ask for?" said Joanna Hobday with LegoLand.

For Isai's reward, he got a Lego superheroes play set.

KCTV5 got word about noon that KC Cucaracha broke out of jail and turned up at a Sporting KC practice. He had the audacity to pose with the MLS Cup the team worked so hard to win last season.

Luckily, Muchacho de Hierro showed up, chasing the evildoer around the field, into the net and ending his nefarious plans to disrupt the champs' practice.

"It's amazing. You know, it's a dream for him so we're really happy that this is coming through for him," said Gustavo Rojas, Isai's dad.

The scoundrel KC Cucaracha also made his way to Bonner Springs, KS, but Muchacho de Hierro arrived and ziplinned in to thwart his dastardly deeds there as well.

Little Isai wasn't tired and said he was ready to continue his battle with the evil KC Cucaracha.

"I'm ready for more," he said. "I never get tired."

The day was not done, however, as the two took the fight to Kauffman Stadium where Muchacho de Hierro was finally able to put the villain away for good.

"He'll be talking about it (this day) for God knows how long," said Idania Melgar, his mother.

The day ended with some lucky Royals players and Sluggerrr getting to hang out with the now-famous superhero.

The entire Kansas City metro thanks you, Muchacho de Hierro.

Copyright 2014 KCTV (Meredith Corp.) All rights reserved.

An 88-year-old woman from Hamden was seriously injured after she let in an uninvited visitor Sunday night.

Fort Lee officials say a soldier has died after she likely shot herself at the post Monday morning.

In less than a minute the officers knew they had the wrong car.

All content © 2014, KCTV; Kansas City, MO. (A Meredith Corporation Station) and WorldNow. All Rights Reserved.
