
But, apart from the stiff anti-incumbency they faced and the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena's sudden disappearance from the Mumbai scenario, there are several other factors that caused less high profile candidates to topple the incumbent MPs.

In the Mumbai South Lok Sabha constituency, for example, Congress candidate Milind Deora lost by 1,28,148 votes to Shiv Sena's Arvind Sawant. Congress leaders say the Gujarati population of the area, traditionally BJP voters, have preferred Deora to Sena candidates in the past - but not this time. Those who voted for Deora in 2004 and 2009 have clearly supported the Shiv Sena's lesser known former Member of the Legislative Council, with a view to seeing Modi as PM. The Maharashtra Navnirman Sena, which ate into the Shiv Sena's votes in 2009 and helped the Congress win, fared poorly this time. MNS MLA Bala Nandgaonkar, who finished second in 2009, could poll only 84,000-odd votes this time.

"Despite Deora being a popular candidate in the constituency, we could not match the marketing of the BJP and Modi," said Amin Patel, Congress MLA and a close aide of Deora.

In Mumbai South Central Lok Sabha constituency, two-time Congress MP Eknath Gaikwad was defeated by a Shiv Sena corporator, Rahul Shewale, by a margin of 1.38 lakh. The Dalits of this constituency had voted comprehensively for Gaikwad in 2009, but the division of Dalit votes this time between Gaikwad and Shewale and the resentment among locals about the delayed Dharavi Redevelopment Project led to Gaikwad's defeat. "Most of the congress workers also were unhappy with the functioning of Gaikwad and they did not work for him," said a Congress leader adding that the MNS factor also did not help Congress. This time, most Maharashtrians were aware that voting for MNS meant voting for Congress.

In Mumbai North Central, Congress candidate Priya Dutt faced a great deal of opposition from within the party itself. Congress leaders such as MLA Kripashankar Singh and Minister Naseem Khan reportedly kept themselves out of Dutt's election campaign. "It was one of the major factors for her defeat," said a Congress leader from Dutt's camp. The internal strife, which led to Chief Minister Prithviraj Chavan intervening just weeks before polling, dealt a body blow to her campaign -- Singh and Naseem Khan are hugely powerful local leaders who wield their influence extensively in their Assembly constituencies. Dutt was also seen as being more sympathetic towards slum people than the people living in the high profile areas such as Bandra and Khar. Also, BJP candidate and newly elected MP Poonam Mahajan got the advantage of being a Maharashtrian. Apart from Marathi votes in the absence of the MNS which did not field a candidate, the Gujarati people voted en masse for Mahajan, say Congress leaders.

In the Mumbai North West Lok Sabha constituency, former Union Minister Gurudas Kamat had to face flak from the public due to his disconnect with them as an MP. Kamat had spent most part of the last year travelling with Rahul Gandhi on his campaigns in Rajasthan and elsewhere. Interestingly, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi 's visit to fishermen in this constituency did not work for Kamat and it seems that people chose Modi over Rahul Gandhi. "All Hindus in the constituency voted for Shiv Sena candidate and Modi," sadi Devendra Amberkar, Congress opposition leader in the BMC and a close confidante of Kamat.

In the Mumbai North Lok Sabha constituency, sitting MP and Congress candidate Sanjay Nirupam lost to BJP's Gopal Shetty by a margin of 4.46 lakh, Mumbai's largest margin. While Shetty got the support of the Gujarati and Marathi community, Nirupam was being perceived by the people as a north Indian leader with nothing to show for his five-year term.

In the Mumbai North East constituency, NCP candidate Sanjay Dina Patil, widely seen as a non-performing MP, lost to BJP's Kirit Somaiya who won by a margin of over 2 lakh. AAP candidate Medha Patkar came third with 76,000 votes, mainly from her support base of slum dwellers and Muslims from the Govandi-Shivaji Nagar area. Patil's poor performance and disconnect in the constituency except a few areas has had the most impact on the outcome. "We thought Marathi people may opt for Patkar over Somaiya. But, the Marathi people stood behind Somaiya to see Modi as PM despite Patil and Patkar- two Marathi candidates- being in the fray," said a BJP leader.
