
The peak-hour jams on the MTR are due to the city's record number of workers rather than the increasing number of mainland visitors, a government adviser says.

"People complain that mainland travellers are making our traffic very busy. But the major reason is that the number of employees [in Hong Kong] has risen by more than 100,000 over the past two years," executive councillor Cheung Chi-kong said.

Cheung, who was speaking during a forum yesterday, said people who blamed mainland visitors for the city's crowded trains were reaching the "wrong conclusion".

Hong Kong's unemployment rate stands at only 3.1 per cent.

Government documents showed that during morning peak hours, the East Rail and Tseung Kwan O lines run at full capacity. The West Rail and Tsuen Wan lines run at 99 per cent and 98 per cent, respectively, and the Island and Kwun Tong lines both operate at more than 90 per cent capacity.

The government has been urging the MTR to come up with measures, such as reintroducing concessions for travel before peak hours, to ease congestion.

Commerce and Economic Development Secretary Greg So Kam-leung said earlier this year that the number of tourists in Hong Kong could reach 100 million by 2023.

At the time, he said increased tourism could have an impact on Hongkongers. "Some passengers may not be able to board the MTR and would have to wait for the next train," he said.

Democratic Party lawmaker Wu Chi-wai said Cheung was ignoring the fact that the increased number of people moving around in the city was the result of the individual visit scheme.

He said Hong Kong's economic structure, under which many workers travel south for work, played a part in the congestion, but that the impact of visitors could not be ignored.

This article appeared in the South China Morning Post print edition as MTR jams 'caused by workers, not tourists'

That is what Chinese call : Do not expect ivory from a dog's mouth !

And putting the blame on rise of commuters does nothing to solve the problem. The gov should be thinking how to improve the situation instead of finger-pointing.

But then Cheung is always saying ridiculous things.

Well, fine, if that is the case, then why isn't MTR leadership banging the drum for action?  Because it's a dysfunctional property development company that happens to own a mass transit system and it is dependent upon government land grants to keep the profits coming in.  The commuters can go hang.

It's made worse by the Planning Dept and Transport Bureau's ill-conceived bus fleet constraint  policy.  The policy was foolishly imposed to reduce traffic congestion and road side pollution ( as as forcing the elderly and poor onto the MTR) but it has been total negated by allowing the  explosive growth of private cars and other private vehicles. These planners need their heads examining!

There has definitely been an increase in private cars, but it's not explosive growth by any means.
