
Except for when politics gets in the way.

A price on carbon may be the obvious choice for policymakers in Beijing, Brussels and Sacramento. Yet, Washington is playing a different game.

It’s where more than three years of work on a common-sense, bipartisan  energy-efficiency bill  dies the Senate filibuster death because of election-year politics. And where a senator and likely presidential candidate  denies climate science in the same news cycle that gave us two independent studies showing that the melting of the West Antarctic ice sheet is likely  irreversible  – and expected to flood large parts of his own state of Florida over the coming centuries.

All this political craziness limits the White House to pursue climate policy through executive action , largely via the Clean Air Act of 1970. One incarnation comes in form of long-overdue  carbon pollution standards  for new and existing power plants.

Are they any economist’s first choice for limiting carbon? No, but given that pricing carbon via a federal cap or tax isn’t on the table at the moment, the only relevant question now is whether carbon pollution standards are good in and of themselves. Yes, they clearly are.

The Clean Air Act of 1970 and its 1990 Amendments consistently pass benefit-cost tests with flying colors.

These benefit-cost calculations don’t yet include carbon pollution standards, though we can already say one thing: The number crunchers at the Office of Management and Budget will make sure that benefits of any rule do, in fact, outweigh the costs.

Over the past decade, the average environmental rule enacted by two Administrations – George W. Bush and Barack Obama – has passed the benefit-cost test by more than 10 to 1 . That ratio for the Environmental Protection Agency, by the way, is higher than any other government agency, including, for example, Homeland Security.

Of course, costs would be lower with a direct price on carbon. But the benefits of regulating carbon will be all the same. Each ton of carbon dioxide pollution causes  at least about $40  of damages to health, ecosystems, and the economy. Overall, there are  billions of tons of carbon pollution  that can be removed at low, no, or even negative costs – well below the $40 or more in benefits.

Pollution comes with a price. The only question is  who pays , and with what consequences. Instead of pushing the costs onto all 300 million of us – all 7 billion, really – it’s clear that polluters can and should pay for the full costs they cause. Whether the policy of choice is carbon caps, taxes, or power plant carbon pollution standards, that principle is all the same.

Gernot Wagner is an economist at the Environmental Defense Fund and author of But Will the Planet Notice? (Hill & Wang/Farrar Strauss & Giroux 2011). Gernot teaches at Columbia, graduated from both Harvard and Stanford, and blogs at gwagner.com. He doesn’t eat meat, doesn’t drive, and knows full well the futility of his personal choices.
