
Both incumbent Ramone Gumke and challenger Dwaine Heinrich see the current residential and commercial infrastructure as obstacles to James- town’s growth.

And both candidates consider development, particularly industrial projects such as the Dakota Spirit AgEnergy ethanol plant and the Spiritwood Energy Park Association as major opportunities for Jamestown.

 Gumke said housing and workforce are obstacles to growth here, while Heinrich sees city infrastructure in general as the biggest issue.

Developers previously had to cover 100 percent of the infrastructure costs for streets, sewer and water. Two years ago, the City Council reduced the upfront cost to 25 percent and allowed 75 percent to be charged to special assessments.

Heinrich, a former city councilman, is also concerned about the city’s infrastructure.

He cited the former C.H. Carpenter Lumber Co. location as one example.

The two candidates differ on whether the Jamestown/Stutsman Development Corp. should play a part in residential infrastructure and development.

The JSDC Board of Directors recently debated offering programs to help finance the costs of infrastructure related to residential development. Jamestown Mayor Katie Andersen proposed a plan in which the JSDC would cover the costs of special assessments for developers until the properties sell and recover those costs then. The board took no action but placed the topic on a future agenda.

Gumke said residential infrastructure is not the JSDC’s primary mission.

“The upfront buy down of costs with a payback to the JSDC when property sells should be the limit,” he said.

Heinrich and Gumke both see industrial development as the greatest opportunity for Jamestown.

Gumke also sees the area’s best opportunities in the things it has to offer manufacturers.

In 2012, CHS announced plans to construct a nitrogen fertilizer plant at Spiritwood. In April, it announced a delay in making a final announcement, although CHS officials have said the construction of the plant is still its priority.

The candidates also differ on whether the community is ready for growth. Gumke felt the planning process needs to continue, while Heinrich voiced concerns about paying the costs of growth.

Heinrich said planning is only part of the preparation for growth.

They also had differing opinions on the Menards project and the tax increment financing and sales tax rebates the city extended to the company. The agreement the city has with Menards provides for 15 years of tax increment financing and up to 25 years of rebating half a percent of the city sales tax back to Menards.

Heinrich said the cost of the incentives was not considered by the residents.

The election is June 10. Polls will be open from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. Other city races include mayor, Jamestown Parks and Recreation Commission and Jamestown Public School Board.
