
The Linn-Mar Music Department is offering a new pilot program for youngsters, and residents have an opportunity to give it their support.

Beginning immediately, the "Music Connects" pilot program will make available scholarship support and the free use of musical instruments so students with financial concerns can participate in band or orchestra.

Members of the community are invited to make donations to the Linn-Mar Foundation. These donations can be financial contributions or they can be the donation of an instrument in good condition. So check your closets, and see what you might have that can help connect students with music.

Flyers and other information have been available already at music concerts and information is also posted on the school website. It is going to families on parent nights and will be circulated in other ways as well.

Music teachers have worked with all fourth graders to find those who have talent and want to take lessons. The student and parent/guardian can indicate an instrument of choice on a form. If the student chooses the orchestra program, he or she can play the violin, viola, cello or string bass.  In the band program, the choices are flute, clarinet, cornet or trombone.

Steve Stickney, Linn-Mar high school band director, told us that the kids are so excited to play the instruments. They will be able to participate in a six-week summer program for beginners and then move right into the regular program in the fall.

He said they will learn how to take care of their instruments at the very first lesson and will carry them home so they can practice to their hearts' content.

The students will meet twice a week for 50 minutes each time and will be in groups numbering four to six members.

The summer lesson program for band beginners will run from June 9 through July 18. The orchestra beginner program will run from June 9 through July 25.  Both programs will be located at Excelsior Middle School. The cost is $90 dollars.

Band directors from Oak Ridge and Excelsior - along with Kevin Makinster, fifth grade band director - will be the instructors. They include Brett Dupree and Stephanie Nuss from Oak Ridge, and Shawn Sandersfeld and Steve King from Excelsior.

The orchestra instructors will be Kristine Schamberger, Kelly Vieth and Katie Vail. All teach strings in Grades 5-8.

You are asked to provide as much information as you can about the instrument. Useful details could include the manufacturer, the year the instrument was made, the model number and the instrument's condition.

If you wish to utilize the instrument donation for tax purposes, you are asked to get it appraised, since the school district cannot do a formal appraisal for you. It also is the donor's responsibility to consult with a tax person to clarify the tax guidelines to follow.

There are further instructions for donations of any instruments believed to be worth $5,000 or more. See the school website for this information, or inquire of someone in the music department.

Beyond that, simply arrange for delivery. That may be dropping it off in person or shipping it. When a staff member has received the instrument in good condition, the Linn-Mar Foundation will send a letter describing the instrument and acknowledging receipt.

You can make a monetary contribution to the Linn-Mar Foundation and specify that it go toward the "Music Connects" program. Funding will be used to provide music, other materials (such as reeds, valve oil, etc.), and help defray the cost of lessons and future upkeep of the instruments.

For years, studies have shown the importance of music in people's lives. As Stickney put it, "Music enhances everything in our lives - the happy times, the sad times."

In May 2013 a group of music teachers across the state of Iowa - 14 in instrumental and 7 in the vocal area - made available a document they wrote entitled, "Iowa Core Companion - Fine Arts Alignment With Iowa Core Universal Constructs, Instrumental Music and Vocal Music, Grades 5-12." It is available to any school district and describes how music ties in with all of the components of the Iowa Core, including the following:  critical thinking, complex communication, creativity collaboration, flexibility and adaptability, and productivity and accountability.

Then, in the summer of 2013, Stickney attended a symposium at Yale, a sort of think-tank about the positive outlet and academic benefits music provides. He came home with the idea of providing music to a wider number of students, and "Music Connects" at Linn-Mar was born.

Stickney admitted that it will add to the work of his staff. They already know there probably will not be funds to hire more staff anytime soon. However, he noted, "We are doing this not to make more work, but because it is the right thing to do."
