
The state is in preliminary discussions about adding a second daily train from Lynchburg to Washington, D.C.

The idea, raised during talks regarding U.S. 29 around Charlottesville, has no timeline or complete budget but officials say they will be actively pursuing the possibility.

"It is something we will work hard to make accomplished," Virginia Transportation Secretary Aubrey Layne said during an appearance in Lynchburg last week.

The current Amtrak line has been highly popular since it debuted in 2009 and praised for its high ridership and revenues. It is one of two passenger trains that pass through Lynchburg each day, but the only one dedicated to the Lynchburg to D.C. route.

Shannon Valentine, who as a former state delegate was credited with bringing the train to the city, said the line has become the most profitable regional passenger rail service in the nation.

"We certainly have demonstrated that there is an incredible need and that we were indeed underserved," she said.

Valentine, who earlier this month was appointed to the Commonwealth Transportation Board, said while the current discussions still are in their early stages, she hopes to make the idea a priority.

"I think it's very important to Lynchburg to get this second train," she said last week at a regional public hearing. "As we are looking at multimodal transportation solutions, we want to make sure in our highways, our rail service and our transit service that Lynchburg is a hub for Central Virginia."

The current interest in attracting a second train was sparked by the debate over how to ease congestion on U.S. 29 around Charlottesville after federal authorities hit the brakes on the contentious bypass proposal.

State officials convened a regional panel to discuss alternate ideas and presented a new package of proposals to the CTB earlier this month.

The proposals included earmarking $5 million of the unused bypass money to support a second Lynchburg train.

Virginia Department of Rail and Public Transportation Director Jennifer Mitchell said the U.S. 29 panel is what kick-started current train talks. There were no ongoing negotiations before, she said, and the talks remain very preliminary.

Securing a second train would require consent from CSX, Norfolk Southern and Amtrak. The state likely would contribute to the associated infrastructure and equipment costs and provide an annual subsidy to defray the train's operating expenses.

The full cost of the project remains unknown, but $5 million only would cover a portion. The estimated cost of a second trainset alone is about $20 million, Mitchell said.

"We still have a lot of details to work out," she said, adding track upgrades also would be needed.

However, Mitchell added, the state believes there is enough demand in the area to justify a second train.

"We're going to be working really hard on it," she said.

No target start date for a new train has been set. Amtrak referred questions to Mitchell's department.

The U.S. 29 recommendations did not have unanimous backing from the panel of local stakeholders convened by the state.

Some points of concern among the Charlottesville-area representatives included proposals to pursue grade-separated interchanges at some intersections.

Lynchburg representatives said they felt the final proposal didn't do enough to serve the original mission of improving traffic flow along the core corridor of U.S. 29.

Layne - speaking Thursday at an event organized by the strongly pro-bypass Lynchburg Regional Chamber of Commerce - urged attendees to think of the proposal as a positive first step.

"This is the beginning of an answer," he said. "It is not the answer. But we cannot afford to go another 30 years and not have action on this project."

There will be additional studies about the long-term needs of the corridor, Layne said, and the state hasn't ruled out pursuing a bypass again.

But he added that would be a long-term endeavor and likely would need to be much larger than the bypass design that was on the books.

Layne said he agrees the current proposal does not address all existing problems, but reiterated he believes it will be the fastest and most pragmatic way to get some solutions built after years of inaction.

Ed Craighill, chair of a local transportation advocacy group and a member of the U.S. 29 panel, said he felt the region ought to give Layne a chance.

"The bypass is not going to be built," Craighill said. "Everybody just needs to accept that."

Craighill said he would have reshuffled some of the priorities in the final proposal submitted to the CTB, but added "it is what it is and we need to move forward."

"I really think Sec. Layne is sincere about this, and we need to give him a chance," he said.

On the issue of a second train, several local representatives, including Craighill, were dubious about whether it would help traffic conditions on U.S. 29.

But officials were uniformly supportive of the rail service and efforts to expand it. During Thursday's meeting with Layne, all of the local speakers - including City Manager Kimball Payne, Liberty University's Barry Moore and Region 2000's Gary Christie - spoke highly of the train service.

"We need a third [passenger rail] line," Craighill said. "And if that's something this area gets out all of this whole Charlottesville debacle, we certainly should be thankful that that may happen."

The CTB will vote on the U.S. 29 recommendations next month. If it accepts the proposals, the projects will be incorporated into the state's new six-year transportation improvement plan.

Posted in State-regional on Sunday, May 18, 2014 11:55 pm. Updated: 11:59 pm.

We're always interested in hearing about news in our community. Let us know what's going on!

Metro columnist and reporter for The Times-Dispatch who's never afraid to take sides on hot-button issues in Central Virginia.

RTD political reporter and columnist, Schapiro has covered Virginia elections and the state Capitol for 30 years. He warns, however, not to read or watch his commentary on a full stomach!

To log in, enter the email and password for your Times-Dispatch All Access account.

Need more information about All Access? Get all of the details here .
