
As the crisis between Russia and Ukraine continues, the Czech government has offered to send four Saab Gripen C fighter aircraft to any of its neighbours that request them. In light of this, the country's air force will be showcasing the type as both static and flying displays at this year's ILA Berlin Airshow being held from 20 to 25 May.

While the offer of fighter-assistance has so far not been taken up, the Gripens remain on standby should tensions in the region escalate. Meanwhile, 2 of its 14 Gripen C/D aircraft have been released to ILA.

The Czech Republic is one of five operational users of the Gripen C/D (the UK Empire Test Pilots School [ETPS] also uses a single aircraft for training and trials), and while production of the next-generation Gripen E has now begun, Saab has sought to reassure those customers of the current variant aircraft that they will not be left behind in terms of future capability.

Speaking at the company's Linköping production facility near Stockholm in mid-March, Lennart Sindahl, head of the Aeronautics division at Saab, said development of the C/D platform will continue along side that of the Gripen E. He added future upgrades will be rolled out to maintain the type at the forefront of capability and will include enhancements to the Ericsson/BAE Systems PS-05/A mechanically-scanned (M-Scan) radar.

"The international users [the Czech Republic, Hungary, South Africa, Thailand, and the UK ETPS] will be operating the C/D long after Sweden [has moved on to the Gripen E], and we need to look after them," he said.

With the final C/D block upgrade for the Swedish Air Force (SwAF) being the MS 20 standard (MS 21 will form the initial Gripen E configuration), future C/D upgrades will be designated MS 20+, and the like.

On 13 May, the Czechs announced they are to upgrade their Gripen C/D aircraft with encrypted communications suites, NATO-compatible datalinks, and helmet-mounted night vision goggles.

Despite ensuring that current Gripen operators are supported into the future, Saab's efforts will now be chiefly devoted to the Gripen E, production of the test platforms, for which work was commenced earlier in 2014.

Saab is under contract to rebuild 60 of the SwAF's 75 Gripen C airframes into Gripen Es (although this may increase to 70 under recent government proposals to strengthen national defence in light of the Ukrainian crisis). The air force's 25 twin-seat Gripen Ds will remain in service as operational trainer aircraft until all Gripen Es have been delivered in 2026.

Although the current contract is to convert Gripen C airframes into Gripen Es (the SwAF has so far received 95 of 100 C/D aircraft that have themselves been converted from the A/B standard), there are only a very limited number of parts and components that can be cross-decked between the two. These comprise the windscreen and canopy, the outer elevons, the ejection-seat, the internal gun and conveyor system, and some other ancillary equipment. Further to this, Gripen E customer Brazil (Switzerland rejected its procurement in a national referendum on 18 May) is requesting a number of Gripen C/D fighters to act as stop-gaps, all of which must come from the current SwAF inventory. Given these issues, it is highly likely that the production contract will be amended to reflect the 'new-build' nature of the Gripen E airframe.

The current twin-seat Gripen Next Generation (NG) aircraft (company serial number 39-07) will continue system trials and work related to the development of tactical systems throughout this year. According to Saab, the first of three Gripen E prototypes (39-08) is to make its maiden flight in mid-2015, and will be used mainly for airframe and general flight control tests. The second prototype (39-09) will be flown as a tactical systems testbed in 2016, with the third (39-10) to fly as a production standard airframe in 2017.

Despite being vastly more capable that the Gripen C, the Gripen E will actually be cheaper to develop, procure, operate, and sustain, Lars Ydreskog, VP Head of Aero Operations, Aeronautics, told reporters in Linköping in March. According to Ydreskog, the Gripen E has cost 30-50% less to develop than the Gripen C (with the Gripen NG demonstration programme being completed at just 40% of the overall predicted cost).

The SwAF is set to begin receiving its Gripen E aircraft in 2018, with Brazil due to receive the first of its aircraft within 48 months of a contract being signed. Negotiations are ongoing and are expected to be completed by the end of the year.

According to officials, Saab is currently in discussions with Malaysia and has received interest in the Gripen from Botswana, with other export hopes said to include Belgium, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Indonesia, Latvia, Lithuania, Peru, Portugal, and the Philippines. While the company was unable to say at this time precisely which countries are interested in the Gripen C/D and which in the Gripen E, officials noted that Saab is aiming to sell between 300 and 450 Gripen C/D/E aircraft over the next 20 years, which equates to approximately 10% of the accessible global market.
