
Pediatricians have a new prescription for schools: later start times for teens.

VICTORIA - Google Earth may soon extend it global gaze to some of the most remote First Nations territories in Canada.

"I've always wanted to do that!" This was the standard response from anyone who learned I was riding Via Rail's Canadian from Vancouver to Toronto this summer.

In the next federal election, for the first time, the NDP and leader Tom Mulcair will campaign as official Opposition. Mulcair sat down with Citizen parliamentary bureau chief Mark Kennedy to discuss his plans.

A.  The good news is we’ve still got a very strong social conscience, but we’ve also got a lot of experience, leadership, and we can deliver.

A.  The political party in Canada with the best record for consistent balanced budgets is the NDP. We’re prudent public administrators. You know why? Because we always have to prove that we are … The only real exception to that has been Bob Rae (when he ran the Ontario government in the early 1990s). And we all know who he was with at the end of his political career.

A. It’s always been implicit that we would not touch personal taxes. I’ve made it explicit. We’re saying that personal taxes will not be touched. That’s a firm undertaking. That’s a contract with the Canadian voting public on our behalf.

A. I think that we have. I’ll give you what I have done for the past three days. I was at Bloomberg in Toronto — a group of 150 business people. I got a very good reception. I’m talking the same thing there that you’ll hear me say, as I did to an environmental group. I’m talking about sustainable development, but I’m also talking about certainty for them in the projects that they want to bring forward.

A. I am acutely aware of that. Every meeting we have, there’s not a day that goes by where we don’t focus-group that amongst ourselves. We say, OK, we know that this is the biggest challenge we have. And in part it has to do with the Bob Rae legacy in Ontario. So we know that there’s always that shadow out there. But when we get to talk to people about what we’ve done in the provinces where we have been in power … they have governed well.

A. Unanimity.

Q. It’s not easy to do. I think you’ve also said that there would be annual first ministers’ conferences.

A. There will be two a year. There will be two Council of the Federation meetings per year — one in Ottawa and one in a province or a territory on a rotating basis.

A. Because I’m not afraid to talk with the provinces and the territories. I’ve come out of provincial government. I don’t see them as enemies. This is a confederation.

A. Never.

A. On a bunch of issues we’re going to send our stuff forward, and frankly as it’s brought over and if they’re thinking of defeating something that has been duly enacted by the elected members of the House of Commons, my answer is going to be: Go ahead and make my day. We’re going to talk with the provinces as I have been doing for over a year. I’m going to keep going across Canada to try to build support for getting rid of this antiquity to replace it with, frankly, a unicameral system.
