
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

AMHERST TOWNSHIP, Ohio – Lorain County Engineer Kenneth Carney was arrested on suspicion of domestic violence Friday after police received a report of a dispute at his Quail Hollow home.

His live-in girlfriend told officers he was arguing with her and the argument eventually became physical, a police report said. Carney, however, told officers that his girlfriend made up the story, the report said.

When Lorain County Sheriff's Deputies arrived at his house around 9:30 p.m., they couldn't hear any signs of a disturbance, but saw Carney running out of the house, car keys in hand, according to the report.

Police said Carney's eyes were glossy and bloodshot, and it was clear that he had been drinking, the report said.

Carney's girlfriend told officers that the two began arguing about something petty roughly an hour before police arrived, and he then pushed her into a wall and screamed at her, according to the report.

Police noted Carney's girlfriend did not appear injured, but said she wanted to file charges, according to the report.

Carney admitted the two had argued, but said she fabricated the story in which he became physical with her, the report said.

As of 12:15 p.m. Monday, Carney was still being held at the Lorain County Jail, according to the prisoner list. A court appearance is scheduled for Tuesday.

He's been arrested multiple times in the past, most recently in January 2006 when he was pulled over on suspicion of drunk driving in Cleveland. Police said he refused to take a sobriety test.

Carney pleaded guilty to drunk driving charges and served 14 days in jail.

In March 2004, he was arrested after police found him lying on the side of the road near an Amherst bar. He was eventually found guilty of disorderly conduct.

Carney pleaded guilty to his first drunk driving charge in December 2001. He was given a suspended jail sentence and his license was suspended for six months.

He was convicted of assault in 2000 for striking his then-girlfriend with a bag of cheeseburgers and then his fist.

Tony Giardini, chair of the Lorain County Democratic Party, asked residents not to compare his previous arrests to this one.

"He wasn't driving and he wasn't in public," Giardini said. "It's like comparing apples to oranges."

He said he knows both Carney and his girlfriend, and said they're both fine people who have been caught in an unfortunate situation.

"It's a shame this happened," Giardini said. "But now it has to be dealt with."

Carney has served as Lorain County's engineer since 1989. He ran unopposed in 2012, but in 2008 and 2004, he faced opponent Thomas Hesmond in the Democratic primary and defeated him handily both years.

Hesmond sent campaign literature to Lorain County voters prior to the 2008 general election reminding them of Carney's criminal history.

Despite his arrest record, the Lorain County Democratic Party endorsed Carney in 2008.

He told the Chronicle-Telegram of Elyria prior to the 2008 general election that he had been sober for two years.

Carney continues to be re-elected, Giardini said, because he does a good job as the county's engineer.

"He brings money into the county, takes care of the roads and bridges and works very well with the area mayors," he said.

Check here if you do not want to receive additional email offers and information.

We look forward to sharing with you some of the great content found on cleveland.com.   To view and subscribe to any of our other newsletters, please click here .

cleveland.com is powered by Plain Dealer Publishing Co. and Northeast Ohio Media Group. All rights reserved ( About Us ).

The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Northeast Ohio Media Group LLC.

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
