
Some thoughts about Belle Fourche and Newell High School grads and where they're headed.

My Dad said that the painting is almost exactly him as a kid, and of Margaret Bates.

It's one of South Dakota artist Harvey Dunn's pieces that is available as a print from South Dakota State University. It's titled "After School."

There's a rural one-room school - with an outhouse at one side - and a boy and girl headed across the rolling prairie toward home. School's out.

When there was a horse available, Dad said he'd ride to school, but he and Margaret, a neighbor about his age, often would walk together to and from that one-room school.

The future of those two kids raised in South Dakota in the 20s and 30s is what may be of some interest - and of some insight into where our Butte County kids might find themselves.

I first met her when Dad had headed back to school in Mitchell where he'd graduated high school. He returned in the late '50s to finish an undergrad degree before heading "back east" for grad school.

She was a violinist. A pro who made her living with her fiddle in a symphony orchestra. The last, I think, was the Minnesota Symphony.

More than that, she was a fiddler.

Unlike most "formally trained" violinists, that country girl could fiddle and grin and make anybody glad they could hear her play.

I was a high school freshman or sophomore at the time who played in the band - and I was awfully impressed by Dad's onetime schoolmate.

Her country school classes with Dad led to their Mitchell High School graduation.

For Margaret it was then a music school and Grinnell College - where I'd also spent several years as a third-rate student of English and history.

Years later, when the Minnesota Symphony did a concert in a nearby town, I somehow got hold of her and took her to a dinner that lasted for hours as we talked.

She was a pro musician and at the time, I was a musical weekend warrior.

That made an interesting connection for a kid in his late 20s and a lady who was old enough to be his mother.

We talked of roads taken and roads not taken; of pride of profession and of music. Of what one gains and what one loses by taking one path in life over another.

That's what brings this together in my mind as I watch high school graduates march across the stage as I did around 50 years ago.

Dad ended up with a master's degree and a pathway he somehow felt he was meant to follow. There were potholes, to be sure.

Ditto life for Margaret.

"I envy you your music ... that you play what you like, when you want to play," she told me as if reflecting whether she might have taken another path.

Even in my relative youth at the time, I knew what she meant.

Grads, you have my best wishes.

Copyright 2014 Rapid City Journal. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site consitutes agreement to it's user agreement & privacy policy.

Hint: Enter a keyword that you are looking for like tires, pizza or doctors or browse the full business directory .

Username & Password Required!
