
Last week the American Immigration Council released its study about abuse complaints at Customs and Border Protection (CBP), one of the largest law enforcement agencies in America. Not surprising to me, the study revealed that out of over 800 complaints only 13 resulted in disciplinary action — and even in these cases, the most common response involved counseling for agents. The complaints varied from migrants being kicked and stomped after being detained, to being struck on the head with a flashlight, to verbal abuse and sexual assault. Many of the migrants I've spoken to never realized they could file a complaint nor were they ever given that option. In many cases, if they were to file a formal complaint, they would have to file it with the perpetrators themselves. With the vast majority of migrants not able to file formal complaints, the 800 or so in this study represent only a proportion of the larger abuses perpetrated by Border Patrol agents. But the lack of accountability is accurate.

It's common for big city law enforcement agencies across the country to publish protocol on their websites — and for citizens to oversee allegations of misconduct. Most have a strict reprimand structure designed to keep corruption to a minimum. The Border Patrol does none of that: procedures and training are kept secret from the public, and investigations are sealed. Findings are guarded from the public for the purposes of maintaining "national security." When institutions lack transparency, there's usually something to hide. The more I investigate the Border Patrol, the more I find that to be the case. It is increasingly disturbing that other organizations and journalists are corroborating my original findings of abuse within the ranks of the US Border Patrol, discovered years ago.  Allowing law enforcement to remain unaccountable is a recipe for disaster.

John Carlos Frey is a reporting fellow with The Investigative Fund at The Nation Institute.

The comments for this story have been closed. Thank you to everyone who participated.

The Investigative Fund provides support for the costs associated with investigative journalism to help improve the scope and quality of investigative reporting in the independent press and beyond. We emphasize reporting with the potential for social impact, on subjects ignored by the mainstream media. We publish work in a variety of print, broadcast, and electronic outlets.

Our editors accept proposals directly from reporters and editors. The first step is to email us a query and a budget request. It's useful to include information about what's enterprising about the research, your reporting plan, the story's potential impact, and what outlet is interested in the piece. Applications are reviewed on a rolling basis.
