
Login or Signup now to share stories and leave comments.

Login or Signup now to share stories and leave comments.

If Maryland veers farther left, it might one day fall into Deep Creek Lake, out where there’s room for an empty wasteland. Marylanders weary of do-good taxes and the notions and policies of the looney left have been packing up to leave. It’s good for the U-Haul business, but not for anyone else.

Alex X. Mooney , once a Maryland state senator, took his bags and furnishings to West Virginia, where last week he won the Republican nomination for that state’s open 2nd District congressional seat. Mr. Mooney was narrowly defeated for a fourth term in the Maryland Senate in 2010 after a lot of liberal Democratic voters were transferred to his district.

A new Gallup Poll asked a sampling of residents in each of the 50 states if they wanted to leave for more comfortable surroundings. Fully 47 percent of the Marylanders surveyed said they couldn’t wait to leave, making Maryland the third-most unpopular state, just behind Illinois and Connecticut, at 50 percent and 49 percent.

Gallup asked participants how likely is it they would actually move in the next 12 months, and Maryland came in fourth, with 17 percent saying they were “extremely,” “very” or “somewhat” likely to leave. Only 28 percent of those polled in West Virginia, to which Mr. Mooney fled, would move if they could (40th place), and just 9 percent (tied for second-least likely) said they’re likely to leave in the next year.

Virginians are mostly content, with 37 percent expressing a desire to move and 15 percent determined to get out, with the Old Dominion ranking at 15th in both measures.

Gallup noted that Maryland is among three states that rank among the bottom 10 in its other polls on resident satisfaction with “state taxes, state government and overall perceptions of how their state compares to others as a place to live.” The poll findings should be (but probably won’t be) a wake-up call for Gov. Martin O’Malley and the Democratic establishment in Annapolis as the ship of state veers further portside.

The latest example of leftward lurch is a law, signed by Mr. O’Malley last Thursday, promoting special rights for those who can’t decide whether they’re boy or girl. The law allows little boys to use the little girls room, regardless of what the girls or their parents think about it. This is an “important step to protect the dignity and equal rights of all Marylanders.” The governor himself apparently never got the lecture from his daddy about the differences between boys and girls. He might get an earful from the girls now (speaking of dignity) who won’t like making their toilets with little boys, being little boys, watching.

Mr. O’Malley and the General Assembly have busied themselves enacting the wackiest policies on the left’s wish list: Homosexual marriage, in-state tuition rates for illegal aliens, and the decriminalization of marijuana. They’ve come up with the most creative ways to extract taxes with schemes such as the rain tax and the flush tax. This is why so many Marylanders are looking for a cooler place to call home. They had best hurry. The governor and the Democrats may be working on a tax on baggage and moving boxes.
