
Gov. Jerry Brown will discuss California's response to climate change during an all-day forum hosted by the University of California's Giannini Foundation of Agricultural Economics. The event, which will explore the impact of climate change on the state's agriculture and natural resources, begins at 8:30 a.m. at the California Museum on O Street and Brown is scheduled to speak at 12:30 p.m.

But he has also drawn the ire of environmentalists for backing hydraulic fracturing, the controversial procedure for mining fossil fuels. Brown was loudly protested during his speech at the California Democratic Party convention in March.

Brown has defended his position as a way to secure broad support, including from the oil industry, for reducing the use of fossil fuels that contribute to climate change. "I'm kind of a missionary here," he said during an appearance in March.

VIDEO: A ballot measure to raise the cap on medical malpractice damages is the culmination of a decades-long, big-money battle, Dan Walters says .

IMMIGRANT DAY: Immigrants from across the state and their supporters from the California Immigrant Policy Center gather at the Capitol today to lobby for bills that would expand health care to undocumented immigrants and lower the cost of phone calls at local jails. A rally at 10 a.m. on the west steps includes Assembly Speaker Toni Atkins, D-San Diego, and Assemblyman Bill Quirk, D-Hayward.

UTILITY DIVERSITY: The Assembly Utilities and Commerce Committee holds an oversight hearing on increasing diversity within California's energy industry, particularly in board, executive and management positions, 3 p.m. in Room 437 of the Capitol.

HEALTH CARE UPDATE: Now that the first year of open enrollment for the health care exchange has ended, the focus shifts to implementing the program. How is it going in California? The Public Policy Institute of California hosts a discussions with state Secretary of Health and Human Services Diana Dooley and others, noon at the Sheraton Grand Sacramento Hotel on J Street.

LAST CALL: If you want to vote in the primary election on June 3 and have not yet registered, today is the deadline. Head over to registertovote.ca.gov for online voter registration.

CELEBRATIONS: Happy birthday to state Sen. Hannah-Beth Jackson, D-Santa Barbara, who turns 64 today.
