
An upscale Quaker college on the outskirts of Philadelphia became the scene of a mini-brouhaha on Sunday, when a commencement speaker admonished campus radicals for their intolerance and arrogance.

Former president of Princeton University, William G. Bowen, told a Haverford College commencement audience that the letter 40 plus radical students and three professors sent to another invited speaker, former UC Berkeley Chancellor Robert J. Birgeneau, was “immature” and “arrogant,” the Phildelphia Inquirer reported.

The left-wing students and three Berkeley alumni professors had castigated Birgeneau for his use of force in putting down campus protests in 2011 and demanded – demanded – that he publicly apologize, offer reparations to the victims, write a letter of explanation to Haverford and include “what he learned from” the protesters, and six other requirements.

Bowen came to his colleague’s defense.

His remarks drew a standing ovation but were not without their critics.

One of the offended teachers, Associate Professor of English Maud McInerney, complained, “It was an ambush. It is really unfair to shame students at their graduation. It’s a captive audience. That’s an abuse of power,” reported the Inquirer.

While Christine LeGarde, Condoleeza Rice, Ayaan Hirsi Ali and other commencement invitees have withdrawn recently due to leftist protestors, the veteran ex-Princeton president told his listeners better outcomes were possible.

Oh, there is still free speech, as long as you share the same opinions and views as the leftist loons.

When was the last time Whites had free speech? PC rules are for Whites only. Now Heteros as well. Less and less of us have free speech.

We all still have free speech, we have just allowed the left to intimidate us into being silent.

The so called left have matured to a little different group. You should now refer to them as progressive communist!

What happened is White guilt. It just snowballed from there.

In all the major wars over the last 200 years, whites (and other races) have made the supreme sacrifice and kept the faith.

The guilt is on the part of the blacks who sold their family and countrymen into slavery.  And the guilt is on the Arabs who held whites in slavery for hundreds of years.  And the guilt is on the blacks holding school girls in slavery today.   If you want to have guilt on skin color and ethnicity, then include all the blacks, Arabs, and other races and ethnicitys, and stop blaming all the world’s slavery on whites.  Whites bought slaves from blacks in most cases, and even the first black slave established by law in America was owned by a black!     So, let’s stop the racism against whites!

Why should we be guilty about being born white?  If God had wanted you to be born of another color somewhere else, you would have been.

Obviously!

Factually!

We’re not talking about a private institution, we are talking about an individual.  The venue of his comments has no bearing on his right to free speech.  Don’t try to spin the facts.

I’m not spinning anything.  I was responding to the ignorant comments about freedom of speech.  The 1st Amendment has no bearing on this conversation as there are no government entities involved.  It’s sad how many of you have no understanding of the Constitution.

Amazing isn’t it?  High schools still teaching mostly fluff I see when they should be teaching basic contract, con law, and STEM curriculums and less worthless crup that students and industry can’t use.

I still hear people whining about how an individual or job “violated their constitutional rights” when in fact (as you point out)  it is actually hard, (and most of the time not possible at all) for people to violate the constitutional rights of others.

**Basically**, and generally speaking, unless we’re talking about agents of a state/fed government, one’s const. rights aren’t “violate-able”.

Yes, it does.  It applies to every American citizen whether in a public or private  venue.  It is a constitutional right, not for only when and where someone wants to eliminate it.  That said, it may not be proper. But certainly a legal right.

You don’t have a clue.  Although it does apply to every individual, it does NOT apply in the private sector.  The 1st Amendment was written to prevent the GOVERNMENT from censoring your speech.  No one else.  There is no government involvement in a private university, therefore, you can be censored there.  God help us if you are incapable of understanding this and continue this ignorant line of thought.

Actually it does cover every American, whether at a government or private facility.  I’m not saying it’s proper, only saying it’s covered under the “free speech amendment “.  The Amendment does not specify what venue is covered and which is not.  If the administration feels they do not want that talk there, they can ask the person to stop or they can ask them to leave. If they ask them to leave and that person refuses, they can be charged with trespassing, not for the fact they said something that may have been inappropriate.

And you are shining example of why we have an Obama in the White House.  You are wrong.  You do not know what you are talking about.  You can keep on saying the same ignorant, uneducated crap, but you are wrong.  The 1st Amendment does not protect you in any private setting.  Here’s a little test for you.  Make a sign that says, “I hate Wal-Mart and walk in a Wal-Mart with it.  See how long you stay in Wal-Mart.  Now take a sign and write “I hate the Government” and walk into the Capitol building.  They can’t do anything to you.  It is sad you don’t see the difference and think “proper” has anything to do with it.  The 1st Amendment absolutely says who (venue) cannot censor your speech.  Now you have proven yourself mildly retarded, so you can continue babbling about free speech in a private business if you want.  Or you can learn something.  I doubt you will choose the latter.

That is horribly incorrect and is a text book example of people not knowing what the 1st Amendment says… just like relatively few people have a clue what impeachment actually is.

Good for him..its about time someone took a stand for freedom and free speech!

and…it’s called “doubled standards” AND BULLYING.

I have never seen such blatant, IN-YOUR FACE- dishonesty from Dems. It’s like they’re DESPERATE. I was a dem abt 20 years ago.  Didn’t like what they stood for, it was embarrassing.  I’ll not have that label under my name.  If reps dont get some SPINE, I’ll move on to Independent. AND, nothing will change if we don’t get out and VOTE! DEms won by cheating and republicans wouldn’t vote…cutting our nose off to spite our face. We can b—h, moan and groan all we want, if we don’t act on it, we get what we deserve…Putin.

It is not proper, but not illegal.  If it continues, it should be reported to the Dean or President of the University for possible disciplinary measures, if the school policy was violated.  If it is policy that this kind of behavior is not a violation or encouraged, you may want to rethink attending there.  You do not have the right to change their policy.

Absolutely, we have to get involved!  Through the years, we’ve compromised and become complacent…now look…”woe is me”.

The  7th paragraph……One of the offended teachers, Associate Professor of English Maud McInerney, complained, “It was an ambush. It is really unfair to shame students at their graduation. It’s a captive audience. That’s an abuse of power,” reported the Inquirer.

And spewing liberal doctrine to students in a classroom isn’t a captive audience?  What ever happened to teaching students how to think….giving them facts and letting them make their own decisions?   More evidence that the college experience is overrated.

Yea, that’s just it, they’re raising robots. Taken God out and put politics in….ONE-SIDED POLITICS.Clean house, I say.

an ENGLISH professor has no business preaching politics in her class in the first place. Like you said, spewing lib doctrine in her classroom isn’t a captive audience?, see, stupid, “they” can’t even think before “they” speak.  Lord help us!

Not only is a classroom a captive audience, but the teacher has the power to fail or pass you if you don’t capitulate to their doctrines and ideologies.

If you have contact with College students be prepared to politely debate and counter the leftist drivel indoctrination they are receiving with facts. First of all they will be dumb founded that you aren’t as stupid as they thought but hopefully it will make them think you might be right.

Typical leftist radicals, you can have free speech but if your views don’t agree with their leftist agenda then you must be shut down. These progressive little twits call for tolerance yet when your views don’t go along with their agenda, they are intolerant and they seek to suppress your right to free speech. Progressivism is indeed a mental disease. Hypocrites all.
