
PRINCE FREDERICK, Md. (May 19, 2014)—The Calvert County Sheriff's Office today released the following incident and arrest reports.

WEEKLY SUMMARY: During the week of May 12 through May 18, deputies responded to 1,383 calls for service throughout the community.

CRIME SOLVERS' CASE OF THE WEEK: Calvert County Crime Solvers and the Calvert County Sheriff's Office are seeking the public's assistance in identifying the person or persons responsible for the recent thefts from several vehicles in the St. Leonard area. Unknown suspect(s) stole property from the unlocked vehicles overnight between May 14 and 15. The vehicles were parked outside homes on Avenue C, Avenue D and Douglas Street at the time of the thefts. A Kenwood stereo, cash, a fishing tackle box, and a Brass Pro Shop gift card were stolen. Citizens with information on these crimes or any criminal activity in Calvert County who wish to report it anonymously can now access the Calvert County Crime Solvers link at www.CalvertCountySheriff.us or by calling 410-535-2880. If the information leads to an arrest and conviction, the caller may be eligible for a cash reward up to $1,000.

THEFT FROM VEHICLE CASE #14-26569: A victim reported to Dep. N. Lenharr that sometime on May 12, a 12 by 14 inch fire safe that contained over $16,000 in cash and jewelry was stolen from inside his vehicle. The victim reports that his vehicle had been parked outside the Prince Frederick Walmart between 3:00 and 3:30 p.m. that day but was locked. He states that the vehicle was unlocked for a short period of time while he brought groceries inside after visiting Walmart. It is unknown when or where the theft occurred. The investigation continues.

THEFT CASE #14-27053: Someone stole a gray Thule Raceway 3-bike rack from the back of a vehicle parked outside a home in the 12300 block of Western Circle in Lusby. Dep. W. Beisel is investigating the theft that occurred sometime overnight between May 14 and 15.

THEFT FROM VEHICLES CASES # 14-27064, 27070, 27074: Unknown suspect(s) stole property from unlocked vehicles overnight between May 14 and 15. The vehicles were parked outside homes on Avenue C, Avenue D and Douglas Street in St. Leonard at the time of the thefts. A Kenwood stereo, cash, a fishing tackle box, and a Brass Pro Shop gift card were stolen. Dep. T. Buckler is investigating.

DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY CASE #14-27548: Unknown suspect(s) pulled a stop sign and a playground sign out of the ground and spray painted a graduation sign in the Walnut Creek Subdivision in Huntingtown overnight between May 16 and 17. DFC A. Clas is investigating.

THEFT FROM VEHICLE CASE #14-27602: Someone entered an unlocked vehicle parked outside the Prince Frederick Safeway on May 17 at 4:30 p.m. and stole a black IPad 2 in a gray case valued at $700. DFC J. Livingston is investigating.

FRAUD CASE #14-27708: A victim on Dana Court in Prince Frederick reported to DFC R. Kreps that on May 15 she was on her personal computer when a window popped up that read that her computer had a virus and listed a phone number to call to have it repaired. The victim called the number and electronically paid the company, Zen Help Desk, to rid her computer of the virus. Shortly thereafter, the computer shut down and will no longer respond. Anyone with information is asked to contact DFC Kreps at 410-535-2800.

THEFT FROM VEHICLE CASE #14-27729: On May 17 between 6:30 and 7:30 p.m. a woman parked her vehicle along Bay Avenue in North Beach to walk on the boardwalk. When she returned to the vehicle she found one of the doors ajar and that a black IPad mini in a black cover had been stolen. Dep. N. Lenharr is investigating.

CDS VIOLATION CASE #14-27735: On May 18 at 2:49 p.m. DFC R. Kreps conducted a traffic stop on a vehicle at Md. Rt. 4 and Commerce Lane in Prince Frederick. He found the driver to be in possession of suspected drugs and charged Wilson Fuller Brooks, 54 of Alexandria, VA., with possession of marijuana less than 10 grams and possession with intent to use drug paraphernalia; two smoking devices.

CDS VIOLATION CASE #14-27763: On May 18 at 5:57 p.m. Dep. D. Naughton conducted a traffic stop on a vehicle on Rousby Hall Road in Lusby. He charged the driver, Marco Lorenzo Gantt, 36 of Port Republic, with possession of marijuana less than 10 grams on a criminal citation.

PROJECT LIFESAVER: Project Lifesaver is a radio transmission system designed to assist law enforcement and emergency services operations in locating lost or missing persons who have been diagnosed with Alzheimer's, autism, dementia, or other disorders that keep them from being able to help themselves or communicate effectively with others. The program is designed to assist these adults and children who may wander away from home and get lost.

The Calvert County Sheriff's Office has several members that are trained in the use and application of the radio transmission equipment. It is the Sheriff's belief that this is a service that should be provided to county residents that have been diagnosed with Alzheimer's, autism, dementia or down syndrome as just a few examples. The Sheriff's Office has partnered with the Office on Aging to provide this service.

Citizens enrolled in Project Lifesaver wear a small watch size transmitter either on their wrist or ankle that emits a tracking signal. If a member enrolled in the system goes missing this will allow for a trained member to respond immediately and start searching the area to bring the loved one back home to his or her family safely. There is an average recovery time of 30 minutes or less from the time that law enforcement responds and the missing person is located. Often times the missing person is within a few miles of their home.
