
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

BROADVIEW HEIGHTS, Ohio – A Canton oil-and-gas-drilling firm is looking to test the city's ban on new wells.

GonzOil Inc. , which already has about 26 older wells in Broadview Heights, wants to drill a new well south of Wallings Road between Creekside Trace and Joyce Road. The company has applied for a drilling permit from the Ohio Department of Natural Resources.

Frank Gonzalez, secretary and treasurer of GonzOil, said the firm has signed land leases with about 15 homeowners on Wallings, Joyce and Creekside.

Rick Reeve, GonzOil's geology manager, said the leases were signed over the past 12 months.

Councilman Brian Wolf, whose Ward 2 contains the proposed drilling site, said the city will oppose GonzOil's plan. He said the city charter prohibits new wells and that it is his sworn duty to uphold the charter.

"We will do our best to keep this from happening," Wolf said in a Thursday email to Creekside residents. He said Creekside residents to whom he has spoken oppose the well.

Reeve said the city cannot stop GonzOil from drilling. He said the company plans to start work in August or early September.

"We're abiding by state law," Reeve said. "If the state issues a permit, we'll probably drill the well."

Reeve said GonzOil would build a "directional well," meaning that it would drill down about 1,000 feet, then turn about 350 feet southeast to the target area. The idea is to avoid taking down trees in the target area.

Reeve said the directional drilling will not pass through shale on its way to the target area, unlike "horizontal" drilling, which does pass through shale horizontally underground.

Reeve said the drilling would involve fracturing of underground rock, like all previous wells in Broadview Heights.

Mayor Sam Alai did not return calls Monday.

Some questioned whether the charter amendment would withstand a court challenge. That's because in 2004, the state of Ohio took over gas-and-oil-well regulations from local communities.

So far, no one has directly tested the charter amendment in court, but drilling companies, City Hall and residents have fought on other legal battlefields.

For example, after voters passed the charter amendment, Bass Energy Inc. in Akron proposed drilling a new gas and oil well near Countryside Lane in Broadview Heights.

A year ago, two Countryside residents, Paul and Agina Kempen, sued Bass to stop the drilling. That case has not yet been settled , according to Cuyahoga County Common Pleas Court records.

In a separate action, the city, citing the charter amendment, ordered Bass not to drill. In June 2013, the Ohio Department of Natural Resources sided against the city and issued a drilling permit to Bass Energy.

However, Bill Hlavin, president of Bass Energy, has said that his company has no plans to start drilling until the Kempen lawsuit is resolved. He is also keeping his eye on a court case involving Munroe Falls.

In September, Broadview Heights council filed a friend-of-the-court brief in support of Munroe Falls' fight for home rule and local control of oil and gas wells.

The Munroe Falls case is now before the Ohio Supreme Court. Other cities, including North Royalton, also filed briefs backing Munroe Falls.

When asked about the Munroe Falls case, Reeve of GonzOil said he hopes it is settled soon. He said GonzOil might wait for the Supreme Court ruling before drilling its new well in Broadview Heights.

However, Reeve said that even if the Supreme Court ruled in favor of Munroe Falls, which has detailed drilling regulations, GonzOil would likely drill in Broadview Heights.

"Broadview Heights (other than the charter amendment) does not have any legal ordinances regulating wells," Reeve said. "So we'd be within our rights to drill if we received a state permit."

Check here if you do not want to receive additional email offers and information.

We look forward to sharing with you some of the great content found on cleveland.com.  To view and subscribe to any of our other newsletters, please click here .

cleveland.com is powered by Plain Dealer Publishing Co. and Northeast Ohio Media Group. All rights reserved ( About Us ).

The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Northeast Ohio Media Group LLC.

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
