
National Commissioner, Independent National Electoral Commission, in charge of Edo, Delta and Bayelsa states, Mr. Ismael Igbani, says no fewer than 870,000 Nigerians indulged in multiple registration in the last exercise.

He said Nigerians, who indulged in multiple registration, would be prosecuted in accordance with the electoral laws.

Igbani spoke in Yenagoa on Saturday during the stakeholders forum, preparatory to the distribution of permanent voter cards and continuous voter registration.

He said during the register optimisation process by the commission, it was discovered that 870,000 persons indulged in multiple registration in the country.

He said, “Some Nigerians, in their zealousness, registered more than once. Sometimes, it is not their faults; sometimes, it is. Some other times, it is the fault of the machine.

“The INEC frowns on multiple registration. This is a serious offence and those involved in multiple registration will be prosecuted.

He urged Nigerians, particularly those who did not have the permanent voter card and those who had turned 18 since the last exercise, to register.

He said credible registration was a critical requirement for credible election, stressing that those who did not have their PVCs would not be allowed to vote in 2015.

“We need those who did not register in the past to come and register. All those since the last exercise who have turned 18 should register as well as those who do not have PVCs. Continuous registration is allowed in the constitution,” Igbani said.

In his address, Bayelsa State Resident Electoral Commissioner, Mr. Edwin Nwatalari, said the commission was going to embark on two very important processes leading to the 2015 general elections.

He said, “On Friday, May 23, 2014, the commission will commence distribution of permanent voters cards through a simple process involving the swapping of temporary voters cards with PVCs.

“For those whose TVCs have been missing for various reasons, the commission will facilitate such persons to collect PVCs by completing attestation forms with a passport photograph. The exercise is to last for three days ending on May 25.

There should be a check system to see that no one has registered more than once.
