
Sixteen people were injured Sunday night in an accident at Kamuli along Mityana road, about twenty kilometers outside Kampala .

The accident, according to police, involved a taxi registration number UAU 978 U carrying passengers from Kassanda in Mubende district to Kampala.

“Majority of them were students, some traveling with their parents returning to school,” Juma Mahadhi, the regional traffic officer for Wamala region, said.

He said the driver of the taxi lost control after a rear tyre bust, and the vehicle overturned.

The victims were rushed to Mityana hospital.

A mother on drip lay in pain in the female ward as three of her children helplessly looked on. Her two other children were admitted to the pediatric ward.

Adonia Smanya, a clinical officer who attended to the patients said they had used the available equipment but a few of the victims would be referred.

Mahadhi said by Monday afternoon, majority of the children were improving and would be discharged by Tuesday.

He said the driver of the taxi fled after the accident, but the wreckage of the vehicle was towed to Mityana police station.

An eyewitness, Issa Kagimu, says the driver of the taxi was speeding.

He explained that the taxi lost control after the tyre burst and later overturned.

Kagimu however says there was another saloon car parked along the road, which was also knocked by the taxi but the driver of the saloon car drove off and hid the vehicle.

Taibu Ssebunya, a resident of Kassanda said his two-year old daughter, wife and mother-in-law were seriously injured in this accident.

He says the family members were traveling to attend a burial in Kayunga.

He said he managed to rescue some of them as he was traveling in another vehicle to Kampala, which was following them.

The statements, comments, or opinions expressed through the use of New Vision Online are those of their respective authors, who are solely responsible for them, and do not necessarily represent the views held by the staff and management of New Vision Online.
