
Share This Story!

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Fourth-grade teacher Erin Laird prepares her classroom for the first day of school in August at Natividad School in Salinas.

On Tuesday, a group of math teachers assembled at Harden Middle School in Salinas were putting the finishing touches on a new assessment tool — a math test, in old-school vernacular — in preparation for the new school year. The teachers never referred to a "test" or "math problem." They were involved with "assessments" and "alignments," "implementation" and "rigor."

That is some of the education-speak of the incoming Common Core State Standards for public schools from kindergarten to 12th grade. The new standards are raising the bar on the academic vocabulary in the classroom. Students will be taught to "defend," "argue" and "prove" their work as opposed to simply "describe," "count" or "repeat." They will need to learn and use the "language of power" — the words they'll need in college and careers.

Under Common Core, they'll be reading more nonfiction books in every grade. Writing will require multiple sources and evidence to back up arguments. Math will focus on the problem solving rather than the answer.

The Common Core standards will shift our schools' learning priorities from rote memorization to analysis, innovation, creativity and application. The goal is to equip students with the skills they'll need for college and careers in the 21st century. So parents, students and other stakeholders in the public schools, be advised: Put on your game faces. Because beginning with the first day of school Wednesday, no one is sitting the bench under the new playbook for learning.

The new Common Core Standards represent a shift in how and what our children learn. Whether that shift becomes a sea change or just a ripple in the future of education is still under debate.

"Silicon Valley is not hiring our students. We're not preparing them for the 21st century," said Linda Dilger, of the Monterey County Office of Education. Dilger is a local authority and consultant on the Common Core Standards. A career math educator, she has tracked the Common Core Standards from a seedling in the Bush Administration to their adoption by the National Governors Association. She said with respect to math the sea change is a tidal wave.

"It's amazing what kinds of math these kids will be able to learn" under Common Core, she said.

Not everyone agrees.

"It is not a sea change," insists Mike Brusa, superintendent of Santa Rita Union School District. "Requiring kindergarten kids to count from 1 to 100 is not a sea change. But you have a lot of people wanting it to seem like it's a sea change. Probably most of the (Common Core) standards are the same" as those now in place, he said.

Brusa said the focus of Common Core should be more on instruction, how to teach the standards, than on the standards themselves.

"I agree with the goals of the Common Core," said Ron Dillender, principal of Monterey Park School in Salinas. He added that "for students to be successful and adaptable in a constantly changing world, we need to align what happens in schools (with) the stated goals of the Common Core State Standards."

•  Aligned with college and work expectations;

•  Clear, understandable and consistent;

•  Include rigorous content and application of knowledge through high-order skills;

•  Build upon strengths and lessons of current state standards;

•  Are evidence-based.

"I don't think anyone would disagree with those stated goals," Dillender said. However, he added that skeptics raise some valid points.

One staunch opponent is former U.S. assistant secretary of education Diane Ravitch.

"I am appalled by the way the standards were imposed without any trials in real classrooms and without any real discussion or debate," writes Ravitch in a July 22 blog titled: "Rethinking Schools: The Trouble with Common Core."

Ravitch disputes that Common Core was developed by the states and voluntarily adopted by them.

"They were developed by an organization called Achieve and the National Governors Association, both generously funded by the Gates Foundation." Ravitch said politics and money are the motivators, not the best interests of children.

"It was well understood by states that they would not be eligible for Race to the Top funding ($4.35 billion) unless they adopted the Common Core standards. Federal law prohibits the U.S. Department of Education from prescribing any curriculum, but in this case the department figured out a clever way to evade the letter of the law."

"CC will cause a precipitous decline in test scores, based on arbitrary cut scores, and this will have a disparate impact on students who are English learners, students with disabilities, and students who are poor and low-performing. ...What is the purpose of raising the bar so high that many more students fail?"

Despite the skepticism, 45 of 50 states have adopted Common Core Standards and are preparing to install them a year from now. Schools across Monterey County and the state are testing the water this year. Some districts are easing into the Common Core.

The K-6 Salinas City School District, for example, is in its second year of a three-year plan. Salinas City will introduce two new standards each in English Language Arts and math.

Elsewhere, the Salinas Union High School District, a 7th-12th grade system, began working on its plan soon after the national standards were adopted in November 2010. Forty-five states are on board with the Common Core Standards Initiative. The Salinas high school district is launching its new system now in hopes of finding out what works and what needs revising before the full installation of Common Core Standards statewide occurs in 2014-15.

Educators realize that Common Core is not a panacea — far from it — and all of the kinks have yet to be worked out. It remains promising but unproven.

Academically, Common Core will be more difficult, challenging, even scary for some students. Test scores are expected to fall in the first few years until students and teachers acclimate to the new approach.

Common Core "is not a watered down curriculum," said Dilger. "But rather it is one with more rigor, more life engaging problems."

Educators are tasked with weaving "21st century themes" such as global awareness, financial and entrepreneurial literacy, health and environmental literacy into the core academic subjects of English, math, science and history.

The new standards are straight-forward enough. Many of them are revisions of some of the current standards.

Perhaps a main difference is the consciousness raising Common Core is forcing on educators and American society. The new standards aren't so new but the pursuit of what the student of the 21st century should know may be. The objective of Common Core is to equip students with the essential skills for success in today's — and tomorrow's — world. They should be adept at "creativity and innovation, critical thinking, communication and collaboration."

One of the changes will be a focus on more student interaction and discussion — pairing up or dividing into groups to work on class assignments.

"Classrooms are going to look different," said Dan Burns, associate superintendent of instructional services in the Salinas high school district.

"Now, a typical (high school) classroom is 80 percent lecture, 20 percent student interaction. Under Common Core, lecture would be less than 30 percent."

"The idea is to develop critical thinkers," Burns said.

The same goes for elementary schools. Take math, for example.

"Any parent who has a kid, sat with flash cards, which is not to say there isn't a place for that but with Common Core, it's deeper," said Lori Sanders, interim superintendent of educational services in the K-6 Salinas City School District.

"The lesson is not 3 times 4 equals 12. We know that ... now prove it," Sanders said. "How can you explain that to someone else? It could be 4 plus 4 plus 4 or 2 times 3 times 2, or 5 times 3 take away 3. It's flexible thinking, having kids articulate, not just about knowing the answer."

"If there's a challenge for us (teachers), that's the biggest one — getting kids to explain and defend their answers."

And educators say the critical thinking skills kids begin to pick up are sure to change the conversation around the dinner table at home. When asked, "What did your learn in school today?" a kid may argue his case about how he solved for X in math.

For math under Common Core, less is more, Burns said, especially from seventh through 12th grades. There will be fewer standards but more depth of understanding. Schools will choose from two approaches: traditional (sequential from algebra to geometry to algebra II, etc.) or integrated — combining math topics from pre-algebra to calculus — appropriate for each grade level — and dividing them into three courses. Each year a student learns a set of these different skills at a deeper level and builds upon them, Burns said.

So starting this year, for example, all seventh graders will be enrolled in Common Core Math 7 instead of Pre-Algebra. Freshman will get Integrated Math 1, sophomores Integrated Math 2.

Within the next couple of years, math will be completely integrated from grades 7 to 12 districtwide, he said. Meanwhile, not all of the pieces of the Common Core puzzle fit just yet. The assessments are still being written and piloted. Many districts don't have the technological capacity to install Common Core. The goal is to eventually have the learning system fully computerized. But some teachers will be correcting assessments by hand at many schools in the first year or two until the funding for technology catches up.

Principal Dillender puts it into perspective.

"There is more good from the CCSS than not. It raises the bar for educators, families, and most importantly, learners. But, like everything, the true test of something's value and merit is not what's written on a website or page, but how it is applied. ... It is imperative that we as parents, family members, and interested community members be aware, involved and contribute to the positive of what is happening in our schools and what our children are learning, most definitely including the Common Core Standards."

•  Common Core State Standards Initiative: www.corestandards.org.

•  Get an early look at some math and English test questions at Smarter Balanced: www.smarterbalanced.org.
