
The purpose of the Duke Colorado Women’s Forum is to bring together a multigenerational cross section of Duke women to develop educational programming, new opportunities for leadership, networking, and mentorship, and closer personal ties to the university. We welcome all Duke alumnae – of all ages – to get involved, and we hope to have participation from those who attended Duke’s graduate and professional schools as well as alumnae who attended undergraduate programs. Learn more about Duke’s Women’s Forum program.

Have you ever thought about mentoring a current Duke student or recent graduate? Have you wanted to gain the wisdom of an established Duke alumna? We are thrilled to announce the launch of our new Mentor/Sponsor Program for incoming and/or current students, and alumnae in Colorado. Contact Steering Committee member Laura Menninger '91 or Sonya Wakil-Thompson ’79 to register and learn more.

Check back for future Duke Colorado Women's Forum events soon!

The Duke Women’s Forum hosted Laurie L. Patton , Dean of Trinity College School of Arts & Sciences, at a reception and talk at the Denver Art Museum on Wednesday, February 5. Dean Patton’s discussion, “The Duke Experience and Beyond: Applying Scholarship in the Public Sphere,” focused on using the knowledge we gain from Duke to gain more knowledge in life and apply it to make a difference. The Colorado Duke Women’s Forum was proud to bring Dr. Patton to Denver for her first Duke-sponsored visit to Colorado!

Thank you all who attended our November Neighborhood "Coffee and Cocktails" for some stimulating conversation following the New York Times article, "The Opt-Out Generation Wants Back In." The author, Judith Warner, and Duke alumna Pam Stone (Professor of Sociology at Fordham University and author of Opting Out? Why Women Really Quit Careers and Head Home) provided discussion questions to our nine coffee gatherings around the state. All in all we had fun getting together again and diving into exhilarating conversation!

Even if you couldn't make it to our coffees this time around, don't fret! We have more events on the way. With a short hiatus for the holiday season, we'll reconvene in February for a very special and exclusive Duke event with Dean Patton. Details to follow very soon!

Featuring nationally recognized long-term care and affordable housing leader Maureen Hewitt, President and CEO of InnovAge, the discussion focused on caring for aging loved ones. Participants received information regarding care options, resources needed to support independent living and issues to consider regarding Medicare, Medicaid, and long-term health insurance.

A group of 25 Duke women gathered at the Wynkoop Brewery on Wednesday, October 2 for a fun evening of microbrew touring and tasting!  With ample time to sample as well as mingle, we met new alumnae and reconnected with those we had met before.  Thanks to Bonny Cline Roberts, '90, for all her work coordinating the event!  We look forward to seeing you all at our next event!

Duke Colorado Women's Forum attendees gathered before the movie at a local eatery to have dinner and connect before viewing the film.

Thank you to all Colorado Duke Alumnae who attended our Neighborhood Coffee events in March! We hosted 8 coffees around the state, connecting over 100 Duke women to a new network of friends and mentors. While each coffee had its unique atmosphere and discussions, the common theme that prevailed was that Duke women want to be connected! We found long lost sorority sisters and even reunited with Freshman year dorm mates!
