
Cornell Brooks, 53, is an ordained minister and a former lawyer for the Federal Communications Commission and the Justice Department.

The selection of Cornell Williams Brooks as the 18th president of the NAACP came as a shock to many activists and historians who spend time studying and following the nation’s oldest civil rights organization.

Likewise, many academicians who write about race and social issues say that they too are unfamiliar with Brooks and the New Jersey Institute for Social Justice, the Newark organization that he’s led.

Unlike his predecessors, Brooks does not come to the job with national name recognition, which experts say is critical to helping push the organization forward. In recent decades, the NAACP has struggled to stave off declining membership and has tried to promote awareness about the organization’s storied history, particularly among young people.

Benjamin Todd Jealous, the youngest president to lead the organization, was a popular attraction on college campuses and helped to rally student activists around the shooting death of Trayvon Martin. Jealous resigned last year and has gone on to work for a venture capital investment firm.

During his tenure at the NAACP, Jealous also helped to bring the organization back from financial stagnation, expanding its donor base from $16,477 when he took office in 2007 to more than $132,000 five years later. He also doubled the organization’s revenue to $46 million in 2012.

It’s unclear if Brooks, 53, will have that same kind of reach. He could not be reached for comment.

Dr. David Canton, an associate professor of history at Connecticut College and an expert on the NAACP, says that the 64-member Board of Directors may have intentionally wanted to choose a leader that wasn’t so high-profile.

Bynum said that Brooks should focus on issues like police brutality and voter ID laws.  “I think what the organization has to do is reorganize its energy around young people,” he said.

Originally from Georgetown, S.C., Brooks is an ordained minister and a former lawyer for the Federal Communications Commission and the Justice Department. In 1998, he ran unsuccessfully for Congress as a Democrat in Virginia.

Dr. Melanye Price, an assistant professor of Africana Studies at Rutgers University, said that the challenges facing the NAACP go beyond who is at the helm of the national organization.

“The NAACP has a problem with its branches,” said Price, who pointed out the recent debacle surrounding the Los Angeles NAACP chapter’s decision to honor Donald Sterling, the owner of the Los Angeles Clippers, with a second lifetime achievement award. The chapter later withdrew the award after it was revealed that Sterling had been recorded making racist statements against Blacks and had a couple incidents of alleged housing discrimination.

Price also chastised the New York state NAACP for protesting Mayor Michael Bloomberg’s effort to join a lawsuit that was aimed at restricting businesses from selling extra-large sodas, despite high rates of obesity among African-Americans.

“It’s unclear to me what anybody can do to turn the organization around without restructuring it,” she added.

Despite his anonymity, national civil rights leaders offered laudatory praise and vowed to work with Brooks in the future.

RESPONSIBILITIES:  We are looking for a colleague to assume the position of Provost and Vice President of Academic Affairs and to lead us in our efforts to negotiate the multiple challenges that are confronting higher education nationwide and to meet the region-specific opportunities that are unique to UNF.

RESPONSIBILITIES:  The successful candidate will teach an introductory course in the history of medicine, prepare classes in her/his area of specialization, be active in research and publication, perform university service, and contribute to a growing community of faculty interested in the medical humanities.

RESPONSIBILITIES:   Candidates for Assistant Professor should have a Ph.D. in accounting, outstanding research potential, and a strong commitment to excellence in graduate and undergraduate teaching.

Diverse: Issues In Higher Education, a CMA publication.

Join the conversation with our 30,000 social media participants by following us on Twitter @DiverseIssues and like us on Facebook at https://www.facebook.com/DiverseJobs as we celebrate the 30th anniversary of Diverse: Issues in Higher Education.
