
May 18, 2014 (KHARTOUM) – The Sudanese Armed Forces (SAF) announced on Sunday it had recaptured the Daldako area, east of the South Kordofan state capital of Kadugli, saying that this comes within the framework of the second phase of the decisive military summer campaign.

SAF spokesperson, al-Sawarmi Khaled Saad, said that military operations would continue until liberating all rebel-held areas.

Last Wednesday and Thursday, SAF announced liberation of Malken area in the Blue Nile state besides Werni and Mirri Barra in South Kordofan state, stressing readiness to enter the second phase of the military offensive.

It also said that several other areas will be reclaimed in few hours within military operations of the third jump.

Saad said that SAF and the Rapid Support Forces (RSF) inflicted heavy losses in lives and equipment on rebels, pointing that several SAF officers were killed and six others wounded.

He added that SAF will continue to advance in order to end rebellion in the rest of South Kordofan state and all other areas affected by rebellion.

The rebel Sudanese People’s Liberation Movement-North (SPLM-N) for its part announced defeating SAF in several areas in the west of South Kordofan state.

On Thursday, the rebel spokesperson, Arnu Lodi, claimed in a communiqué they defeated the government forces in Kao-Nyaro area in Abu Jubaiha County and Warni area in Talodi County.

The two areas are respectively located in the south eastern and southern parts of the state.

He said the assailant forces fled the battlefield leaving 38 bodies of SAF soldiers in Kao-Nyaro and 27 bodies in Warni.

The Sudanese army and its militias intensified attacks on the SPLM-N rebels in South Kordofan before the resumption of peace talks at the end of this month.

The mediators seek to bring the parties to sign a framework agreement and to stop hostilities before reaching civilians in rebel-held areas.

Comments on the Sudan Tribune website must abide by the following rules. Contravention of these rules will lead to the user losing their Sudan Tribune account with immediate effect.

Due to the unprecedented amount of racist and offensive language on the site, Sudan Tribune tries to vet all comments on the site.

Kind regards,

The Sudan Tribune editorial team.

They have entered Daldoko yesterday but the fighting still going on up to this hours,you will hear the different news soon,last time the entire Daldoko with 10 tanks and left 9,this time i don,t know how many are going to remain,Alato continua.

Good job SAF, it is now the time for cleaning all the area from the dirtiness and filthiness of SPLA-N who threw their guns and ran away and climbed Nuba Mountains and hid themselves over there when they heard the voice of SAF warplanes singing in the sky!

They were depending on SPLA and now SPLA themselves are begging others for help!

Kauda has become very close!

The following ads are provided by Google. SudanTribune has no authority on it.
