
With the tassel on his cap now shifted to the left, Cal State Northridge graduate Ryan Bartley danced exuberantly to the beat of African rhythms as Monday morning’s commencement ceremony drew to a close.

The 23-year-old Oakland native, who majored in Communication Studies, was the first in his family to complete college and is now poised to “take over the world — with positivity.

Bartley was one of more than 1,500 Cal State Northridge students from the Mike Curb College of Arts, Media and Communication invited to graduate Monday. The 8 a.m. ceremony on the Delmar T. Oviatt Library lawn was the first of six graduations that will be held this week in which 9,999 students — some of which completed their studies last December — have been invited to participate.

The university saw record enrollment this academic year, with nearly 39,000 students enrolled in the fall.

Among the students was Kevin Zambrano, 24, of South Los Angeles, who switched his major from biology to art to pursue his lifelong passion and took six years to complete his college studies. As the first boy in his family to receive a university degree, Zambrano said his elated family broadcast the graduation to friends and family living in his parents’ native Guatemalan town.

Munira Virji of Atwater Village, who is deaf and used a translator in all of her classes, said she was thrilled to receive her bachelor’s in art after five years of college. “See my expression? I’m just overwhelmed,” a beaming Virji said via a CSUN sign-language interpreter.

Virji said her experience as an art major at the university has been “wonderful,” and she hopes to return to the university one day for her master’s degree.

During the ceremony, the graduates screamed and cheered, did the wave — even convincing the audience in the bleachers to do the same — and tossed beach balls into the air before they could be confiscated and deflated by CSUN staff. Some had messages on their caps reading, “Dreams do come true” and “The tassle (sic) was worth the hassle.” Afterward, some of them passed around a cigar to mark the occasion.

The Cinema and Television Arts major has gotten some solid advice from her teachers. Professor Jeff Gilbert, for example, talked her “off a ledge” more than once when she was “freaking out about finals.” His words of wisdom — how to make friends in the industry, the importance of sharing what you like to do with others, why networking matters — will remain with her, she said.

While the graduates received commemorative diploma holders on Monday, their actual certificates will be sent by mail in a couple of months, officials said.
