
Hong Kong (HKSAR) - The 2014 voter registration campaign for the Village Representative Electionand the Kaifong Representative Election (KFRE) was launched today (May 19).

The Home Affairs Department (HAD) appeals to all eligible persons who have not registered as voters and want to have their names on this year's register to submit their applications for voter registration by July 16.

The HAD particularly reminds persons who registered in the previous KFRE for Cheung Chau/Peng Chau to make new applications for registration in order to vote or be nominated as candidates in the forthcoming statutory KFRE.

There are two types of village representatives, namely Indigenous Inhabitant Representatives (IIR) and Resident Representatives (RR).

An IIR, returned by indigenous inhabitants, their spouses or surviving spouses of an Indigenous/Composite Indigenous Village, is to reflect the views of the indigenous inhabitants of the village and deal with affairs relating to the lawful traditional rights and interests and traditional way of life of those indigenous inhabitants. An RR, returned by residents (both indigenous and non-indigenous inhabitants) of an Existing Village, is to reflect views on the affairs of the village on behalf of the residents of the village.

A Kaifong Representative, returned by residents of a Market Town (Cheung Chau/Peng Chau), is to reflect views on the affairs of the respective Market Towns on behalf of the residents.

"There are different eligibility requirements for registration as voters for these elections.

Applicants should ascertain whether they fulfil the requirements," an HAD spokesman said.

"Indigenous inhabitants, their spouses or surviving spouses, aged 18 or above and holding recognised identity documents, are eligible to be registered as voters in the IIR Election of an Indigenous/Composite Indigenous Village.

"For registration as a voter in the RR Election and the KFRE, one must be a Hong Kong permanent resident aged 18 or above and have been a resident of the Existing Village or Market Town (Cheung Chau/Peng Chau) for three years immediately before the date of application for registration, and whose address in the village or Market Town (Cheung Chau/Peng Chau) is his or her principal residential address.

Principal residential address means the address of the dwelling place at which the person resides and which constitutes the person's sole or main home."

"Indigenous inhabitants of an Indigenous/Composite Indigenous Village, their spouses or surviving spouses who have been residing in an Existing Village or Market Town (Cheung Chau/Peng Chau) for at least three years immediately before registration and are in compliance with the eligibility requirements for voters in the relevant election can submit two separate forms if they wish to register as voters for both IIR Election and RR Election or KFRE."

The spokesman stressed that if registered voters of the RR Election and the KFRE no longer reside in the village or Market Town (Cheung Chau/Peng Chau) for which they are registered, or the principal residential addresses recorded in the register of voters are no longer the addresses of their sole or main homes, they are disqualified from being registered as voters. It is an offence if they cast their votes in an election.

Voter registration forms can be obtained from the HAD, Public Enquiry Service Centres of the District Offices and government offices outside Hong Kong, or downloaded from the Rural Representative Election (RRE) website ( www.had.gov.hk/rre).

The HAD will publicise the voter registration campaign by means of TV and Radio Announcements in the Public Interest, RRE website, pamphlets, posters, banners, online and newspaper advertisements to encourage eligible persons, including those living overseas, to register as voters.

For enquiries, please call the HAD hotline at 2152 1521.

Limited copyright is granted for you to use and/or republish any story on this site for  any legitimate media purpose as long as you reference 7thSpace and any source mentioned in the story above. Please  make sure to read our disclaimer prior to contacting 7thSpace Interactive. To contact our editors, visit our online helpdesk . If you wish submit your own press release, click here .

There are no comments available. Be the first to write a comment.

You need to enable Javascript to post a comment.
