
WHILE  12-hour weekend shifts for nurses are typical, it’s not common to do it while  also attending medical school full-time.

But that’s  what Mazvita Ethel Simoyi did during her first year at  the University of  Virginia School of Medicine, commuting every weekend  to a hospital in  Washington, D.C. to help pay for her education.

Now set to  earn her M.D. degree from UVA this month, Simoyi laughed  when asked how she  endured the relentless schedule of work, schoolwork  and commuting.

Simoyi knew  she wanted to be a doctor from the time she was 5 or 6,  when her father, Mike  Simoyi, a general practitioner in Zimbabwe,  brought her to his clinic to  observe a tubal ligation.

“I stood on  a stool in the operating room, looking at him make the incision,” she said.

As she got  older, she helped direct patients at the clinic where her  father worked with  her mother Regina, a nurse. The time she spent  there deepened her commitment to  medicine.

“The  patients [at my parents’ clinic] are very, very grateful for the help they  receive,” she said.

To continue  her path toward becoming a doctor, Simoyi moved to the  U.S. from Zimbabwe at  age 17 to attend college. After beginning as a  biology/pre-med major at Butler  University, she transferred to Howard  University in Washington, D.C., earning a  nursing degree in 2007.

After three  years working as a nurse, she entered UVA’s School of Medicine in 2010. But she  wasn’t quite done with nursing.

During her  first year as a med student, Simoyi worked weekends on a   medical/surgical/oncology inpatient unit at Providence Hospital in  Washington,  D.C.

She would  leave Charlottesville around 5 p.m. Thursday or Friday for  Washington, staying  with her sister Nyasha or friends from Howard  University when she wasn’t at  work. She would return to Charlottesville  around midnight Sunday to get some  sleep before waking up at 7 a.m.  Monday to begin another week of med school  classes.

During her  second year as a medical student, she worked part-time in  Charlottesville as a  hospice nurse. She continued working as a nurse  until November 2012, when she  was no longer able to work weekends due  to her medical school clerkship.

“Time  management was what really saved me,” she said.

Her  commitment both to her education and her jobs impressed her classmates and  faculty.

“I was blown  away by her work ethic,” said Chad Lane, a member of her medical school class.

As a  part-time pharmacist during his time in medical school,  Simoyi’s residency  adviser, Shawn Pelletier, knows first-hand how tough  her balancing act was.

The  intelligent way Simoyi approached her dual responsibilities  helped her do both  successfully, said her adviser, Christine Peterson.

Simoyi also  believes the extra hours she put in as a nurse helped with her medical school  class work.

“When I was  reading information from a textbook, I could translate  it to my patients. It  helped solidify the concepts because I could  apply it right away instead of  waiting two years [to begin my  clerkship],” she said.

While her  nursing work left her less time to spend outside of class  with fellow students,  Simoyi said she very much enjoyed her time at  UVA. Her classmates were very  welcoming and inclusive, and she  appreciated that she was part of a large group  of students who had  taken non-traditional journeys to medical school.

“I was happy  to see how many people had taken different paths, like IT and working as  financial advisers,” she said.

This summer,  Simoyi will begin a surgical residency at Baystate  Medical Centre in  Springfield, Massachusetts. She chose surgery because  she likes to work with  her hands, figure out what’s wrong with a  patient and quickly see results.

“You fix an  artery, and you get to see the effects of your work immediately,” she said.

While she’s  not sure whether she will end up practicing medicine in  the U.S. or Zimbabwe,  Simoyi definitely wants to give back to Zimbabwe.

Her  classmates and teacher believe she is primed to succeed in whatever challenge  she takes on next.
