
WHERE'S THE TRAIN? London's St. Pancras station, home of the Eurostar terminus, where the three-city train journey began.

The idea was planted by an item on the Financial Times website, detailing the debut of the new TGV train from Paris to Barcelona, which cut the travel time from 12 hours to barely six and a half.

I read that as nothing short of a challenge. And I responded, immediately diving into research to see if I could line it all up. At first, it seemed too easy: A morning Eurostar from London would get into Paris in time for a long lunch before an afternoon TGV that would arrive in Barcelona in time for a late-night dinner.

Then came the tougher question: Where to eat? Finding a spot for a late bite in Barcelona would be a piece of cake. But where could we have breakfast – and not just any breakfast, but something somewhat representative of British culture – early enough to make that train? In Paris, the obvious choice of restaurant was the ornate Le Train Bleu, right in the Gare de Lyon. But we’d be arriving several neighbourhoods away at Gare du Nord.

The alarm goes off at 6.15am. Rachel, my friend and frequent travelling companion, and I are staying in London for just a night at a true icon of train travel: the Great Northern Hotel. It hugs the King’s Cross station, where six London Underground lines converge, and is just across the street from the Eurostar terminus in the St Pancras station.

The hotel dates from 1854, just two years after King’s Cross station itself was built, in the middle of London’s great steam-train boom. A recent renovation gives the interior the feel of a great ocean liner, and our room’s shutters open on to an abstract view of the curved steel-grid roof over the departures concourse, built in 2012.

We decide to grab breakfast at the take-out window simply dubbed Kiosk, an operation of the hotel’s Plum + Spilt Milk restaurant that you access from inside the concourse. By 7am, when Kiosk opens, commuters are streaming past two workers in mod black uniforms standing at the ready in the little kitchen cut out of the hotel’s brick. Sandwiches stuffed with sausages (and some, thankfully for me, with vegetables), croissants and other pastries, granola and fruit and coffee await. “Butter on your sandwich?” Of course. “Brown sauce?” Sure. And a macchiato to go. Just across the way is M&S, a little convenience store run by Marks & Spencer, so we rush in and buy juices made from Pink Lady apples.

The tickets pop right out.

It’s now about 7.30am, so we have time to sit in the station and tuck into our breakfast before our train starts moving at 7.55am. The sandwich has soft bread, gooey melted cheese, thin slices of marinated portobello mushroom, roasted tomato – and a tang of that brown sauce. British through and through.

The world outside the windows is a blur – especially since we’re sitting backwards and are still in the tunnels leaving London.

There’s no Wi-Fi on the train, so I give up my impulse to work and sit back to enjoy the scenery and read. By 8.40am, the view has turned black: this would be the Chunnel. But 20 minutes later, the world lights up again, and we’re in France. The clocks on our cellphones jump ahead an hour, and the scenery starts to include terracotta roofs.

The countryside flows by in rhythmic patterns: an allée of tightly spaced trees, power lines near and far, blocked-by-the-hills views and open vistas. The hypnotic view and the noises – the soft squeaks and rumbles and whooshes of the train and the wind as we glide along lead us to… nap. Rachel is already out, and I pull down the shade, whose pixelated-looking fabric turns the scene outside into an animated Seurat painting, and close my eyes. By the time I open them, we’re just 20 minutes from downtown Paris.

We arrive at Gare du Nord on schedule, we won’t need to race to make our noon reservation after all. Then we herd into a long taxi line outside, passing boys swooping their Bieber hair to one side and 20-something women complaining about the thickness of their jeans. By the time we step into the cab it’s 11.40am, and the race is back on.

Culture shock sets in. Were we really in London this morning? The gare-to-gare cab ride seems almost as abstract as the train trip, but at least I recognise more of what I’m seeing. The angle is perfect for spotting monuments, from the bronze statue of Marianne at the Place de la République to the gilded, star-crowned Génie de la Liberté topping the July Column at the Place de la Bastille.

At Gare de Lyon, the unassuming entrance to Le Train Bleu leads to a gritty little staircase and a lift; we cram into the latter, then back out and through a turnstile door and – whoa. This is the grandest room possible, with soaring gilded ceilings covered in murals, giant chandeliers, big arches, white tablecloths, sparkling silver, embossed dishes and tuxedoed waiters streaming around carrying trays that appear glued to their fingertips.

Another waiter brings over Rachel’s appetizer – a crispy pig-and-escargot terrine, which she loves (“I’m in heaven over here”) – along with the cheese cart, which I’m choosing from for my first course, breaking every rule of French dining. One taste of the Camembert’s tang and slight funkiness, and memories of Paris meals past come flooding back.

Tableside activity commences all around us – steak tartare being folded with egg yolks, shallots and more in a glass bowl, a steaming something being lifted from one vessel to another. Silver domes raised to display some leg of some beast, ready for the carving. I get a bowlful of vegetables, each one separately stewed and perfectly tender, sitting over creamy potato puree spiked with saffron. Rachel gets a baked scorpion fish over those same potatoes, and we toast with glasses of Pouilly-Fuissé.

For dessert, there’s no debate except perhaps about my fumbling pronunciation as I order. “Meel-FOO-ee.” Our waiter asks me to repeat. “Meel-FOO-ee.” He corrects me: “Meel-FUR-yeh,” the subtlest difference to me – and the most glaring, no doubt, to him. He brings our millefeuille, puff pastry layered in this version with scoops of caramel cream and sitting in a pool of vanilla sauce. I take a bite, look around and finally feel it.

We’re in Paris. But not for long.

Our lingering turns to rushing, especially in the station, where the first, second and third machines don’t take our reservation numbers. We realise that we’re not at TGV machines, so we hurry around, asking a security guard to point us to the correct office, and now it’s 1.55pm and our train leaves at 2.07pm, and I am almost – almost ready to admit that I should have printed those tickets at home.

Once again, an agent comes to our rescue. She’s more curt than our helper in London, but she gets the job done. We race-walk with our roller bags until we’re safely ensconced on the train and it pushes off. Phew!

This leg of the trip, simply put, isn’t nearly as much fun as the first one. Of course, it’s almost three times as long, which has something to do with it, but we’re also stuck behind a woman with four young children.

Outside, the scenery has gotten positively dreamy, with deeper slopes to the hills and valleys. The beige houses look as if they’ve been put through a giant Instagram antiquing filter – or maybe it’s just the suddenly golden quality of the sun as it drops in the sky.

By 7pm, the are-we-there-yet jitters have hit. Is this really the high-speed train? Not having experienced the previous, longer trip, it’s hard for me to appreciate the relative brevity of this one. My legs are cramping, so I start pacing the aisles. By 8pm, the view from the window is mostly black. As we near Barcelona, abstract lights stream past, and those little French hellions have started chanting some repetitive rhyme.

Through one last tunnel – when the conductor announces “Barcelona Sants”, cheers and applause break out.

Unbelievably, we feel pangs of hunger as we taxi to meet the owner of our Airbnb apartment on a bustling little street in the Raval neighbourhood. Then, finally, we’re here, relieved to be able to unpack our bags. Well, not quite yet. First we have to get to dinner. We stroll about 15 minutes to Sesamo, a vegetarian place that I’d read excellent reviews of, including some praise in the New York Times.

The praise is undeserved, at least on the night we visit.

If we weren’t so tired – and full – we would have gone somewhere else afterwards. In Barcelona, that wouldn’t be unheard of. Thankfully, we have 48 more hours here to make up for it. And we do, reminding ourselves at every subsequent meal that Barcelona deserves its reputation as a culinary capital.

I even manage to shake off the feeling that we should really be staying put and digging deeper. After all, it’s not the last time I’ll get to Barcelona, Paris or London.

Login and register, if you haven’ t already.

© Copyright 1999 - 2014 Independent Online, a division of Independent Newspapers (Pty) Limited. The copyright in the literary and artistic works contained in this online news publication and its other related and connected websites, as well as in the published editions of group newspapers, their supplements and any other content or material, belongs exclusively to Independent Newspapers (Pty) Limited unless otherwise stated.
