
The Supreme Court on Monday morning didn’t announce action on another possible big test case about the role of religion in public facilities and the separation of church and state.

The Court didn’t include in orders released on its website the case of Elmbrook School District v. Doe, which had been expected to consider in private conference last Friday.

If the Court had accepted Elmbrook, it would have been added to its list of merit cases for the Court’s next term, which starts in October 2014.

For now, Elmbrook ‘s fate remains in limbo, which is familiar territory for a case that has spent 14 years in the legal system.

In early May, a divided Court ruled in a case called Town of Greece v. Galloway, that prayers can be given at public government meetings, in what could be a historically significant moment for the religious Establishment clause in the First Amendment.

The Court had put Elmbrook for the past year until it reached a decision in the Town of Greece case.

The Elmbrook School District v. Doe case involves the rental and use of a church sanctuary to host graduation ceremonies for two public schools.

A petition to hear the case in the Supreme Court was first submitted in December 2012, and it has been listed on the Justice’s private conference list eight times.

The case dates back 14 years, when in Brookfield, Wisconsin, a western suburb of Milwaukee, two local high schools started to host its graduation exercises in the sanctuary of Elmbrook Church, an evangelical congregation not affiliated with any denomination.

The practice began in 2000 with a choice by one of the high schools, at the request of its graduating class, to move the ceremony out of the school’s gym, because of limited conditions there. The church’s leaders and its congregation had no role in the graduation celebration, and there was no one on hand to offer any kind of religious counseling.

But for some current and former students and their parents, the site itself was the problem, with its religious symbolism and significance. They said the exposure to artifacts of faith offended them and compromised the experience of graduating.

The lawsuit continued, even though the district stopped using the sanctuary, as the challengers took the case on to the 7th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals.

A three-judge panel there agreed with a trial judge, finding no First Amendment religion problem. But the full circuit court reconsidered. Splitting 7-3, that court found that the Elmbrook Church site could not avoid being coercive for the students and their younger brothers and sisters attending the ceremony.

On a National Constitution Center podcast earlier this month, two experts saw the potential for the Court’s majority to expand its Town of Greece reasoning to cases like Elmwood.

“I think we will see many more cases coming up involving student delivered prayers at high school graduations, the circuits are split on that issue, and eventually the Supreme Court will take one of those cases,” said Erwin Chemerinsky, from the University of California, Irvine School of Law.

Scott Gaylord from Elon University said there were indications that Supreme Court Justice Samuel Alito was also interested in the Mount Soledad cross case in San Diego.
