
Martes, 26 de Agosto 2014. Actualizado a las 12:10 AM.

SANTO DOMINGO. The Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Justice and of the Council of the Judicial Power, Mariano German Mejia, called the strategy uses to incite a division between the Judicial Power and the Justice Department "wrong and insensitive." This was in reference to the incident between the judge of Instruction of the National District, Margarita Cristo, and the District Attorney, Yeni Berenice Reynoso.

In a press communiqué, the Chief Justice commented that after the incident that have been a series of statements that have deepened the conflict.

He said that the Justice Department, the same as any other party in the judicial process, has the obligation to maintain the proper respect to the role of policeman of the hearing which the judge is called upon to carry out as the umpire between parties in the process: "which implies the unconditional observance of the solemnity of the case, aside from the reasons that motivate his/her speech, which will always require being within the framework strictly on the judicial plane."

He pointed out that the respect for the ways and means in force was central to the health of the process.

"It is in the circumstances and conditions described that this Supreme Court of Justice is permitted to issue a call to the Justice Department so that their relations with the men and women judges are carried out within the framework of respect, balance and a clarity of their roles, on the understanding that, only like this can we generate the proper confidence among the citizens."

He asked the Justice Department to sit down with the Judicial Power in order to discuss peaceful, tranquil and professional manner the way of handling the difficulties that separate the two and how to achieve a coming together in those aspects "in which we should work together."

The note made it clear that the penal justice system is a part of the state judicial institution composed of two agencies: the judges on the one hand and the prosecutorial system and its parts on the other.

Likewise, the Chief Justice said that the system could not be developed and managed in a balanced fashion without the participation of both actors in the system.

"Rational thought leads us to say that any statement, act, declaration, or exclamation which implies a division of the judiciary and the prosecutorial agencies should be understood to be a misguided, and little thought out process. This does not do any good, at all, for a Dominican society which needs and expects a proper administration of justice."

German Mejia said he knows that a good system of justice is only achieved with processes in which the two actors take part in a balanced manner and in their true roles.

He suggests that the responsibility of the Justice Department to represent and defend the public interests through the application of the procedures that allow it to determine the existence of evidence for the accusation should be recognized and therefore achieves the ability to go to trial and obtain a conviction. This conviction should be based on the evidence presented in the accusation.

The justice also says that the judges, as the last step of the process, recognize their responsibility to listen to and decide upon the cases which are assigned to them, based on the evidence presented by the Justice Department.

Judge Cristo accused District Attorney Reynoso of insulting her, and of using "verbal violence" during a hearing in which the request to dismiss definitively the case against the former Minister of Public Works, Victor Diaz Rua, who is accused of corruption, was to be heard.
