
You must be registered to comment and vote on comments.

Amy Sue Pagnac, 13, vanished from Maple Grove 25 years ago; her parents believe she may be alive.

The parents of Amy Sue Pagnac say they assume they’ve been prime ­suspects since their child’s disappearance 25 years ago.

But Monday, as investigators continued to search their Maple Grove home, the displaced mother and father said they believe their daughter is alive and was abducted by organized crime for sex trafficking.

“If we are not suspects, then they’ve found Amy alive,” said her father, ­Marshall Midden.

Midden told police in 1989 that Amy, then 13, had disappeared from a Holiday gas station in Osseo while he was using the restroom inside.

On Sunday, authorities arrived at the family’s home and began searching the property, but Maple Grove police declined to say what led them there, or what they were searching for. At a news conference Monday afternoon, police Capt. Keith Terlinden said the investigation is expected to continue through Friday, at least.

Like Amy’s parents, authorities said they still hold out hope that she is alive. Terlinden asked the public and Amy’s friends to call with tips, and made a plea to Amy herself, suggesting that she could be living outside of Minnesota.

Amy’s parents, who were interviewed by the Star Tribune in the garage of another daughter’s Brooklyn Center home, say they are puzzled, yet grateful for the latest search.

“The fact that they’re actually doing this gives me more hope of seeing her again,” said Pagnac, 55.

“How many people would choose the name Pagnac?” Susan Pagnac asked.

Amy and Midden, a computer programmer for the University of Minnesota at the time, were returning from the ­family’s farm in Isanti County on Aug. 5, 1989. According to the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension, Amy vanished while waiting in her father’s car outside the gas station, 2 miles from their home. When Midden left the station’s restroom and returned to an empty car, he said he assumed Amy was in the women’s bathroom. But a stranger came out of the women’s restroom, Pagnac said. Amy was nowhere to be found.

Amy was prone to migraines, her mother said Monday, and may have had a seizure and wandered off.

Yet, “Thirteen-year-olds don’t wander off for 25 years,” Pagnac said, suggesting that Amy was taken.

Midden, 58, bearded and wearing a headband to help keep in place a silver ponytail that falls inches short of his waist, recently posted a picture of Jacob Wetterling on his Facebook page, days before this latest search. Wetterling was 11 when he disappeared in St. Joseph on Oct. 22, 1989, two months after Amy vanished. Pagnac said the posting coming just before the current search for Amy was coincidental, that her husband often posts items recently featured on newscasts.

Marshall Midden and Susan Pagnac say they don’t know why police are again searching their home.

You are now subscribed.
