
'Sad to see the old building go'

'Sad to see the old building go'

Josephine Blakley, 92, and her daughter Tina exit Winton Elementary School Saturday during the school’s last all years class reunion before its demolished in June. Josephine began attending Winton when she was in first grade in the year 1927.

COEUR d’ALENE — When Orville Benjamin first attended the school at 920 W. LaCrosse Avenue, it was known as Park Elementary School. It was a small wooden school that had been built in the very early 1900s.

Bertha Myer was the name of Benjamin’s sixth-grade teacher. Her name was signed at the bottom of his Park School report card, along with the words, “Promoted to 7th grade.” Benjamin and his daughter Vicki Johnson shared the report card with those who attended Winton Elementary School’s All Years Class Reunion.

Benjamin, of Coeur d’Alene, attended Park/Winton from 1923 through 1925. He was one of the first students to attend the school when it was rebuilt and officially opened its doors as Winton Elementary on Sept. 8, 1925.

The iconic brick building is the oldest active school in the area and will be torn down at the end of June. It will be replaced by a new school in 2015, scheduled to open 90 years to the day when Winton welcomed its first wave of students.

Benjamin sat near the school’s front entrance during the reunion, which attracted well more than 100 current and former students, teachers and faculty members from all eras. The reunion was also an open house, where anyone could wander through the school’s old halls, peek through the wavy glass of its windows and enjoy its history one last time.

Several old friends and new stopped by to say hello to Benjamin, who had 12 brothers and sisters who also grew up and went to school at Winton and Coeur d’Alene schools.

Vic Eachon, 87, of Coeur d’Alene, was one of the many Winton students who knew the Benjamin family. He attended Winton from 1931 to 1936 and visited with Benjamin for a bit.

Eachon said he remembered being sent to a separate room and bending over a desk to receive a spanking for acting out.

Eachon and his brother Bob, 90, who now lives in Oregon, walked to school all year through, even in the winters, and spent much of their summers as youngsters working.

Musician and writer Gary Edwards, 73, of Coeur d’Alene, attended Winton from 1947 to 1951. He said he will miss the old building, but he understands the need for a new school.

Edwards vividly recalls his Winton years, such as making friends with a 16-year-old Latvian refugee.

Edwards recently published a book with an entire chapter dedicated to his memories of Winton. He credits the school with his love of music.

Reunion organizer and physical education/music teacher Nancy Mueller said it was difficult for the staff when the decision was made to tear down the old school because several of their children attended Winton and the community has many generational ties to it. Mueller has taught there since 1994.

Former students had the opportunity to write memories and contribute photos and report cards to the time capsule which will be opened every 10 years or so for students of the new Winton to have the opportunity to appreciate the school’s history.

Welcome to the discussion.

bakrbudy posted at 10:32 pm on Mon, May 19, 2014.

It is so sad to see Winton School go.  I wish I could have been there for one last walk through the halls. Both my parents, my two sisters and myself spent  our grade school years there.  My first grade teacher was Mrs. Downing, second grade Mrs Sellars, then Mrs. Vessar (3rd) who married and came back as Mrs Ohlund for the 4th grade.  Mrs Sebring for 5th and then Mrs Lunden (formerly Downing) again for the 6th.  By then she was also the Principal.  And the dear old janitor who came out and raised the American flag each morning and stood on the porch and hand rung his bell when his trusty pocket watch told him it was time for class to resume.   The preservation of the older schools in district #271 is, at this point, probably a lost cause.  Wintons students will be thrilled with their new school when they get into it.

concernedcitizen posted at 3:56 pm on Mon, May 19, 2014.

Mr. Hamilton,

And, unlike many in this town, a good job you do. Thank you for your kind explanation. I do let my emotions rule sometimes. I understand the reasoning behind this project. Maybe this is one I shouldn't have jumped on. I just get irritated with all of the heritage in this town that is being mowed over in the name of progress.

Noah Simone posted at 1:04 pm on Mon, May 19, 2014.

TomHamilton posted at 12:07 pm on Mon, May 19, 2014.

Miketeague posted at 11:43 am on Mon, May 19, 2014.

Sir, there is not a cause or explanation in this world that will keep CC from finding something to complain about. Safety is no a concern of hers. If there had been a way to save the old building then the complaints would have been about the waste of money.

TomHamilton posted at 8:23 am on Mon, May 19, 2014.

@CC - actually a lot of thought and conversation went into saving the heritage of that school to the best of our ability.  One of the major problems with Winton is that it is a masonry building...those bricks are not a facade, they are the "structure" of the building and they are not suitable for the modernization we needed to do.  Essentially, we would have had to gut the entire building, build a steel skeleton inside of it and then try and tie the walls back in to that skeleton.  That and a poorly thought out and poorly executed addition to the building meant that the remodel costs would have been utterly out of reach.  As a compromise, we challenged the architects to come up with a modern building, suitable for today's 21st Century classroom, expanded to serve 3 sections at each grade level all while preserving the architectural flavor of the original Winton.  If you'll take a look at the conceptual drawings, you'll see they did a great job.

I'm quite passionate about preservation, but when you're working with tax dollars, you have to make the most prudent decision you can, even if emotionally you would perhaps rather do something else.

concernedcitizen posted at 7:31 am on Mon, May 19, 2014.

It's all about progress. This town could care less about it's heritage.
