
Happy Merger Monday.

AT&T is buying DirecTV , but Pfizer is apparently not buying AstraZeneca , making this sort of a negative-P&L Merger Monday for bankers overall.

Tim Geithner's book is still out.

Here are Tyler Cowen , Felix Salmon , Gretchen Morgenson , Cathy O'Neil . Salmon thinks that Geithner is dishonest about his pre-crisis prescience, but I'm finding him surprisingly candid about his own biases. The early part of the book -- Geithner's work on the Mexican and Asian financial crises in the '90s -- is like an intellectual history of Tim Geithner, explaining how he developed his view that bailouts are good, moral hazard isn't a big deal, and a crisis is the wrong time to punish bad actors. Obviously you might disagree but it's a good explanation of where he's coming from, and probably more books about policy should be more explicit about how their biases came about.

A German water utility alleged a former UBS AG banker had an “inappropriate” relationship with consultants advising on disputed swap deals, the latest lawsuit to highlight how complex financial instruments backfired on municipal agencies during the 2008 financial crisis. Kommunale Wasserwerke Leipzig GmbH said in court documents that Steven Bracy, the banker at the center of the allegations, booked strippers for consultants at Swiss firm Value Partners and went on an African safari with them.

There's some argument that municipal agencies should have third-party advisers to help them negotiate derivatives trades with banks. But of course then the advisers become repeat players and have incentives to play nice with the banks. And then there you are with the strippers.

This is as if I tried to persuade you that your current retirement fund is too risky, so you should just hand the money over to me. Once you have no money there's no more risk of loss!

Things happen.

Jérôme Kerviel made it to France . Banamex was bananas . Facebook built its own Snapchat , again, because if there's one company you trust to make sure your information disappears from the internet it's Facebook. The Mets might be for sale . Deadspin vs. Zero Hedge . "Former IMF chief Dominique Strauss-Kahn has instructed lawyers to sue the makers of a movie in which veteran French star Gerard Depardieu plays a sex addict who commits a sexual assault on a hotel maid." Free Bitcoin for college students.

Matt Levine is a Bloomberg View columnist writing about Wall Street and the financial world. He is a former investment banker, mergers and acquisitions lawyer, and high school Latin teacher. Read more.
