
Signing agreement between UGA and University of Liverpool with provost Pamela Whitten, left, and University of Liverpool provost Steve Holloway in the Peabody Boardroom in the Administration Building.

Posted: Monday, May 19, 2014 4:50 pm | Updated: 10:31 pm, Thu Jul 10, 2014.

The University of Georgia recently signed a cooperative agreement with the University of Liverpool. The agreement will further deepen ongoing collaborations between the two universities by specifying joint research activities, faculty and staff exchanges and graduate student exchanges.

UGA Provost Pamela Whitten and Provost Steve Holloway from University of Liverpool signed the agreement in a brief ceremony May 6 in the Peabody Board Room in the Administration Building. Others in attendance were Kavita Pandit, associate provost for international education; Jane Gatewood, director of international partnerships; Robert Scott, associate vice president for research; Alan Dorsey, dean of the Franklin College of Arts and Sciences; and Noel Fallows, associate dean of the Franklin College.

And in 2014, UGA and the University of Liverpool will develop the One Health symposium as part of the International Festival of Business in Liverpool.

UGA and the University of Liverpool entered into a first general collaborative agreement in November 2009 to formalize a partnership in both the biological sciences and the humanities. Research correspondences with Liverpool exist in UGA’s departments including marine sciences, chemistry, infectious diseases and the Institute of Bioinformatics. In the humanities, collaborative research projects focus on African diasporas, migration and identities, and Iberian/Atlantic connections.

Posted in Uganews , Campus on Monday, May 19, 2014 4:50 pm. Updated: 10:31 pm.

1 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language.

2 Don't Threaten or Abuse. Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated. AND PLEASE TURN OFF CAPS LOCK.

3 Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.

4 Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.

5 Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.

6 Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness accounts, the history behind an article.

Welcome to the discussion.
