
HARTFORD — The magnet high school students who were hand-selected to tell top politicians about their high school experiences and their college application journey had a double-barreled message Monday.

U.S. Secretary of Education Arne Duncan, Connecticut Education Commissioner Stefan Pryor, Gov. Dannel Malloy and both of Connecticut's U.S. senators listened to graduating seniors at University High School of Science and Engineering, a magnet school at the University of Hartford.

The message's first part: Teachers, administrators and their fellow students inspired them to learn and grow. Over and over again, students said the school changed their lives.

"My English teacher — she changed high school completely for me," said Junior Stemmett, the son of a single mother in Hartford. Stemmett said even after being selected for the rigorous magnet school, his attitude was "school sucks."

But he said his teacher "helped me see the light in myself. She made me feel like I was important."

And the message's second part: The high cost of private college and the limited availability of grants and scholarships, means students are making pragmatic decisions.

"A lot of us are going to UConn," said Orlando Romero. "A lot of us didn't go to our top choices."

And he said that even at the University of Connecticut, grants and scholarships and federal loans aren't enough to cover the whole cost, and students are worried about how to choose which private company to use for the rest of the loan package.

"We're just kids," he said. "We don't know the best companies for loans. We don't know what we're doing."

Most of the students who spoke are the first in their families to go to college.

Vinecia Thaxter, who was on the panel though she goes to High School Inc., said Howard University was her top choice, but she would have had to borrow $40,000 a year to go there. "I was hoping they'd give me more" in scholarships, she said.

Her grandparents are raising her, and her grandmother works in a group home and her grandfather works in a warehouse, so they won't be able to contribute much.

So Thaxter will go to UConn.

Duncan told the students he was inspired by their stories, and told them "the perseverance, the tenacity, the grit you have shown" would serve them well at college. But he reminded them: "The goal is not to go to college, the goal is to graduate."

About 81 percent of UConn students graduate within six years.

Malloy told the students while determination is important, so is knowing where to go for help. He advised them to find the school's academic counseling center. And, in an indirect allusion to the fact that many students skip classes, he said, his No. 1 piece of advice is: "Get up for breakfast."
