
RESIDENTS have praised a decision to block plans for an extended mobile phone mast on a street corner in their neighbourhood.

Portsmouth City Council officers have used delegated powers to refuse an application by Vodafone to replace a mast on the corner of Kirby and Copnor roads in Copnor with a larger one.

The structure would have been 15m high and taken the place of a 12m mast currently on the corner.

Copnor resident Laurie Beakes said he was thrilled with the decision, as the larger mast would have been even more of a blight on the neighbourhood than the one currently there.

Mr Beakes said: ‘We were all very delighted.

‘This other mast they were planning would have been an ugly eyesore.

Mr Beakes said it would have added ‘insult to injury’ if the application had been granted as residents had also opposed the current mast at the site, which went up in 2011.

He said the council had wanted to turn down the planning application for that mast.

However, because of delays in the planning process it was forced to allow Vodafone to go ahead with it.

Mr Beakes said he wanted to thank everyone involved in the campaign to stop the mast going ahead, and in particular outgoing Copnor councillor Mike Park.

Cllr Park said he thought mobile phone companies often took the ‘easy way out’ when planning new masts.

‘They know they can put them on highways if the council don’t object to them being there.

‘But I think they should negotiate with landowners to put them in other places where they would not be so much of a problem.

Vodafone spokeswoman Jane Frapwell said the mast would have meant better phone and internet services for the area.

Ms Frapwell said: ‘We had hoped to bring 4G services to this area by changing the antennas and increasing the height from 12m to 15m.

Copnor councillor Rob New also said the council had made the right decision over the mast.

Cllr New said: ‘I’m absolutely pleased that the planning committee has listened to local residents and has rejected an expansion of the phone mast.

© 2014 Johnston Publishing Ltd.

This website and its associated newspaper adheres to the Press Complaints Commission’s Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion, then contact the Editor by clicking here .

If you remain dissatisfied with the response provided then you can contact the PCC by clicking here .

Portsmouth News provides news, events and sport features from the Portsmouth area. For the best up to date information relating to Portsmouth and the surrounding areas visit us at Portsmouth News regularly or bookmark this page.

For you to enjoy all the features of this website Portsmouth News requires permission to use cookies.

Cookies are small data files which are sent to your browser (Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome etc) from a website you visit. They are stored on your electronic device.

This is a type of cookie which is collected by Adobe Flash media player (it is also called a Local Shared Object) - a piece of software you may already have on your electronic device to help you watch online videos and listen to podcasts.

Yes there are a number of options available, you can set your browser either to reject all cookies, to allow only "trusted" sites to set them, or to only accept them from the site you are currently on.

However, please note - if you block/delete all cookies, some features of our websites, such as remembering your login details, or the site branding for your local newspaper may not function as a result.

A tool used by some of our advertisers to target adverts to you based on pages you have visited in the past. To opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

Our sites contain advertising from Google; these use cookies to ensure you get adverts relevant to you. You can tailor the type of ads you receive by visiting here or to opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

This is used to help us identify unique visitors to our websites. This data is anonymous and we cannot use this to uniquely identify individuals and their usage of the sites.

This comes from our ad serving technology and is used to track how many times you have seen a particular ad on our sites, so that you don't just see one advert but an even spread. This information is not used by us for any other type of audience recording or monitoring.

ComScore monitor and externally verify our site traffic data for use within the advertising industry. Any data collected is anonymous statistical data and cannot be traced back to an individual.

Our Classified websites (Photos, Motors, Jobs and Property Today) use cookies to ensure you get the correct local newspaper branding and content when you visit them. These cookies store no personally identifiable information.

We use Grapeshot as a contextual targeting technology, allowing us to create custom groups of stories outside out of our usual site navigation. Grapeshot stores the categories of story you have been exposed to. Their privacy policy and opt out option can be accessed here.

Our partner for Newspaper subscriptions online stores data from the forms you complete in these to increase the usability of the site and enhance user experience.

Add This provides the social networking widget found in many of our pages. This widget gives you the tools to bookmark our websites, blog, share, tweet and email our content to a friend.
