
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .

If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .

India's politicians have always had to go to great lengths to campaign in the world's most populous democracy.

Candidates ride elephants as well as appear on TV and employ Twitter, bringing to bear the techniques of the 19th, 20th and 21st centuries simultaneously.

The resounding winner of the national election declared on the weekend, the muscular Narendra Modi, also made thousands of campaign appearances by hologram.

To make contact with more than half a billion voters, Modi appeared in person at 196 rallies and travelled more than 300,000 kilometres in six weeks, but also beamed into thousands of villages as a walking, talking 3-D image.

And when the leader of the centre-right Bharatiya Janata Party, or Indian People's Party, claimed an overwhelming victory, he said his opponents hadn't realised he was a "magician".

He will need to be. He has promised a single, overriding outcome for India – an economic turnaround. "India," Modi says, "needs toilets more than temples".

His record as the can-do chief minister of the state of Gujarat has given hope that he can deliver. He was aggressively pro-business and boasts that the electricity remains on in his state, a rarity in India.

And Modi has pledged that he will not deliver on the single greatest fear of India's 170 million Muslims – an outbreak of Hindu hatred and violence against the country's biggest minority.

"We want to bring all Indians together," he said. Yet Modi's history in Gujarat raises persistent doubt over his sincerity. In 2002, he presided over mass sectarian bloodletting when Hindu mobs murdered at least 1000 Muslims.

An investigation by India's Supreme Court cleared him of any direct personal responsibility but the US government was not so sure.

The administration of George W. Bush imposed a visa ban on Modi and the Obama administration maintained it. He is the only person to be denied a visa to the US on the grounds of violating religious freedom. Obama, however, has personally invited Modi to visit, now that he leads a key country.

The great task for Modi is to raise India's living standards while controlling those among his supporters who would like to see vilification of the Muslim minority.

To accomplish both would be a kind of modern magic for a man who flaunts his 56-inch chest and boasts that he never read his briefing papers as chief minister of Gujarat because he cannot govern through "academics' studies".

The scale of Modi's victory gives him tremendous scope. He leads the first political party in 30 years to win an absolute majority in the Lok Sabha, the lower house of parliament.

This should allow him to act with more decision than his predecessor, the Congress party's Manmohan Singh, intellectual and clean, and hopelessly ineffectual as the economy sputtered and high-level corruption flourished.

The centre-left Congress, Asia's oldest political organisation, has been devastated. The party has ruled India for most of its history as an independent nation.

The voters have reduced Congress to a rump. Its mother-and-son show of Sonia and Rahul Gandhi – president and vice-president of the party, is discredited and Singh goes into retirement in low public esteem.

A former Gujarat newspaper editor, Aakar Patel, sums it up: "For 10 years, India has been led by a leader intellectual to the point of being boring. Now it must prepare for one simple-minded to the point of being dangerous."

Modi campaigned squarely on the exact obverse of the Congress record – better living standards without corruption.

"This election has proved that polls can be won in the country on the issue of development alone," he declared on the weekend.

He also claimed that it was a victory that transcended caste and religion. Unlike most of the past leaders of his party, Modi is not a member of the elite Brahmin caste but an upper-middle caste self-made man whose father owned a tea stall.

But transcending religion? Vinod Mehta of India's Outlook Group writes that Modi's BJP ran a campaign where "two concurrent strategy strands were visible – one underground and the other above ground".

Above ground was Modi's transcendent talk of unity, while underground lesser members of the party were allowed to conduct sectarian provocation. In Australia, this has been called "dog-whistle" politics, but Indians use a foghorn.

For instance, one prominent BJP candidate and a former minister repeatedly vilified Muslims. Anyone opposed to Modi, said Giriraj Singh, should "go to Pakistan".

And "all people caught in terrorist activities belong to one community".

He was disciplined by the electoral commission but not by the BJP.

So the "existential fears" held by India's Muslims remain very much alive, Mehta says.

India remains a country of tremendous potential and perpetual disappointment.

It used to be orthodoxy that it was difficult for poor countries with huge populations to achieve rapid economic growth. That was before Deng Xiaoping set off China's long boom with his reforms in 1978.

China's takeoff has stripped India of this excuse. Instead, China's state-owned media and its apologists abroad now like to argue that it is democracy that is holding back India, and other countries mired in poverty and stagnation.

The US and its allies including Australia hope fervently that Modi can make India prosper. And not only to vindicate democracy. The West looks to India as a potential counterweight to China in the global power equation.

Much rides on Modi's success. If he fails, the BJP's vision of "India Shining" will turn out to be no more substantial than the flickering hologram of a politician on the make.

Peter Hartcher is the international editor.

The greatest challenge to India is the management of its exploding population. Three years ago India in it census reported 1,200,000,000 with 180,000,000 added in the preceding ten years. At the same time China reported 1,340,000,000 with 74,000,000 million added in the preceding ten years. The difference clearly demonstrates the effects of the one child policy in China. In the 74m it should be noted that health services can increased the survival of its population.

India has less agriculture land than China. Australian Media tends to highlight the terrible air pollution of Beijing. But a very recent report states that 13 out of the top 20 worst cities for air pollution are in India with New Delhi heading the list. No city in China appears in the top 20 worst cities in the World for air pollution.

Dr. Goh, Let us be clear. The report takes into account data from China for the year 2010. The data is not recent. Secondly, lots of independent International organisations have said that the data for China for the year 2010 is far from accurate and that the Chinese government has tampered with the data to make it look better. I was following the election coverage in India and there were reporters from BBC, CNN and various other news organizations who were reporting from various parts of India, including New Delhi. The sky in Indian cities (including New Delhi) was looking nothing as murky as in Beijing, Shanghai or other Chinese cities. There you go a dose of reality. Lastly, the head of WHO is Margaret Chan. After her term, she would need to return to Hon Kong, China.

Good luck to Modi and the Indian people. If I were Indian I'm sure I'd probably be "lower caste", so I definitely would be voting for him!

By the way the failings of India have nothing to do with their so called "democracy". It is their corrupt, useless, institutions that are holding back the unbridled potential of the Indian people. If Modi can fix this, they will be a superpower and their people will quickly move out of squalor. I wish them all the best.

Great article Peter Hartcher. It will be fascinating to see what impact the election has on India's future. Such an important country and so many competing factors at play. I hope the SMH keeps reporting on India's progress.

Turnaround will depend on how much the states cooperative with him, especially on introducing the GST. Defang the bureaucracy, get rid of outdated labour laws, introduce a just land acquisition act for infrastructure projects, deregulate fuel prices and open up the retail sector to at least the food chains, end cronyism and corruption and India's economy will soar. A whale of a task. But it can be done. Australia has a big stake as it could well be one of the biggest beneficiaries, esp. in  Indian mining, financial services and agriculture.

The election victory for Narendra Modi is historic and brings to the forefront the full potential of India. Modi will form a strong government both domestically and internationally. He will make India a very strong global player. I was watching the news on BBC over the weekend and all major European and US newspapers were reporting Modi’s historic election victory on the front page. Modi’s resounding election victory is good for the International community, as they would now be able to work much more closely with the world’s largest democracy. Regarding the riots in Gujrat in 2002. It was sparked by Muslims who torched and burnt a train carrying Hindu pilgrims. This incident resulted in the deaths of around 300 Hindu pilgrims. The rioting was a retaliation. I am not a supporter of rioting, but I am also not a supporter of people being burnt alive. I am surprised no news agency mentions this. The US visa ban was more of a political statement, rather than a policy issue. After all they perceive Modi as a right wing Hindu politician. If Modi had been the leader of the Congress party, then the US would not have imposed any visa bans. However, US has now found itself at the wrong end of the stick. The backtracking by the Obama administration and Obama personally being one of the first international leaders to congratulate and invite Modi to the US, shows that US is having a pragmatic approach and that they have no other option, but to continue their strategic relationship with India. Modi’s victory will show that democracy works.

kofi annan had UN oversight of africa when the conflict in rawanda broke out. Despite thousands losing their lives, he was promoted to secretary general. While there is a cloud that hangs over modi with respect to the gujurat riots, I hope he can improve india.

I would like to highlight one inconsistency in the article, the violence in 2002 only happened because a train carrying hindu pilgrims women and children were burned alive and was a repercussion of this attack. The actions were more or less a response to this cowardly attack and were not initiated or supported by Modi, as an chief minister he took all the necessary steps to stop it including asking for help from 3 other states governed by the ruling Congress party and none of the governments responded to the request. However post that incident there have been no such incidents. A further probe by the investigation team presided by the Supreme Court of India has given verdict that modi was not involved in any wrong doing thus giving him clean chit.

Also as said in the article every one is hoping Modi to deliver what he promised. God Bless India.

The opening span of Riverwalk is commissioned on Tuesday, with boaties required to call Council and wait "5 to 8 minutes" for it to open.
