
YEREVAN—Armenian Volunteer Corps (AVC) launches its Voluntourism summer program with the Southern Discovery tour set for July 18 to 29. A combination of travel and service, participants will visit historic sites, enjoy the natural beauty of Armenia, and also give something back by volunteering with local organizations and communities.

Designed for travelers looking for an exciting and rewarding travel experience, Armenian Volunteer Corps’ (AVC) Voluntourism program offers a great alternative to the typical vacation. With 14 years experience coordinating volunteer placements and community service projects with hundreds of partners throughout Armenia, AVC has selected locations and service opportunities that support grassroots development with a view to encouraging sustainable impact.

From the minute you land, AVC will transport you on an all-inclusive adventure into the heart of Armenia.  You’ll explore cultural and natural sites in Ararat, Vayots Dzor and Syunik; work side-by-side with local farmers, helping the villagers bundle their wholesome bounty to market. You will ride the world’s longest aerial tram; learn how to make traditional lavash and collect honey; and see where the world’s oldest leather shoe and winepress were discovered – all while enjoying hiking, horseback-riding, off-roading and wine-tasting. You will also experience rural life through village homestays and work with local residents in their community. While in Yerevan, you’ll stay at the beautiful Villa Ayghedzor; visit the Parajanov museum, Erebuni fortress and museum, Tsitsernakaberd, Garni and Geghart, and Lake Sevan.

This program is about making a real connection with Armenia and being a part of its growth and progress.

The ‘Southern Discovery’ (July 18 to 29) package is priced at $1,250 and includes all ground transportation, accommodations and meals, guided excursions, and cultural and other activities. More information can be found at the program’s website .

Armenian Volunteer Corps is Armenia’s leading volunteer organization based in Armenia, customizing job placements for some 550 global volunteers aged 21 and up and working to create a connection between people around the world and Armenia. AVC volunteers have hailed from the four corners of the world — 35 countries to date.

Comments are welcomed and encouraged. Though you are fully responsible for the content you post, comments that include profanity, personal attacks or other inappropriate material will not be permitted. Asbarez.com reserves the right to block users who violate any of our posting standards and policies.
