
Agartala, May 19 (IANS): Indian immigration officials in Agartala detained a man belonging to West African country Ghana while he was crossing over to Bangladesh on a fake visa, an official said here Monday. "Nocodome Dramo, 36, was detained by the immigration officials Sunday while he was going to Bangladesh through the Akhaurah check post (near here) with fake visa. He was later arrested by the Tripura police," a police spokesman told reporters. Rupees.10,000 in Indian currency, 600 dollars, 12,500 Euros and some other material were seized from him. The official said that intelligence officials are interrogating Dramo who came to India September 2010. After the expiry of his visa, he obtained a fake one and was trying to leave the country.

ITANAGAR, MAY 19 (PTI): At least 29 houses were allegedly set on fire at Tezu Kholla in Lohit district by unidentified persons. However, there was no report of any loss of life in the arson which took place on Saturday night. The occupants were mostly daily wage earners, rickshaw pullers and fishermen from Bihar. Most of the houses were empty at the time of the incident as the occupants had already left for their native villages in Bihar after the end of the election, an official report said here today. Some of the occupants, who were sleeping in their houses on that fateful night, have somehow managed to escape from the inferno, the report said. Senior Congress leader Kalikho Pul visited the accident site from Anjaw yesterday and took stock of the situation. Pul urged the Lohit Deputy Commissioner to investigate the matter immediately and arrest the perpetrators of the incident and punish them as per law.

GANGTOK, MAY 19 (PTI): Having won a record mandate for the fifth time in a row, Sikkim Chief Minister Pawan Chamling, who is on his way to surpass the tenure of the longest serving Chief minister of the country, will take oath on Wednesday. "All the 22 MLAs of Sikkim Democratic Front had a meeting and we have unanimously decided to elect Pawan Chamling as our leader. We will form the government on Wednesday," SDF Vice-President K B Chamling told PTI. Last week, SDF won the assembly polls by a two-third majority with 22 of its MLAs being elected to the 32 member House.   In power since December 12, 1994, 63-year-old Chamling has already completed two uninterrupted decades as the chief minister of Sikkim. After this swearing-in, he will be on way to surpass the record of former West Bengal chief minister Jyoti Basu of being the longest serving chief minister of the country. Basu had ruled West Bengal for 23 years from 1977 to 2000.
