
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

Robyn Goyett, mother of Christina, pictured with her son Cameron. A scholarship in Christina’s honor was recognized by the Bay Area Community Foundation at its Annual Report to the Community, Monday, May 19.

BAY CITY, MI — Robyn Goyett fought through tears as she described what it means to see a scholarship in her daughter's name become a permanent part of the Bay Area Community Foundation's annual offerings.

Christina Goyett, Robyn's daughter and a graduate of Bangor John Glenn High School , died in a car accident in March 2012.

"Knowing that Christina will be remembered means everything to me," Goyett said, her son Cameron at her side. "I think one of the biggest fears is that your child will not be remembered — that they're just gone, they'll be forgotten. This way, she'll always be here."

Goyett spoke minutes after the close of the Bay Area Community Foundation's Annual Report to the Community, held midday on Monday, May 19, at the Doubletree hotel and conference center in downtown Bay City. Besides a chance to reflect on recently disbursed grants and new endowments like Goyett's, the meeting also introduced the foundation's incoming leadership and gave a brief review of its finances.

Michael Hanisko, outgoing chairman of the foundation's Board of Trustees, said the event is an opportunity to connect with the community.

"It's a chance to be together with donors, volunteers and other (supporters) of the foundation just to recap some of the exciting things we've done over the past year," he said.

Among the highlights noted this year are a number of grant awards, including a nearly $4,000 grant to the Bay City Public Safety Department for a child identification system, as well as a grant awarded to 211 of Northeastern Michigan. Additionally, multiple organizations were recognized for their support for the College Access Resource Center, including AT&T, the Dow Corning Foundation and the Nickless Family Charitable Foundation.

Among the group's announcements for the future were  the Newell and Elizabeth Eddy Environment Grant, a new, one-time $100,000 grant set to be awarded by the foundation to multiple organizaitons for an "innovative and entrepreneurial opportunity to connect people to nature." Foundation documents note that applications for the grant will be accepted through October 1. Those interested in applying can call 989-893-4438 for more details.

One of the afternoon's most exciting moments was a formal grant award of $26,000 to help build a new track at Kolb Elementary School. Karen Schultheiss,a third-grade teacher at the school, was on hand to accept the money, the result of four separate grants. She noted that the new track, which officials hope to install before the fall, will not only benefit the students at Kolb, but the broader community as well.

"I was totally shocked," Schultheiss said of learning she had won all four grants she'd applied for. "It's going to help in the wellness for all the students.

In the coming year, Curtis said the organization hopes to work towards realizing some of the goals laid out in the recently released Bay County Road Map to the Future , a broad plan that encourages the community to have a stronger sense of place, develop its waterfront, boost business and education and fight poverty.

Curtis said that in the meantime, the foundation will continue its work in the area.

"We will continue to provide grants and scholarships to the community, we will also be working with our youth advisory group on providing support for college visits," she said. "We will be working with donors to help inform them on what the needs are in the community."

© 2014 MLive Media Group All rights reserved ( About Us ).

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
