
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

Plainwell school board president Amy Blades gives statement regarding suspension of superintendent After approving and reading a disciplinary memorandum for superintendent Susan Wakefield at Tuesday's Plainwell Community Schools Board of Education meeting, school board president Amy Blades read her own statement regarding Wakefield's failure to follow a safety protocol, which earned her a one-day suspension without pay.

PLAINWELL, MI — Plainwell Community Schools Superintendent Susan Wakefield was given a one-day suspension earlier this month for failing to comply with established safety protocol related to a weapons incident.

Her actions, however, put no students in danger, according to statements made by school board president Amy Blades.

The board voted 6-0 Monday following an hour-long closed session to issue a disciplinary memorandum related to Wakefield's handling of a March incident in which a student brought a fake gun to school. Board member Kevin Blue was absent.

Blades stressed after reading the memorandum that Wakefield's failure to follow procedure in this incident did not endanger any students.

"I really do want to emphasize to our community that this memorandum is related to a procedural issue," Blades said after reading the board's motion. "There was never any threat to students, or was student safety put at risk. Mrs. Wakefield has always made student safety a top priority and we are confident that she will continue to do just that."

Blades said the board issued a memo on April 11, 2011, that says the superintendent is expected to invite a police officer when there is a student hearing involving a weapon, and to immediately contact law enforcement upon the discovery of any weapon on school grounds. Wakefield's one day suspension without pay, Blades said, was for failure to follow this protocol with regards to a March 10, 2014, incident in which a student brought a fake gun to Gilkey Elementary.

Wakefield failed to notify police during the March 10, 2014 incident. Instead, police were first contacted by a concerned parent. Police then contacted Wakefield for confirmation 2.5 hours after the incident had occurred.

Three messages were sent to parents of students in the affected classroom at Gilkey Elementary from the time the fake weapon was discovered, to the  following day. The initial message indicated it was being sent out to quell a rumor and did not "convey the professionalism and appropriate tone coming from a school district, but rather took on a defensive tone," Blades said.

Wakefield was not aware of the gun lookalike until being contacted by a school board member about an hour after it was first discovered. Protocol was not followed at the building level with regards to contacting the superintendent, despite prior discussions with administration while creating the procedure.

Wakefield made inconsistent statements regarding the incident to the board at its May 8 meeting. These included that "a teacher was disciplined when she was not, whether a police report was made, and whether the police were invited to be present at the board meeting," Blades said.

Further details surrounding the incident for which Wakefield was disciplined were not disclosed at Monday's meeting.

Blades said the inconsistencies in Wakefield's statements to the board at its last meeting were of particular concern because it can create an issue of trust and credibility between the board and superintendent.

Wakefield said she is confident that this was largely a communication issue that won't occur again going forward.

"There was never any risk of student safety," Wakefield said. "That's always my top priority and it will always continue to be a top priority.

"There's lessons to be learned here, and I look forward to continuing the work here at Plainwell schools with the board and we'll go forward from here."

When asked if she lied to the board in her statements at the May 8 meeting, Wakefield reiterated it was a miscommunication. Blades also stated that the memorandum mentioned nothing about lying.

© 2014 MLive Media Group All rights reserved ( About Us ).

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
