
George Sherman, 88, of Boca Raton , a Jewish U.S. Army World War II veteran, says that while many Holocaust films have some truth to them, no movie can compare to what he experienced when his platoon — the 41st Cavalry of the 11th Armored Division — liberated the Mauthausen concentration camp in Austria on May 5, 1945.

"You just can't imagine what the smell was like," Sherman said. "It was horrible. There were dead people everywhere and walking skeletons all around. The ovens were still hot. It was like hell."

When Sherman returned to the United States, he mostly put his terrible war experiences behind him and moved on. Sherman got married to Marcia during Thanksgiving Break from college in 1946, and the couple have raised two sons, Frank, 63, and Rick, 60, in their 67 years of marriage.

However, about seven years ago, the late Jimmy Lichtman, who was an active Holocaust survivor from Boca Raton , convinced Sherman that he had to start telling his war stories.

Sherman said: "Jimmy convinced me I was a witness to the things that went on in the camps during the war and that I needed to tell about them to educate the children. At first it was hard, bringing up experiences I had not thought of for a long time. It never got any easier, but I have accepted my responsibility to tell these stories. I am not a hero, but I do bear witness to these important historical events. Knowing what I've seen, the survivors are the real heroes."

Sherman says the students mostly know very little about the Holocaust or World War II, which he can tell by their questions and the puzzled looks on their faces.

"Still, when I show up in my uniform — which had to be let out a great deal — it demands great respect," Sherman exclaimed.

With Memorial Day coming up next Monday (May 26), Sherman said his thoughts are turning to those who made the ultimate sacrifice for this country in fighting for what we believed in.

Sherman admits he primarily thinks of his fellow World War II veterans lost in battle, especially those lost in the Battle of the Bulge — the major German offensive launched through the densely-forested Ardennes region of Belgium, France and Luxembourg in December of 1944.

"I think a lot about the Battle of the Bulge, which I fought in and survived," Sherman said. "The U.S. had about 80,000 casualties in that battle, including about 19,000 killed."

Sherman and his family are now planning European trips for commemorations of notable World War II events.

The Shermans left for Europe on Monday, May 19 to be in Normandy on June 6 for the commemoration of the 70th anniversary of the United States' D-Day invasion. Frank Sherman will fly in from Rochester, N.Y. for this, as well. George Sherman also said there will be "unofficial" commemorations of the Battle of the Bulge this summer, with the 70th anniversary not taking place until December.

Finally, in May of 2015, Rick Sherman, who lives in Plantation, will travel with his parents to be at the commemoration of the 70th anniversary of the liberation of the Mauthausen concentration camp.

George Sherman's family members all know how important it is for him to remember his war time activities.

Marcia Sherman said: "I'm extremely proud of my husband's service in World War II. I also like the fact that he speaks to children at schools and young adults in synagogues about the Holocaust and his participation in liberating the Mauthausen concentration camp."

Added Frank Sherman: "For my dad to recount these horrible experiences of an 18-year-old to students from the generations of his grandchildren and great-grandchildren honors the service of his fellow veterans. It also provides a powerful lesson of the continuing importance of standing up against acts of intolerance and hatred."

Concluded Rick Sherman: "It is with great respect and love that I have come to know my father's war experiences. I now better understand the historical events that not only shaped history, in general, but what ultimately shaped my father's philosophy of life and character. It is with great admiration that I witness what he has accomplished and what he now shares with others."
