
Mrs Sharp said she was touched to receive the 'treasure'

A mother has unexpectedly received a letter her son wrote as part of a school project before he was killed in a car crash.

Gail Sharp, from Andersonville, Tennessee, said she was shocked - but ultimately grateful - when the letter addressed to her son, Cameron, arrived in the mail around Mother's Day.

She recognized his handwriting on the envelope, and when she opened it, she discovered a short note that he had written while attending Norris Middle School on May 22, 2007, when he was 12.

They were encouraged to write about their favorite things in life - such as friends or school activities - and write down their life goals.

Mr Caldwell said he would then post the letters to their homes as they were about to graduate high school so that they could reflect on their good times or see whether their goals had changed.

'When I ran across (Cameron's) for just a  moment I paused and asked myself, "Do I mail this?" But I knew that  probably it would be really special to his mother,' he told WBIR.

'Dear Cameron. On this day my brother  will graduate from middle school. On the same day I watched the movie  Night at the Museum. My favorite teacher is Mr. Cawood.'

Gail Sharp said he was right.

'I'm so glad he did,' she said. 'I wasn't looking forward to Mother's Day, and then we got that letter and it did make it special.'

She added that she had always nagged him to practice his handwriting, but now that they had a copy of it, 'it's a treasure to us'.

Her son Cameron would have actually graduated from high school in May 2013, but she doesn't mind that it arrived when it did.

He was just 17 when he was killed in a collision at the interchange of Highway 61 and Highway 441.

He was the passenger in a Ford Escort when it collided with a truck, and he died at the scene. The driver, an 18-year-old fellow Anderson County High School student, survived.

Both the driver and the passenger in the truck were injured.

The comments below have not been moderated.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
