
A COMMUNITY group has rubbished a plan for Burnside Council to sift through the litter of dozens of residents, saying it raises privacy concerns.

Burnside Council will sift through 100 random household bins this month to ensure waste and recyclables are properly separated.

Unley is conducting its own audit of household rubbish in Parkside and Forestville.

But the Burnside Residents’ Group has hit out at the audit, saying residents’ privacy would be compromised. “There would be issues around privacy,” group president Anna Sullivan said.

She said residents should volunteer for the study, rather than the council selecting 100 residents at random.

“There’s also issues around consent,” she said.

A Burnside Council spokeswoman said privacy was not an issue because people could opt out of the study. “We tag the bins we are going to use and if you don’t want someone going through your bin, you can tell us no,” the spokeswoman said. But Dr Sullivan said that was not good enough.

“I think the council should contact the residents of the selected properties and ask permission to do it,” she said.

Burnside conducted a similar study, in conjunction with Zero Waste SA and KESAB, last year after the $3 million three-bin system was introduced in late 2012.

An Unley Council spokeswoman said selected residents were notified of its audit by letter.

Last month, Holdfast Bay Council offered a $100 gift card to residents who correctly disposed of waste.

The council said it was not about punishing residents who did the wrong thing, but rewarding those who did it right.

In 1996, a 25-year-old man died after sorting through rubbish during a similar program run by northern Adelaide councils.

News.com.au's Privacy Policy includes important information about our collection, use and disclosure of your personal information (including to provide you with targeted content and advertising based on your online activities). It explains that if you do not provide us with information we have requested from you, we may not be able to provide you with the goods and services you require. It also explains how you can access or seek correction of your personal information, how you can complain about a breach of the Australian Privacy Principles and how we will deal with a complaint of that nature.
