
KATHMANDU: Journalist Phulman Bal was smiling with the audience at the Shilpee Theatre, Battisputali on May 16. Why wouldn’t he? The play Mhendomaya was being staged, and Bal, the writer of the play, was watching his plot unfold live on stage.

Mhendomaya means a beautiful flower in the Tamang language. Nanakheba, wife of renowned historian and cultural expert on the oral tradition of Tamang culture Tamba, is lonely after her husband’s death. She has started telling stories to stave off her loneliness. This play is the narrated story of Gole Bombo’s journey to Gosaikunda.

Gole Bombo (Santosh Tamang), a shaman, takes a bet to kill the snakes of Bhairavkunda — a pond on the way to Gosaikunda — that have been troubling humans. He goes with his wife Mhendomaya (Sukumaya Moktan). He hands his dhyangro to his wife her and jumps into the pond. He is kills the snakes and carries them on his shoulders. But Mhendomaya is afraid  and runs away without sprinkling holy rice over her husband and snakes. And due to this, Gole Bombo’s power lessens and he is killed by the snakes. The pond turns into a pool of blood.

Mhendomaya returns to the village and wants to remarry. Her wish is granted by the villagers. Nanakheba (Dilmaya Tamang Thing) becomes an obstacle as she doesn’t want to give Mhendomaya the position of shaman enjoyed by Gole Bombo. Mhendomaya goes to her in person and explains that she isn’t the fictional Mhendomaya; rather she is the many Mhendomayas of recent times who are sold into brothels, some struggling in foreign countries for employment and some facing hardships in the villages.

Giving a modern touch to the fictional character, director Ghimire Yubaraj has tried to reflect on the problems of Nepal today — gambling, drinking, drugs, eve teasing and foreign employment, through the play.

As the play is in Tamang language, it might be difficult for the audience to understand the dialogues that are sometimes spoken very fast. The characters Dilmaya and Sukumaya’s are good in expressing their love and hatred. Santosh’s multiple roles as Gole Bombo, Chaangwa and cat are well done. His act of a cat drinking milk is something that made the audience laugh often.

The use of props — ropes as snakes, artists as madani and theki — was something different to watch. The same prop — a bamboo with a wooden base — was used for multiple elements like diyo holder, flying airplane and beer bottles — was something to cheer for.

The play somehow misses the plot in the middle and flows somewhere else. Had the plot been smooth and the shouting and crying been less, the play would have been a better watch. Yet the play narrates a beautiful story in the Tamang tradition.

The play will be staged at 5:30 pm till May 28, except Tuesdays, at Shilpee Theatre.
