
■ Traffic conditions: Area roads are clear this morning.

■ Southwest Florida weather: Through Monday, mostly sunny skies will continue and so will the breeze. With high pressure over the Gulf of Mexico staying in control of our weather, we don't have a good chance for rain any time soon. CLICK HERE for the forecast.

■ Naples City Council will hold a workshop at 8:30 a.m. in council chambers at City Hall, 735 Eighth St. S. Among the items the council is set to discuss is a presentation of the five-year capital improvement plan for utilities, streets and storm water and the Gordon Bridge/Baker Park fund, among others.

■ The Marco Island City Council will meet at 5:30 p.m. in the community meeting room at City Hall, 51 Bald Eagle Drive, Marco Island. Among the items council will discuss are the bid award for the replacement of the Collier Boulevard bridge over Smokehouse Bay and an ordinance establishing a code enforcement special magistrate.

■ Leon County (Tallahassee) Circuit Judge Terry Lewis is scheduled to begin hearing testimony in a long-running lawsuit about whether the Legislature complied with constitutional requirements when drawing new political districts in 2012. It starts at 9 a.m. Leon County Courthouse, 301 South Monroe St., Tallahassee.

■ The state is required to submit a response to the Florida Supreme Court by noon in a case challenging a 2013 law that allows blind trusts for public officials. The case, filed by Jim Apthorp, a former chief of staff to the late Gov. Reubin Askew, contends that blind trusts violate the open-government Sunshine Amendment.

■ 'IN SICKNESS AND IN HEALTH' IS HARDER THAN IT SOUNDS: Poll finds caring for an ailing spouse is more stressful than caring for parents, or even in-laws. CLICK HERE to read more.

■ HOW TEA PARTY LOSSES STILL SHAPE ELECTIONS: Tuesday's high-profile primary elections may see tea party Republicans losing individual races but nonetheless tugging the GOP rightward.

■ WHICH NEW WORDS WERE ADDED TO THE DICTIONARY: You can, at last, find out what a "Yooper" is by checking Merriam Webster's Collegiate Dictionary. And if you still don't know what a turducken is, that's in there too.

■ WHY AT&T IS BUYING DIRECTV: With the acquisition, the nation's largest mobile carrier will be able to deliver premium content across platforms: television, computers, smartphones and tablets. CLICK HERE to read more.

Ready to subscribe to the Naples Daily News? Choose between a Premium or Digital subscription below.

Need Help? Call us at 1-888-878-6842.
