
Father Gilbert Dasna, 32, a Cameroonian priest who served native reserves in rural Alberta, had a way of focusing incomprehensible grief.

Three years to the day after his arrival in Canada as a young missionary priest, on May 9, Father Dasna was shot dead in the doorway of his rectory in St. Paul, having answered the door to a man who fired multiple times at his chest.

Minutes later, that same man, believed by police to be the owner of a local health food store, would fire on the local RCMP detachment, leading to a pursuit at high speed with live gunfire through residential streets, before he deliberately rammed a police vehicle, disabling his own. He was then killed in a terrifying shootout in the middle of St. Paul, a town of 6,000 northeast of Edmonton.

The dead man was John Carlos Quadros, 55, owner of Health Mart 2000, an alternative health food store in a house on the town’s main street, where he lived with his wife, Wendy. No other suspects are in custody, and no charges have been filed, though the investigation remains open.

Witnesses said the chase — which started at the RCMP detachment and took a circular route through town, along residential streets and back to within sight of Mr. Quadros’ house — ended when Mr. Quadros rammed his black Dodge truck into a police truck, crushing it and severely injuring the legs of the female RCMP officer at the wheel. She has since had surgery and is expected to recover. Two male officers involved in the confrontation were treated for less serious injuries, including one gunshot wound.

Tammy Roeder-Renauld was driving on the main street at the time, and said the officer showed “amazing courage” by driving into the path of Mr. Quadros’s speeding truck.

“I am sure that if she had not put her life on the line that it would have been me and the gentleman in front of me that would have been hurt or killed,” she told the St. Paul Journal.

Police shot Mr. Quadros dead in the driver’s seat of his crashed truck. Photographs from the scene show him slumped behind the wheel. Multiple weapons were recovered inside. The Alberta Serious Incident Response Team, which investigates police actions that kill or injure civilians, is also investigating the incident.

It is not known whether Mr. Quadros knew Fr. Dasna. Health Mart 2000 is less than a block away from the St. Paul Cathedral and the rectory.

Reached at the health food store on Monday, a woman who identified herself as Wendy Quadros, his widow, declined to comment.

Born in Cameroon, Father Dasna’s remains were to be returned to the cemetery of his religious order in Nigeria.

He had recently returned from a visit to Africa after his sister, a nun who raised him after their parents’ death, was killed in a car crash.

It was an exceptionally busy evening, he said, with two schools still open for events at the supper hour, and a late afternoon funeral nearby.

He urged sympathy for Mr. Quadros’ family.

“All of the community should be thinking of everybody who is affected by this incident and trying to help them all out,” he said.

Mr. Quadros’ business, which also operated online, sells natural food supplements and vitamins. “At Health Mart 2000 we believe that the road to optimal health may be achieved thru a natural approach, using Herbs and Natural products given to us by GOD, as our inheret [sic] right as his adopted children; and a continued daily effort to know our Lord and saviour Jesus Christ, the way to Salvation and ever Lasting Life,” reads its website.

He recently got his way in a minor dispute with the town council, which tried to require all new business licensees to also purchase membership in the local chamber of commerce.

Mr. Quadros, who objected to joining a group he felt did not help him, challenged the legality of the scheme, going so far as to write to a cabinet minister, who clarified some of the legal points. In the end, however, the plan was shelved earlier this year.

“His comments were valid … and that went into our consideration,” said the mayor.
