
Two natives of Honduras currently in El Paso shared harrowing accounts of their journeys on the notorious train known as "La Bestia," or The Beast.

Griselda Navarro, 34, and Sergio Mercado, 17, said they saw gang members shoot to death passengers riding on top of the trains because they couldn't pay and watched as others were run over by the train and died or were left permanently injured. They made their trips on the train at different times last year.

Officials from the Mexican state of Veracruz recently announced that they are preparing complaints against the companies that operate trains and railways that carry the migrants through their state.

Sister Lillian Long, a nun with the Sisters of St. Joseph of Carondelet, said it will take more than that to put an end to the brutality. Long is familiar with the situation having worked in those regions and at the Annunciation House immigrant shelter in El Paso.

"It will require a different mindset, a cultural change, to make people stop seeing the migrants as someone to exploit," Long said in a telephone interview.

Long ministered in the Hogar de la Misericordia (Home of Mercy) in Arriaga, Chiapas, a shelter that seeks to rehabilitate men and women who've lost legs and arms during their attempts to ride La Bestia, and in the Albergue Jesus el Buen Pastor (Jesus the Good Shepherd Shelter) in Tapachula, Chiapas, which also helps migrants.

Numerous documentaries and news articles describe the trek on the train as a gauntlet of bribery, extortion, rape, kidnapping and murder.

Ministers who assist the migrants, including those who have lost limbs when they fell or were pushed off the train, say a corrupt network targets the migrants that come mostly come from Central America or Southern Mexico. The network includes immigration officers, train employees, transportation workers and dangerous gangs.

The corruption is something that Navarro and Mercado said they witnessed.

"Everyone along the way, no matter who it is: bus drivers, immigration, the train conductors, the gangs, you name it, they all hit you for money," Navarro said. "If you don't pay up, they threaten to kill you."

Navarro said she was pregnant when she, her husband, and a teenaged son fled Honduras. "I didn't want to leave my country, but the Maras (Mara Salvatrucha gang) saw that I witnessed them kill a man across the street from me, and they gave me 48 hours to get out of the country with my family."

Veracruz officials said their complaint is aimed at Grupo Mexico and Kansas City Southern de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. (KCSM), whom they consider responsible for the trains that make up part of La Bestia's route.

Grupo Mexico, which owned the former Asarco smelter in El Paso, did not return messages seeking comment. KCS said that for the most part their trains are not involved.

"KCSM is aware of the situation where immigrants illegally board trains, mainly Central American immigrants coming from Mexico's southern border, but KCSM does not operate in this part of Mexico. KCSM does not run the train line referred to as 'La Bestia,'" Barbrha Ibáñez, a spokeswoman for KCSM said. "The number of people attempting to illegally board KCSM trains north of this region is minimal and subject to heavy railroad security enforcement."

KCSM is a transportation holding company in Kansas City, Mo., that has railroad investments in the U.S., Mexico, and Panama.

Ibáñez also said that KCSM has made significant investments during past years to increase the security of railway operations, including technology, security staff, intelligence, as well as operating systems related to security in stations, shipping points and along its railway network to prevent this kind of illegal activity with success.

Navarro and Mercado are in the United States with permission of the U.S. government while their immigration status is undergoing review so they can remain in the country permanently. They met at the Annunciation House in El Paso, which provides temporary shelter for migrants who are subject to various U.S. immigration proceedings.

Navarro said she and her family rode a bus to Guatemala, crossed the border into Mexico, hopped on several non-passenger trains along the "Bestia" route, and rode a bus from Torreon, Coahuila, to Chihuahua state.

"I saw one of the Zetas on a train shoot and kill a young Salvadoran boy, a teenager, who couldn't pay $300 and didn't want to get off the train," Navarro. "On another occasion, a train conductor felt sorry for me because I was pregnant, and told us how to get on the train before it started moving. You had to pay extra if you didn't want to catch a moving train."

Throughout the trip that took several days, Navarro said she and her family suffered hunger, slept outdoors in the rain, walked for hours and dodged dangerous characters.

Her family witnessed a woman left behind in a remote area after she had lost her foot when a train ran over her. They also watched as gang members yanked a young woman off the train.

"The girl the gang took was beautiful," Navarro said. "We heard her scream, but no one could do anything."

"After we reached Chihuahua, my husband did odd jobs and finally got a decent-paying job with a mining company in Guadalupe y Calvo," Navarro said. "Then, he got into a dispute with the foreman because they didn't pay him his full salary. A group of men wearing ski masks picked him up at night, and I never saw him again. That's when I decided to head for the border to Juárez."

Navarro and her son reached Anapra, by then she was having sharp labor pains. A smuggler in Anapra told her he could get her and the son across the border for $1,000 cash. She didn't have the money. The smuggler threatened to kill her if she didn't come up with the money when he returned.

"A woman who said she was a Christian showed me where to cross, but I hesitated when I saw the Border Patrol vehicles," Navarro said. "The woman told me I couldn't stay or go back because I would be killed, and that it was better to take my chances with the Border Patrol."

Border Patrol agents intercepted Navarro and her son when they crossed the border.

"They were kind and treated us well," she said. Soon after that, Navarro was hospitalized and gave birth to a new son.

Mercado said he had heard about the bad things that happened on "La Bestia," but decided to try his luck anyway. He left with a companion who eventually went his separate way in Mexico.

"Along the way, on the train, I encountered gang members armed with guns and machetes," Mercado said. "I saw the gangs kill three people, shooting them or shoving them off the train. I managed to avoid most of them by hiding in certain parts of the train.

"The gangs communicate by cellphone, and know which ones paid and which ones still owe them," Mercado said. "They allow some people to pay at the next station if they didn't have the money at first. But if they fail to pay at the next station, they kill them or push them off, depending on their mood."

Mercado made stops in Veracruz and Mexico City and other places before arriving in Juarez. He said he survived by doing odd jobs, including cleaning apartment properties.

"People are leaving Honduras because they can't take the violence there anymore," Mercado said. "The police fear the gangs, and we are at their mercy all the time. You can't work or go to school under those conditions."

Navarro, while holding her toddler, said the gangs are the primary reasons people can't lead normal lives in Honduras. "We're not talking several or dozens – there are thousands of them," she said.

Long said that based on testimony from people who have made trips on "La Bestia," none of the migrants making their way to the U.S.-Mexico border have done so without the permission of the Zetas or Mara Salvatrucha gangs. "They control the entire corridor," she said. "Things became considerably worse for the migrants once the gangs got involved."

If he is successful in obtaining a U.S. visa, Mercado said, he plans to continue his studies and join the military.

The Rev. Alejandro Solalinde, an internationally renowned human rights advocate in Mexico, has been critical of the Mexican government for its failure to end the human ordeals associated with La Bestia and other migrant abuses. He said recently that corrupt officials profit from the multi-million-dollar exploitation of migrants traveling through Mexico.

Solalinde told news reporters recently that a third of the migrants who disappeared after leaving their home countries were last seen in the state of Veracruz and that it's a place where migrants also suffer the worst violence.

Navarro and Mercado said that even if Veracruz officials persuade the railroad companies that operate in "La Bestia" corridor to make changes, it will not keep migrants from trying to hop the trains.

"It will take a lot more than that," Navarro said. "The problems are deep and they begin in our home countries."

Diana Washington Valdez may be reached at 546-6140.
