
DANBURY -- Naugatuck Valley Community College 's city location on Main Street has been elevated to a degree-granting institution.

This news comes as the two-year community college moves closer to fulfilling a plan to triple the size of its facilities.

Danbury already is home to Western Connecticut State University , which awards four-year and advanced degrees, and has an agreement with Naugatuck Valley that makes seamless the transfer from the two-year program to Western.

The Commission on Institutions of Higher Education approved the application for the school, whose main campus is in Waterbury, to elevate its Danbury site from just offering courses to a degree-granting campus. The Danbury location will be known as the NVCC Danbury Campus.

"This is huge," NVCC President Daisy Cocco De Filippis said Monday. "We are so happy to be in Danbury and try to help make a difference in the community."

The college started offering course offerings in the city in the fall of 2009 and had more than 1,000 students enrolled in credit-bearing courses in fall 2013.

The state Board of Regents approved the school's proposal to offer associate's degrees and certificates in Danbury in May 2013, De Filippis said, and now, a year later, the accrediting board approved the Danbury center as an instructional location that offers associate's degrees.

She said once such an institution offers a complete degree, it is considered a campus.

"This is great news," Danbury Mayor Mark Boughton said Monday. "It's good for the city. There are a lot of people who are taking advantage of the Naugatuck programs, both young students and nontraditional students. It's an affordable alternative."

In the letter of approval, the commission "commends Naugatuck Valley Community College for its proposal to establish an institutional location in Danbury, Conn., that provided evidence of diligent planning and thoughtfully addressed each of the 11 standards."

De Filippis said the accrediting board evaluated the school's programs, the support that is available to students, and the number of part-time and full-time faculty.

She said the board will make a site visit, too.

Meanwhile, the aim is to move from a 6,000-square-foot site across from Danbury Library to an 18,000-square-foot facility in the city by fall 2015, she said.

The plan is to have a space for tutoring, counseling and other student support; a library; a science laboratory, for which there is no space now; and a lecture hall used in part to host cultural events and classes.
