
Glenn Greenwald threatened to reveal reveal the names of citizens targeted by the US government, saying he was saving 'the best for last'

The journalist who helped Edward Snowden leak millions of British and American intelligence secrets has threatened to publish fresh revelations about GCHQ.

Glenn Greenwald said the UK’s eavesdropping post was ‘unrestrained and vicious’ compared to their counterparts at the US National Security Agency (NSA).

He also said he would reveal the names of citizens targeted by the US government, saying he wanted to ‘save the best for last’.

Snowden, 30, became one of the world’s most wanted men last June when he broke cover as the civilian CIA worker who stole classified documents from the US National Security Agency.

He leaked details of attempts by state spy agencies - including Britain’s GCHQ - to view citizens’ private information.

It showed that intelligence chiefs harvested internet histories, emails, text messages, calls and passwords.

The defence contractor, who was a computer specialist at an intelligence centre in Hawaii, copied up to 2million files in one of the biggest leaks in US history - on a par with WikiLeaks whistleblower Bradley Manning - then handed the secrets to the Guardian.

‘When you go to the park in New York you see these big built-up muscular guys and they have these tiny shih-tzu dogs.

‘It will seem a mismatch but the shih-tzu is super-vicious and yapping.

His pledge to publish more damaging material in The Intercept, the online magazine for which he now works, will unnerve security chiefs on both sides of the Atlantic who are still reeling from their surveillance activities being exposed.

‘Those are the kinds of questions that I want to still answer.

‘As with a fireworks show, you want to save your best for last.

Mr Greenwald spoke out as speculation mounted that Snowden could have been a spy working - unwittingly or need - for Russia or China.

Intelligence chiefs believe he is now a ‘puppet’ passing details of military capabilities, operations and tactics to unfriendly nations.

Snowden claims he acted after becoming convinced the US government’s actions were a ‘threat to democracy’.

He fled to Hong Kong, then Moscow, where he was granted asylum and now lives in a secret location.

The comments below have not been moderated.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
