
Pictured from left are Nikki, Wade and Mallory Ann Morris, 2014 Eastern Shore Ambassador Family; Kelly Managan, human resources director at Preston Automotive Group; David Wilson Jr., vice president of Preston Automotive Group; Dave Wilson Sr., president and CEO of Preston Automotive Group; Brenden, Michelle and Howard Dixon of Preston Automotive Group; and Rob Willoughby, assistant vice principle of Lockerman Middle School.

Posted: Monday, May 19, 2014 7:30 am | Updated: 12:29 pm, Mon May 19, 2014.

PRESTON — It was the feel-good moment of the week when about 400 residents joined together in support of Mid-Shore’s smallest citizens — babies — by participating in the 2014 March for Babies to benefit the March of Dimes.

On May 4, the Preston Autoplex was packed with strollers, families and corporate teams who are projected to have raised more than $90,000 to help babies be born healthy. In total, they walked 1,600 miles.

Special guests included the 2014 March for Babies Chairman Dave Wilson, president/CEO of Preston Automotive Group, and the Morris Family, the 2014 Eastern Shore of Maryland Ambassador Family, who joined walkers on the route.

March for Babies donations fund research, education and community programs to help women have full-term pregnancies and healthy babies. Donations are still being collected and can be mailed to March of Dimes Maryland-National Capital Area Chapter, 210 Kiley Drive, Suite 2, Salisbury, MD 21801 before June 30, 2014.

“We were overwhelmed with pride as 90 adults and 51 children joined our family team, Mallory’s Marchers, at the March for Babies walk this past Sunday,” said Nikki Morris, whose family served as the 2014 March of Dimes Ambassador Family. “Our daughter, Mallory was born eight weeks prematurely with the birth defect Spina Bifida.

“Knowing that March of Dimes dedicates so much time and efforts to the causes for prematurity and birth defects, we decided to start a family team to honor Mallory,” she said. “Our team first participated in the 2008 March for Babies walk only a few weeks before Mallory was born.

Local 2014 March for Babies sponsors included Preston Automotive Group, WBOC and University of Maryland-Shore Health Systems. Donors included Perdue, Pepsi, Harris Market, Giant and Vietnam Veterans of Easton.

1 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language.

2 Don't Threaten or Abuse. Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated. AND PLEASE TURN OFF CAPS LOCK.

3 Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.

4 Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.

5 Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.

6 Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness accounts, the history behind an article.

Welcome to the discussion.

Sign up for the weekly roundup of news, sports, opinion and community happenings in Kent County delivered to your inbox at 6 a.m. each Thursday.

Sign up for the weekly roundup of news, sports, opinion and community happenings in Queen Anne's County delivered to your inbox at 3:30 p.m. each Wednesday.

Sign up for this mailing list to recieve the day's headlines from around the Mid-Shore at 4 p.m. each day.
