
TYNGSBORO -- Questions on mosquito spraying, appointing officials, future road repairs and town-center aesthetics will be addressed at Tuesday's annual and Special Town Meeting.

Voters will be asked to consider 38 articles in Town Meeting at the local elementary school related to a variety of topics. A Special Town Meeting that night will also ask voters to consider four articles related to budget transfers and an additional $117,494 to supplement the Tyngsboro school budget for fiscal year 2015 Medicaid reimbursements.

A heated issue developed last year on spraying for mosquitoes after a horse was found with Eastern equine encephalitis, or EEE, in town.

Selectmen voted to not pursue pesticide treatments at that time in September, but now the Board of Health has put forward an article supporting it. If the town votes to pursue spraying under Article 15, the town would consider a three-year contract with the Central Massachusetts Mosquito Control group.

Town Administrator Michael Gilleberto said an estimate shows the spraying services would cost between $42,000 and $44,000 per year. Selectmen and the Finance Committee voted not to support the article.

Vice Chairman Bob Jackson pointed out that the School Department would need to make a reduction in spending of $28,000, and the town government by $15,000, to make it work.

"This would equate to service reductions in both areas," he said.

There are also articles related to making the positions of tax collector and town clerk elected rather than appointed. Jackson said selectmen put forward the article as the town grows to keep qualified people in the positions they have, and to ensure that the most qualified people are selected for those paid posts. Selectmen Chairwoman Karyn Puleo said the board's subcommittee tasked with examining the town's form of government recommended the move.

Officials are additionally asking voters to decide if selectmen can appoint people to Cemetery Commissioners seats or take over the responsibility themselves, since no one ran in this month's election for the spots. The position of tree warden is also recommended for the switch to be elected.

On the topic of roads in town, Article 17 asks voters to consider $1.6 million through borrowing for reconstruction or repairs. Jackson noted that in the past two years, a majority of roads in town has been accepted, helping Tyngsboro secure more Chapter 90 funds from the state.

Puleo said that since the town only receives about $400,000 a year from the state, it would take the town another 100 years to resurface all the roads in town. That money would bring the town closer to its goal.

Article 35 relates to acceptance of 30 streets as well. A vote for the largely small, back roads would mean the town may, down the line, appropriate funds to repair them.

A bylaw has been put forward for consideration called "demolition by neglect." In this, if a commissioner determines a building is falling into repair, selectmen would hold a public hearing on whether to raze the structure.

"The bylaw would be for the purpose of protecting the aesthetic quality and character of the town by prohibiting property owners from neglecting buildings on their property," Jackson said. "Many surrounding towns and cities have similarly worded regulations in place."

Town Meeting will also voted on the fiscal 2015 budget, proposed to be $33,355,832, which is a 2 percent increase over this year.

Follow Samantha Allen on Twitter and Tout @SAllen_89.

Welcome to your discussion forum: Sign in with a Disqus account or your social networking account for your comment to be posted immediately, provided it meets the guidelines. ( READ HOW .) Comments made here are the sole responsibility of the person posting them; these comments do not reflect the opinion of The Sun. So keep it civil.
