
You may not get the full experience here on National Journal.

In June's congressional primaries, an Obama operative is courting GOP voters, while a tea-party-aligned congressman faces a challenge from a more-moderate Iraq War veteran.

Ro Khanna is as closely tied with President Obama as any  congressional challenger on the ballot this year. The intellectual  property lawyer-turned-assistant Commerce secretary began working for  Obama when he was an unknown Illinois state senator, and later joined  his first presidential campaign. Now running as the insurgent challenger  against Democratic Rep. Mike Honda, he boasts a campaign team filled  with many of the president's leading strategists, including Obama's  national field director, Jeremy Bird, and his director of paid media, Larry  Grisolano.

So in an ironic twist, the longtime Obama acolyte will be relying on  Republican voters to help him achieve the upset. Khanna needs to peel enough GOP votes away from the lesser-known Republican candidates on  the ballot so he can face Honda one-on-one in November. And if he moves  into the general election, winning over the 17th District's small number of  Republicans—they make up about one-fifth of the vote—will be  pivotal to an upset victory.

"We've got to have enough of the Republican vote and the independent  vote to get into second place," said Bird, who's serving as Khanna's  general consultant. "The new system is totally different, it's fascinating. It  gives voters an opportunity to really have a choice. It changes what we  really need to do and fundamentally changes the way you approach  campaigning."

Khanna's message is that he boasts fresher ideas on issues facing the  Silicon Valley district than the 72-year-old congressman, who critics argue is generationally out of touch with his constituents.  Khanna has accused the congressman of being needlessly partisan, while promoting proposals that can win support from both Republicans and Democrats .  Khanna has equated his campaign to a startup venture, and he has  plenty of financial capital to rely upon, comfortably outraising Honda thanks to donations from the tech elite such as Yahoo's Marissa Mayer,  Google's Eric Schmidt, and Facebook's Sheryl Sandberg. The two largest  newspapers in the region, the San Francisco Chronicle and San Jose Mercury News, endorsed Khanna.

Honda has the support of the Democratic establishment on his side,  including House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi and Sens. Barbara Boxer and  Dianne Feinstein, along with the major labor unions. Even Obama offered his endorsement to Honda, despite his ties to Khanna. The  congressman is regularly ranked as one of the most liberal members of  the House, according to National Journal's vote ratings. But that's no longer enough in primaries where candidates need to persuade a broader swath of the electorate.

"You can't get elected anymore by only appealing to the most  ideological element of your base. The top-two is changing the path to  get elected," said California political analyst Allan Hoffenblum.  "Because of the weakness of the Republican Party in the state, you're  seeing business getting behind the more moderate Democrats and  traditional liberals getting behind those who represent the labor  coalition. You have a more diverse group of legislators, not all of whom  are beholden to the interest groups."

In a sign of the race's competitiveness, McClintock's campaign has  been sending out mailers attacking a third candidate, independent  Jeffrey Gerlach, as the true liberal candidate in the race in a  last-ditch attempt to prevent Moore from reaching the November ballot.

The top-two system "provides a lot of opportunities for elected  officials to be held accountable. Tom McClintock wouldn't be held  accountable without this system," said Rob Stutzman, a Moore consultant who served as an aide to moderate GOP Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger.  "One-third of Republicans could vote against him, and the Democrats and  independents dislike McClintock so much, instead of just not voting,  they can fire him."

Stutzman, a champion of the new system, was a bit more circumspect on  whether the new rules empower moderate candidates to run or merely  provide incentives for ideologues to mask their beliefs. In a November  election featuring two Republicans or two Democrats, there's clear  evidence that the candidates moderate their messages to appeal to  centrist voters. In the 2012 elections, ultraliberal Rep.  Pete Stark lost to first-time candidate Eric Swalwell, who appealed to  moderate voters to unseat the 80-year-old incumbent. In a  solidly Republican open seat in the eastern California desert, Rep. Paul  Cook, the establishment candidate, handily defeated a tea-party-oriented challenger.

And even though the reforms are forcing candidates to moderate their  views, they're not encouraging independent voters to turn out. In  November 2012, the "no party preference" voters made up 21 percent of  the California electorate, but in the June primary, that number dropped  to a paltry 11 percent.

"Changing the rules is the first step to make changes in politics,"  said Dan Schnur, a longtime Republican consultant, who is now running as  an independent candidate for California secretary of state because of  the election reforms. "The top-two primary is a much more welcoming  landscape for someone who's ideologically or dispositionally inclined to  reach across the party lines. And maybe that's a habit you take to  Sacramento or Washington."
