
Sgt. Jacob Lyon, 2-5 Cavalry, 2nd Battalion 5th Cavalry regiment from Fort Hood demonstrates equipment as part of Combined Resolve II Capabilities day, May 17. Combined Resolve II is a U.S. Army Europe-directed multinational exercise at the Grafenwoehr and Hohenfels Training Areas, including more than 4,000 participants from 12 allied and partner countries.

HOHENFELS, Germany - As a prelude to Combined Resolve II exercise the Joint Multinational Readiness Center here hosted a Capabilities Day, May 17, as a way of developing technical and tactical interoperability among U.S., NATO and partner-nation forces.

Combined Resolve II is the largest scheduled multinational exercise in Europe this year, including more than 4,000 soldiers from 14 NATO and partner nations, at the Hohenfels and Grafenwoehr Training Areas in southeastern Germany, May 15-Jun. 30, 2014.

“This is a pre-emptive chance to learn rank, culture and equipment of partnering nations,” said Sgt. James Walsh, C Company, 182 Infantry Regiment, Massachusetts Army National Guard.

The takeaway for each country varies slightly according to the each nation’s capabilities, says Lithuania Army liaison officer, 1st Lt. Paulius Venclovas.

“It [Capabilities Day] is good for our experiences.  It is very important to know how our NATO partners work and synchronize,” says Venclovas.

With such a day and the impending multinational training mission, there come challenges with the benefits, according to Capt. Hugues de Bonnieres, French 1st Company, 126th Infantry Battalion.

“I will keep in my memory small things, and suspect the U.S. will do the same,” added de Bonnieres.

“We are here to provide combat support, and present our capabilities and become aware of our allies. It’s both fun and great experiences,” said Capt. Sergey Vogrin, of the Slovenia Army.

Col. Herbert Krassnitzer of the Austrian 25th Infantry Battalion, reinforced that something as simple as Capabilities Day has real life implications.

“It is a real-life possibility to conduct multinational operations.  We expect a very interesting and demanding exercise,” said Krassnitzer.

“We dropped ammo to Lithuania, Romania and more; we have to be aware of the capabilities of others and ourselves,” said Katta.

Capabilities day and the impending Combined Resolve II will help NATO maintain the lessons learned during the past 12 years of war.

For more information on Combined Resolve II, go to the official exercise website at www.eur.army.mil/jmtc/CombinedResolve or check out the exercise on social media by searching for #CombinedResolve or visiting 7th Army Joint Multinational Training Command’s social media @7thArmyJMTC.

This work, Combined Resolve II Capabilities Day leads to better understanding between NATO member nations, by SGT Eric Roberts , identified by DVIDS , is free of known copyright restrictions under U.S. copyright law.
