
CHARLESTON, W.Va. – Students at Stonewall Jackson Middle School in Charleston are dealing with the death of a classmate. The 15-year-old boy died Sunday afternoon when he drowned in a Jackson County lake during an outing with a church group.

Stonewall Principal Jessica Austin said they brought in experts to help the student body begin the grieving process.

Shawn Jones, Jr.

“A team has been assembled to meet with our students and talk about their grief and work through it with them,” explained Austin.

The Jackson County Sheriff’s Department identified the victim as Shawn Jones, Jr.

He was kayaking on a lake at Parchment Valley Baptist Retreat Center near Ripley when the boat filled with water. Jones was not wearing a life vest. Despite several attempts to save him, the teen drowned. His body was found at the bottom of the 12-foot lake three hours later. He was with a group of youth and adults from Emmanuel Baptist Church in Charleston.

Austin said it’s a tough loss for teachers and staff and especially students.

Austin said grief counselors would remain at the school as long as they are needed. This is the last week of the school year in Kanawha County.

This had been the third day he was gone from his family and this is sad all I've been thinking about is him my family and I think we should sing all of me at his candle light at stonewall the part when it goes like this my heads under water but im breathing fine but he was not breathing fine sorry Shawn Jones Jr. and to his family.

R.I.P we all love you and we wish you could've stayed but were srry you dided.

Unfortunately you can't fix lack of common sense. That is something people do not have any longer. Yes I agree that someone should be charged with neglect. But, even sadder is the lack of spelling skills as I tried to read the other comments. What is going on in school in WV schools? All you hear from teachers is how low their pay is. Why should they get paid anything, it doesn't appear they are teaching kids how to read or write.

Prayres to the family and friends of this young man.
