
Posted: Sunday, May 18, 2014 12:00 am | Updated: 9:26 am, Mon May 19, 2014.

COEUR d’ALENE — Tuesday’s primary election is all about control, and this year it is up for grabs in both the Democratic and Republican parties.

For several years there was very little activity in the local Democratic primary elections because there are rarely any contested races on the local ballot. This year there are 16 contested races on the local Democratic ballot because of a Republican cross-over into that party’s primary races.

“We call them fake Democrats,” said Paula Neils, chairwoman of the Kootenai County Democratic Central Committee, adding that the cross-over forced them to get serious about the primary this year.

Former Republican Larry Spencer is attempting the coup d’état. In March, Spencer fielded 11 Republican candidates to run for key positions in the Democratic Party.

That caught the party off guard, Neils said.

“We certainly took it seriously, but it has actually been very good for us,” she said, adding that it energized the party to begin fielding candidates of its own.

The problem is many of those candidates will be running as write-in candidates against the “fake Democrats,” who will be named on the ballot.

She said the party has verified who the real Democrats are and published them on its website and mailed out postcards with the names of the verified Democrats as well.

Neils said voters who select the Democratic ballot on Tuesday should check to make sure who their write-in candidates are in their voting precincts. Voters can check out who their candidates are online by going to the polling locator on the Kootenai County Elections website.

Carrie Phillips, the county’s elections manager, said voters can also ask the poll workers if there are any write-in candidates in the precinct.

That can be important because if the name is misspelled on the ballot, election workers will have to determine if the vote will count.

“If the spelling is close and we can gauge the voter’s intent, then we will count it,” Phillips said, adding that it’s very important to fill in the oval beside the name as well.

There is also a battle for control of the Republican Party.

Peterson said the party has attracted many candidates with varied political philosophies — some who do follow the state party platform, and others who don’t.

“The party has passed rules to hold the candidates close to the party platform,” he said.

In this election cycle the party has asked each of the statewide and federal candidates to fill out the party’s platform survey to determine if the candidates support it. The results are published on the state party’s website.

Generally speaking, one slate of candidates is supporting Gov. Butch Otter and the other camp is supporting Otter’s challenger, Russ Fulcher. Each side appears to have fielded candidates for every open seat from the governor’s race on down the ballot to the precinct committee level.

“It is unusual that we have this wave that we have,” Peterson said. “We are in a place in time where everyone is challenged except for (State Treasurer) Ron Crane.

Political Action Committees have also helped define the two clear slates of candidates in this primary election cycle.

The North Idaho Political Action Committee is supporting the Otter slate of candidates, and the Republican Liberty Caucus of Idaho has endorsed the Fulcher camp.

The candidates the committees have endorsed and the issues the candidates support can be found on the committee websites.

Brad Corkill, NIPAC chairman, said the party has definitely changed over the past few years and that’s why NIPAC is involved.

“I know my values and beliefs have stayed the same since I was 25 years old,” Corkill said. “In the last four years the party has adopted planks that require us to follow their platform, and some of those would require me to give up some of my values.

Karen Calisterio, chairperson for the Liberty Caucus, did not return phone calls on Friday to discuss the reasons her organization chose its candidates.

Welcome to the discussion.

Jason4idaho posted at 1:50 pm on Mon, May 19, 2014.

You might want to actually try contacting Karen instead of just calling an hanging up.  I don't know of a single person that returns a call from an unknown number if that caller can't be bothered to leave a message regarding what they wanted.

That is pretty lazy reporting.

Integrity posted at 11:15 am on Mon, May 19, 2014.

Thank you for your candid thoughts, I do appreciate them and I do listen.

Righty-O posted at 10:09 am on Mon, May 19, 2014.

Sometimes a degree in public administration doesn't mean you are good at it or will be successful. Look at Bill Gates.. did he have a degree in computer science? What experience do many of these people have other than an opinion and some people shoveling money at them? Integrity you seem to assume so much about someone that has indicated that he actually isn't working with the "ol boys club". To be quite frank, he said the exact opposite. The one thing I see here is a man who whats the position, isn't affiliating with the same old Idaho Republican characters, and said he want to do what right for the people. While acknowledging that he may not make everyone happy. I think some ideas behind what he wants to accomplish would be nice. I don't see anything wrong with his honesty or intent at this point.

Integrity posted at 6:11 pm on Sun, May 18, 2014.

So TH ... you subscribe to no change to the current problem and want to be part of the "three commissioner' fiasco?  What experience do you have in government management? Do you have a graduate degree in public Administration?  Are you experienced in handling the challenges of public employees?  You talk a great game, but what are your real qualifications other than wanting to continue the current "good ole boy" process and get the "big" pay check for doing nothing.  What do you really want?  I suspect you want nothing more than to be the future part of the problem.  You offer no solution other than "I want to be a County Commissioner.  Unless you have qualifications we have not yet seen, I would suggest you try getting a real job.

Tim Herzog posted at 2:54 pm on Sun, May 18, 2014.

I am not gullible and I know everything is not black or white because that is idealistic.  Grey areas do exist.  Government by nature is not efficient and applying business models to government is not always practicable.  Tough decisions have to be made taking in account what is the best possible remedy for the situation at hand.

Fiscal and policy decisions should be analyzed carefully for there outcome, both for the short and long term.  Having 3 Commissioners voting should narrow the chances of making wrong decisions unless those decisions are driven by a particular agenda, as we have seen with the ULUC recently.

Miketeague posted at 9:44 am on Sun, May 18, 2014.

First off I haven’t decided if I would vote for Mr. Herzog or not but when he stated, “not subscribing to an ideology” (which was in the middle of a sentence) I believe he is saying he will make his decisions on what he believes is best and not on someone else’s platform. Kind of a refreshing idea from my point of view.

SHIPOFFOOLS posted at 9:10 am on Sun, May 18, 2014.

TH.....Are you that gullible to think politics is all about right and wrong. Lol....Seriously, if you or anyone else is going to enter politics, better put on your armor. Better be ready to be attacked. And do not take results personally. Voters are humans. Humans can and are persuaded easily. Like palm trees in wind. Voters vote without their brain, with their feelings. I have long since given up in my attempts to understand voters. Time, time for our electorate to experience the "ills" which they vote for play out is only solution. We are seeing this now. Slowly, but surely, Americans are receiving exactly what they voted for and many do not want more of it. Time, now excellerating towards November. We will see. In the meantime, try and try again. In the end, 50 years from now all will be forgotten about. In the end its all small stuff.

Keven Johnson posted at 8:23 am on Sun, May 18, 2014.

Tim Herzog posted at 6:11 am on Sun, May 18, 2014.

After running my 3rd campaign for county commissioner, I witnessed this split in the party more than the average voter. After my loss in the 2008 primary, I was asked to start a Pachyderm Club in Post Falls. We did and Rally Right also started soon afterward.

and the regular mainstream Republicans.

By the 2012 campaign began it was well recognized. I ran again and was not supported by the far right or the RR's but mostly from the mainstream.  This campaign cycle has been one the very most ugly and contentious battles for power that I have seen in my short time in local politics.

I remain as a candidate that is not supported by the far right, Rally Right or the Liberty Caucus. I am running as a regular Republican, not subscribing to an ideology but only to truly represent the people at the county level.  I support the majority of NIPAC's endorsement except many can not figure why they decided to back Tondee.  Hopefully voters will realize that my "grass roots" campaign after 3 tries is serious and not just a "take power" ploy like the hard right faction.

Voters will get the government they vote for and I hope that works for everyone's best interest in the long run.
