
Mequon-Thiensville School District Superintendent and Chair of the State Superintendent's Task Force on Wisconsin's Achievement Gap Dr. Demond Means shakes hands with Robinson Elementary School Principal and Task Force member Sam Carter. Means was the keynote speaker at an education summit at Aldrich Middle School on Saturday.

Mequon-Thiensville School District Superintendent and Chair of the State Superintendent’s Task Force on Wisconsin’s Achievement Gap Dr. Demond Means called for increased investment in public education as well as a “Marshall Plan” for families of color to close the achievement gap in Wisconsin.

“In November, there’s going to be an election. You have an obligation as voters that the candidates give you a platform and action plan on how they are going to solve the problem, as we are the worst in the nation. If we don’t demand a plan from both candidates, or a third party candidate, then shame on all of us as voters,” Means said.

Means was the keynote speaker at an event titled “1954-2014: The Changing Face of Public Education,” held at Aldrich Middle School on Saturday. The summit was held as a recognition of the 60th anniversary of the U.S. Supreme Court’s famous Brown v. Board of Education decision, which ruled against racially segregated schools.

The day-long event featured an appearance by State Superintendent Tony Evers as well as panel discussions and break out sessions. Issues such as the high incarceration rate for African American men and the suspension and expulsion rate for black students were all discussed.

Means said the state needs to implement an aggressive agenda to address performance disparities among Wisconsin school children.

He also advocated for instituting a domestic “Marshall Plan” for Wisconsin’s families of color such as tax incentives, reduced college tuition, home improvement loans and grants for neighborhood associations be provided to depressed communities in Wisconsin.

“The money shouldn’t go to build more jails. If we could invest in our children in the front end and not the back end, we’d be much better off,” Means said.

He said the state spends $500,000 a day to incarcerate 3,500 black men from Milwaukee County, and the money would be better spent on education.

Means also advocated for reforming the funding formula to provide greater assistance for school districts with 30 percent or more of students qualifying for Free and Reduced Price Lunch or with 50 percent or more students of color. School districts facing the most significant challenges would receive the most fiscal support from the state.

Means said there are significant gaps between students of color and white students in Wisconsin. For example, a report was released on April 1 by the Annie E. Casey Foundation which found that African-American children in Wisconsin face tougher challenges than their peers in any other state in the country. The “Race for Results” used “12 indicators of success” based on national averages and weighted them together to get a state score from 0 to 1,000. The indicators cover everything from birth weight to college degrees.

“The state of Wisconsin is the worst in the nation in regards to the achievement gap. Mississippi and Alabama are doing better with their children of color,” Means said.

Means said the information, however, might not be concerning to some because students of color in Wisconsin tend to be grouped in certain urban areas in the state.

Means said Wisconsin is typically slower to move than most states because it’s not as diverse. For example, 88.2 percent of Wisconsin is Caucasian; 6.5 percent, black; 6.2 percent, Hispanic; and 2.5 percent, Asian. However, nationally 77.9 percent of the population is white; 13.1 percent, black; 16.9, Hispanic; and 5.1 percent, Asian.

However, Means said that if 6.5 percent of the state’s population isn’t being educated at the same level, it could be difficult to get people back to work, one of the state’s ongoing goals.

In an interview after the event, Robinson Elementary School Principal Sam Carter, one of the members of State Superintendent’s Task Force on Wisconsin Achievement Gap, said the task force has been meeting since early April and is working on creating a resource that will equip educators with proven strategies to close the achievement gap.

Carter was chosen because Robinson has data indicating it significantly reduced its achievement gap in an eight year period. Carter attributed it to professional learning communities, a supportive district office, talented staff, a welcoming environment to the public and responsive instruction where each student is given what he or she needs.

Ideas brought forward at the summit will be used to develop a working plan so Wisconsin can improve education for African Americans. The Beloit NAACP branch is the oldest branch in the state, chartered in 1919.

1 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language.

2 Don't Threaten or Abuse. Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated. AND PLEASE TURN OFF CAPS LOCK.

3 Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.

4 Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.

5 Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.

6 Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness accounts, the history behind an article.

Welcome to the discussion.

HandBookHarry posted at 9:55 pm on Fri, May 23, 2014.

"He also advocated for instituting a domestic “Marshall Plan” for Wisconsin’s families of color such as tax incentives, reduced college tuition, home improvement loans and grants for neighborhood associations be provided to depressed communities in Wisconsin."

The US has been doing this since Lyndon Johnson was president to no avail.

PWC said, " Possibly the state needs to examine how the underachieving districts are spending their money before giving even more."

Great idea. Reverse the trend, find out what works first then spend. Right now they spend spend spend with no effectiveness.

Gonfo5 posted at 3:25 pm on Tue, May 20, 2014.

It's not the school or government's job to raise kids or teach them right from wrong.  That's the parents job any way you try to slice it!  If you decide to have kids, its your job to make sure your kid becomes a productive member of society.  The blame game can be played all you want but the responsibility soley lies on the parents.

PWC posted at 12:13 pm on Tue, May 20, 2014.

"Means also advocated for reforming the funding formula to provide greater assistance for school districts with 30 percent or more of students qualifying for Free and Reduced Price Lunch or with 50 percent or more students of color. School districts facing the most significant challenges would receive the most fiscal support from the state."

I'm not sure what Mr. Means is trying to suggest when he says we need to change the funding formula so that districts with more free and reduced lunch populations and districts with more minorities get more state aid. This is already the case.  Our district is the highest or second highest funded district in the state.  The board decides how to spend the money.  But we do get much more than others already because we are a poorer district. If there is an area of spending that would increase achievement, we need to prioritize rather than expect even more of another district's money. Possibly the state needs to examine how the underachieving districts are spending their money before giving even more.

timbo posted at 6:07 am on Tue, May 20, 2014.

Means ironically seems to be arguing for more money to keep schools separate but equal.

js20094 posted at 4:33 pm on Mon, May 19, 2014.

This article absolutely disgusts me. Tax incentives, home loans, lower college tuition based simply on the fact that someone is black? Nothing more than discrimination in the worst way. Black families have the same opportunities as anyone else, in fact more than other groups in this day in age, because they keep crying out for more help. College's are already screaming for blacks to come to their institutions, many times for free, simply because of their skin color.

We're always interested in hearing about news in our community. Let us know what's going on!
