
Durban - Terrified residents of a Durban informal settlement ducked for cover on Sunday as gunmen went on a shooting spree, killing two people.

Two others were injured during the fracas.

One of the victims, Mzokhona Dlawu, 32, had followed the gunmen and bravely managed to disarm the one who had shot 19-year-old Sandile Dladla moments before at the Palmiet informal settlement in Clare Estate.

Dlawu, who had intended to hand the gun to police, then joined other residents at the roadside to wait for an ambulance, his sister-in-law, Nozuko Mantshule, said.

Two others were wounded in the shooting, which took place in three areas of the settlement as the gunmen reportedly went looking for targeted people.

One of the survivors, Boy-boy Sphengane, told the Daily News that two of the gunmen had followed him in the settlement as he was heading to a tavern.

“I heard a gun cock and shots go off. I ran inside the tavern where I thought I would be safe. I was explaining to patrons what transpired when more shots rang out,” he said.

Sphengane said he managed to dodge the fire but one of his friends standing next to him was shot in the foot.

The tavern owner, who requested anonymity as she feared for her life, said she heard gunshots and ran inside her room and shut the door.

A bullet ripped through the  door and struck a cupboard in her room.

A second man was hit and was admitted to hospital.

Sphengane said the gunmen ran up a footpath where they shot Dladla, who had been standing outside a tuck shop.

Mthokozisi Mbhele, who was with Dladla, said they saw the men running up the pathway but did not think anything of it.

Dladla was carried to the roadside by residents to wait for an ambulance. Dladla’s father, Dumisani Dladla, said that when he got to the roadside there was no one there.

“I saw three wounded people, including that of my son. A man was standing in the centre of the road holding a gun in his hand.

“I picked up my son and put him in a car. I didn’t care whether he was going to shoot me as well, but that was my son and I had to take him to the hospital,” said the devastated father.

Shocked residents gathered for a meeting later to discuss the shootings. They heard that the father of the man who shot Dlawu had handed his son over to the police.

Sydenham police spokes-man, Captain Myhen Lazarus, said cases of murder and attempted murder had been opened for investigation.

Login and register, if you haven’ t already.

© Copyright 1999 - 2014 Independent Online, a division of Independent Newspapers (Pty) Limited. The copyright in the literary and artistic works contained in this online news publication and its other related and connected websites, as well as in the published editions of group newspapers, their supplements and any other content or material, belongs exclusively to Independent Newspapers (Pty) Limited unless otherwise stated.
