
New Hamp­shire Gov. Maggie Hassan, L’85, H’13, told an audi­ence of female lawyers and other pro­fes­sionals gath­ered at North­eastern on Friday morning risk-​​taking is a crit­ical ele­ment to building their pro­fes­sional exper­tise and judgment.

Hassan served as the keynote speaker for North­eastern School of Law’s sixth annual Women in the Law con­fer­ence, which pro­vides career guid­ance and pro­fes­sional devel­op­ment growth to female attor­neys and other pro­fes­sionals at all stages of their careers and brings together decision-​​makers from Boston and beyond.

The day­long con­fer­ence, Fear­less: Risk Equals Reward, also included two panel dis­cus­sions and breakout ses­sions cov­ering topics such as learning when to take risks and risk-​​taking in cer­tain areas of law.

In his wel­coming remarks, School of Law Dean Jeremy Paul acknowl­edged the con­fer­ence orga­nizers’ hard work and the impor­tance of the law school hosting the annual event. Paul then intro­duced Hassan, whom he described as a “use-​​inspired politi­cian” whose lead­er­ship has made a sig­nif­i­cant impact for the people of New Hampshire.

New Hamp­shire Gov. Mar­garet Wood Hassan, L’85, H’13, served as the keynote speaker at the Women in the Law con­fer­ence on Friday. Photo by Brooks Canaday.

Hassan was elected gov­ernor of New Hamp­shire last year after serving in the state Senate for six years. She shared with atten­dees a number of risks she has taken both pro­fes­sion­ally and per­son­ally, from how her son with cere­bral palsy inspired her to be an advo­cate leading to her career in pol­i­tics, to passing mar­riage equality leg­is­la­tion in New Hampshire.

The conference’s first panel, mod­er­ated by School of Law pro­fessor Lucy Williams, addressed taking risks in an unfor­giving world. The pan­elists were North­eastern School of Law pro­fessor Mar­garet Burnham; Adriane Dudley, L’72, senior partner at Dudley, Rich, and Davis; Erin Free­born, L’10, exec­u­tive director of the non­profit orga­ni­za­tion Juve­nile Court Restora­tive Jus­tice Diver­sion; and Maura Healey, L’98, a can­di­date for Mass­a­chu­setts attorney general.

Burnham, a civil and human rights expert, was the first African-​​American woman to serve in the Mass­a­chu­setts judi­ciary and founded Northeastern’s Civil Rights and Restora­tive Jus­tice Pro­gram. She said an impor­tant factor for her when taking risks is having a set of values and a sup­portive community.

“I think the most impor­tant risk-​​supportive envi­ron­ment that you can put your­self in, what­ever that com­mu­nity is and what­ever the values express, should be the envi­ron­ment in which you inform your career,” Burnham said.

Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
