
Hover cursor over this ticker to pause.

A gift to Britain's Prince William and his wife Kate to mark the birth of their son is being introduced to expectant mothers in South Africa.

The present is a box of baby goodies that doubles as a cot.

The idea originated in Finland in 1938 and Ernst Hertzog and Frans de Villiers have adapted it for this country.

The plastic boxes contain clothes, medicines, blankets, a hooded towel, disposable nappies, baby wipes, bum cream, aqueous cream, soap, hand sanitiser, coupons, developmental toys and literature for parents.

De Villiers said the box lowered Finland's infant mortality from 65 per 1000 children born in 1938 to three deaths per 1000 births in 2013.

The two men are in talks with the University of Stellenbosch to develop the idea.

"We need to prove that the boxes work," said De Villiers.

"In South Africa mothers from poor communities don't have the spending power to buy things they need to look after their children.

"The box will have the basics to help them start.

"One of the big baby killers is diarrhoea and one way to curb it is by including in the box a bar of soap to encourage people to wash their hands."

Educational material would also help mothers.

Having babies sleep in the box instead of on the floor or on a bed with their parents will reduce cot deaths, he said.

The Thula Baba Box could be given to mothers who report to a hospital or clinic for a check-up and give birth there, said De Villiers.

"The legacy of the box will be a decrease in the infant mortality rate, healthier mothers and babies, and improved social cohesion.

"It would be the one thing that all South Africans have in common - wearing the same clothes and sleeping in the same box for the first few weeks of their life," said Hertzog.

If you have an opinion you would like to share on this article,                 please send us an e-mail to the Times LIVE iLIVE team. In the mean time, click here to view the Times LIVE iLIVE section.

© 2014 Times Media Group. All rights reserved.
