
South Korean President Park Geun-hye bows after delivering a speech to the nation about the sunken ferry Sewol at the presidential Blue House in Seoul, South Korea, Monday, May 19, 2014.

Seoul, South Korea — South Korea President Park Geun-hye took an unconventional step Monday to address bitter criticism in the wake of a ferry boat disaster than killed more than 300: the dismantling of the country’s coast guard.

President Park, accepting “ultimate responsibility” in a nationally televised address, revealed a controversial plan for dismantling the coast guard for failing to act swiftly after the Sewol ferry capsized more than a month ago off the southwestern coast.

Park Kwang-on of the New Politics Alliance for Democracy, the leading opposition party, described the president's response as “insufficient” and “inappropriate” – a constant refrain in recent protests.

A broad cross-section of South Koreans, regardless of political affiliation, agree with the criticism.

One question was how and why Park would dismantle the coast guard, which is still leading the search for missing bodies. Divers have found 286 bodies from among 476 people on the vessel. Only 172 people on board, including most of the crew, were rescued before it slipped beneath the choppy waves.

Park in her address promised to get to the bottom of a system in which gift- and favor-giving, family connections, and complex relations between private interests and government agencies are essential to doing business.

Aside from getting rid of the coast guard, however, she did not say how she would conquer these problems other than recommend a national assembly committee investigate all the company's dealings that appeared suspect.

A spokesman for the Korean Confederation of Trade Unions, a powerful organization that claims more than 600,000 members, pointed out that Park had nothing to say about the recent easing of rules and regulations for business and industry. Deregulation, he said, was responsible for the disaster.

While avoiding such contentious issues, Park matched the emotionalism of millions of Koreans as she listed the names of the crew members, teachers, and one diver who perished while trying to rescue the victims.

Tears rolling down her cheeks, she said “they are the true heroes of our times.” With that, she ended her remarks without taking questions.

Inspired? Here are some ways to make a difference on this issue.
