
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

Shake, rattle and roll? At Bunker Hill Middle School on Wednesday, it was more like shake, splatter and roll. Eighth-grade students in Mrs. Bethany Franz's art classes welcomed special visitor Winnie Radolan to the school, and the University of the Arts Senior Lecturer gave them a lesson in paper making.

First, Radolan showed the students the process, step-by-step, before calling them up in pairs to create their own paper. That is when the students were able to dip two screens into vats of wet fiber – one gold, and one blue – trapping the fiber between the screen and shaking out excess moisture.

Then, the pairs switched colors, using their fingers to flip the alternate color fibers onto their screen to create a design. They used ShamWow rags to dry their screens, first using flat hands, and then using a rolling pin.

At the end of the process, the students placed their paper slides onto a drying rack, and they should be dry and complete in 24 hours. Franz said they can use the paper as a background for one of their other projects, or just frame the art itself.

Washington Township High School senior Marwa Al Sheikh Yousef recently was recognized by the New Jersey Teachers of English To Speakers of Other Languages (NJTESOL) as its Pedro J. Rodriguez Scholarship winner for the 2013-14 school year. She will receive a $1,000 scholarship as the lone winner from across the state of New Jersey.

To qualify for the scholarship, the student must be a graduating senior who plans to attend a post-secondary institution in New Jersey; be a New Jersey resident; receiving bilingual or ESL instruction; and living in the United States for five or fewer years. Marwa plans to attend Camden County College in the fall to pursue a career as an ultrasound technician.

— Plans to attend Camden County College in the fall to pursue a cn Award Application Online Form with a biographical statement, and an essay, written in school, of 500 words or less: "How being bilingual will help me in my future career."

— An e-mailed teacher's recommendation.

— A certification and permission form, which must be signed by the student, a parent/guardian, and the teacher.

— A current New Jersey high school official transcript with ESL classes highlighted.

© 2014 New Jersey On-Line LLC. All rights reserved ( About Us ).

The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of New Jersey On-Line LLC.

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
