
CHANDIGARH: A proposal to enforce complete ban on playing of  DJs have put  youngsters and elders against each other in a village of Haryana's  Hisar district. Both sections exchanged heated arguments when the village sarpanch called a gram sabha on Sunday to discuss the proposal. The elders insisted on ban on hiring DJs for marriage functions while the youngsters in the 17-27 years age opposed the move.

Over 100 villages in  Haryana have already prohibited playing of DJs but this is probably the first time when youngsters are opposing the older generation's diktat strongly.

Behabalpur sarpanch Dharampal Bagri told TOI that despite long discussion both sides could not reach at a consensus. "Hence 00we decided to form a panel of 21 members consisting young and old residents to take a final call on the issue," he added. The panel would announce their verdict on May 25.

"Elders have complained that playing music on high volume causes them headache. They apprehend that it can also lead to miscarriage of expectant buffaloes," said Bagri.

The elders said vulgar songs were being played by DJs during which drunken men also harass women. Explaining the reasons behind their anger, they said that boys just keep dancing to the music and many times they even don't allow solemnizing the 'pheras' (circumambulations) ritual on time.

"Few days back around half a dozen 'baratis' (bridegroom parties) declined accompanying the marriage party at the last moment when they were not allowed to dance on the music played by the DJ," said Jagmal Singh Numberdar (57).

Few villagers suggested that the DJ can be allowed to play in a corner of the house of family concerned. However, the youngsters want that they should be allowed to dance to music to celebrate marriages at least till 11 pm in the night. "If DJs are banned then how would we dance. We don't have any problem if they want to ban vulgar songs," said Surender Singh Basniwal (27).

Social activist Bansi Lal said that few days back, DJ's music had lead to a major quarrel in a neighbouring village when one person had opposed the activity stating that it was disturbing their buffaloes. Musical performances by DJs have penetrated the rural areas of Haryana replacing folk song and music and have earned the wrath of elders. They feel that the head-banging music has disturbed the serene and calm rural life and it has been corrupting the social environment.
