
Malaria, which has long been endemic in Africa, is not only the primary cause of adult morbidity and the continent’s single biggest killer of children under five, but is also a leading cause of workdays lost due to illness.

Speaking at the World Gold Council’s ‘Gold for Health’ panel discussion, Dr Devanand Moonasar, a director at South Africa’s National Department of Health, highlighted the gravity of the malaria situation in Africa.

“There are 207 million cases of malaria every year in the world and of that 174 million are from Africa,” he said. “There are 627,000 deaths every year due to malaria and 91% of these occur on the African continent. What’s also very startling is about 86% of those are children who are under five-years of age.” “At a time when we have such great technology for drilling, but still above the surface we have this problem that’s preventable, treatable and can be cured but every year we see the same statistics,” he lamented.

While malaria continues to pose a huge threat to health across Africa, gold is being used in rapid diagnostic kits (see box) and in 2006 one gold miner took a definitive step towards combatting the disease in Ghana when it launched an indoor residual spraying programme in houses, hospitals, orphanages and other buildings in a bid to reduce malaria by 50% in the municipal district of Obuasi.

After an initial investment of US$1.7 million in the first year and around US1.3 million each year thereafter, in just two years the company saw the incidence rate of malaria in the local population plummet 72%.

Lost days due to malaria were reduced from 6,983d/mth to just 282 days by 2009. There were 6,711 cases of malaria recorded at the Edwin Cade Hospital in Obuasi in 2005 (see chart). By mid-2013, that figure had shrunk to just 238 cases.

In 2009, AngloGold, together with the Ghanaian government, received a US$133 million grant for a five-year period from The Global Fund to roll out a programme based on the Obuasi model across 40 districts in the country.

Fellow panellist Dr Brian Brink, Anglo American plc’s chief medical officer and a board member of The Global Fund, highlighted the significance of AngloGold’s initiative. “You’ve heard how they came to mine gold and in the process they’ve taken away probably the single most urgent health issue for the entire community, not just around the gold mine but extending right into the depths of Ghana,” he said.

Chicksen added that the company has already rolled out similar programmes in Mali, Tanzania and Guinea. He said that the programme is expected to reach 4.6 million people and generate around 3,500 jobs in Ghana by December 2015, but admitted that there are still some considerable challenges ahead. “We are faced with the challenge of how we make the structure we’ve created sustainable and the transition of that vehicle from the private sector into something that is more broadly owned by the people of Ghana in a sustainable way and also ensure it’s sustainable for the economic trade,” he said.

“But if you can bring all three of these together there’s absolutely no doubt that partnerships can achieve much more than anyone could do on their own,” added Brink.

Speaking to Mining, People and the Environment after the session, Keel added: “The Obuasi mine is 115-years old. AngloGold was really focused on engaging with the local community and partners. For the type of project to work you need the participation of everyone. AngloGold did this and that’s what the Global Fund recognized when it decided to award the grant.

In the general context of Africa, Moonasar stressed that there are still significant gaps and mining companies must work to boost partnerships and work collaboratively. “It’s important to find a way to see how partners and the mining sector can align with national strategies for their own healthcare programme on the mines,” he said.

The World Health Organization (WHO) has developed its own rapid diagnostic kit (RDT), using particles of gold, that can quickly identify whether or not a person is infected with malaria.

The gold, which is in the form of tiny purple-coloured nanoparticles, mixes with the blood sample and, if malaria is detected, drives a colour change on the test strip. This combination of simplicity and reliability means that RDTs can be used anywhere in the world, without the need for expensive equipment or complex supply chains.

According to the WHO, 155 million malaria RDTs were sold worldwide in 2011. “Today healthcare workers trust the tests and governments are also putting their trust in the quality of the tests,” added Keel.

Spyghana.com is a premier news source that covers daily news of Ghana, Africa and the World over. Today, the site is updated 24 hours a day, seven days a week with follow-ups and breaking news, as well as original reporting, entertainment and sports. And our traffic has grown accordingly.
