
And the actions are welcome ones in the township.

One of Roxbury’s three local state legislators says he’s in favor of the move, provided politics stays out of it.

“A year ago, we heard horrific stories from members of the Roxbury community who were struggling with terrible odors and air quality that were impacting their families’ quality of life, and we took action, directing the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection  (DEP) on how best to clean up the landfill,” said Senator Smith.

“There is a litany of serious concerns and questions surrounding this landfill that demand answers,” said Assemblywoman Spencer.

The letter outlined two areas of concern for the legislators.

They say the DEP plan to cap the landfill fails to take into account the DEP’s ability to provide long-term maintenance of the cap and emissions from the equipment currently in place will create long-term environmental and health hazards for those in the area.

They also cite a lack of transparency from the DEP including how the area was designated as a brownfield, how Fenimore was approved to reopen in violation of state rules and regulations, how a former felon was permitted to operate the landfill, the decision to use the Fenimore landfill for Hurricane Sandy debris, the failure to keep the public adequately informed, and the refusal to provide soil samples of the area.

The legislators were referring to property owner Richard Bernardi.

In response to outcries from Roxbury Township community members, the Legislature, last June, passed legislation that would guide the DEP in cleaning up “legacy” landfills – or those closed prior to the state’s implementation of stringent landfill closing requirements.

“Rilee and the Township Council welcome a request to investigate the Fenimore Landfill in Roxbury Township by Senate Environment and Energy Chairman Bob Smith and Assembly Environment and Solid Waste Committee Chairwoman L. Grace Spencer,” the council said in a statement issued Friday morning.

“Roxbury residents have struggled for more than two years with the reopening of the landfill without the Township’s involvement. Our residents must be assured that every step has been taken to ensure that the air and water in Roxbury are safe,” Rilee said.

Rilee and the council said in the statement that they appreciate the work of the governor and the state legislature to secure the property and to address this serious issue.

“The council continues to request the DEP meet with residents and to have a meaningful dialogue,” the statement says.

Township officials added that residents are frustrated because their questions remain unanswered and they are deeply concerned about their long term health and safety.

Assemblyman Anthony M. Bucco, who represents Roxbury and is also the township attorney, said he supports the move, provided it remains non-partisan.

“Anything that can be done to bring more transparency to this matter is welcome. If this gets the DEP up here, I’m all for it,” he said Monday afternoon.

“But, my concern is that my colleagues on the other side of the aisle will use this as a political issue. The last thing that Roxbury residents need is for this to become a political debate. They are already suffering enough. But, if this gets the DEP to open up a bit more, I welcome it 100 percent,” he said.

“I will be very disappointed  if it’s a political stunt. The residents of Roxbury have suffered enough with this. Sen. Smith had a hearing scheduled in Roxbury previously, and cancelled it at the last minute. I would suggest that if he wants to hold a public hearing, move forward with it,” he said.

The move also drew support from the New Jersey Highlands Coalition, which also issued a statement Friday morning.

“The New Jersey Highlands Coalition has been following this issue since the project first came before the Highlands Council for a Redevelopment Area Designation approval in October 2011,” said Erica Van Auken, campaign and grassroots coordinator for the Coalition.

“We are generally supportive of redevelopment in the Highlands, but our primary concern in 2011, and still today, is the proper remediation of this hazardous landfill.

“We are pleased to have the support of Senator Smith and Assemblywoman Spencer. It is our hope that the governor and the attorney general will work with the legislature and interested stakeholders to address the issues surrounding the Fenimore Landfill for the health of Roxbury's residents and the entire Highlands region,” she said.

Jeff Tittel, director of the New Jersey Sierra Club, also backed the measure Friday.

“We applaud the decision by Senate and Assembly Environmental Chairs to have an investigation into the Fenimore landfill,” Tittel said in a statement.

Tittel has attended several meetings in Roxbury on the Fenimore issue.

“There needs to be inquiry into what has happen at the site since DEP took over ,but more important is an independent review of DEP plan to cap the site .We believe DEP  has mishandled the clean up and the capping will not work .The town of Roxbury has sided with the Christie administration over the people of Roxbury so we are glad  the legislators will stand up for the people and look into this mess,” he said.

“There also needs to be an investigation into the history of the  landfill since it seems the capping may not be the only cover up by the DEP and others,” he said.

The Fenimore landfill, which ceased operations in 1977, was purchased in 2010 by the Strategic Environmental Partnership LLC with the expressed plan to properly cap the dump and install a solar generation facility on its surface. The owners of the landfill began to accept new waste, but never built the solar facility. Residents in surrounding neighborhoods, which were developed during the three decades since the landfill was actively used, raised concerns of strong rotten egg smells, a scent associated with the release of hydrogen sulfide – a gas produced from the breakdown of waste material that can cause headaches, dizziness and upset stomachs at low concentrations and loss of consciousness and death at high concentrations.

The letter was sent to Gov.  Christie and copied to Acting Attorney General John Jay Hoffman, DEP Commissioner Bob Martin, Senate President Steve Sweeney, Assembly Speaker Vincent Prieto, members of the Senate and Assembly Environment Committees, Roxbury Township’s Mayor Jim Rilee and Roxbury Council members.

Posted in News on Monday, May 19, 2014 2:28 pm.

polluterfighter posted at 10:17 am on Wed, May 21, 2014.

mr earl posted at 12:08 am on Wed, May 21, 2014.

Assemblyman Bucco tells the DEP management that they have no idea what it's like here in Roxbury since the landfill. Why wouldn't they have any idea what it's like here having allowed toxic waste of all description to be dumped here since January 2012. That's right Mr. Governor, the toxic waste that your NJDEP dumped here since January 2012, not for decades as you stated at the Fairfield Town Hall meeting. You either misspoke there or were confused or got bad information about the landfill from your appointees or you just lied about the timing of the nightmare here in Roxbury. This nightmare began on your watch, Mr Governor and on your watch, Mr Assemblyman Bucco. If the Governor had been the leader he claims to have been, he would have read some of the thousands of emails and telephone messages he received from the residents of Roxbury for the past almost 2 years begging him to help us with this intolerable situation. Instead we got no response at all from him. When he would be caught in front of a camera when asked about the landfill, he would only reply that he is doing everything possible to fix the landfill. Didn't believe him then; don't believe him now.

The point is, the residents of Roxbury DO NOT CARE if the politicians are partisan while helping us with this crime that has been committed against us. We will be grateful to any party member, any Senator or Assembly person from anywhere in the State who will help us get this toxic waste out of our residential neighborhood.

You will find that when being poisoned for almost 2 years by your own State's Department of Environmental Protection, all politics is partisan. If it just so happens that the NJDEP is being governed by a Republican Governor and the crime is taking place in a township governed by a Republican Council and Mayor, whose Township Attorney is also their Republican Assemblyman, whose father is the Republican State Senator who just recently did his own investigation of the NJDEP's Head, Bob Martin and rather than do a serious investigation asked him only if the DEP planned to put a 9 hole golf course on top of the landfill, then please, let the Democrats do any type of investigation, partisan or not, and help the residents of Roxbury get a full accounting of how, why, and who was responsible for ruining our lives, for ruining our health, both physical and mental, and for ruining the value of our homes.  We welcome all partisans working to do the right thing by us.  As we have said over and over again since the failure of the NJDEP to stop itself from creating the New Love Canal, we want and expect the toxic waste brought in here under the Christie Administration to be trucked out of here ASAP.

NJRes26 posted at 10:40 am on Tue, May 20, 2014.

So Senator Smith and Assemblywoman Spencer do the right thing for Roxbury residents and call for an investigation into what is a political and environmental fiasco, and what is Senator Bucco's reaction? 'It smacks of partisan politics.' And what is Assemblyman and township attorney Bucco's reaction? 'Great as long as politics stays out of it.' Isn't it really telling that both of them immediately respond that way? Isn't it glaringly obvious that these two people have a vested interest in NOT having the politics of the situation scrutinized? And as usual, Assemblyman Bucco has his finger right on the pulse of the people he should be serving. He thinks residents want to meet with the DEP?? He thinks residents want the DEP in town??  The time for the DEP, Governor Christie, the Dept. of Health, and our legislators and town officials to act like they care or to engage in any discourse is long past. The only thing the residents want is the INVESTIGATION that has been called for by Senator Smith and Assemblywoman Spencer and that is more than warranted (politically and otherwise), and for the DEP to get out of town and take their trash with them!

SleepingIn posted at 10:02 pm on Mon, May 19, 2014.

...Just sad the whole thing. Who voted for this obvious member of the intelligentsia? Not to stay that going to college makes you a genius--I know many  people with college degrees who are moronic--but don't the people of Roxbury bear some responsibility for electing this fine gentleman who has destroyed your property values? Now you can redeem yourselves by recalling him as there is a process to do this. If not, you can take advantage of his special on Coors Lite this weekend at his fine establishment.

Bob Mederos posted at 9:08 pm on Mon, May 19, 2014.

Roxbury Township Council looks at the residence when they speak as if they had 2 head's.

The residents of Roxbury Township has guided, help, research and informed, with scientific proof, why this landfill cannot stay in Roxbury Township.

And the township employees a so call. expert consultant on landfill from Rutgers 's STATE University..???? " NO POLYPTYCH'S MR. ATTORNEY BUCCO "

To ALL BUT Gov. Christie.

worlwiderebel posted at 6:09 pm on Mon, May 19, 2014.

Bucco doesn't want to do what the residents demand, he wants to do what is best for his career. I hope that more state senators join this call for an investigation into Fenimore. Jim Rilee being Mayor of Roxbury(that was the RESPONSIBLE PARTY before SEP) and Chairman of the NJ Highlands Council(that gave Fenimore a Redevelopment Area designation, allowing the dump to reopen) is much more than highly suspicious at a minimum. I suspect Rilee has engaged in misconduct.

Then there are the NJDEP recycling centers that were supposed to control what went into Fenimore during SEP's operations, but allowed excessi e quantities of ground gypsum board to be dumped there. In my opinion this is who comitted the crime that toxified Fenimore: NJDEP.

You have the head of NJDEP lying that a park would be built on top of the capped landfill when a plastic liner capped landfill can't be built on. You have Governor Christie lying about the waste being dumped over "decades" when NJDEP permitted the reopening in 2011. Christie also stated publicly that "folks in Roxbury decided decades ago" what would be allowed in Fenimore when the NJDEP certified the Material Acceptance Protocols(MAPs) in 2011.

You have Larry Ragonese from NJDEP and Roxbury Mayor Jim Rilee making a concerted effort to attempt to embarass, ridicule, berate and discredit NJ Sierra Club director Jeff Tittel.

You have NJDEP spreading around a bogus Fenimore landfill Hydrogen Sulfide Dispersion Map that exaggerates the real exposure possibilities by 1000 times the order of magnitude that exists in reality.

NJDEP's capping plan has been shot full of so many holes it  could never hold water, much less keep water out of the waste pile. The waste pile NJDEP approved for acceptance at Fenimore, and the waste pile NJDEP MUST TRUCK OUT.

Politics are already deeply embedded in Fenimore and have proven to result in real world toxic exposure of ordinary citizens for the political gain of people like Anthony Bucco and Jim Rilee. It IS time to REMOVE politics from this macabre political toxic nightmare. I hope for a thorough and comprehensive review and the swift prosecution and punishment of those found guilty of wrongdoing.

Lee posted at 5:53 pm on Mon, May 19, 2014.

I can't believe that Assemblyman Bucco is now worried that politics may be involved in  investigation of Fenimore Landfill.  This has been politically motivated from the beginning.  I'm just hoping that this gives us the help that we desperately need to get the material trucked back out of our (what use to be) beautiful township.

Glenn Whitmore posted at 5:51 pm on Mon, May 19, 2014.

@ Assemblyman Bucco - it's partisan politics by the Roxbury town council and the Christie/DEP that got us in this mess in the first place.

Sign up to have the local news you need now delivered to your inbox.
