
In Germany, for example, state subsidies were used to promote solar and wind power. The subsidies were basically funded with a renewable energy surcharge in the form of concomitant higher electricity prices for all households and German industry – exempting, however, Germany’s heavy industry. In this context, Joaquin Almunia, European Commissioner responsible for competition, is quoted by DW ( Deutsche Welle ): “It is time for renewables to join the market. (…) The new guidelines provide a framework for designing more efficient public support measures that reflect market conditions, in a gradual and pragmatic way. Europe should meet its ambitious energy and climate targets at the least possible cost for taxpayers and without undue distortions of competition in the single market.” Nevertheless, political will and strong support for renewable energy policies in Germany resulted in reduced costs for solar PV, with a much higher installed capacity base, making Germany a global clean energy economy leader.

Thus, the two currently relevant renewable power policies are feed-in tariffs and renewable energy quota systems such as a renewable portfolio standard (RPS). So far, feed-in tariffs seem to have an edge globally, being responsible for 64 per cent of wind power and 87 per cent of the solar power. Feed-in tariffs have also driven Germany’s rapid solar PV growth.

Germany’s Renewable Energy Act with feed-in tariffs (locally referred to as EEG) specifies that renewables have guaranteed access to and priority on the grid. This legal requirement for grid operators – electric power utilities – to purchase renewable power via long-term – guaranteed for 20-year – contracts with a state-set price is the centerpiece of Germany’s ‘Energiewende’. The result is a high degree of certainty in the business environment, which makes funding renewable projects much easier. In contrast, quota systems “do not provide investors with [certainty] or incentives to ensure that a wide range of renewable technologies are deployed so they can become less expensive,” the German think tank Heinrich Boell Stiftung points out.

The NREL adds “that an RPS is most successful in driving renewable energy projects when combined with the federal production tax credit. Having adequate transmission capacity to accommodate generation from renewable resources is important for the success of an RPS.” There is currently no RPS program at the federal level, the EIA notes. In general, increases in renewable power generation have been driven by the availability of federal tax incentives, state mandated renewable capacity policies, and market conditions.

The following map shows US states that have renewable portfolio standards, which vary widely. The percentage represents the set goal each state has committed to getting from renewable energy sources by a given year. In contrast, renewable portfolio ‘goals’ are softer targets.

At this juncture, interesting findings by the renowned German Fraunhofer Institute for Solar Energy Systems (ISE) – Europe’s largest application-oriented research organization – provide additional evidence as to why German-style feed-in tariffs have advantages over renewable energy quota systems. Unsurprisingly, the research finds that solar and wind can effectively complement existing conventional capacity on the grid and provide electricity at comparatively lower cost.

Breaking Energy provides access to news, analysis, thought leadership, reference materials and discussions about the day’s most important energy market trends. Breaking Energy participants stay ahead of breaking news, participate in high-profile events and enjoy access to the central hub of the industry community as it transforms in response to fast-moving changes in energy politics and regulation, deals with financial challenges and leads technological advances.

Dear Roman,

It is of course, a fine article. However, I believe I've spotted an error that you may want to investigate.

"In Germany, for example, state subsidies were used to promote solar and wind power. The subsidies were basically funded with a renewable energy surcharge in the form of concomitant higher electricity prices for all households and German industry – exempting, however, Germany’s heavy industry."

The "renewable energy surcharge" was actually a "rate rider" on German electricity bills, placed there to accrue funds to assist the shutdown and decommissioning of Germany's nuclear fleet (a political decision) in the wake of the Fukushima disaster. And then there was the FiT, a separate renewable energy funding system.

It would be more correct to say; "In Germany, for example, state subsidies were used to promote solar and wind power. A rate rider was introduced to help finance the shutdown and decommissioning of Germany's nuclear power plants, post-Fukushima -- which was then used to increase renewable energy capacity in Germany to help replace the lost nuclear power capacity. Also, a Feed-in-Tariff system was used to add value to renewable energy sourced electrical output (via the electricity rate) and to foster (increased investment/construction of) renewable energy installations."

I always look forward to your posts.

John,

"...A rate rider was introduced to help finance the shutdown and decommissioning of Germany's nuclear power plants..."

As the utilities doubt whether that fund has enough money, they recently proposed that government would take over all existing NPP's (the stopped and the 9 still running ones) for free, get the decommissioning fund and execute the decommissioning.

Hence shifting the risks to the tax-payer.

I assume that the worsening P&L situation of the NPP's, due to the long term decrease of the wholesale price, also has a lot to do with this. With this proposal they also want to shift the (future) losses of operating NPP's to the tax-payers.

The FiT's for renewable exist since the start of the Energiewende (~2000), and have nothing to do with nuclear. If someone invests in renewable (e.g. a wind turbine) he gets a guaranteed tariff for all electricity he produces during a period (15years for wind turbines) paid by the utility.

The difference between the guaranteed and and the wholesale tariff is paid to the utility by a special fund. That fund gets its money from an increase / levy / surcharge that all electricity consumers pay to the utility. So it's not a state subsidy, though the fund is partially controlled by the state.

Build solar power in Northern Europe? Did you lads ever bother to carefully look at maps of incoming solar energy? Pretty poor. Very expensive as well, but then perfectly OK as long as you don't run out of other peoples money, as is occurring in a number of countries (e.g. Spain).

Whole thing doesn't look too successful for the average family where electricity is becoming more like a luxury item. However, keep up good work of eliminating yourselves in global markets!

Spain is clearly Southern Europe.

It is one of the three big countries in Europe with the most sun (the other two; Italy and Greece).

In Spain politicians gave the big incumbent utilities the power to decide about the conditions regarding privately owned (e.g. rooftop) solar. Having seen how German utilities are losing market position, they didn't hesitate and created very unattractive conditions for all other parties in the market to install solar.

Note that the utilities in Spain also own the grid in their region. So they have a monopoly despite the EU rules that dictate separation of grid and utilities, in order to facilitate competition.

This type of semi-corrupt (non-)action in Spain, contributed to its deep financial crisis. The only nice thing is, that Spain is now very cheap for people from Netherlands, Germany, etc. I biked 4 weeks through Spain in April/May this year.

In Germany (only ~50% of the solar energy per m² compared to Spain), the roll-out continues in line with the Energiewende scenario.

The high electricity price in Germany for households (28cnt/KWh) consist most of different general taxes. The Energiewende levy in it is ~6cent/KWh.

Same in Netherlands; we pay ~22cnt/KWh while not having any 'Energiewende'.

In Germany energy intensive industries are excempted from the Energiewende levy and other taxes. So their industry can compete. Our only aluminum melter broke down because the German melters have cheaper electricity.

In general the German economy flourishes (best in the EU) in the last decade. German economist state that the Energiewende contributes heavily as it delivers work for ~400,000 people (81mln inhabitants) and improves the pay-balance sheet of Germany.

Furthermore realize that the av. German household spends a smaller share of its income paying for eletricity than such household in new England (N-E USA). Even for poor households, the Energiewende levy is <1% of its income. If it would be as expensive as you scetch, the Energiewende would not have the support of ~90% of the population.

Roman,

1) If it is a clear and windy day in Germany, so much wind and solar energy is generated that the excess has to be exported at near zero prices to nearby countries for balancing by THEIR generators.

If it is a cloudy day, but windy at night, wind energy has to be exported, because night-time demand in Germany is low, as it is in other countries.

Many hours of the year, the German grid cannot deal the RE being generated.

2) Germany had to reduce the ENERGIEWENDE subsidies, because the costs were going off the charts.

Here is a summary of historic costs, and projected costs to 2030.

This section has an estimate of the capital and surcharge costs of the EEG-1 phase; start 2000 – end 2014 (15 years), and EEG-2 phase; start 2015 - end 2030 (16 years). The assumptions take into account the EEG surcharge build-up and wind-down periods of RE systems built during the phases. RE subsidies are for 20 years.

The total EEG-1 surcharges on electric bills increased from zero at start of 2000 to about 24.5 b euro in 2014, will be decreasing to zero by end of 2034.

Costs, such as grid build-outs, capacity adequacy, balancing losses, etc., are not included.

Costs, such as grid build-outs, capacity adequacy, balancing losses, etc., are not included.

- RE systems installed at the start of 2000 receive feed-in rates to the end of 2019, i.e., for 20 years, etc.

See this article for other details.

3) Here is a speech to a PV solar stakeholder convention in Germany by Sigmar Gabriel, Vice Chancellor, and Economics and Energy Minister, regarding the Germany’s Renewable Energy project, ENERGIEWENDE, verging on failure. This speech was likely approved by Chancellor Angela Merkel.

The audience was stunned to hear the unvarnished truth regarding RE.

If it such a challenge for Germany, it would be even a greater challenge for less capable/less rich countries/states, including Vermont.

Well-off households with PV systems, and multi-millionaires with tax shelters owning SPEED PV solar projects receive subsidies, generous feed-in tariffs, and other benefits, whereas other households, 97+%, pay the costs; a gross societal inequity, including in Vermont.

Willem,

2) Feed-in tariffs are not subsidies, and we cannot lower the cost by reducing the feed-in tariffs offered today. Automatic annual reductions have always been a part of feed-in tariffs, but you misconstrue successful achievement of that goal when you call them subsidies and then say the subsidies were cut. In reality, Germany aimed to bring down the cost of renewables, and it did so.

"A feed in tariff is not a subsidy."

At one point the feed in tariff was more than 60 eurocent/kWh, when household electric rates were about 20 eurocent/kWh.

Excerpt from this article.

Managing Renewable Energy on the Grid: Without variable RE, Germany has the most reliable grid in the world. If, instead of exporting energy to nearby nations during windy and sunny periods, Germany had to keep its variable wind and solar energy within its borders, there would be chaos, as Germany has failed to make the investments in grid infrastructure, tens of bs of euro, to match its rapid RE build-outs.

The northern German grid has limited ability to deal with variable energy. Because traditional generators dominate the grid, frequency and voltage are maintained within required ranges for stability, even with some variable energy on the grid. But during periods of low demand with windiness, usually at night, the variable wind energy is excessive and is either curtailed (wind turbine owners object), or spread out to other grids (at very low prices), such as of The Netherlands, Belgium, Poland, Sweden, etc., to maintain stability, i.e., exported at a loss!

The southern German grid also has limited ability to deal with variable energy. Because traditional generators dominate the grid, frequency and voltage are maintained within required ranges for stability, even with some variable energy on the grid. But during periods of clear skies, the variable solar energy is excessive (cannot be curtailed, except by grounding some of it) and is spread out to other grids (at very low prices), such as of Austria, The Czech Republic, France, etc., to maintain stability, i.e., exported at a loss!

RE promoters crowing about Germany being able to export energy while closing down nuclear plants, or about Germany generating 50% of its energy with RE on a particular hour of a day, or Germany’s RE reducing wholesale energy costs, are mentioning the parts of the picture favorable to their cause, but leave out the other parts, i.e.,  misrepresenting reality, to say the least.

A third way could exist if Germany had a north-south, HVDC, overlay grid, but that would cost at least 50 to 75 b euro, if buried, and would take about 5 - 10 years to place in service. Building it overhead would be less costly, more visible, but would be delayed by much NIMBY. The HVDC grid would be connected to the existing high voltage grids at many points to spread out the variable energy all over Germany, i.e., less need to rely on money-losing exports for balancing.

Just Google it for verification.

Willem:  Please. I seem to be the only one here with an "inside" resident German perspective on this- although Craig Morris who writes for the Boll Institute.  I live in Munich, anam a "normal" ratepayer, and my total energy bills are less than yours probably are since the city owned utilities  have enough renewables in solar, concentrated solar,hydro, and wind to supply over 980.000 two person households with power in addition to powering 6 cross town subway lines, and 14 light rail street car lines.

Concentrated Solar  33.000, Own Solar P.V. Parks in Germany 5.200, Geothermic Sauerlach16.000, Geothermic- Germering  West 16.000 (also for district heat) Prater Under River hydro 2.400, Millhead dam hydro- 140.000 households.

Then there are over 600 megawatts of privately owned regional rooftop solar the city re-distributes. That figure grows modestly every year.  Thanks to new advances by the Fraunhofer Society and other groups panel efficiencies are going up from about 20% to 30% with hybrid solar p.v./glass voltaic covers/ and from 30 to 53.9% with the Fraunhofer Fresnel lens system being added on top. The panel prices will even drop despite these improveents- giving it grid parity and no longer needing F.I.T. supports.

These are being supplemented by 40 new Enercon turbines- 7.5 mw each, going up in the wind rich  Holledau region north of the city. another 300 mw windpar with 65- 70% availability.

Munich also has 3 waste-to-power plants- fine ground compost-sewage sludge- feeding bio-gs to a combined cycle system at Grosshadern 100 mw. methane enriched sewage sludge and garbage incineration- Obeföhring 400 mw, and 40 mw- Munich Zoo uneaten animal feed-animal manure methane recapture- at Hellubrun zoo including local district heat.

A number of E.ON- (Bayernwerk) mill head dam hydro and big hydro systems also feed into the local grid.

The coal plant is being upgraded- to burn coal to carbon dioxide- in a combined cycle-mode. Extra alpha Stirling motor cycles- on the heat exhausts- generate more- power- which goes into hho syn-gas production- at very high efficiencies- and fed into the coal-carbon-dioxide soot ignition system - on the gas turbine cycle- creating very clean, soot free burns, and cutting coal consumption by 25%. (while doubling the power output.)  Syngas buffering is also in the Pasing and Power Plant South combined cycle plants.

With the exception of nuclearall 5 thermocynamic power plants are hooked up to now over 800 km of district heat sysems. The gas heat supplementation was shut down and swapped for deep, dry well geothermic, and several more are going in to produce both heat and district heat hot water systems which give are currently over 800 km long and save over 6 million barrels of heating oil per annum- giving he utilities the profit basis to further expand geothermic pwer- geothermic district heat, further wind, etc.

The Munich Utilities will be off fossil fuels by 2025- according to their own calculations. They already have over 2130 mw of waste to power and renewable energy as contrasted with their 1900 mw in fossil- coal and gas- combined cycle, and remaining 500 mw in nuclear participation.  Floating, anchored, on-steam hydro-electric is already in testing.  That could conceivable put another 5 gigawatts of power on the Bavarian river systems by 2035.  Look very carefully and you will see that on good days, they are already more than 52% waste-to-power, renewables-. (combined with district heat as the profit base, they can afford to keep building out renewables at the pace they did, to be entirely off fossil by the end of 2025 for heat, building and industrial power, mass transit, and powering German rail in the area.

There are other solutions for nuclear which will cut "big 4 losses" in the "Energiewende".  Test drills are currently underway for deep horizontal closed, hot dry rock heat wells. It is cheaper non-seismic, sealed, hot dry rock deep geothermic heat wells around a shutting down nuclear power plant than to completely dismantle and hide in deep radiactive waste deposits.  When that is implemented losses to E.ON, R.W.E., EnB, and Vattenvall will also be cut  Georges Mélènchon of the Frnehch Gauche party suggested it, and now it is being seriously studied. Should that work out, Germany will simply cnvert all of its nuclear to hybrid- deep dry hot rock, supplemented by alpha stirling motors powering brown´s gas- magnetic resonance steam ignition systems for getting the geothermal steam up to heat for the big steam turbines on the plants.

I am also involved in getting 53% efficient solar up on a monastery - boarding school- weekend adult education center west of Munich- which has extensive dairy and forestry operations.  Tghey already get 80% of power and 100% of their heat from manure methane recapture from 150 head of cattle. The installed solar will let them export solar during the day.  Additional wind-syn gas systems will let them be 100% renewable- and exporting power onto the grid..

Back to Munich Utilities. In addition to wind, deep geothermal, they will also be expanding bio-syn gas regions by participating in farm build outs like the one at St. Ottilien- which is in the process of radically expanding its bio-waste- renewable outputs.

Storage and back up baseline power systems are the biggest engineering challenges, and German engineering is neatly solving them.

Kent, I have been living in Germany for 23 years.

Willem,

"...Wind energy is excessive and ... spread out to other grids (at very low prices), such as of The Netherlands.."

We in NL are not the victims of the spreading out, but happy German customers that buy very cheap (sometimes even negative priced!) electricity.

So happy that we are busy arranging two more high power interconnections with Germany.

Especially since we can sell part of that electricity to nuclear UK for a good (some say excessive) profit.

I'm not sure why you seem to think that dominance of traditional generators are necessary to maintain frequency and voltage stability. Note that during the 24hrs of May 11 renewable delivered on av. 75% of the electricity. No issues regarding voltage and frequency stability to my knowledge.

Bas,

You are mistaken regarding 24 hours on that day. It was only during a few hours during that day.

"Germany is showing that it is still leading the world in renewable energy use with news that renewable energy sources were responsible for 74% of the country’s ENTIRE DEMAND during the middle of a day".

It only happened because it was a windy day with a lot of sunshine during the day; a very rare occurence in Germany. As a result it was big news.

The solar/wind peak lasted only a few minutes. See graph.

As the article stated, more then 10GW was exported for balancing to the Netherlands and others.

I am not saying that is a bad thing, but I am saying Germany paid at least 4 times as much for that energy than it received by selling to other countries or domestically.

How that is a good thing for the German economy is beyond me, especially with German CO2 emissions not declining anymore.

You should carefully read my article.

After you have read it, please click on the   "like it"   button. I think it may not be active.

Germany provides a warning example of its growing green energy insecurity. Last December, both wind and solar power came to an almost complete halt for more than a week. More than 23,000 wind turbines stood still while one million photovoltaic systems failed to generate energy due to a lack of sunshine. For a whole week, conventional power plants had to provide almost all of Germany’s electricity supply.

Some remarks to your points.

1) This stimulates the many electricity to gas / fuel conversion plants that are built (e.g. a 6MW plant by Audi the car producer).

2) Germany is not reducing the Energiewende. The opposite is true; they raised some of the targets (in 2030 now 55-60% renewable, was 50%).

They only install effective measures in order to prevent another escalation of the installation rate of renewable.

Gabriel's predecessor allowed the installation rate of solar to become twice as much as in the Energiewende scenario, which created grid and financial problems.

He wants to install a tax (3.1cent/Kwh) on all electricity solar panels produce, so also if that electricity is consumed by the owner himself.

To create enough support for that he scetches an emergency situation, utilizing the loyalty of the Germans towards the Energiewende.

In my eyes implausible as he also wants to install far more offshore wind which is very expensive (high FiT's) and unnecessary as several states offered to arrange that all could be installed on their land.

Roman, while I appreciate the references to my work, you consistently refer to it as being from the HB Foundation. They pay for that particular website, but I am not a member of the Foundation nor a member of the organization – and the views I represent their do not represent the organization either. In fact, I sometimes even criticize the organization using that very website.

It would be more accurate to say that those ideas are mine, especially when they conflict with HB's stated stance.

The problem with FITs is that they encourage businesses to build renewables....as long as FITs are paid. Spanish solar market collapsed, Italian solar market collapsed, Czech solar market collapsed as soon as FITs were cut.

In March 2014 new solar capacity amounting to 155.805 MWp was installed, the Federal Network Agency (BNetzA), the German regulator, informed. March additions range between the figures for January 2014 (193.047 MWp) and February 2014 (110.379 MWp).

Check installed amounts of renewable against their scenario planning.

- financial problems (higher Energiewende levy due to the high FiT's in 2010-2012);

- grid problems (adaptation of the grid did not go faster but slower than expected).

So the responible minister (Altmaier) did a bad job, and was replaced by Gabriel.

Now they have a scheme in which the FiT's drop or rise monthly, depending on the amount installed in the past 12 months. If that amount is less than 2GW the FiT will rise, if more than 2.5GW the FiT will drop. The FiT drops more the more is installed in the previous 12 months.

As far as I can see, this scheme will keep the installation rate of new solar within the boundaries of the scenario.

- financial problems (higher Energiewende levy due to the high FiT's in 2010-2012);

Correct. And the reason they did not lower the FIT as they should have was political pressure from the Greens and renewable energy lobby - the people who pocketed the proceeds of over-generous FITs. Politics and lobbying.

The irony in this article is that it cites solar boom in Europe as evidence of how well FITs promote solar energy....when in fact over-generous FITs were a costly mistake. In the beginning of 2014, Europe's got 80 GW of solar (4 times more than China) but the price, as Bas pointed out, was steep and the amount too much, too soon. And in many countries solar installations came to an almost full stop once the money ran out.

Jarmo,

"... the reason they did not lower the FIT ... was political pressure from the Greens..."

That was the period Merkel did run the center/right wing coalition. Greens had nearly no influence.

The reason was that the old FiT system was designed with a solar cost price decrease of <10%/year. It had only yearly FiT adaptations.

When a year came with a solar cost price decrease of 30% (so far more solar installed than scheduled), the responsible minister Altmaier made hardly any adaptation. I assume because he estimated that it was a one time only.

So the situation could repeat itself next year, as the high price decreases continued.

Then he took more serious action, but still not enough.

In the end he came with the present FiT system (also delayed as it had to be approved by all parties).

As Altmaier was responsible for the slow adaptation of the FiT system, he is replaced by Gabriel in the new center/left wing coalition.

Btw.

1. the yearly installation volume of solar continues following the Energiewende scenario. So the slow acting of Altmaier created for ~10GW less CO2 extra.

In Spain FiT's were paid by government (not the rate payers as in Germany). So when the financial crisis came government stopped with the FiT's.

That would not have stopped installation, as in Spain the sun is much stronger than in Germany, rooftop solar was already below the retail prices of the utilities.

But the new right wing Spanish government followed the wishes of the big incumbent utilities who saw how German utilities lost position.

- the utility can determine the FiT. So the level may change per city, and is often below the whole sale price. Note that in Spain an utility still has a monopoly in an area, so a solar owner cannot shop around and find an utility that pays more.

That stopped solar implementation in Spain. So there is hardly any rooftop solar in Spain (I just make a four week biking trip through Spain; Malaga - Sevilla - Santiago - Santander). In some areas in the south it became even cheaper to take existing, well producing PV-panels off the roof and put them in storage hoping for better times.

I know little about the other countries you mentioned.

"While feed-in tariffs equally support all types of renewable energy, quota systems give the utility the discretion to look for the cheapest renewable power source available..."

While it is certainly beneficial for governments to support new technology, low carbon technologies which have seen ten GWatts of deployments (like solar PV and on-shore wind) certainly should be allowed to compete with one another.  The implication that only the government is smart enough to notice that two energy sources can work better than one is laughable (all utilities have engineers on staff).

European-style feed-in tariffs have another problem:  if they are set unnecessarily high, then the excess is pocketed by the energy companies.  By comparison, if a production tax credit (a common US incentive) is too high, then the difference is returned to rate-payers in the form of lower energy costs.

Production tax credits also allow the energy prices to vary on a regional and temporal basis, to track regional energy costs from conventional sources.  This avoids the feed-in tariff's tendency to suppress the price signals for demand-response.

I think the US method of targeted incentives (e.g. production tax credits) is preferable.  But we also need a technology-neutral low-carbon-portfolio standard, otherwise, we risk loosing sight of the most urgent need of CO2 emissions reduction.

"European-style feed-in tariffs have another problem:  if they are set unnecessarily high, then the excess is pocketed by the energy companies."

The tax incentives you seem to like shut out everyone who cannot benefit from those tax incentives; essentially, it helps to be a corporation with a tax burden if you want to invest in renewables in the US.

The magic of feed-in tariffs is that it opens up the power sector to everyone – the policy democratizes electricity generation.

Now you're just splitting hairs over the definition of "energy company"; in any case, the money is not returned to users.  The details of who can benefit from the tax credits has varied over time; often they can be sold for cash, hence benefitting any investor.

"... the policy democratizes electricity generation.'

It's just another pyramid scheme.  It is not scalable: if every homeowner and every business decided to "go solar" and generate a little more electricity than they use on average while using the grid as a limitless battery, we could replace all our power plants with energy storage, but the economics don't work.  Ideally,  everyone would get paid a FiT, and no one would have pay for electricity!  The bad news is the system would have no revenue source; so to make universal solar viable, the FiTs must be well below the retail price of electricity, net-metering must be real-time (not monthly or annual net), and grid-use charges fixed taxes must be adopted (which unfortunately will discourage efficiency).

In the US, when the government singles out one group of investors, and pays them more for the same commodity that can bought from another provider for a lower cost, it is considered a form of corruption.  You may call it "democratizing energy", but we call it "pork barrel spending" and "buying votes with other people's money".

Nathan,

Your "....if every homeowner and every business decided to "go solar"..." won't happen as long before that home owners will realize they cannot earn money producing more than they need.

I estimate that in few years the same will happen for >1MW installations, due to continued price decreases of solar panels, invertors, etc.

If you want fast reduction of CO2 you should choose for the succesfull German FiT system.

It creates a positive involvement of the population (your neighgor telling about the difficulties & production of his rooftop solar, etc.) in energy. It contributes also to energy savings as shown in German statistices (check e.g. at Fraunhofer).

Furthermore it creates a gradual steady installation rate, which implies that installers have a continuus stream of work wich contributes to much lower installation costs compared to USA.

Compared to Germany, the USA tax credit system not only serves the pockets of big companies most, but it also creates far less renewable, hence lower migration towards less CO2. And no involvement of the public, so far less energy savings.

Installation companies experience stop and go situations, which contribute to the high installation costs in USA (now no wind turbine is installed in USA as Congress blocked new PTC funds...).

Nathan, "when the government singles out one group of investors… it is considered a form of corruption." That one group of investors is all citizens.

You say that the policy won't scale, then you talk about solar. The policy is not for solar. It is for renewables. We use it around the world for wind, biomass, geothermal, and PV. It is the most popular policy worldwide for renewables. Only Americans mistake it for a solar policy.

Saying that I'm splitting hairs over my definition of "energy company" will be a hard sell in the US, where utilities are increasingly telling citizens there solar power is not needed – and of course, there are practically no community wind and biomass projects anywhere in the country. In the US, corporations can tell people their efforts are not needed. In Germany, people tell corporations their efforts are not needed, and the people take care of things themselves.

Germans have freedoms Americans don't even know they lack: boell.org/downloads/Morris_GermanEnergyFreedom.pdf.

Owners of solar PV system are still completely dependent on utilities to convert the variable non-dispatchable energy from their solar PV into the energy-on-demand which they need.  Until energy storage becomes affordable, this will continue to be the case.

This quote "...utilities are increasingly telling citizens there solar power is not needed..." hints at the underlying problem.  As much as the solar industry wants us to believe that a kWh is a kWh, the dispatchable kWh is much more valuable, and every enery user needs to understand this.

Nathan, fortunately the Germans are not switching to solar, but to renewables. And you should tell the Australians that solar plus battery storage is not what they want. I believe they are about to undergo a massive wave of grid defection.

If Australians switch to solar+storage and defect from the grid, power to them. Having read much of Nathan's comments I'm sure he'd agree.

The problem is where solar owners who have no storage, expect to recieve retail compensation for their low value intermittent power. In this case, a Kw of intermittent power being fed to the grid is of less value than a Kw of steady reliable 24-7 power.

"...European-style feed-in tariffs have another problem:  if they are set unnecessarily high, then the excess is pocketed by the energy companies..."

The Feed-in-Tariffs (FiT's) are calculated (and checked) in such a way that the developer gains ~6-7% of his investment, independent of the production method used. So whether the developer is an household that invests in rooftop solar, or a big investor trying to develope a large wind farm, or .... all earn the same yield; 6-7% if they manage their investment properly (maintain a reasonable max. volume of production). The guaranteed FiT's last only 20 (solar) / 15 (wind) years, while the involved installation last much longer if maintained well.

The system allows small citizens to take part too, as production by small rooftop solar (<10KW capacity) delivered to the grid gets ~13cent/KWh, while big PV-solar installation get ~9cent/KWh.

- to democratize energy, the second target of the Energiewende;

- to make citizens more aware of energy and its issues, contributing to an energy savings attitude;

- to save land as most PV-solar electricity is from the roofs of houses and farms;

- to stimulate neighbors to invest in PV-solar too. Peopel here get only 2% interest when they put their money on the bank. Here in NL a recent poll showed that substantial part of house owners is considering using part of the holiday money for investment in rooftop solar. Stimulated by the sight of other houses in the street who got those on the roof.

Comparisons show this system is more successfull.

It delivers greater renewable expansion rates.

» Login or register now to comment!

Please note: Your first comment as a registered user will be held for moderation up to 24 hours (usually less). For more information about comments on our site, please read our FAQ and terms of use .
