
Reuters.

A rangoli, or a mural, showing a map of India with an image of Hindu nationalist Narendra Modi, the prime ministerial candidate for India's main opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), is pictured in the premises of the party's regional office in the western Indian city of Ahmedabad May 16, 2014. Opposition candidate Narendra Modi will be the next prime minister of India, with early election results on Friday showing the pro-business Hindu nationalist and his party headed for the biggest victory the country has seen in 30 years.

New Delhi - Narendra Modi’s first declaration of victory didn’t come in the capital New Delhi, or his home state of Gujarat or even Hinduism’s holiest city of Varanasi, where he ran for parliament.

It came in the form of a message on his Twitter account.

“India has won. Good days are ahead,” Modi wrote to his more than four million followers on the microblogging platform, after official results released May 16 showed his Bharatiya Janata Party winning a landslide victory over the Congress party led by the Gandhi dynasty.

That his victory message was retweeted over 69,000 times was as much evidence of Modi’s popularity among an electorate of about 800 million as it was of his campaign’s use of social media to reach voters, 150 million of whom were casting a ballot for the first time.

The Congress party, by contrast, didn’t embrace such platforms, with the campaign chief Rahul Gandhi, who doesn’t have a Twitter account, making his concession in a 30-second speech at party headquarters in New Delhi.

“Mr. Modi has a massive apparatus in Gandhinagar,” said Ajay Singh, a member of the BJP’s central publicity committee, referring to the capital of Gujarat state, which Modi has run as chief minister since 2001.

Modi tapped into an increasingly connected electorate.

About 70 percent of people in the world’s largest democracy own mobile phones and India is the third-largest smartphone market, according to data from consultant Paul Budde Communication.

India has an estimated 205 million Internet users, according to Arnab Mitra, managing director of LIQVD Asia, a digital advertising company.

He forecasts the number will rise to as many as 370 million by 2015, in a country of 1.2 billion people.

While Congress President and Rahul’s mother Sonia Gandhi joined her son in conceding defeat, Modi’s digital team rolled out an online “victory wall” where his supporters could post messages and pictures.

In July, the BJP began its digital campaign called Mission 272+, referring to the number of seats it needed for a majority in parliament.

This included an initiative called NaMo Number, which enabled potential voters to use their mobile phones to enroll themselves in a BJP database and to enlist others, helping to construct a network of voters.

“Tired of pundits who predict a hung parliament? Sick of surveys that are cynical of the BJP’s prospects?” said a message on the 272+ website.

The party ended up winning 282 seats in the 543-seat parliament, while the outgoing Congress party won 44.

Modi’s victory message is now the most tweeted ever in India, Rishi Jaitly, who heads Twitter’s India operations, said in an e-mail.

During voting Modi posted a selfie on his Twitter account showing his inked finger just after casting his ballot.

The incoming prime minister is the most-followed Indian politician on Facebook, Carson Dalton, the networking site’s communications head for India, said by e-mail.

The Congress party had only one website, which features a picture of Mahatma Gandhi.

Congress spokesman Manish Tiwari didn’t answer two calls to his mobile phone.

There were about 80 million users of social media in urban India at the time of the election, according to Internet and Mobile Association of India estimates.

A third live in towns with populations of less than 500,000 and a quarter in areas populated by under 200,000.

Modi is counting on social networking to keep his party in power, in a country where 372 million people are below the age of 15, more than the population of the US.

He unveiled an Android application Jobs in GoG on May 15, which provides details on government jobs available in the state of Gujarat.

“Go to YouTube and check, even kids who have just started to speak are saying ‘abki baar Modi sarkaar,’” he said in a victory speech in Vadodara, referring to his ‘This Time a Modi Government’ campaign slogan.

Login and register, if you haven’ t already.

© Copyright 1999 - 2014 Independent Online, a division of Independent Newspapers (Pty) Limited. The copyright in the literary and artistic works contained in this online news publication and its other related and connected websites, as well as in the published editions of group newspapers, their supplements and any other content or material, belongs exclusively to Independent Newspapers (Pty) Limited unless otherwise stated.
