
When an individual cannot afford the basic needs we say that he is poor and when one country is having few resources than the other country we say also the country is relatively poor. The absolute poverty is the one to be looked at with much emphasis because is the situation where an individual cannot afford the basic needs such as food, shelter and clothes. The absolute poverty may be extended in terms of meaning to mean destitution.

You may find that there are many people who are capable of working but they cannot work. Lack of employment opportunities from the government or private sector is the cause of unemployment but we have self employment as well. Why there are no employment opportunities? The question can be addressed when we think critically of the possible causes when we invite practicability of the argument we put forward rather than propaganda.

Unemployment is the cause of the poverty and not poverty causing unemployment. The statement may prove contradictory when we have different perspectives and ways of considering things. The task ahead is proving how unemployment is the cause of poverty. We are interested to blame the government for lack of unemployment opportunities, the situation which forces us into poverty.

We may reduce the stress of the government that people should opt for self employment to political pursuit rather than economic planning when we can identify the areas of weaknesses in the sectors of socio-economic life of the people.

The defects in the educational sector of the country count much when we think of our economic failures. Lack of quality syllabus or sometimes lack of means to implement the syllabus is the big problem. The syllabus is not designed in a way that can impart relevant know ledge to the students which can distinguish those who have been to school and those who have not. The students lack vision which is to shape their future lives.

What is the value of education when a student who fails at form four scoring division zero goes back to take the responsibilities which can be carried out by the standard seven leaver? We need to think of these matters when we intend to effect changes to our lives lest us pour water into sacs on the pretext of working hard.

Education is important for the socio-economic development of any nation. To eulogize the role of education, the government has formed what has been called “Higher Education Students’ loan Board (HESLB)” to finance the education of the majority Tanzanians who are believed to be poor.

As we have agreed before that we intend to blame the government with justice, let as ask if the board functions properly. When you offer a loan of 100% to a person who is already employed and at the same time you offer a loan of 0% to fresher student from form six who has never understood the term monthly salary, what is the implication? The reasons being that, the former studies education and the later studies non- educational courses.

In order to develop we need a combination of many experts not only teachers and medical workers. What about economists and accountants? Who will plan our economy and manage our financial resources? We need both but we fail to produce a right combination. We really need teachers, doctors, nurses and technicians but the role of other fields cannot be undermined.

There are many things to talk about in our educational sector but let us vacate the arena because this is an article not a report.  The other area where the government does little to make us criticize it is in the utilization of human resources. There are good economists but they are not given chance to effect changes. Is political rivalry the reason?  If that is the reason why Prof Lipumba shouldn’t join CCM to make him in use? There are other experts but economic field is very lucky today to be mentioned.

Reading long stories is not our hobby Tanzanians, thus let us jump into solutions to end this piece of writing. The government can do a lot but the following can mean something.

Improving the educational system by effecting some changes.  What is the role of professors? The question can lead us into valuable utterances  instead of mere propaganda. Some students accuse University Professors of using difficult language in their writing to the extent of discouraging them to read.

Some claim that the role of professors is expanding knowledge. Expanding for whom when the available knowledge is not properly utilized? The professors should write books relevant to the society in a simple language which can be used to teach from primary schools to University level. This may help.

There should be proper utilization of both human and natural resources so as to quit poverty. Lipumba is our resource let us utilize him because taxes of the peasants and workers made him into such high school of knowledge.

Not utilizing the potentials of academicians is betraying the masses.  Also the government should try national capitalism instead of individual (free) capitalism because the individual (free) capitalism proves failure to pull the majority from poverty in the sense that it allows formation of monopolies which are agencies of inflicting economic agony to the low income earners who constitute the large section of Tanzanian population.

Let us try new things to realize new possibilities and impossibilities because struggle is the way.
