
“I am disappointed..."

In a move even the left-leaning Daily Beast called “ silly ,” a Rutgers University protest earlier this month led to a former Secretary of State scrapping a planned speech on campus.

This is just one example of the shortsighted activism among some college students that results in less exposure to alternate and valuable points of view. For his part, former Princeton University President William Bowen has apparently had enough.

In a commencement speech at Haverford College this weekend, he called some in the audience “immature” for protests against a planned speaker who subsequently dropped out of the event.

Reports indicate dozens of students – along with three professors – joined in the protest against former University of California Berkeley Chancellor Robert Birgeneau.

During a 2011 demonstration by leftist Occupy protesters on the UCB campus, police used force to disperse an unruly crowd. Those opposing Birgeneau’s appearance at Haverford – where he was set to receive an honorary degree – felt he did not respond appropriately to law enforcement’s action.

In order to make things right, the group contended, he would have to not only apologize and advocate reparations for the Occupy protesters; the former administrator would also be required to write a letter to Haverford College detailing what he learned from the experience.

Such an ultimatum obviously did not sit well with Birgeneau, who penned a letter to protesters – but not the one they demanded. In his email, he not only informed the school he would not be attending the ceremony; he also unequivocally objected to all of the protester’s conditions.

Speaking directly to the student body from which the protest arose, Bowen explained why the incident was damaging to the entire college.

Bowen also defended the former chancellor for responding with his own discordant response.

In what could be seen as evidence the protesters represented a small – but vocal – minority of the school’s population, Bowen’s excoriation received an enthusiastic standing ovation from attendees.

An award-winning journalist, B. Christopher Agee spent more than a decade building a career in newspaper and radio. He is currently the senior staff writer at Western Center for Journalism. Chris is the author of two books and is a frequent guest on talk radio shows across the U.S. He lives with his wife, Nancy, in Phoenix, Ariz.

None of those protesting students should have received their degrees at the ceremony. Mail them to them. And the protesting Professors should be fired!

The students have a right to decide who they want at THEIR graduation because they are the ones who studied hard and passed NOBODY else and that is a fact.

It’s always a loud mouth liberal minority that has to ruin things for the majority. Arrest the protestors the day before and of the event, until the event is over, fire any facility involved in the protest, and restore some order to our Universities.

They are 100% behind freedom of speech but only if they agree with it.

They have been brain washed by their parent who were the 60′s radicals.; You remember them with all of their free love libbers.

Then look at the abundance of them who disgrace America as liberal professors in most collages .Brain washing seems to have multiplied with the election of Obama and the well placed members he placed in his sorry  administration .

If we do not throw them out of Congress in 2014 and the the election in 2016 ; We all can expect our children’s futures to be nothing like you had.Our Constitution will be redone or destroyed .
