
Kagini a community right opposite the Arab Road, Kubwa, is a city of its own. The people who live there describe it as a comfortable place to live, citing its proximity to the expressway, availability of potable water and constant power supply.

Unlike members of other communities who face daily challenges of life due to lack of basic amenities, the people in Kagini are happy not to be caught in that web.

One thing however is that despite the seeming civilization and modern way of living in the community, the people hold their traditional beliefs sacred.

One of the traditional beliefs that civilization has not been able to erode is the practice of offering sacrifices to their departed traditional chiefs.

Though dead, the living still maintain communication with their traditional chiefs through sacrifices which are offered to them twice every year, first at the zenith of the Kagini Hill and at the centre of the community by a traditionally built house, where the body and spirit of dead chiefs reside.

The chief of the community, Alhaji Isah Gbegbe, the Asubada 2 of Kagini, while describing the event on the hill, stated that the event called Azhakoyije is held every March 15. He explained that the festival has its root from the fact that the people once lived on the hills before they relocated to their present location.

He said the hills served as cover for the people of Kagini and those of other neighbouring communities during the war, which earned them the name, Kagini, which literarily means, saving lives.

“During the war and slave trade, Kagini is where other communities ran to hide from the enemies. There is a cave that is mighty that can contain a lot of people and there, people hid from the enemies,’’ Gbegbe explained.

He said because their forefathers were buried on the hill, the people take sacrifices there every year to commune with them and failure to do this amounts to planning for a fruitless year.

“Till date, we keep the tradition and every March 15, we offer sacrifices and worship them. We go up the hill with a white ram while a delegated woman carries the locally brewed liqour (Burukutu) in a special pot. It involves everyone in the village but there is a place where everyone stops and a selected few go up the hill to make the sacrifice. The selected elders kill the ram and do the rest of the sacrifice. When there is scarcity of rain or any other problem at all, we go there to make sacrifice,’’ he said.

Gbegbe said though there was no particular date for the second sacrifice; it was usually done on a Friday.

Though LEADERSHIP was not told details of the sacrifice, it was gathered that livestock such as chicken or  ram as well as Burukutu is used for the sacrifice.

LEADERSHIP correspondent who sauntered on the elders when they were about to carry out the sacrifice last Friday was told by the leader of the elders, the Madaki that the entire ritual was about celebrating their dead.

He said a special pot called Nyikwu which contains the Burukutu and the Ebah (calabash) for drinking it is used and that women are not allowed to participate but for a few selected ones who prepare the ram or chicken killed for the sacrifice.

The madaki said the traditional hut where the rites were being carried out was the same one where the two former deceased chiefs were buried and that the present chief would also be buried there at his demise.

“When I die, they will go into the same grave, take out everything inside and bury me there. It is just our tradition,” he added.
