
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

LANSING — Michigan voters are fed up with the state's roads, and most are willing to pay $10 more per month to help fix them, according to a new poll.

A poll conducted by Marketing Resource Group found 68 percent of Michigan voters would fork over an extra $10 per month in taxes to maintain and improve roads and bridges. That includes 71 percent of respondents who identified as Democrats and 59 percent of Republicans.

"People believe, frankly, we have reached a point that we just need to do something," said MRG President Tom Shields, noting that 56 percent agreed that they normally don't favor raising taxes but would support a "reasonable increase" to fix the roads.

The poll was commissioned by the Michigan Chamber of Commerce, which has been pushing for increased transportation funding for years.

It comes on the heels of the state House's passage of a package that would raise between $450 million and $500 million in road funding per year through prioritizing certain tax revenues, replacing the per-gallon fuel tax with a wholesale tax, increased fees for overweight and oversized vehicles, and other changes.

While the package received bipartisan support, conservative group Americans for Prosperity-Michigan argued the tax changes would decrease transparency and take power from the people by putting "gas tax hikes on autopilot."

Chamber President and CEO Rich Studley said the House proposal "would stop the bleeding," but Michigan needs two to three times more funding to appropriately address its infrastructure crisis. An extra $10 per month per driver would bring in less than $1 billion a year, and asking about it was a way of gauging general support for tax or fee increases, Shields said. Voters also voiced support for other ways of increasing revenue.

The statewide poll of 600 likely voters by the Lansing-based firm was conducted April 2-6 through live telephone interviews, including 25 percent by cell phone. The poll has a margin of error of plus or minus 4.1 percentage points. MRG typically does work for Republican political candidates in Michigan.

The results — fueled by one of the worst pothole seasons in recent memory — show a dramatic change in both concern for roads and support for increased funding, Studley said.

About 23 percent of respondents chose "roads and bridges" as the most important problem facing Michigan, compared to just 5 percent in 2014. Eight in ten voters think roads have gotten worse over the past year, and a quarter of respondents said they've personally incurred damage to their car or have been in an accident due to road conditions in the last year.

While some Republican lawmakers have been hesitant to support tax increases for road funding, the poll shows a majority of voters on both sides of the aisle want the Legislature to act, even if it means raising taxes or fees.

Studley said the political risk has shifted from a year ago, when some lawmakers decided there wasn't enough support from constituents to ask them to help pay for roads.

"Clearly now the view on the part of the general public, voters, and especially motorists who drive and vote, is they want lawmakers to work together to do something big and to do it now," he said.

Studley said he hopes the Legislature can make a "major breakthrough" before summer break so they don't miss another construction season and budget cycle.

© 2014 MLive Media Group All rights reserved ( About Us ).

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
