
OXFORD, England, May 19, 2014 /CNW/ - Teenage students from 90 different countries are preparing to embark on an unforgettable summer of education at Oxford Royale Academy (ORA) , which gets underway in July. Founded in 2005, ORA offers high-calibre academic courses to students aged between 13 and 18, with a full programme of extra-curricular activities and outings provided to complement superlative classroom teaching.

The academic environment enjoyed by those attending ORA courses is second to none. With a broad selection of 45 study options to choose from, students receive world-class teaching from the ORA faculty - 70% of whom are from Oxford or Cambridge backgrounds. Accommodation is provided for all students in the scholarly surroundings of the University of Oxford's historic colleges.

As bright students flock to ORA from around the world, the diversity of opinion expressed in classroom discussion is unparalleled - as are the global friendships born from this one-of-a-kind educational experience. Previous years' students have formed lasting friendship networks spanning the length and breadth of the globe, from South Carolina to Sydney. With so many gifted young people clamouring to enjoy these incredible opportunities, in a city renowned for its academic prowess, it's little wonder that competition for places is fierce.

ORA is committed to ensuring that all talented students have the opportunity to benefit from its courses, encouraging those from less affluent backgrounds to apply for financial aid to cover up to 100% of their course fees. Having made it through a competitive and academically rigorous selection process, the recipients of this year's scholarships come from as far afield as Indonesia, Canada and Pakistan.

ORA's reputation for excellence has been recognised by numerous awards, including four consecutive Best Educational Product accolades at the BETA Youth Travel Awards, and the Queen's Award for Enterprise - the latter acknowledging ORA's growing number of student enrolments. ORA is accredited by the British Council and the British Accreditation Council, reflecting its dedication to academic excellence and first-rate pastoral care.

ORA has further displayed its commitment to education by posting free daily educational articles . These offer scholarly advice to students, and cover academic topics as diverse as English idioms, ethics in medicine, and the effectiveness of tribunals in the English justice system.
