
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

CLEVELAND, Ohio – MetroHealth Medical Center has a new pilot program designed to help treat opiate -dependent pregnant women - and the babies they give birth to, thanks to more than $395,000 coming from the state.

MetroHealth's Maternal Opiate Medical Support (M.O.M.S.) program is the first of four in Ohio, launched with grant money through the Governor's Office of Health Transformation's Innovation Fund, in partnership with Ohio Medicaid and the Ohio Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services.

The three-year, $4.2 million project is estimated to reduce infant hospital stays by 30 percent. Three other M.O.M.S. programs in Athens, Franklin and Hamilton counties will be announced in the coming weeks.

Up to 125 women and babies at MetroHealth will be enrolled in M.O.M.S., the aim of which is to help reduce the number and length of hospital stays for women who are being treated for heroin and other opiate addiction and dependency, and for their babies being treated for neonatal abstinence syndrome.

The number of such babies treated at MetroHealth's NICU has gone up every year - 58 in 2012, more than 65 in 2013.

Babies with neonatal abstinence syndrome experience withdrawal symptoms, respiratory complications, low birth weight, feeding difficulties and seizures. They can spend days or weeks in the NICU.

Women in M.O.M.S. will be treated with Subutex, a synthetic opioid whose active ingredient is the pain reliever buprenorphine.

In the past decade, Subutex has been used as an alternative to methadone, another synthetic opioid. Not only is there less risk of overdose with Subutex, but it also causes less-severe withdrawal symptoms in the newborns of women who take it during pregnancy.

Eligible women are those who have begun or will begin taking Subutex before 24 weeks into their pregnancy, said MetroHealth OB-GYN Dr. Jennifer Bailit, who works with addicted pregnant women through the hospital's opiate dependent mother's clinic, which started in 2001.

That clinic was launched with a $35,000 grant from the March of Dimes; the organization has renewed that grant for the M.O.M.S. program.

MetroHealth already had a multidisciplinary clinic in place that draws on a wide range of expertise, from neonatologists to social workers, to help opiate-dependent women and their babies, said Bailit, executive director of MetroHealth's Women and Children's Patient Care Unit.

The new M.O.M.S. program is critical, she said. The number of women treated has grown steadily in three years, from 50 in 2010 to 98 in 2013; the vast majority of them are white, middle-class women from the suburbs who are in their late teens and early 20s.

"Treating [opiate dependent] babies is very expensive, both monetarily and in human cost," she said. "The need has really escalated."

In fact, such treatment accounted for more than $70 million in health care expenses and nearly 19,000 days in Ohio's hospitals in 2011, according to data from the Ohio Hospital Association.

M.O.M.S. will allow partnerships with University Hospitals and agencies throughout Northeast Ohio such as Cuyahoga County Children and Family Services, the May Dugan Center and Recovery Resources , to provide women with a wide range of locations for medical care, drug addiction treatment and other non-clinical services.

Among those services: housing vouchers for transitional housing, transportation to and from medical and treatment appointments, and child care during those appointments – all things that Medicaid does not cover.

It's what Bailit calls "stitching together community resources into a quilt that we can wrap around these women."

A patient care coordinator has been hired and will soon start work helping to connect women with community resources. The grant also is helping to pay part of the salary of an addiction psychiatrist who also will work with the program.

cleveland.com is powered by Plain Dealer Publishing Co. and Northeast Ohio Media Group. All rights reserved ( About Us ).

The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Northeast Ohio Media Group LLC.

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
