
The ceremony began with an acapella performance of “The Star Spangled Banner” by Allison Enneking of Topeka, who was graduating with a Bachelor of Music Education degree.

Shonrock also recognized this year’s Roe R. Cross Distinguished Professor, Dr. Charles S. Brown, Philosophy, and the 2014 Newberg Distinguished Senior, Amy Bretches, a computer science and math major from McPherson. Danielle Siegle of Emporia was honored for achieving a perfect 4.0 GPA in pursuit of her Bachelor of Science in Nursing degree.

Board of Regents representative Helen Von Etten spoke a few words about the students’ achievements after years of study and hard work, encouraging them to draw on those experiences and skills as they start the next chapter of their lives.

The commencement address was given by Ed O’Malley, President and CEO of Kansas Leadership Center. O’Malley focused on his ties to Emporia – his father’s first job out of college was as a cub reporter for the Emporia Gazette, and O’Malley grew up listening to stories about the community. Because of this connection, O’Malley chose to attend Emporia State University, but transferred after a year “because of a very powerful force – a girl,” he said as the audience chuckled.

O’Malley challenged the graduates to take the tangible knowledge and skills they’ve acquired while at ESU and combine them with the intangibles -- learning how to maneuver complex systems, realizing what is of value -- to become leaders in solving the world’s problems.

In a separate ceremony held Saturday afternoon at Albert Taylor Hall, nearly 300 graduate students received doctorate, specialist or master’s degrees.

This number bests the previous record, set last year, and continues an upward trend in graduates for the college. In addition to the students awarded associate’s degrees and technical certificates in 26 different categories, 16 students received their Kansas high school diplomas.

The ceremony began with the singing of the national anthem by a quartet of FHTC faculty and administrators: Steve Loewen, Jeff Devilbiss, Lance Nitahara, and Robert Sieberns.

Seth Carter, TRAC-7 Grant Director, gave a few short remarks acknowledging the hours of dedication and study on behalf of the students as well as their families. Carter noted that many of the graduates were former employees of Dolly Madison, who found themselves unemployed after the bakery shut down in November 2012. Going back to school and seeking a career change was a brave choice, he said, and one that has paid off for them already.

Dr. Dean Hollenbeck, President of FHTC, conferred the degrees and welcomed the new graduates to the ranks of FHTC alumni, promising continued support as they start their new careers.

1 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language.

2 Don't Threaten or Abuse. Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated. AND PLEASE TURN OFF CAPS LOCK.

3 Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.

4 Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.

5 Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.

6 Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness accounts, the history behind an article.

Welcome to the discussion.

This email list will be used to notify subscribers of important breaking news in and around the Emporia area.

Signup today for a daily update of Emporia Gazette Headlines!
