
MARYVILLE, Tenn. — Driving along US-411N, flanked by rolling green hills and slow-moving cows, it seems surprising to hear a DJ on the FM dial breathlessly announcing a merengue show in nearby Knoxville — in Spanish.

In fact, Tennessee, like fellow Appalachian states Kentucky, North Carolina, Virginia and West Virginia, is home to one of the fastest-growing Latino populations in the country, much younger on average than the region’s non-Hispanic white and black populations, and with larger families.

This hasn’t escaped the attention of the region’s colleges, most of which have drawn heavily on the area’s non-Hispanic white population for their students. But that population is shrinking, said Deborah Santiago, the vice president for policy at Excelencia in Education, a nonprofit agency that advocates for Latinos in higher education.

“It’s in their economic self-interest to learn how to attract and retain Latinos,” Santiago said.

Doing this won’t be easy. Limited experience with college, lower household incomes and other factors have made Latinos less likely to enroll in and succeed at college. But as universities across the country contend with flat and even declining enrollments, they’re starting to go after the biggest growth market: Latinos.

Recruiting Latinos to college is “one of those wonderful situations where you can do the right thing morally as well as financially,” said Irene Burgess, the vice president for academic programs at the Appalachian College Association.

The association — a group of 36 small, private, largely faith-based schools in Kentucky, North Carolina, Tennessee, Virginia and West Virginia — has given small grants to eight member colleges aimed at helping them attract and retain Latino students.

Already the largest and fastest-growing minority group, Latinos will account for 60 percent of population growth through 2050, according to the U.S. Department of Education. Yet they have the lowest education attainment levels of any group in the United States.

Raising those levels will have a nationwide impact, said Santiago, whose organization has provided some technical assistance to the Appalachian colleges.

The Appalachian region may be only the first to attack this issue with a concerted effort.

Comments posted below are from readers. In no way do they represent the view of Stephens Media LLC or this newspaper. This is a public forum.

Comments may be monitored for inappropriate content but the newspaper is under no obligation to do so.  Comment posters are solely responsible under the Communications Decency Act for comments posted on this Web site. Stephens Media LLC is not liable for messages from third parties.

Obscene, explicit, or racist language.

Copyrighted materials of any sort without the express permission of the copyright holder.

Personal attacks, insults or threats.

The use of another person's real name to disguise your identity.

Comments unrelated to the story.
