
Ken Langone, the big-spending Home Depot billionaire and ally of Charles and David Koch, clumsily defended his March 2014 comments comparing populist criticism of the 1 percent with the rise of Nazi Germany, in an interview with Capital New York published this week.

Langone, a regular attendee of the twice-yearly secret strategy sessions for the mega rich organized by Charles and David Koch, has been speaking publicly of his concerns for the continued success of the richest Americans.

"We're being strangled by regulation," Langone told a conference of hedge fund managers in Las Vegas in mid May, as reported by CNN . "You're in the 1%, there's nothing wrong with that," he continued. "You can do so much more with money than pay your taxes."

Now, Langone has spoken to defend his past Nazi comparison, despite having somewhat backtracked just two months earlier.

Billionaire Kenneth Langone is still defending his comparison of income inequality talking points to rhetoric in Nazi Germany, after apologizing two months ago for the comments.

In a Capital New York interview published Monday morning, the Home Depot co-founder and Republican megadonor said it was a fair analogy to illustrate how democratic elections can yield results he finds terrifying.

"I simply said just because we're a democracy doesn't mean you can't have bad results," he said. "That's all! I stand on what I said."

In a March interview with Politico, which owns Capital, Langone said a GOP pivot toward the economic populism championed by progressives and by such Tea Party candidates as Kentucky Sen. Rand Paul and Texas Sen. Ted Cruz would mirror the rise of Adolf Hitler.

"I hope it's not working," Langone said of the political appeals at the time. "Because if you go back to 1933, with different words, this is what Hitler was saying in Germany."

Nicholas Confessore, wrote about the history of the Koch brothers political activities in a front page New York Times story on May 17, 2014, detailing the origins of the present day Koch political operation.

According to Confessore, in a speech given to business leaders and others in 1974, Charles Koch said: "The development of a well-financed cadre of sound proponents of the free enterprise philosophy is the most critical need facing us today."

The Koch brothers are not the only billionaires using their wealth to push for radical deregulation. They now have a whole cadre.

Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day..

Use this form to alert a HuffPost editor about a factual or typographical error in this story.

Thank you!
