
A new focus plan is set to improve the below-state-average performance of students at Hanover High School, administrators said.

Over the next three years, administration and teachers are aiming to raise graduation rates, PSAT participation and state test scores in the hopes of providing the best level of education to Hanover students. Improvements in these areas will also raise the school's performance profile, which is currently 20 to 30 points lower than other area schools, according to the PA Department of Education.

"Students only have one chance to go through the system, so we better get it right," said Superintendent John Scola. "And we plan to do that, starting in earnest next school year."

Students have already seen changes with the update to next year's curriculum offerings, Scola said. Not only do they have five more advanced placement courses to register for, but nine new level-one courses, which can fill elective or core requirements, he said.

Students will also have the chance to take preparation courses to ensure a passing score on the Keystones, a state-mandated test that is now required for graduation, beginning with the class of 2017.

The expansion of choice in the curriculum, especially the more accessible level one courses, including classes like mythology, science fiction literature and physical science, appeal more to the students' interest and keep them in school, Scola said.

"The students can pick from a variety of courses that will hopefully enable them to graduate," Scola said. "It allows for anyone that may be career bound to earn sufficient credit. The courses are still rigorous, but it's in an area they will have a better opportunity to succeed."

The school's current courses are being rewritten and improved to meet the Pennsylvania Common Core requirements, said Assistant Superintendent Susan Seiple.

This summer, and each school year from now on, also includes a hefty amount of professional teaching development in areas of customized learning techniques, technology integration and student engagement in the classroom.

"We all have the ability to learn and grow, so it behooves the district to offer that professional development to the teachers and offer the same support they need to be successful," Seiple said.

Scola expects grades, scores and performance to improve drastically over the next three years. After each school year, the data will be analyzed and the plan will be adjusted to meet each goal at the end of the three-year term, he said.

"We realize from our school performance profile that there is a sense of urgency, that we need to make sure we address the issues immediately," Scola said. "The important part is following through. I think so far we are well on our way."

Goal one: To raise the graduation rate from 77.95 percent to 83 percent.

Goal two: To increase Biology Keystone scores from 20 percent to 40 percent proficiency.

Goal three: To decrease failure rate in core content courses to less than 15 percent.

Goal four: To increase percentage of students taking the PSATs from the current 24 percent.

Goal five: To increase the school performance profile score to 70.
