
Share This Story!

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Burlington College grads told to 'set the world aflame'

Burlington College graduates switch over their tassels at the conclusion of commencement exercises Saturday.

Major conflagrations often start with one tiny spark, and Burlington College is counting on it. Their logo, a spark, is meant to ignite a lifetime of civic engagement.

"You've made it. Now go, set the world aflame," Faculty member Brian Bright told the graduating class in his address. "It's now time for you to get your fire going. Fan it with your passions and dreams."

Friends and family tucked themselves inside a tall white tent behind the old diocese building in eight humble rows. It looked like rain. About 300 were in attendance at the school's 33rd commencement Saturday.

The threat of spring showers lifted as gray morning skies gave way to blazing sunshine. Taiko drummers set the tone by pumping out an inspiration beat. Applause, shouts of praise, and ear-piercing whistles met the graduates as they took their seats.

Ansley Carnahan, 86, of South Burlington was there early in her cap and gown to receive her first bachelor's degree in Legal and Justice Studies, with a certificate in Paralegal Studies.

"I love going to school," Carnahan said in an interview before the ceremony. "Learning is a lifetime career."

Carnahan said she will now work towards her master's degree in political science.

When asked about the Burlington College spark Carnahan said, "I think I was born with that. I have been politically involved since I was seven."

After college president Christine Plunkett welcomed the crowd, graduating senior Sarah Cutler addressed her peers. "We have moved from a small teal building, to this probably haunted one, but the biggest change is inside all of us," she said.

The move into the building, once home to the Roman Catholic Diocese, led the college to plan to develop some of the North Avenue lakefront property for residential development, but that is happening in stages, Burlington College Marketing Coordinator StaciAnne Grove said.

"A great deal of mindfulness with an eye toward preservation is happening where renovations and development are concerned," Grove said. "It needs a lot of work to bring it up to code, and we are not even in the permitting process yet."

Burlington College bought the property from the Roman Catholic Diocese of Burlington in 2010 for $10 million. Prior to that, the college was housed in a 16,000-square-foot building on a 1.6-acre lot farther down North Avenue.

The current academic headquarters occupy about half of the 77,000-square-foot former diocese building. The other half remains to be renovated, and the college continues to raise money for that purpose. The current student headcount is 252. The college's goal is to grow enrollment to 750.

There were 76 students in 2014's graduating class. The collegewide ceremony included an academic procession of the president, senior administration, faculty, trustees, honored guests, and graduating students in academic regalia.

Graduating students voted for RC Kirk, professor of typography, to receive the Faculty of the Year Award. "His dedication to his students and to Burlington College is inspirational and that is why this year's Faculty Award goes to RC Kirk," Graduating Senior Jamie Lucia said.

At the podium, after receiving his award, Kirk gave them one last assignment, "Find your calling and fulfill it," he said. "Lead by example. Find your purpose."

Red, silver, and black balloons bobbed in the light wind, popping intermittently throughout the speeches, causing people to jump with fright, ensued by rolling laughter.

Vermont resident and actor Luis Guzmán gave the commencement address, and received an honorary Doctor of Humane Letters degree in recognition of his humanitarian work with youth and under-served populations.

Guzmán is known for his character work on television show "Miami Vice," as a hitman in the movie "Scarface" and most recently as a cop in "We're the Millers" starring Jennifer Aniston, with a long list of movies in between.

"There is a real spirit to this school, and I don't mean the one popping the balloons today," Guzmán said. His comment was met with laughter.

He told the students, "We are always learning, and we all have a calling," he said. "That calling is to serve the world with heart, to be creative, and to embrace the unknown. We are all dreamers. Go for it."
