
May 19, 2014 – A proposed  ballot initiative by Santa Monica Airport  supporters is facing  mounting opposition  on the legal, political and grassroots fronts.

On Friday, May 9, a group of Santa    Monica citizens filed a lawsuit in Los Angeles County  Superior Court in an effort to derail the initiative, which would require voter  approval to shut down the airport or change the land’s use.

The pressure mounted last week when the City Council voted  to draft a rival initiative, and nearly three dozen residents asked the City  Clerk to remove their signature from the petition.

So far, all seven of the city’s neighborhood groups and  Santa Monicans for Renters’ Rights, the city’s most powerful political  organization, have urged their members not to sign the petition.

The Aircraft Owners and Pilots Association (AOPA), a Washington, D.C.-based national lobbying  group, “has tried to masquerade its sponsorship of a private business protection  act by creating a phony grassroots organization,” said Gavin Scott, of  Airport2Park, the organization formed last year to turn Santa    Monica Airport  into a public park.

David Shaby, attorney and board member of the measure’s  campaign committee, Santa Monicans for Open and Honest Development Decision  (SMOHDD), is confident the measure will get the 9,500 valid signatures needed  to qualify.

More than 12,000 signatures have already been collected,  Shaby said. To make the November ballot the signatures would need to be  submitted by June 3.

"The airport's not going anywhere anytime soon.”  Shaby said. “It shouldn't be left in the  hands of the City Council, it should be up to the electorate; let them vote on  this issue."

In a lawsuit against the three individuals who filed to  circulate the petitions, airport opponents argue that the proposed initiative  contains numerous misleading statements, was not vetted properly by City  officials and violates the state Constitution and elections code.

Filed on behalf of 11 residents, the lawsuit, as a legal  formality, also names the City Council, City Clerk and City Attorney as  defendants in the suit.

Attorney Jonathan Stein, who filed the lawsuit against the  petition filers and City Hall, has numerous issues with the initiative.

The lawsuit also includes findings reported by the Lookout  on May 1 concerning the hiring of Arno Political Consulting, a Carlsbad-based  petition drive management firm which has been the subject of controversy  over allegations of petition fraud.  The suit notes the three cases reported by the Lookout of alleged abuses  by Arno petition gatherers.

Shaby dismisses the allegations. "Our position is that  he [Stein] threw the kitchen sink in the lawsuit,” Shaby told the  Lookout.  “There's no merit to it.  It's a frivolous lawsuit."

Last Tuesday, the City Council voted unanimously  to combat the ballot initiative drive with a ballot measure of its own.

The  signature-rescissions come amid accusations that paid signature gatherers are  tricking people into signing.

“We have had many emails complaining about the signature  gatherer’s misleading statements,” said John Fairweather, Chair of CASMAT, “and  we have been advising these voters to contact the City Clerk to rescind their  signatures.

“We expect rescissions to increase as we inform more Santa  Monicans about these deceptive practices and the truth about the initiative,” Fairweather said.

copyrightCopyright 1999-2014 surfsantamonica.com. All        Rights Reserved.
