
CHANDIGARH: Residents of Panjab University's girls' hostel number 2 are unhappy over being asked to pay Rs 790 for this session as electricity charges a?? apart from the quarterly charges of Rs 290. The students were told that they will be charged because of the high electricity bill of the hostel, Rs 16 lakh in the current year.

"We have already paid the money at the time of admission and now are being asked to pay another Rs 790. This is totally unacceptable," said Harmanjeet Kaur, a resident of Rani Laxmi Bai Hall (girls' hostel number 2). Kaur, who is also the hostel in charge for Students' Federation of India (SFI), also wrote to the deans, student welfare, (DSW) (men and women) to look into the issue.

"Students were told that due to geyser usage the bill had shot up to Rs 16 lakh. In April and May, who uses geysers? It is a university hostel, not a paying guest accommodation that the rent will be increased according to the power bill," said SFI's PU campus president Prabhpreet Singh.

However,  hostel warden Navjot said the students haven't been forced to pay the bill. "We will see if we will charge these students or adjust it in the new session after consulting with the  dean (student welfare)," she said.

The warden justified, "It is clearly mentioned in the handbook that whatever difference arises from the rent charged and the bill received by the hostel will be adjusted among the residents. Even if it is done, it is totally as per the rules and regulations," she added. Navjot said that there was a difference of around Rs 4 lakh, for which the students are likely to be charged. "All hostels are receiving Rs 2.5 lakh to Rs 3 lakh bills in each cycle. We check with the electricity department before paying the bill for any mistakes," she said.

The PU website also mentions that students will have to pay more if the bill is unusually high. "If the bill is higher, it will be distributed equally among the residents of hostel/s," reads the note alongside electricity charges.

The deans, student welfare, were not available for comment.
