
Vincent Massey Secondary School Grade 12 student Brynn Charron poses next to her exhibition at the Canada-Wide Science Fair at the St. Denis Centre May 16. Charron won a bronze medal.

Vincent Massey Secondary School Grade 9 student Abhi Gupta poses next to his exhibition at the Canada-Wide Science Fair at the St. Denis Centre May 16. Gupta won a silver medal.

Louis Rodrigue, a student from Quebec, demonstrates his "Solution Stirling" project at the Canada-Wide Science Fair at the St. Denis Centre May 16.

• Brynn Charron, Vincent Massey Secondary School - "Environmental Influences on the Mutational Landscape of the Mouse Genome"

• Candace Brooks-Da Silva, Academie Ste. Cecile International - "Greening the Blue Skies: Reducing Induced Drag From Trailing Vortices"

• Abhi Gupta, Vincent Massey Secondary School - "iWriter: A Novel Method of Communication for ALS Patients"

• Tasnia Nabil, Talbot Trail Public School - "NANO: Enhancing The Performance of A Solar Collector With Nanofluids"

• Niya Vanganur, Vincent Massey Secondary School - "Vast Waste to Watts Taste"

Four students from Windsor-area high schools have earned medals for their research at the 2014 Canada-Wide Science Fair , held at the University of Windsor.

Of the 463 students participating from all parts of Canada, Windsor earned one gold, two silvers and one bronze. Brynn Charron, a fourth-year participant and Grade 12 student at Vincent Massey Secondary School, took home a bronze for her study of the difference in genetic material between laboratory mice and wild mice.

Charron, who is deciding between studying bio-chemistry at Windsor or the University of Western Ontario, began the project in November. She traveled to Western every other Friday to work on the project with a biology professor.

Abhi Gupta, a Grade 9 student at Massey, earned a silver for designing a way ALS patients can use their eyes and a computer to speak. He became interested in the project, named the iWriter, because his late uncle used a ventilator and was unable to speak.

“I think it will help me on my resume because it shows that I’m not the average employee and I have other skills I can bring to my table and it also just helps me think critically ... and it helps me become different from others because I’m not just studying school,” he said.

Gupta said he has been asked by a representative from an ALS foundation to attend a conference in London and will try to patent his project.

The other Windsor medalists were Candace Brooks-Da Silva with the gold and Tasnia Nadil who won a silver.

Eileen Topliffe, the co-chair of the Windsor Host Committee, said Windsor students being among the winners validates some of the work performed in this area.

“They represented Windsor so well. It was a wonderful experience and it was tough for them because they were traveling to Windsor in order to do their own fair, so they were an extension of our host committee for sure,” Topliffe said.

Youth Science Canada runs the science fair and its executive director, Brad McCabe, said the 463 students were chosen from about 500,000 who launched a project and they’re judged by about 300 judges from the scientific field.

“These kids have amazing science aptitude which may not necessary reflect in their home school, but when they come here, they’ve got an amazing cohort of individuals that they can connect with and then continue to have those conversations moving forward,” said McCabe.

The CWSF is now in its 53rd year and Youth Science’s board chair Malcolm Butler said the work the students are doing now wouldn’t have been imaginable 20 years ago.

I think it's awesome!

Wannabes are spoiling it.
