
AFTER two years in the top job at Warwick Christian College, Terrence McCorkell is stepping aside to take on an exciting new role.

He will be replaced by a familiar face at the school.

Mr McCorkell will take on the role of chief operations officer with Christian Community Ministries in Brisbane later this month and will be replaced as principal by teacher and former guidance counsellor Jenny Lang.

Mrs Lang will officially take on the top job on Monday, after only a few months as a part-time teacher at the school.

"Becoming the principal wasn't in my foreseeable future - I started here with a very contented mindset to teach part-time," she said.

"I'm very much at peace taking on this position - it's exciting."

Before moving to Warwick earlier this year, Mrs Lang had been a guidance officer for prep to Year 12 students in Stanthorpe.

"My two children, in years one and five, go to school here now," she said.

"The thing I like most about Warwick Christian College is its family nature and Christian values embedded in everything we do.

"The school is community minded - we very much value the fact we're about the people."

While leaving the school after two years will be difficult for Mr McCorkell, the respected principal said his new role would still see him still involved with the Warwick Christian College.

"I'll be playing a role across all of the Christian Community Ministries schools," he said.

"I've enjoyed living in Warwick; we've really loved our time here."

In his time as principal, Mr McCorkell has seen a lot of change.

"It's been exciting to be a part of something that has grown," he said.

"What I've liked about the Warwick experience is the devotion to the school community - the residents of Warwick know the town is theirs."

The outgoing principal said he was leaving the school in very capable hands.

The incoming principal said she had a number of projects in the pipeline.

"The projects I'm working on include the roll-out of the Year 10, 11 and 12 curriculum," she said.

Parents and the community will have the opportunity to meet Mrs Lang at the years 6 and 7 orientation day at the school today.

The orientation day runs from 8.30am to 3pm and includes a meet and greet with college staff.

Help make the news! Share your photos, stories, events or just post a general notice to the community.

© Toowoomba Newspapers Pty Ltd 2014. Unauthorised reproduction is prohibited under the laws of Australia and by international treaty.

Refer to our helpful FAQ section for any problems you might be experiencing.
