
The Lok Sabha election results 2014 in Haryana brought celebrations for BJP and embarrassment for the ruling Congress party with Bhupinder Singh Hooda as its chief minister.

The BJP, riding on a "Modi wave" swept 7 seats out of 10 seats in Haryana's Jat-dominated politics, and made an impressive comeback after 15 year gap, even though it had fielded candidates on 8 seats only.

Interestingly, out of 8 candidates, 4 were turncoats from Congress.

The results may be seen as a "semi-final" as the assembly polls in the states are fast approaching in October.

In the satellite city, Gurgaon, it was BJP's Rao Inderjeet Singh Yadav vs AAP 's Yogendra Yadav vs Congress's Rao Dharampal Yadav battle.

But the crown of victory feel on the BJP candidate  Rao Inderjeet Singh Yadav, who the BJP felt that he could gather immense support as he has always raised his voice in favour of southern Haryana.

Congress could just bag only 1 seat- Rohtak, that too was contested by Hooda's son and sitting MP Deepender Hooda and the party's 5 sitting MPs tasted defeat.

For the ruling Congress in Haryana, the major cause of worry is the upcoming assembly elections that are scheduled to be held in October. It's drubbing in LS polls, with just 1 seat out of 10 seats, should review its disastrous performance under Hooda- led government.

Congress's high profile candidate Naveen Jindal not only lost from Kurukshetra, but finished a poor third this time. He was elected from the same seat twice earlier in 2004 and 2009.

The Congress had won nine seats in 2009 and all 10 in the 2004 polls.

AAP's ideologue in Haryana- Yogendra Yadav, who is a native of Saharanwas village in Haryana's Rewari district, failed to claim his stronghold, even though he was being projected as a CM candidate, in case, if party came to power.

His strategy to reaching out to voters didn't impress, may be because of AAP government's dramatic performance in Delhi.

As AAP leader Arvind Kejriwal hails from Haryana, it's blank performance comes as a tight slap on its leadership.

Now, AAP is set to analyse the reasons why it failed to open an account in Haryana and rework its strategy as the assembly polls in the state are due in October, this year.

The Indian National Lok Dal (INLD), Haryana's principal opposition party which was hoping for a comeback in the state after being out of power for over 9 years won 2 seats - Sirsa and Hisar.

In Hisar, Haryana Janhit Congress (HJC) President and sitting MP Kuldeep Bishnoi, the son of former 3-times CM Bhajan Lal, was defeated by the INLD candidate26-year-old Dushyant Chautala.

While saying that there was no "Modi wave", Hooda had accused PM-designate Narendra Modi of misleading people on the 'Gujarat Model' saying his state was far ahead of Gujarat in terms of development.

He had claimed that Haryana is far ahead of Gujarat on 24 fronts which could clearly be reflected through figures.

He also said that in Haryana under MGNREGA Rs 236 per day is been given to the labourers, whereas the farmers are paid Rs 301 per quintal for sugarcane, which is highest in the country.

If you had so many credentials, Mr Hooda, then whydid people of Haryana rejected you? Time for you to rethink and review.

An 'anti-Congress wave' due to allegations of large-scale corruption in land deals in Haryana and infighting, could have been the reason of Congress performance.

In Haryana, a total of 34,225 voters opted for NOTA which worked out to 0.3 per cent of total votes for 10 Lok Sabha seats.

The strength of NOTA was in excess of votes polled to CPI (0.2 per cent) and CPM (0.2 per cent) parties, as per data available.

NOTA button was pressed the maximum time in Ambala (Reserve) constituency where 7,816 voters went ahead with this option.

NOTA option was sparingly availed by 1,645 voters in Hisar Lok Sabha seat.

In Chandigarh Lok Sabha seat, 3,106 voters (0.68 per cent) pressed NOTA button.

Haryana went to polls on April 10 with 230 candidates in the fray.

No.
