
If children in Dixon had their way, the nearly $40 million the city recouped after being rocked by a scandal would be spent on a spaceship, candy or an underground vault.

But despite the creative suggestions that fill a bulletin board in City Hall, leaders of this small northwestern Illinois town say they are taking a decidedly conservative approach, paying down debt and building up reserves with most of the money.

After longtime comptroller Rita Crundwell was led from City Hall in handcuffs two years ago, Dixon leaders didn't know if they'd ever see again much of the staggering $54 million she looted from the city's coffers over more than two decades.

But this city best known as the boyhood home of President Ronald Reagan has emerged from the embarrassing betrayal in far better shape than most victims of fraud could ever expect, collecting more than 70 cents of every dollar stolen.

The scandal also forced this Rock River community to put in safeguards to try to ensure such a massive fraud – perhaps the largest municipal fraud in U.S. history, according to authorities -- can never happen again. That debate has even led the town to re-evaluate its form of government that relies on elected commissioners to oversee day-to-day operations.

Dixon Mayor Jim Burke said the city won't act "like drunken sailors" with the windfall of $38.9 million.

"Everybody wants to take a very prudent approach to our finances, how we handle our reserves and how we stay solvent going forward," he said. "It's a great opportunity for a community to be in a position like we are."

The bulk of the money recovered by Dixon resulted from a lawsuit against its auditors and bank for failing to catch Crundwell's wrongdoing for so long. The lawsuit was settled for a whopping $40 million. Just under $30 million ended up in city coffers after legal fees ate up a little more than $10 million.

Oddly, the lavish lifestyle of Crundwell, who is serving a nearly 20-year prison sentence, also worked to the city's advantage. An award-winning horse breeder, she had amassed extensive assets with the stolen money -- including more than 400 quarter horses, a sprawling 88-acre ranch, homes in Illinois and Florida, a luxury motor home fit for a rock star, dozens of vehicles, hundreds of pieces of jewelry and personal belongings ranging from custom Western-themed furniture to high-end appliances and numerous big-screen TVs.

After selling off the assets through a series of auctions, the U.S. Marshals Service handed over $9.2 million to the city after subtracting its sizeable expenses, especially for the care of all those horses for months. A handful of assets must still be liquidated, including a retirement account, trophy collection and Crundwell's share of a family partnership in farmland, said Jason Wojdylo, the marshals' chief inspector.

How to handle this windfall has been the talk of the town over the months. Last fall, several hundred of the city’s 16,000 residents turned out for a meeting to provide input on how the money should best be allocated. While some advocated cash payouts to residents, most wanted the city to be cautious with the funds, according to the mayor.

At this point, the city has paid down $21.25 million in debt, producing a onetime savings of about $3.5 million in interest payments, according to Paula Meyer, the city finance director. Dixon also put $8 million into reserves, earmarking $5 million for the general fund and $3 million for capital improvements, and spent another $1 million on a sewer project.

With the savings in interest payments, the city updated its fleet of vehicles and plans to undertake a larger streetscape project downtown than otherwise would have been affordable, according to Meyer and the mayor.

As a strategic plan is laid out over the coming summer, the city plans to ask residents for more input on how to spend the remaining $8.68 million. The mayor said he wants to look at economic development, education, infrastructure and recreation improvements, but he declined to go into detail.

"We think the best use of these funds is going to be to reinvest it in the community," said Burke, the mayor since 1999.

Ask residents around Dixon how to spend the remaining money and two of the most common answers are improving roads and building a swimming pool or water park. The park district's lone pool has been shut for years.

The executive director of the non-profit Dixon Main Street, which focuses on economic development and special events, applauded the city for paying down debt with the bulk of the money. Josh Albrecht also favors funding a public project like building a pedestrian and biking bridge over the Rock River or a small marina.

"However we can best build Dixon for 10, 15, 20 years from now is how it should be spent," he said.

The city has also taken steps to shore up lax financial controls and oversight that allowed Crundwell to steal more in some years than the annual budgets of the police and fire departments combined. The city's finance department was re-organized so no one employee would have a virtual stranglehold over finances as Crundwell did for decades. The city hired Meyer as its new finance director and added a full-time city administrator last November to provide more oversight.

Following a study by a governmental task force, city commissioners – despite the opposition of some to the proposal – agreed to put a binding referendum on the November ballot asking voters whether to switch to a city manager form of government.

Dating to more than a century ago, the commission form of government had drawn some criticism for allowing Crundwell to go undetected for so long. Under that structure, each of Dixon's four elected commissioners holds responsibility for a particular city function – finance, public property, health and safety, and streets and public improvements. Only about 50 of the approximately 1,300 municipalities in Illinois still used that form of government at the time of a state report in 2006.

Proponents of the city manager form of government said it puts more control of day-to-day operations in the hands of a professional manager than the part-time commissioners.

That debate may prove to be more contentious than how to spend the recovered money.

Former Commissioner Marilyn Coffey, who chaired the task force, said commissioners "are regular folks off the street."

"So we feel no matter how well intentioned they might be, they're put in a position of part-time administrator and they're not trained," she said. "We think the city needs somebody with a professional background, with training, (whom) the department heads would report to."

While the city now has a full-time administrator, a city manager would hold even greater authority.

Commissioner Dennis Considine said he opposes the change.

"It's just another layer of government and takes citizens a step further from what’s happening," he said.

Others may not be satisfied until the city leaders who missed Crundwell's decades of misconduct have been ousted from office.

Burke, 76, who said he is leaning toward running for re-election next spring, may face a challenge from Liandro Arellano Jr., a 33-year-old business owner who said he agreed with how the city has spent the recovered funds so far but worries about city spending once elected officials aren't under the microscope. Arellano said some residents want new leadership in city government.

"When you have some of the same political leaders we've had for more than a decade, through the bulk of the theft … there's never going to be closure until we have a change of leadership," he said.

Burke, though, believes the financial windfall has helped Dixon begin to put the scandal behind it.

"If you'd asked somebody about a year or so ago, they'd probably thought it would be impossible, but the (monetary) recovery that we got I think has really pulled a lot of the stinger on a lot of the ill will," he said.

Albrecht, the head of the Dixon non-profit, agreed with Burke that the settlement money seems to have lessened the anger in the community and said most residents appear ready to move on. Indeed, some of the residents who spoke to the Tribune expressed frustration at the continual talk of the scandal.

"For the most part people have said look, this happened, but it doesn’t define us, it's not who we are," Albrecht said. "And there's so much more to Dixon than one woman's corruption."
