
Greg Daube has joined Glasspro as a senior auto glass technician. He has more than 25 years of experience in the automotive glass industry. Also, Brandy Varner and Christina Walker have joined the company as a customer service representative and internal sales representative, respectively.

Caroline Lesesne has been named a private banker and senior vice president at First Federal. She has 27 years of banking industry experience. She has a bachelor's degree in biology from the College of Charleston.

Jerry Vevon has joined Life Cycle Engineering as vice president of the firm's enterprise information technology solutions division. He has 35 years of federal government and private-sector experience. Previously, he was president of Vevon Enterprise Solutions LLC and a vice president at Booz Allen Hamilton. He has a bachelor's degree in economics from Wofford College and a master's degree in international relations from the University of South Carolina.

Stuart W. Day has joined Stantec as an engineer in its transportation practice in North Charleston. He has eight years of experience in project design and permitting. He has a master's degree in civil engineering from Clemson University.

Angela Rabon and Tesha Carey have been named customer service representatives for State Farm agent Larry Davis' North Charleston office. They each have more than 20 years of insurance industry experience.

Erin Aylor and Liz Clark have joined the Charleston Metro Chamber of Commerce.

Aylor is director of marketing. Previously, she was marketing manager for Goodwill Industries of Lower South Carolina. She has a bachelor's degree in communications from East Carolina University.

Clark is digital communications coordinator. Previously, she was with South Carolina Federal Credit Union. She has a bachelor's degree from Winthrop University.

Ward Perry, Matthew DeVita and Lora Goolsby have joined Carolina One Real Estate as agents based in the Long Point Road office in Mount Pleasant.

Previously, Perry was with Century 21 in Bluefield, W.Va. He has a bachelor's degree from the College of Charleston.

DeVita previously was director of operations for a Chick-fil-A franchise in Mount Pleasant. He has a bachelor's degree from Clemson University.

Goolsby previously worked in the insurance industry. She has a bachelor's degree from the University of Georgia.

Debbie Peretsman and Lee Williams have joined Handsome Properties as agents. Peretsman worked in the medical and educational fields. Williams worked in public relations and the political field, and, previously, he owned and operated a small interior architectural design firm.

Mark Reardon has joined the firm Charleston Metro Homes in Mount Pleasant as an agent. Previously, he worked in facilities management for 20 years.

Jamie Fal-kovitz has joined Skyline Exhibits & Design as a Mount Pleasant-based business development representative. Previously, she was with Total Quality Logistics.

The Post and Courier is pleased to offer readers the enhanced ability to comment on stories. Some of the comments may be reprinted elsewhere in the site or in the newspaper. We ask that you refrain from profanity, hate speech, personal comments and remarks that are off point.

We do not edit user submitted statements and we cannot promise that readers will not occasionally find offensive or inaccurate comments posted in the comments area. If you find a comment that is objectionable, please click the X that appears in the upper right corner when you hover over a comment. This will send the comment to Facebook for review. Please be reminded, however, that in accordance with our Terms of Use and federal law, we are under no obligation to remove any third party comments posted on our website. Read our full terms and conditions .

© 2014, The Post and Courier, an Evening Post Industries company.

All Rights Reserved.
