
NEW ORLEANS -- Three people are recovering after being shot several times Sunday night in the 9th ward; and, eight people total are recovering in the hospital Monday morning after being shot in New Orleans over the weekend.

One person was shot Monday morning in the 3300 block of Thalia Street. Police say the shooting happened around 7:30 a.m. and that there is one shooting victim. Other details have not been released at this time.

Six separate shootings have been reported in the New Orleans area in just three days and now New Orleans Police are trying to get answers.

The latest shooting happened around 11 p.m. Sunday in the 1200 block of Independence Street. Police say two men and one woman were found shot at the location. They were all taken to the hospital with what police are calling non-life threatening injuries. At this time, police do not have a motive or suspect behind the shooting.

Earlier on Sunday in Algiers, around noon, a 45-year-old man was shot multiple times in multiple areas of his body. The shooting happened in the 2100 block of Westbend Parkway. The man, whose identity has not been released, was taken to the hospital and police say he is in stable condition. They do not yet have a suspect or motive in this shooting.

Saturday night around 11:15, a woman was shot in her head in the 4400 block of Banks Street. Police say the woman was grazed in the head with a bullet and was in stable condition as she was taken to the hospital. However, there is no update on her condition at this time.

Earlier Saturday, around 7 p.m., a large crowd was reportedly in the 600 block of Canal Street when shots were fired. An 18-year-old woman received a graze wound from a bullet in her leg. Police are saying her injury is also non-life threatening. She is in good condition in the hospital, according to police.

Finally, Friday in the 2400 block of Dumaine Street, a man was shot multiple times in his leg and thigh. His condition is unknown at this time.
