
Millennials aren't buying in. The youngest millennials, at least by some definitions, are graduating from high school this month, and most of those will go to college later this year . The way they approach finance, not to mention the financial realities they're faced with, can be pretty foreign to older generations.

"They don't invest as much," says Mike Serio, the Denver-based regional chief investment officer at Wells Fargo. He says it comes down to two things: personal attitudes and, among those who've taken it on, student debt.

According to Pew Research Center surveys , millennials — defined here as ranging in age from 18 to 33 — have higher levels of student loan debt, poverty and unemployment, along with lower personal income, than the two preceding generations at the same point in their lives. Older millennials were in high school and college as the economy crushed their parents' home and retirement account values. Investments in defined contribution plans, like 401(k) plans, at Fortune 100 companies gained 13.7 percent in 2006, 8.5 percent in 2007, then lost 26.5 percent of their value in 2008 .

These were investments long seen as safe, customary, even necessary, given the precipitous drop in companies providing pension plans. And they were suddenly faltering and putting the squeeze on families.

"Here are some people who went through the credit crisis," says Serio. "They understand being overleveraged. On top of that, they saw a stock market go down 50 percent or so. You look at the baby boomers, 56 percent are totally confident in the stock market vs. only 48 of the millennials."

Vanguard says that while millennial participation in 401(k)-like  plans administered by the company is higher than it is for similarly aged workers  10 years ago, it has decreased somewhat in the years since 2008.

Even then, the amount of millennial participation comes with an asterisk — Serio says that Wells Fargo data suggest that a 401(k) is just about the only investment platform millennials are using; well-off millennials participate in 401(k)s at a higher rate than do baby boomers, but they lag well behind in every other type of investment  vehicle.

So after watching their parents' portfolios get beaten up in 2008, and with little help from the job market as employers have cut benefits and salaries have stagnated, what's happened? Millennials aren't buying homes at the same rates as their predecessors did.

The U.S. Census Bureau's Housing Vacancy Survey indicates that homeownership rates by people under 35 years of age have dropped from 41.3 percent at the beginning of 2008 to 36.2 percent in the first quarter of this year. Even marketers like the Barkley advertising agency, gleefully celebrating in a post for Forbes that millennials are finally buying cars as they become parents , are pretty dour about the prospects of millennial homeownership long-term.

Millennials outpace their predecessors in student debt. "According to our study, 64 percent financed school through student loans as compared to 29 percent of boomers," Serio says.

He reels off statistics on student debt, making loans sound like clouds following indebted millennials around from the Apple store to the bars and back home, dumping rain on hoodie-wearing young adults as they check BuzzFeed and Facebook.

"Seventy-five percent say those loans impacted their ability to buy a home; 27 percent said 'delayed me from moving out of my parents' home'; 29 percent delayed marriage; 43 percent delayed starting a family."

Kyle Arfsten, a 24-year-old personal financial adviser at Greenwood Village-based Prosperion Financial Advisors, says that while some of his friends from higher net-worth backgrounds are comfortable with the stock market, other friends aren't.

"Friends who've never played in the market are very risk-averse," he says. "They're very afraid of losing money. I think that's how general human psychology works, they're more afraid of a loss than they are excited about a gain."

That principle, loss aversion , is commonly cited in behavioral economics, but it seems to be aggravated in millennials when it comes to financial decisions.

Most of Arfsten's friends are focused on paying down debt or finding a first job outside of the service industry, and only a very few are investing in the stock market or thinking of saving for a house, which he says might be considered a career obstacle — harder to move for a job if you've plunked down money on real estate in Colorado.

Serio says that when a survey asked millennials what they'd do with a $10,000 windfall, half said they'd pay down debt.

"If you go back to the Great Depression, you basically had to get a new generation of investors with risk tolerances to go back into the stock market," says Serio.

Those who do buy in tend to have significantly more debt overall if they took out loans to finance their education , according to a new Pew Research study. The huge proportion of millennials who carry student debt may find themselves on the south end of a widening wealth gap .

"The whole thing with saving, especially saving for retirement or anything long-term, is the effect of compounding," says John Lynch, director of the University of Colorado's Center for Research on Consumer Financial Decision Making .

"By staying away from the stock market , the risk is that people will not accumulate to provide for a comfortable retirement."

Lynch says that research has shown that graduating with debt can be problematic, but taking out college loans and then not graduating — about 40 percent of those who enroll don't — constitutes a crisis.

"You're on an entirely different life path," he says. "When you get young adults late to the party in participating in the stock market, it'll have a very large effect on their retirement readiness, among other things."

The Pew  analysis out last week revealed that student debt had a severe impact on household wealth — those headed by an adult younger than 40 without student debt had seven times the net worth of those headed by a young adult with student debt. The analysis went on to suggest that that wealth gap would only widen, as those with student debt tend to take on more credit card, vehicle and mortgage debt.

By choice or otherwise, millennials are "relatively risk-averse (compared) to the boomers and Gen x, financially," Serio says. "But this is an interesting conclusion that we have: Two-thirds believe they will achieve a greater standard of living than their parents, so they're optimistic. They're financially more conservative, but they're optimistic."

We reserve the right to remove any comment we feel is spammy, NSFW, defamatory, rude, or reckless to the community.

We expect everyone to be respectful of other commenters. It's fine to have differences of opinion, but there's no need to act like a jerk.

Use your own words (don't copy and paste from elsewhere), be honest and don't pretend to be someone (or something) you're not.
