
Welcome Back!

Thanks for being a frequent visitor to theworldlink.com . You have now viewed of your FREE premium pages this 30-day period. After you have viewed FREE pages, we will ask you to purchase a subscription.

NORTH BEND — Students in a North Bend High AP history and literature class are frustrated and confused after school administrators pulled Toni Morrison’s “The Bluest Eye” from their classroom last week.

On May 9, Dustin Hood and Scott Peters’ American Connections class started learning about post-World War II America. The class pairs history with literature, following literary movements in different eras. Peters complemented the history lesson with an assignment in postmodern literature : Read the first 30 pages of “The Bluest Eye” over the weekend.

“One of the trademarks of that literary movement is looking at the evils of humanity,” said Emily Midyette, a junior in the class.

The book deals with racism, incest and child molestation — topics that have gotten it challenged and banned in classrooms nationwide for years. It was the 15th most challenged book of the 2000s , according to the American Library Association. Just last fall, a group of citizens in a Colorado school district started a petition to remove the book and its “developmentally inappropriate and graphic content” from classroom instruction.

Peters prefaced the assignment by telling his class of 40 students about the controversial content. If they didn’t want to read it, they didn’t have to, he said. Six opted out and chose to read a different book.

Lucero said the school district’s policy, “Studying Controversial Issues ,” was not followed. It requires teachers to discuss studies in “an obviously controversial topic” with the principal before the class can begin. All texts must be reviewed and approved by school administration every year “and it just went by without being reviewed and we didn’t realize that,” he said.

The purchase of the books was approved by administration earlier this year, Peters said.

While he agreed that technically the policy wasn’t followed, he said very few are aware the policy even exists.

The book examines the marginalization of African Americans, the poor, women and victims of sexual assault.

Elizabeth Rivera, a parent of a student in the class, agreed the book deserves a trigger warning — which the students received.

“I’m not going to sugar coat it. This book is not Dr. Seuss,” Rivera said. “It’s a heart-wrenching novel. But for me, the main argument is that precisely because of its hard themes there is a ... benefit to this discussion in an academic context.

Before Peters, previous teachers used “Catcher in the Rye” during this section of the class. But it’s written by a white male, as are all the other books in the class.

“I felt like it was irresponsible to teach a whole course ... all consisting of literature by white men,” he said.

The class has had to move on. Each student picked a book on their own — so Midyette chose another Morrison novel that’s been challenged and banned: “Beloved.” It’s the 26th most challenged book in the nation.

“Censorship is something we’ve struggled with as a nation for so long,” Midyette said. “It’s very disappointing to see it here in our own community.

Copyright 2014 Coos Bay World. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

I haven't read the book, but I read the catcher in the rye when I was in junior high school.  Reading controversial books is all part of getting an education.  I also read "the grapes of wrath", "the octopus", "the jungle", "the autobiography of malcom X" etc.  I found them to be enlightening and very relevant to what we all face in the real world.  Banning books is always a mistake.  Students should be familiar with broad ranges of thoughts and perspectives.

In  63-64 school year at NBHS Junior English class, controversial books were Catcher in the Rye and Laughing Boy.  Parents complained but NBHS was steadfast in supporting the teacher, students felt respected and challenged.   My junior  English class was the most thought provoking class in high school and was the most relevant preparation for college.  Toni Morrison is an excellent American female black writer addressing issues relevant today.  It is a tragedy that The Bluest Eye was pulled.

I believe in your point, most people are hearing more profanity in one school day than the entire book probably.

Got to wonder about the lesson Mr. Lucero just taught the students. What does he think they learned from his actions? Confomity is more important than character? If I were in the class, I'd be disgusted with being treated in such a condenscending manner. Who are the busy-bodies who complained? Speak up since you think you know what's good for everyone else.

Mr. Lucero...c'mon, man!  You used to be so mellow.  I had you for your first year teaching. You were my basketball coach.  Why are you doing this?  North Bend High School is a bastion of ideas and thought.  I fully support Mr. Peters.  He gave his students a choice whether or not to read it, and warned them prior to beginning the book of possible offensive content.  The NBHS I remember didn't ban books.  We discussed their merit and thought critically about their content. Embarrassing!

As far as I am concerned, kids see way more graphic things at home on their parents TV's and over the internet. I would rather they read and discuss issues that are relevant, than study a book simply because it is "safe: from parent protest. And kudos to a teacher that has enough foresight to think about teaching from a book that wasn't written by a white male! I would have gladly had my kids read that book.

I was thrilled for my son, (a 2012 Valedictorian), as Connections pushed him to achieve excellence in his writing, not by putting shocking and explicit matter into his hands and head; instead he loved the primo piece, The Legend of Sleepy Hollow. Peters: Far better to discuss excerpts, make your point, then Inspire GOOD! Leave social agenda to college/village voices. NB schools must be safe haven for ALL when student's home lives are possibly abusive. Too naive to assume books can't cause hurt!

The biggest issue I see here is this book was on the syllabus for the class from day one.  If there were objections to this book, they should have been presented to the teacher prior to the assignment being given and the books passed out to the class.  The way this whole thing has happened was very poorly handled by the school district. This is public education. If parents object to the subject material, they should pull their child from the class.

I tend to see the issues of what is right and what is wrong to be shown in schools. The content matter of The Bluest Eye seems to be in some matters pretty explicit for a book to be read in a high school or even a school in general. Books like these are notorious for their history and may have a impact to whether or not to be read in schools at all. Stuff like incest and molestation are pretty taboo subject matter which leads to controversy. Great article though, I got some good info out of it.

This is terrible. I wonder if Mr. Lucero was truly acting on committee recommendation. It is my understanding that no such committee reviewed this book, especially since another teacher at NBHS already taught with this novel this year. Hmm...sounds fishy to me.

Follow Us!

Login here with a previously connected Facebook account.

Username & Password Required!
