
MANILA - Scientists from Japan and the Philippines have teamed up to raise rice production by developing new disease-resistant, high yielding rice varieties under a project of the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA).

The rice research project, called Wonder Rice Initiative for Food Security and Health (WISH), is set to be completed by 2015 by the research team from JICA, Japan’s Nagoya University, and the International Rice Research Institute (IRRI) in Los Banos, Laguna.

“We are working closely with Filipino scientists in transferring disease resistance and high-yielding traits to exsiting rice varieties in Africa and the Philippines. The project shows plenty of promise in supporting JICA’s integrated program to boost rice production and address food shortage in developing countries,” said Dr. Motoyuki Ashikari, rice expert and professor from Nagoya University.

For the project, scientists use conventional cross-breeding, a rice improvement technique where desired traits (grain number, branching number for every panicle or cluster of rice flowers, panicle and grain size) from specific rice varieties are marked for transfer to recipient varieties.

Scientists cross donor line once (source of traits to be transferred such as disease resistance or high-yield) with a recipient line (an existing rice variety or a variety preferred by farmers due to adaptive traits. After this, scientists then backcross the resulting line thrice to retain the inherent trait of the existing variety, while collecting the target trait from the donor.

Such a technique recovers 93.75% of the background of the recipient rice varieties. This, in turn, results in better rice varieties.

 Ashikari, who had been collaborating with local scientists in IRRI for the project, explained that the goal is to come up with at least 200 lines of new varieties of rice by end of the project. They are also developing other location-specific breeding techniques that other countries like Kenya and Mali in Africa can adopt.

While saying that production of the new rice variety takes time, Ashikari mentioned that the Philippines proved to be a viable location for the research. “The Philippines’ climate, available facilities and scientists, and long history in rice production are beneficial to the research process. Japanese researchers from Nagoya University can easily communicate with Filipino scientists using the English language, and response is easier because of the time difference between Japan and the Philippines,” he explained.

The first two crosses of rice varieties are done in Nagoya University, and samples are then sent to IRRI for backcrossing to ensure that recipient rice varieties successfully acquire the traits from donor varieties.

By 2015, the new rice variety under WISH will be propagated and distributed to other parts of the world including Africa whose rice shortage looms.

Already, G8 leaders, a grouping of the world’s most industrialized countries, have raised the food crisis issue in Africa in their summit agenda in 2013.

Back in 2008, JICA has launched the Coalition for Africa Rice Development (CARD), a consultative group of bilateral donors and international and regional organizations with the goal of doubling rice production in Africa to 28M tons per annum by 2018.  It has since partnered with IRRI and the Philippine Rice Research Institute (PHILRICE).
