
It was a long way from his Canadian hometown of North Bay, Ontario, to the hot and humid tropical jungle of Belize in Central America, but W. James Stemp, then a second-year archeology student at the University of Toronto, didn’t mind the trip or the decidedly different climate and terrain.

Encouraged instead of discouraged by the long and painstaking work, Stemp dug right in, not only excavating the splendor and mystique of the Maya civilization (creative but warlike people who thrived in the area from AD 250-900), but also clearing a career path that eventually landed him at Keene State College.

Interested in history, Stemp discovered archeology by a series of events growing up. Movies like Indiana Jones and The Clash of Titans, not to mention a trip to the museum to see a King Tut exhibit and later finding a couple of skulls while exploring his basement, led Stemp to a new passion.

After earning his BA in anthropology with an archaeology specialization from Toronto University and, later, his MSt in prehistoric archaeology from Oxford University and his PhD in anthropology from McGill University, Stemp arrived at Keene State in 2004.

Helping to get a combined anthropology/sociology major at Keene State, Stemp has brought the fascination of past civilizations into the classroom. Stemp said teaching students an all-encompassing subject in which humanities, social sciences, and natural sciences are forced to confront one another isn’t a hard sell. “Sometimes it’s so interesting on its own. You can bring up things that seem they are way out there and when you get into that territory students seem to be really interested,” he said.

As with many of the social sciences, Stemp is quick to point out, few students take anthropology with the idea that they will go into that field. However, the particular skill set and knowledge obtained can certainly be adaptable to other areas.

Over the years, Stemp, whose main areas of research include the socioeconomics of complex societies, design theory, lithic and  lithic use-wear analysis, stone tool replication, and the Maya,has participated in countless digs.  He even had an Indiana Jones moment when a friend cut open a pregnant scorpion, splattering her belly-full of babies over everyone.  “There was a lot of screaming and crying,” he said about the unexpected experience.

Although he’s never led a dig from Keene State due to the financial costs, Stemp, who serves as the Director of the Surface Metrology and Archaeological Research Technologies [SMART] Project at the College, has arranged for students to go to Central America and to work locally in the New Hampshire State Conservation and Rescue Archaeology Program (SCRAP).
