
The newest trailer for upcoming blockbuster curiosity Guardians of the Galaxy continues to walk a fine line of publicity, simultaneously offering up a feast for hardcore fans — The Accuser! The Collector! Blue people! — while also making a convincing argument to non-fanboy laypeople that Guardians of the Galaxy is the Gun-Toting Talking-Raccoon movie of the summer.

Most of the broad strokes were covered in February’s trailer , but the new footage features a look at a key character in the movie, plus a sneak peek at some of the deep-space settings. Also: Vin Diesel speaks! And this is the moment when, as a journalist, I am forced to remind you that Vin Diesel is playing a tree.

As all students of Hollywood Trailers know, the second trailer is when you get to show off lots of finished special effects. And so Guardians of the Galaxy starts off by showing off Peter Quill, a.k.a Starlord, in action, hopping around a low-gravity sphere with his totally sweet helmet.

But enough about the good guys! The newest trailer features the first extended look at Ronan the Accuser, who is by all accounts the main villain of Guardians of the Galaxy. (Unless the main villain is Thanos, the long-term Marvel Universe Big Bad whose sole onscreen appearance lasted about ten seconds in a movie that came out two years ago .) Ronan is a member of the Kree race and carries a hammer-looking weapon called the Universal Weapon.

Here’s Ronan, surrounded by what appears to be several other accusers. It’s sort of like the White Walkers’ Ice Castle from Game of Thrones, except in space. ComicBookMovie.com has a closer look at Ronan, for all you Lee Pace fans out there who specifically like their Lee Pace with blue skin.

But really, let’s just feast our eyes on Glenn Close, rocking a spaced-out version of her Cruella De Vil hair. Close is playing Rael, the commander of the Nova Corps, an intergalactic peace-keeping force.

Suffice it to say that Rael is not a big fan of the titular Guardians of the Galaxy, who the trailer makes clear are a gang of misfits. We see several extended shots of the gang breaking out of a space-prison where everyone wears neon-yellow prison outfits.

Ah, the benefits of finished special effects! Dave Bautista’s Drax stares down a gigantic array of ships. I’m betting against the ships.

And last but not least, here’s John C. Reilly as a member of the Nova Corps. “This might not be the best idea,” he says generally about everything that’s happening. Respectfully disagree!

Copyright © 2014 Entertainment Weekly and Time Inc. All rights reserved.
