
May 20, 2014, 8 a.m.

A Tumby Bay street will be renamed to provide addresses to properties not currently numbered.

STREET FORMERLY KNOWN AS WEST TERRACE: Brett Doley with daughter Kalani on the section of West Terrace to be renamed Freeman Street.

A TUMBY Bay street will be renamed and renumbered to provide addresses to properties that are currently not numbered.

Although the Tumby Bay District Council received negative feedback from three of the street's nine affected residents, the council voted to rename the area of West Terrace between Lipson Road and Bawden Street.

It will be renamed Freeman Street after Ivy Freeman OAM, and the properties will be allocated new numbers.

Some of the feedback to the council included opposition against the change because of the need to reprint business stationery and placing an unfair cost onto those residents.

Current West Terrace resident Jodi Wilkins was one who opposed the change.

Her husband's building company is based out of their home, so if the street name is changed, all the business stationery linked to the current address would need to be changed.

Ms Wilkins said it would "unfairly impose costs onto us".

In the letter she wrote to the council, Ms Wilkins said she asked to be reimbursed by the council in the event of a change.

All of the feedback the council received echoed this and included concerns about confusion regarding the street's location for deliveries, and having to notify friends and family of the new address.

The council's works manager Damian Windsor said the council did not have any requirement to reimburse costs of stationery reprinting and would not be reimbursing those affected.

Despite the negative feedback, some residents on the street said they felt it would have little impact on them and didn't mind as long as they would not have any costs.

Nicole Doley, who lives on the street with her husband Brett and two daughters Kalani and Meisha, said it was a long street, and people often got confused about the house numbers.

She and her husband said as long as there was no cost for change to residents they felt it could be a good thing for the street.

Mr Windsor said there would be no need to change property titles following a street name change.
