
We in Mthwakazi Republic Party believes that Mathebeleland is under siege from ZANU PF propagandists who are attacking us from all fronts be it socially, economically, culturally, politically, educationally, and politically. In fact they have taken their time to perfect their 1979 GRANDPLAN and are implementing it to their satisfaction. Mthwakazians have suffered a lot under the ZANU PF administration and still does, Mathebeleland people are not benefiting from National resources the government has even denied us access to resources in our own space under our noise, talk of Natural resources in Mathebeleland, the number of government's cash cows in Mathebeleland is endless, Zimra collects lots of its target revenue from Mathebeleland but the region remain under developed. This is not fair Mathebeleland remain a dry land despite the fact that there is lots of water in Zambezi and it only needs a willing government to draw that water to Bulawayo, yet the government of Zimbabwe always give excuse after excuse for their failure to give us water. We are aware that MZWT had proposed that the Zambezi Water Project be given to an investor willing to do all the work in exchange to extracting gas in Lupane we have a lot of natural resources in Mathebeleland which we can use to fund that project. We don't buy the government story that it has no money for the project that is just propaganda.

Zimbabwe is a self-governing country; who after an improper decolonization process has been the illegal Trustee of Mthwakazi. Mthwakazi has always been a sovereign state before its conquest in 1893 and was thereafter subdued under the Matabeleland Order in Council provisions. It is a fact that the merging of the two territories into one in 1902; that is, Mathebeleland and Mashonaland, was done without the consent of the native groups. It is also a fact that the referendum that was held in 1923 did not invite the natives to participate in a Decision that would later affect them.

Whereas, it is a fact that the Lancaster House Constitution in 1979 that ushered in the independence of the Natives from colonial rule did not encompass in it the social security measures that would have not been only Concerned with the mere protection of an individual against want, but also the guarantee of a decent standard Accessibility to every political, economic, social, technological, environmental, and legislative guarantee accruing to every citizen of an independent nation. The current new constitution is nothing but a mockery of the process of Devolution of Power as it leaves no power with the local authorities. With legislative and executive powers remaining with the national government.

 Only limited decentralized powers and administrative powers are left with provincial government which is also required to remain with 5% while the rest goes to the national covers.

The final results of Census came as a shock to us with a lot of propaganda this is hard to believe. When the Census people were counting i personally was not counted because it was in August and we Seventh Day Adventists' were camping in Solusi University now tell me how many thousands were not counted together with me during that period? The correct figure should be above one million not 658 000. According to some former Bulawayo City Councillors they say Bulawayo's population actually got to over a Million during the nineties.  Chronicle newspaper reported during the weekend that Bulawayo's unemployment levels are too high compared to other areas, we believe this was a man made problem for Mthwakazians, when Zimbabwe got its independence in April 18 1980 Bulawayo was the hub of industry not only for Zimbabwe but for the greater SADC and Zimbabwe was a bread basket of Africa before it got its current status of being the begging or empty basket of Africa. The majority of people around SADC used to come to look for employment here, mostly those from Zambia, Malawi and Mozambique. But today Bulawayo industry has become a sorry state with lots of Churches renting the premises, and this is as a result of poor governance, corruption, tribalism, nepotism and 1979 Grand plan. Etc.

All articles and letters published on Bulawayo24 have been independently written by members of Bulawayo24's community. The views of users published on Bulawayo24 are therefore their own and do not necessarily represent the views of Bulawayo24. Bulawayo24 editors also reserve the right to edit or delete any and all comments received.
