
Hollywood can be an ecosystem of fear, greed, desperation, and an "infantile"    need for acknowledgement, the actor John Cusack has said, as he launches his    new film starring Julianne Moore as a fading, fame-hungry actress.

Cusack, who plays a New Age television psychologist in Maps to the Stars, said    the circumstances of the film felt "familiar", as it explored the    disturbing excesses of fame.

Saying the film is a "heightened myth" of reality, he added there is "something    about LA" that gives people's "hunger and need for acknowledgement"    an extra infantile edge.

The film, which has been premiered at the Cannes Film Festival, tells the    story of Havana, an ageing actress who finds herself snubbed from a film    role she is desperate to play.

Cusack plays a celebrity psychologist, who spouts "New Age platitudes"    to clients while abusing a troubled daughter and allowing his child actor    son to go off the rails.

Speaking at a press conference, David Cronenberg, the director, denied the    film was deliberately taking aim at Hollywood and the film industry, arguing    it could equally have been set in "any place where people are    ambitious, desperate, greedy, fearful".

John Cusack, star of Being John Malkovich, High Fidelity and Grosse Point    Blank, said the scenes and characters in the script had a "familiar "    ring about them.

Cusack, who has worked in Hollywood since the early Eighties, said: "I    thought it was a very familiar ecosystem. It's a heightened sort of myth of    it.

"You have a lot of people in an ecosystem of fear and greed and    desperation, and there's all sorts of people who function within that and    feed it and enable it.

"It could be Washington, it could be a financial district, could be    Silicon Valley.

"But there's something about LA and fame and that hunger and need for    acknowledgement that is almost little more infantile.

"It felt familiar in that way. When you read it, you didn't think it went    to far, you thought it was just about right."

He added he had imagined the film as a "very lurid fever dream about    Hollywood".

The film also stars Robert Pattinson, best-known for his role in the Twilight    franchise, and Mia Wasikowska, who plays a young burn victim working as a    personal assistant to Julianne Moore's character, Havana.

It also features a guest role from actress Carrie Fisher, as herself.

Moore told a press conference she would not "disparage" Hollywood,    arguing it was important to explore the issues about the "desire to be    seen" on the big screen.

When asked about the comic side of her character, among the dark moments of    her breakdown, she added: "I think everything is funny. I think tragedy    is funny, life is funny. We find humour in absolutely everything: our    desires, our desperation.

"These are all people, especially Havana, who are so desperate to be    heard and acknowledged and work very hard on the externalisation of that    rather than internalising anything.

"There is something funny and sad about people who consistently miss the    mark.

"That's what the whole movie is about - looking out rather than looking    within. Havana in particular is extremely adolescent which as we all know is    very funny."

Cronenberg, who is in the running for the Palme d'Or for Maps to the Stars,    said of the film: "These people are desperate to exist, desperate to    exert their existence.

"For Havana, she's terrified that she will cease to exist because as an    actress she's been discarded by the industry. It would be a living death.

"That's where the desperation comes from, and the cruelty and the    viciousness too."

He insisted the film was not a comment on Hollywood in particular, adding: "You    could set this in Silicon Valley, on Wall Street - any please where people    are ambitious, desperate, greedy, fearful.

"You could really set it anywhere and still convey the same ring of    truth. To see it only as an attack on Hollywood and showbiz is to    shortchange it."

Bruce Wagner, who wrote the script, said he believed the "cult of    celebrity" had always existed.

"Warhol once said that in the future, everyone will be famous for 15    minutes," he said. "Now I think that in the future, which is now,    everybody will be famous all the time.
