
B&O is a company famed for its design. The last few decades have seen the brand gradually establish itself as the go to company for good looking (albeit hugely expensive) audio visual kit.

A recent trip to Denmark to look at the new BeoVision Avant TV saw us taking a peek behind the scenes at B&O. We figured it might be interesting to open the doors on just what goes into creating some of B&Os kit.

B&O's native habitat sits outside a small town in Denmark called Struer. Unlike Silicon Valley, which sees the likes of Netflix piled on top of every other tech company out there, B&O is very much out on its own.

As such, it can be a little bit more experimental with its design. Nicknamed 'the farm', the building was put together in 1997 by a Danish architect.

In a way, it predates what Apple is trying to do with its stunning new Campus. The building uses clever hybrid ventilation that means the majority of air is circulated using the pressure of the wind alone. Apple is looking to do something similar with its Norman Foster designed campus.

Really though, what makes the farm so impressive is just the feel and presence you get from the place when you first arrive. Never before have we seen a building that is so clean.

You wander up to the entrance and are immediately greeted by a giant concrete room, with a piano sat in the middle of it. The words 'Bang and Olufsen exists to move you with enduring magical experiences' are plastered on the wall in subtle metal lettering.

It has a sort of Danish Willy Wonka feel to it, where everything is so well put together but you feel like some sort of madness will be taking place behind every closed door.

Somewhat understandably, B&O wouldn't let us look too far into its design labs, simply because of what future products might be in store. However, they did lift the lid on a little bit of what goes into putting together B&O kit.

Designers tend to build as many mockups as possible, rather than using computer screens.

This is because they prefer to hold products in their hands than see them on a display. We were shown multiple mockups, of different sizes, of various products that were all set for or released already. Some are hugely detailed, while others just show the rough outline or flow of the shape that the product might become.

This is where things get much more technical. The challenge that B&O designers create for engineers is a fairly serious one. You have to remember that most speakers are just square boxes with tweeters and mid-range cones in the front.

If someone says make it triangular and make it sound good, that is a lot harder. But B&O charges such a vast premium for its products that it wouldn't be right not doing things properly when it came to sound.

As such engineers have access to a huge sounding room for testing speakers. The room, which is known as 'the Cube', is a 12x12x13 metre box that B&O can fire varied sounds across to tweak speakers.

In the middle of the Cube is a crane so you can lower or raise a speaker to any point in the room. This way B&O can see how sound reacts from a speaker based on angles and room design.

After the sound has been tweaked here, the speaker will then be moved to a demo room where engineers will spend hours listening to various layouts and setups until they are happy signing off on a product.

B&O wouldn't let us see how speakers are put together, but it did take us on a walk round its aluminium machining plant. This is where stuff gets put together and sent off for sale.

As you might expect it's full of lots of rather old looking Danish men, with spectacles on their heads, polishing and filing things to the 9th degree. We were surprised however at the number of younger people also helping run production.

A lot of the factory floor is taken up by products that B&O has to produce at a massive scale. Aluminium rings for in car B&O audio systems, for example, take up a huge amount of space.

We have to say, we were a little disappointed that products didn't quite have that handmade action that you see from someone like Leica. But then B&O is a big company.

One stand out spot in the factory was the remotes being put together for the new BeoVision Avant TVs. While we understand B&O kit isn't for everyone, it has to be one of the best designs for the dullest of products we have ever seen.

Watching Danish men filing them out from big blocks of solid aluminium just added to the awesomeness of the remote. Shame that you need to invest in a £6,000 television to get one.

Next stop has to be the Apple campus , or Samsung's HQ, although we doubt that they will ever let us take a peek behind the scenes.

What we did learn at B&O was that, a bit like McLaren , designed focussed companies that do best always build HQs around their own vision of what the world should look like. For McLaren, that meant making everything in gloss white, B&O was aluminium obsessed, while we expect the likes of Apple would mirror one of its stores.
