
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

The most important aspect to note is that parents have until June 13 to request a transfer. That includes non-residents who wish to attend a Hillsboro school and Hillsboro students wanting to transfer to another district. Applications received after that date will not be considered.

Communications Director Beth Graser said the legislation created a much stricter process. It will impact families who move out of the district's boundaries after June 13 but would like to keep their student in a Hillsboro school.

"The thing that makes me the most sad is that it really limits our ability to be flexible with people," she said. "If a family moves during the summer ... we can't just decide to deal with that outside of formal board action."

But Graser said one positive aspect of the legislation is that students starting the year in a particular school can remain through the end of the year -- without going through the formal transfer process -- if they move out of district boundaries.

"They want that continuity for kids once they start school," she said.

House Bill 2747 , effective since last July, changes the consideration process for inter-district transfer requests. Students wishing to transfer previously filled out a comprehensive application including the reason for their request. They needed a release from their home school district, then approval from the new district.

Districts can no longer request information about a student's residence, special education or English language learning needs, or the reason for the transfer request. Districts also can't review requests as they come in. Rather, school boards now have to decide the application time frame and number of students allowed to leave and enter the district in advance.

Graser said HB 2747 takes away the district's ability to weigh in on a family's decision to transfer. She used bullying as an example, noting that if a bullied student's family doesn't tell school officials, the district might never find out how to remedy the issue.

"The biggest part of this legislation is to treat people equally, regardless of their situation," she said. "It wants districts to create this blind process."

House Bill 4007 , signed into law in March, notes that home districts can't stop students already on transfers from continuing to attend another district.

This year, 110 Hillsboro students are on inter-district transfers at other school districts. Those students do not have to obtain consent from HSD. The district is opening another 100 spots for siblings and new transfer requests. Siblings of students currently on inter-district transfers will receive preference if a lottery is needed after the application window closes.

Graser said open enrollment is more strictly defined by the legislation. It has to happen in March, whereas individual school boards can decide when and how long their window is for the regular inter-district transfer process. Under open enrollment, district's can't stop a student from leaving, whereas a school board can either not allow anyone to leave or limit the amount of students who leave under inter-district transfers.

If a district accepts a non-resident student under open enrollment, that student can attend the new district until they graduate. But districts set the terms for students on inter-district transfers, allowing them to stay for one year, one level (elementary, middle, high) or until they graduate.

Under open enrollment, high school sophomores, juniors and seniors are penalized by the Oregon Student Activities Association from eligibility for one year. There is no such penalty under inter-district transfers.

© 2014 Oregon Live LLC. All rights reserved ( About Us ).

The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Oregon Live LLC.

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
