
By 2020, there will be almost 700,000 square feet of new science facilities, six new science and engineering faculty members and 55 science and engineering Ph.D. and post-doctoral students at the University of Wyoming — all for $17.2 million.

Gov. Matt Mead appointed a College of Engineering Tier-1 Initiative task force two years ago. Since then, the idea morphed into pushing UW as an institution into the prestigious bracket. The first initiative is the College of Engineering and Applied Sciences.

The implementation plan was completed in April and shared with the UW Board of Trustees at its May meeting. Khaled Gasem, College of Engineering interim dean, said UW has not yet presented the final copy to Mead.

The task force identified four goals in the implementation plan: excellence in undergraduate education; world class research and graduate education; productive economic development through partnerships; and K-14 science, technology, engineering and math, or STEM, education.

Evaluating the program’s success will include: retention rate; the time it takes a student to complete a degree; employment placement rate; employer feedback; the number of scholars; and the number of national awards.

The report states wanting to be recognized nationally in four niche areas: unconventional reservoirs; computational science; advanced energy technologies; and energy conversion and diversity.

Phase 1 of the task force’s plan is scheduled for completion in 2016, with six new faculty members, four research scientists and 90 undergraduate engineering scholarships.

Phase 3 — the final phase — is scheduled for completion in 2020, with an increase in undergraduate enrollment from 1,400 to 1,800; double the number of Ph.D. graduates to 30; and an increase in the number of industrial partnerships and outreach activities.

Details about Phase 2 were unavailable to the Boomerang as of press time.

The Legislature appropriated $8 million, and UW is expected to raise the remaining $9.2 million. The School of Energy Resources is contributing about $4 million, and private donations are expected to make up the difference. Gasem said industry partnerships will also be key.

Halliburton and Hess Corporation already have a presence on campus, but Baker Hughes could soon be added to the list, he said. Increasing industry partnerships mean students can work in state-of-the-art labs and work in the field with professionals.

In return, companies will be able to solve problems faster and cheaper by working with UW students, Gasem said.

Gasem said bringing companies here will help diversify Wyoming’s economy. UW is trying to improve its computational programs, which will bring more jobs.

Tier-1 institutions receive the designation when they are recognized by either the Association of American Universities, the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching or the Center for Measuring University Performance.

The plan lays out self-identified strengths and weaknesses. The nine listed strengths include high-quality faculty, a 20:1 student to faculty ratio and students who consistently pass the Fundamentals of Engineering Exam about 5-12 percent more than the national average.

The 12 listed weaknesses include high teaching loads, low faculty salaries, difficulties attracting talented students, outdated labs and minimal maintenance funds.

One of the biggest initiatives is exposing middle and high school students to engineering and related fields before coming to UW. Teachers can participate in summer workshops covering the Next Generation Science Standards, on-site counseling for school districts and infusing engineering into math and science classes.

UW freshmen and sophomores in math and science classes will also receive an introduction to engineering.

UW recently hired a program coordinator for the engineering initiative — Richard Horner — who will report to the UW president, be a liaison between UW and the Legislature and monitor UW’s track toward Tier-1 status.

The push to find more faculty and staff will begin once UW receives its funding for Fiscal Year 2015.

Increasing diversity in its programs, as well as integration between disciplines, are two of the plan’s focal points. UW plans to increase the number of women and minorities in its science programs, strengthen the Engineers Without Borders program and develop internships targeted to attract members of underrepresented groups.

The Boomerang is a community newspaper.  We encourage comments however posts that contain obscene, vulgar, lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language will not be tolerated. Comments containing links, including third-party links, must be approved before they are published. The comments posted are not necessarily those of the Laramie Boomerang. If you have complaints, questions, or just feedback, please contact us .
