
Trimble and Carroll county voters will have choices to make while casting ballots for several contested races in local elections Tuesday.

Polling locations in Carroll and Trimble counties will be open from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. for voters to make their choice for candidates to appear on the ballot during the general election in November.

Voters need to present a driver's license with a correct address, picture ID or some type of personal identification to the polling locations.

Carroll County has 11 precincts, with each precinct voting places located at a different building this year.

Voters in Precinct 1 can vote at the county garage in Prestonville at 27 Bridge St., Precinct 2 will be at the Westside Fire Department, 680 Carlisle St. in Prestonville; and residents in Precinct 3 may vote at the Carroll County Public Library, 136 Court St., in Carrollton.

One change in voting will be for residents living in Precinct 4 which will be at the Hawkins Street Housing Authority, 768 Baker Drive, in Carrollton. Signs will direct voters which door to use at the location.

Residents living in Precinct 5 may vote at Carrollton City Hall, 750 Clay St.

Residents in Precinct 6 may vote in the Masonic Lodge, 207 Marwill Drive, while voters from Precinct 7 may vote at Worthville Town Hall, 445 KY 467 in Worthville. Precinct 8 is at the Worthville Fire Department at 446 KY 467, while voters in Precinct 9 may vote at the Sanders Fire Department, 38 Main St. in Sanders. Precinct 10 residents will vote at the Ghent Fire Department, 402 Union St., while voters in Precinct 11 may vote at the Airport Road Fire Department, 200 Ladder Lane.

Carroll County Clerk Alice Marsh also asked residents to be aware of the precinct changes because of redistricting. Residents affected by the redistricting changes have already received notices of the change in the mail.

Contested races in the Carroll County primary election include: County judge-executive, magistrate seats in all three districts, sheriff, jailer and constable seats in all three districts.

Seven Trimble County precincts will vote at Bedford Elementary School, 204 Mt. Pleasant Road., after previously voting at the middle school during the 2012 general election. The change affects precincts including: South Bedford, Burrows, North Bedford, Palmyra, Antioch, Providence and East Bedford.

The other five precincts in the county will remain at Milton Elementary, 9245 U.S. 421-N. Those precincts include: West Milton, North Milton, Leeport, East Milton and South Milton voters.

Trimble County Schools will be closed to allow the school buildings to be used for as polling locations.

Contested races in the Trimble County primary election include: Magistrate seats in all four districts and jailer.

Please feel free to submit your comments.

Article comments are not posted immediately to the Web site. Each submission must be approved by the Web site editor, who may edit content for appropriateness. There may be a delay of 24-48 hours for any submission while the web site editor reviews and approves it.

Note: All information on this form is required. Your telephone number is for our use only, and will not be attached to your comment.

(812) 265-3641 (800) 333-2885 All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
