
Protesters at Metgasco's Bentley site on the NSW North Coast.

METGASCO'S coal seam gas (CSG) exploration at the controversial Bentley site, near Lismore on the NSW North Coast, has been suspended and the company has been referred to the Independent Commission Against Corruption (ICAC).

Metgasco’s licence to drill a test well at the Rosella drill site at Bentley was suspended due to concerns the company had not adequately consulted with the community, NSW Resources and Energy Minister, Anthony Roberts said.

Mr Roberts said the Office of Coal Seam Gas (OCSG) had advised him the community had expressed fundamental concerns about the way in which Metgasco had characterised its activities.

“On 13 May 2014 the director of OCSG and the NSW Land and Water Commissioner held a meeting with local landholders, at which matters of consultation between the community and Metgasco were raised.

In a separate matter, Mr Roberts said he had received information regarding shareholdings and interests in Metgasco, which had prompted him to write to the Commissioner of ICAC, the State's corruption watchdog.

The suspension was welcomed by Greens MLC Jeremy Buckingham.

"This is a fantastic win for the community and shows that the need for a social licence is both real and necessary," Mr Buckingham said.

“Coal seam gas is unsafe and clearly unwanted in the Northern Rivers and everywhere else across NSW."

As many as 2000 protesters had assembled at the Bentley site to protest Metgasco’s activities.

Speculation was rife that up to 800 police were to be sent to break the blockade early next week – but those plans will likely change, following the government’s actions which will no doubt be met with approval by the protestors.

A rare win for the community in the face of industry/mining and all the associated vested interests. Credit to the Northern Rivers community for standing up to great pressure.

Wow!

I hope Qld Infrastructure Minister Jeff Seeney reads this, we are sick of getting walked on up here from CSG, RAIL, POWERLINES, & WATER infrastructure without proper annual compensation for the life of these projects. Lack of rural representation in Cabinet is part of the problem.

The licence needs to be cancelled now.  Justice for the people .  Gas not welcome. Never. Metgasco  Respect the population of Northern Rivers and accept defeat.

Well done from everybody in the North West of Ireland.

That's great news and proves we still live in some sort of democracy. Hope it lasts but you can't trust those greedy sods. Short term vs. long term effects of mining coal and gas. No one likes to talk about climate change but it is with us now and we have to act against more carbon dioxide and methane being dug for export to China. Read the NASA website. New mines are not for or owned by Australia and people like the ex PM, Malcolm Fraser are saying we'll end up at war with China soon. Pig iron Bob turning into Gas bag, lump of Coal, Tony? Ferals and Farmers fighting together for the Land!

I work a nine day fortnight as an office worker and spend the weekends helping my partner run our macadamia farm. For the last three months we have been driving out to Bentley to do our volunteer shifts ( road vigil, traffic control, info desk). and attending the dawn vigils. We have met many locals, the vast majority are employed or small business owners. That was our strength and yes, 7,000 were preparing to blockade against police. I had booked leave. as had so many others. We were scared, but determined to protect our land, water and air.

John Hine, you couldn't be further from the truth about the AWB single desk. It left for dead,
