
ON Monday, May 13, one of our young mothers was returning from an appointment with her son in Taree and as she left the 70km speed zone on the return trip to his school in Wingham the gearbox in her vehicle decided to go kaput. Her ute ended crossways across the road blocking the traffic both ways, I believe. Of course she was in some distress when this happened but was very pleased to have many good Samaritans come to her rescue. Some of them stopped the traffic, some of them helped her try to get the vehicle off the road and others offered her son a safe place to sit and watch the whole experience in their car (which I’m sure he enjoyed and told all his mates about when he eventually returned to school later). Some of the helpers were other motorists, some were from nearby homes and there was a couple of tourists from Queensland who all lent a helping hand until the tow-truck managed to remove her ute and her relatives helped her and her son get to their separate destinations. She was overwhelmed by their kindness and as there were too many to thank individually she has asked me to say a great big “THANK YOU” to all who assisted her.

YESTERDAY, Tuesday, May 20, was school photo day. I hope all the pupils came along in uniform with hair suitably neat and tidy so the camera could capture their best image for this year’s shots. It is hoped that all orders have been returned in their envelopes in time.

Today, Wednesday, May 21, is special food day at the canteen. This time the ladies are offering waffles with ice-cream, syrup or honey depending the pupils’ taste buds.

Last Monday the year six students travelled to Wingham High School for activities based on a typical day on a farm as their part in celebrating Beef Week. I am sure they gained quite a bit of knowledge and had a great day socially which will help them settle in next year when they go up to year seven and leave our little school atmosphere behind them.

Parents are reminded that there are plenty of school shirts in stock with the school emblem embossed on them for sale through the P and C at $16 each. Most sizes are catered for. There is also a clothing pool run by the P and C where good used school uniforms can be purchased at very reasonable prices should your child require an extra item of uniform to see out the cooler weeks this year.

The next meeting of the P and C will be held in the Cedar classroom on Tuesday, June 3, at 2.30 pm. All parents and interested citizens are welcome to attend.

THIS year the Xmas in July dinner dance will be held on Saturday, July 12. It is essential to book your table or single seat well in advance as this is a very popular night. To book please call Lola on 6550 7693 so you can be sure you have your reservation in plenty of time and the catering can be finalised by those who prepare the meal. Once again it is only $25 per adult, $15 for 10 – 16 year-olds and under 10 years of age are free of charge. Music for the night is to be provided by Barney Carle and Ross Fahey. Do come along and enjoy a delicious meal you don’t have to cook and dance the night away with your friends.

LAST week Lizzie Tisdell, Tommy and Jack Evans and Crystal Ellem all had birthdays along with ex-Mount Georgians Jason Turner, Ethan Allen, Brooke Borserio, Denis Ridgeway and Emily Turner. Sorry I didn’t get your special days in last week’s paper.

This week Cindy Smoothy, Christine Dufty, Jim Turner, Lance Borserio ,and Rebecca Huett all celebrate becoming a year older and wiser.

I hope everyone had/has a great day spent with friends and family on their special day and was/is inundated with lots of wonderful gifts.

Happy Anniversary wishes go out to Heather and Glen (Slippery) Turner and Christine and Gordon Dufty this week. May you have many more years of wedded bliss ahead of you.

WE all know the bushfire danger season is over for this year and that in most areas there is no need to obtain permission to burn off. However, if you live in a built-up area eg a village or town you should still inform Fire Command in Taree that you intend to light a fire and what you wish to incinerate. You also need to let any neighbours living close enough to you to be affected by smoke or fumes carried by the wind from your fire at least 24 hours in advance so they can prepare their homes, ensure they don’t have washing on the line and any people with asthma or like diseases and young children can, perhaps, be out for the day when you intend to burn. All you need to do is drop a note in their mailbox with the time and date of your fire or ring them if you don’t have the chance to talk to them in person.

If you fail to do this they have the right to ring the NSW RFS who will have the local brigade called to ask you to extinguish your blaze. If you have complied with the RFS request you will prevent conflict with neighbours and animosity towards the brigade members who are called to put the fire out. Many thanks for your co-operation in this matter.
