
Editor’s note: This article is by Zach Desparts of the Addison Independent, in which it was first published May 19, 2014.

MIDDLEBURY — The U.S. Secretary of Energy praised Vermont’s efforts in renewable energy development and defended the expansion of natural gas use at a panel at Middlebury College Friday morning.

Secretary Ernest Moniz was flanked by the state’s congressional delegation and Gov. Peter Shumlin, as well as state business and academic leaders.

“I didn’t come here not already recognizing the innovation that’s been displayed in Vermont,” Moniz told the standing-room-only crowd at the college’s McCullough Student Center.

Shumlin and the delegation praised Moniz, a theoretical physicist and longtime professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, for his public service. Moniz previously served in several science-related capacities in the Clinton administration, culminating in a post as the Under Secretary of Energy from 1997-2001.

Leahy, the state’s affable senior senator, said that Moniz is tasked with overseeing the most complex area of federal policy and jurisdiction.

“When you became secretary, I didn’t know whether to offer you congratulations or condolences,” Leahy joked.

Leahy also urged the secretary to push for more funding for methane digesters, which harness the gas emitted by cow manure and turn it into energy.

Rep. Peter Welch listed numerous ways Vermonters are embracing and encouraging use of clean energy, including Green Mountain Power’s introduction of net metering, the construction of a biomass plant at Middlebury College and the expansion of solar panels at homes, schools and businesses across the state. Welch said that Moniz is instrumental for Vermont and the nation to continue that progress.

Shumlin praised the public service Moniz has performed as an official in both the Clinton and Obama administrations.

“He is one of the most forward-thinking energy secretaries America has ever seen, because he gets climate change and gets what we have to do to get there,” Shumlin said.

Shumlin also chided that Moniz was the only cabinet official that “looked like a true Vermonter,” an undoubted reference to the secretary’s shoulder-length hair.

In his remarks, the secretary stressed that climate change is a serious issue that Americans must confront immediately. He made reference to the National Climate Assessment, a White House report released last week that posited that the United States is already feeling the effects of climate change, which will only grow more severe in the future.

Moniz noted that the report came shortly after similar reports by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, a project of the United Nations.

Moniz warned that the longer humans wait to address climate change, the more difficult and expensive it will be to do so. He listed a litany of ways the climate has already changed: an increase in global temperatures by one degree Celsius over the last decade, increased precipitation in the Northeast, higher storm surges and increased temperatures across the country.

The secretary said that Vermont and the Department of Energy have had a strong relationship, and that the state is on the right track when it comes to making investments in the energy of the future.

Moniz made reference to a scene from another film, this time the 1967 hit “The Graduate,” where an overbearing family friend tells the recent graduate Benjamin Braddock that the next growth industry is plastics. Moniz said that today, the new emerging industry is in renewable energy.

The event began 15 minutes later than its advertised 10 o’clock start, and Sanders opened the question and answer session with the understanding that it would be brief.

In what was a surprise to no one that follows the news in Addison County, the proposed Vermont Gas Systems pipeline through the Champlain Valley was brought up for discussion.

R.J. Adler, a Middlebury graduate who now works in the solar industry in Vermont, asked the panel how Vermont straddles the divide between promoting renewable energy while supporting the expansion of natural gas, a fossil fuel.

Moniz said that the Department of Energy, much like Vermont, has embraced a strategy of promoting energy sources that are less carbon-intensive than burning coal.

According to Environmental Protection Agency estimates, burning natural gas produces 50 percent less carbon dioxide than burning coal. Moniz said that by reducing its use of coal as an energy source by shifting to natural gas, the United States has decreased its emissions.

“We are roughly halfway to the president’s 17 percent (greenhouse gas emissions) reduction goal by 2020, and half of that has been gas substituted by coal,” Moniz said.

Moniz hinted that natural gas, which does emit harmful greenhouse gases into the atmosphere, would become a smaller part of the nation’s energy portfolio as the use of renewable energy sources increases.

“We see gas as a bridge, in some parts of the country, and an important one,” Moniz said.

He said that natural gas, as a cheaper energy source, also is good for business.

“Today, gas is contributing to a substantial manufacturing revival,” Moniz said, adding that as a result of the expansion of natural gas, the country has seen a $100 billion investment in new manufacturing.

Large manufacturers in Addison and Rutland counties, such as Agri-Mark, Otter Creek Brewing and Omya have said they will save substantially on energy costs by switching to natural gas.

A group of activists, who later said they were mostly Middlebury College students, briefly interrupted the question and answer session by shouting for Gov. Shumlin to oppose the pipeline. They wore orange armbands with a variety of anti-pipeline slogans.

Rebecca Foster of Charlotte, an outspoken pipeline opponent who has penned letters to state media organizations, was the last to speak.

The question, like the other about the Vermont Gas pipeline project, drew applause from many in the crowd.

“I think the state has the capability of answering that question,” Sanders said, and brought the event to a close.

Sounds like a line from Orwell’s “1984.

Yeah, Bernie, let’s hear the state’s (VT’s) answer to that one.

Nextera Energy is behind a push for more dangerous nukes. Plain & simple. Please come clean, Kathy.

NextEra Energy owns Seabrook.

Point? Green Mountain Power in VT buys power from Seabrook. You’re probably using some of that power right now.

The point is that your characterization of Nextera as “wind developer out of Canada that has been wreaking havoc in Ontario, CA” is partial and misleading.

Kathy,

Your correction concerned the LOCATION of the company, not its business. Specifically, you failed to correct the impression that the company is just a “wind developer.” So I pointed out that the company also owns nukes. Since you are an avid lover of nuclear power and an equally avid opponent of wind power, your omission struck me as relevant. Others can decide for themselves.

On earnings of $7 billion they paid no taxes, largely because of the tax credits for their wind turbines. They are perfectly willing to game the system, but don’t want to be involved with Vt’s fraudulent REC sales.

Vt’ers hold onto your wallets when your electric bills go up.

Sadly, last Friday Middlebury College demonstrated that the 1st Amendment has no place on campus. The public was invited to the Vermont Sustainability Summit and were addressed by Vermont’s senators, Congressman and governor. However, the Middlebury College Dept of Public Safety and its director took hostile action against a a man who held up a sign expressing his opposition to a natural gas pipeline proposed (Stop the FRAKKED GAS PIPELINE). (I later learned he is a father, a Middlebury grad, & the pipeline would cross his property and carry fracked gas).

Then the meeting was over. But Elizabeth Burchard, Middlebury College Director of Public Safety with the assistance of a plainclothes law enforcement officer in a suit decided to exert her power against the sign-carrying father, threatening him with arrest or a no trespass order if he didn’t immediately leave.

Facing angry, concerned citizens who had come to the public Sustainability Summit, Middlebury College Director of Public Safety Elizabeth Burchard allowed the father to leave without further ado, along with everyone else who had attended the Summit. But my heart was broken to see this fine, fine educational institution, which has been such an amazing, wonderful leader in energy sustainability on its campus, demonstrate that its important executives, like Director of Public Safety Elizabeth Burchard do not have a similar respect for and commitment to the 1st Amendment or to supporting citizens’ rights to petition government representatives.

My husband and I traveled 160 miles round-trip to Middlebury College in appreciation of the work done by our Congressional delegation and Vermont’s governor in support of their commitment to renewable energy. We returned disheartened that the climate at Middlebury College does not include honoring dissent or respect for people who are asking important, challenging questions about approaches being considered, and does not include sustaining the 1st Amendment.

Our Congressional delegation needs to speak up on behalf of citizens expressing differing opinions peacefully, as strongly and persistently as they speak up to demand a vibrant response to the challenges that climate change is presenting us all.

Congrats Alex for standing up to the Security types and defending the citizen who held up a sign about the gas pipeline planned for western Vermont. And thanks for defending all of our rights to freedom of speech. Thanks for making it clear a peaceful guy who was merely trying to hold up a sign at a public gathering on alternative energy was not preventing anyone from hearing anything.

My only wish is that ALL opinions were respected. Ms Nelson is obnoxiously outspoken and extremely mean-spirited when those with opinions differing from hers have a chance to politely and publicly voice theirs. Such actions serve to pit neighbors against neighbors who otherwise respect differing opinions.

Alice, when it comes to pitting neighbor against neighbor then no one does that better than your obnoxious son, John Soininen (VP of Eolian Renewable Energy, AKA Seneca Mountain Wind). The cruel lies perpetrated by John Soininen has brought about social upset that will linger in the Northeast Kingdom for a generation.

I also think it was cruel and mean spirited for the Soininen family to appear at the PSB Sound/Noise Hearing at the People’s Academy in Morrisville to not only belittle those who are suffering but further their own financial interests in soaking the public for subsidies for junk wind energy projects.

John Soininen is one of the wannabe wind developers desperate to get a project in Ferdinand, VT.

Below is a letter his mother wrote to the Rutland Herald in 2005 when the Sheffield project was proposed near her home in Sutton.

I guess she’s changed her mind again now that her obnoxious son wants to be a wind developer.

October is one of the most beautiful months of the year. Some would argue that it is the most beautiful month of the year in Vermont. I find it curiously ironic that our governor would name it Wind Energy Month.

Originally a proponent of wind energy — as I am a proponent of renewal energy — I am now totally opposed. I have seen the wind farms in California and in Denmark. Those turbines are atop towers that are significantly shorter than the 400-foot ones proposed for our area. The area along Interstate 10 on the way to Palm Springs is a barren wasteland (at least in the view of a Vermonter). The hundreds of small wind turbines are nestled in the valley between two (beautiful) mountain ranges. They spin gracefully — mostly in the same direction — and are seen only by persons speeding along the highway as there are no residents within their sightline.

Conversely, I have to say that, in my opinion, the turbines, albeit small, are a blight on the beautiful, lush, green Danish landscape. In Sweden, I have only seen single towers on industrial complexes built to supplement electrical needs.

More than 30 years ago, Sen. George Aiken declared our corner of the state the Northeast Kingdom. The name stuck for obvious reasons. Locally and afar, one can see and understand the Northeast Kingdom sticker on cars. The Northeast Kingdom is a special place.

Yes, the Northeast Kingdom is a federally designated impoverished area. A major contributor to the economy of the area is tourism, but we do not attract the shop-until-you-drop, set. We are the home to and destination of those seeking the beauty, solitude and abundant wildlife of the area. Be we residents or visitors, we respect and honor the land. We are typically conservative in our use of energy. We work to “leave no trace” when we walk, hunt or snowmobile in the woods.

The Northeast Kingdom is a target for gigantic wind towers — not quaint picturesque windmills seen on the postcards one finds in the Netherlands. Four acres have to be clear-cut and blasted to accommodate each tower. The towers, their gigantic blades, flickering lights and shadows and whining turbines will rise high above our ridgelines.

Maybe we should think about a 51st state: the Northeast Kingdom.

The letter referenced by Ms Nelson (above)was written when I was the CFO and Director of Support Services at the King George School. At that time we bought into the negative propaganda served up by the Brouhas (who perceive that they have much to lose given their proximity to the Sheffield turbines and the assumed loss of property value). We totally reversed our opinion of renewals after much research and viewing Al Gore’s Inconvenient Truth. Yes, John Soininen is our son but we were pro-wind long before he became involved in the wind industry. We have nothing to gain. John has a graduate degree from MIT and could easily fine employment with that and his engineering undergraduate degree. The prolem is that he passionately believes that the damage that coal generated electricity is the single-most contributor to global warming. And we have seen the damage to flora and fauna in the US (especially in the mountains of the Carolinas) and SE Asia. There (Thailand, Laos, Cambodia and Vietnam), where the economy is completely dependent upon agriculture, the impact of climate change is alarming. I do feel badly for those living close enough to have their lives negatively impacted. Relocation is hard but has been a ‘fact of life’ with the eminent domain required for the building of the Interstate highways in the last half-century. (There the government determined the value, not the property owner.) I commend the PSB for hosting a meeting for ALL opinions to be respectfully heard. The members of the PSB are between a rock and a hard place and are doing their best to hear and understand all related issues. I still believe that if the NEK produces the electricity with wind or solar, we, in the area should have electric rates to reflect that contribution. The Burlington area probably has as much, if not more wind as any area in VT, and certainly consumes a greater amount. That area should share in the production and/or pay more. And, FYI, I have always been opposed to the Recs. Simplistically speaking, huge fines should be imposed for the production of ‘dirty’ energy. There is no such thing as ‘clean coal’. Further, everyone should work to limit consumption.

Yes, Alice. We must close all of Vermont’s coal-fired plants immediately.

Mark, if we close all the coal plants then how is big Democratic campaign donator, Tom Steyer, going to get his money to buy his politicians? Coal is his money maker.

Alice says her neighbor, Paul Brouha, offered “negative propaganda” about industrial wind but the truth is that everything Brouha told her about the problems with industrial wind has come true. Alice is inconstant with her opinions, as well as her facts, and I am glad her son’s wind disaster project in the NEK has failed.

Mark, that was funny!

not as funny as the other side, a different kind of funny.

They.

If this statement were true it would be an incredibly remarkable achievement. The problem is that the Governor’s statement as cited is simply not true.

There was no 13% decrease in Vermont’s energy consumption last year. The Governor’s comment is just another instance of him playing loosely with numbers to promote himself and his agenda.

When the Governor mangles and exaggerates the facts related to renewable and energy efficiency accomplishments it becomes impossible to believe anything he has to say. This is extremely critical in that there continues to exist significant controversy with the state’s energy strategy, its impact on individuals and communities and what it actually accomplishes.

What’s just as troubling is the Herald reporter’s and his editor’s failure to question such an incredible pronouncement from the Governor. The comment was simply taken at face value and put in the paper.

In Rutland, we seem to have a lap dog versus a much needed watch dog press. This may be good for the Governor, but its bad for the people.

Peter Yankowski,

“There was no 13% decrease in Vermont’s energy consumption last year. ” Please provide the correct figures and your source for them.

You’ll have to get those figures from the Governor, he’s the one who claimed the 13% reduction in the state’s energy consumption in 2013.

There are no such figures on the Department of Public Service’s web site or any where else to back up the Governor’s claim as far as I can see.

John, even you have to admit that claiming a 13% reduction in the state’s energy consumption is really pretty outrageous.

If you can find something to support the Gov’s claim, please share it with everyone.

Peter,

In other words, you haven’t got a clue whether the governor is right or wrong, but are unembarrassed to accuse him of lying.

Even for you, Peter, that’s a new low.

Before you try to drag me into this, I am NOT defending the governor’s remark. I have no idea what the correct figures are, and like you apparently, I have no inclination to do the research to find them out.

It’s clear now that you have no basis for your remarks. It remains to be seen whether the governor had or did not have some basis for his.

I didn’t drag you into anything.

You willingly jumped in head first in a foolhardy attempt to defend yet another “Ready, Fire, Aim” moment by the Governor.

Peter,

I asked you to provide a source. You couldn’t. I then explicitly stated that I am NOT defending the governor or his statement.

You ASSUME that I am defending the governor, because you ASSUME that you know my political views, just as you ASSUME that you know what you clearly do NOT know about energy usage in Vermont.

There’s a pattern there.

My bet is that the Governor’s quote (as reported above – I have not read the actual quote and can not report on the veracity) was formed based on the information provided on the website below.

Drop below the fold to see the 13% figure.

I have no opinion on whether the information is correct but simply posit that this might be the source.

Before posting my comment on the Governor’s statement regarding the state reducing its energy consumption by 13% in 2013, I first called EV for clarification of exactly what its report entailed and meant.

According to an EV spokesperson, it’s report relates only to electric supply needs being reduced by 13.1% as a result of energy efficiency efforts dating back to EV’s operational inception in 2000. The 13.1% reduction cited was not a change from 2012 to 2013, but a cumulative change over a several year period.

Additionally and critically important in this instance, the EV spokesperson indicated that its report has nothing to do with total energy consumption and gives no consideration to trends in the state’s consumption of heating oil, natural gas, gasoline or other fuels. The Governor cited “energy” reduction, which would include all sources of energy. He did not say reductions in electricity.

The Governor’s comment is significant in that it grossly misstates the reduction of energy consumption in Vermont during a time when broad controversy surrounds the state’s Comprehensive Energy Plan. A plan heavily promoted by the Governor with an objective of reducing traditional or fossil fuel energy consumption.

If anyone can provide empirical data supporting the governor’s statement, please share it with us. Evidence from the 5th floor would be particularly welcomed.

Peter I happen to agree with your analysis of how the comment came to be and my comment which was meant to be humorous was more directed at the exchange between you and Mr. Greenberg hence my reference to “let me Google that for you.” Your thorough answer to my comment might have made a good starting comment and kept the “prove it” back and forth from happening which I find to be a tiresome part of social media. The point of whether efficiency is a “reduction” is a subtle one. Overall consumption can go up but efficiency measures can offset what would have otherwise been a larger increase. It takes careful analysis of many facts in a longitudinal fashion to understand what has happened. The sound bite in the quote did not provide that kind of detailed information as you point out.

There is indeed a pattern here and the people of Vermont have caught on to the Governor’s practice of playing fast and loose with the facts. The energy reduction comment fiasco is just the latest episode in this sad soap opera.

For confirmation read the Governor’s flagging polls numbers.

In the meantime, check to see if there is any water in the pool before you dive in head first.

Your humor is welcomed as part of the mud wrestling process with John Greenberg. You can be assured that if I say white, John will say black and so on, which if you find tiresome is fully understandable. But I can’t help myself when it is so easy to push John’s buttons.

One last point, I find nothing subtle about the Governor’s comment on energy reduction. Saying that Vermont reduced energy consumption by an incredible 13% in one year is not subtle, it’s sad, yet laughable and needs to be called out, which I did.

You’re right Peter, it is. All you’ve got to do is lie.

Peter,

Some years ago, he also said, before being appointed Governor by the Legislature (he did not have enough popular votes, but enough party votes), that Germany was getting 30 % of its electrical energy from PV solar, whereas, at that time it was about 2-3 %, and now, some years later, it is about 5 %.

The only way a 13% reduction in energy consumption can occur, if there were a sudden, massive depression, or if about 15 percent of the VT population decided to move out of state in early 2013.

Last year was 2013 and the 2013-2014 heating season was colder than usual.

Shumlin is a multi-millionaire, real estate operator. He knows next to nothing about energy, but pontificates/spouts nonsense just the same.

It must be another election year.

A couple of years ago on national TV, Mr. Shumlin made the same or a very similar comment about solar use in Europe.

Shumlin was called out on his statement by the program’s anchor (on live TV) who said he believed that Shumlin was incorrect. Shumlin steadfastly held his ground.

In the meantime, the show’s producer quickly looked into the issue on the internet and corrected Shumlin on the spot by saying his comment on solar was off by a factor of 10X.

Not being about to admitted he was wrong, Shumlin went on to say…..well that’s what I had been told.

Bottom line, it would be good if the Vermont media were as alert at calling out Governor when he makes obviously incorrect statements, especially when they are intended to advance his agenda.

Here’s a link to a November 2010 vtdigger article that provides a copy of the video of then Senator Shumlin mistakenly stating that 30% of Germany’s energy was coming from solar.

The Shumlin’s squirming in this video reminds me of the first day of fishing season looking into a can of squirming nightcrawlers about to be placed on a hook.

Parental guidance warming: this video may be upsetting to consumer’s of Shumlin kool-aid.

Thank you Peter, for providing actual facts and documentation for your attacks on Governor Shumlin.

That’s really all I’ve been trying to get you to do for months now.

With the long ago passing of the Lone Ranger its good to see that someone is still looking out for: “Truth, Justice and the American Way”.

Here’s a lead for you as you continue your important work.

Go to the March 17, 2010 issue of Seven Days. There you will find a survey of Montpelier insiders who by a large margin cited Peter Shumlin as the most ethically challenged individual in the Vermont legislature.

You probably want to get in your Prius and drive to Montpelier and keep the 5th floor under surveillance for any evidence of outrageous statements being made sans supporting facts.

Up, Up and Away…..cue the William Tell Overture.

Hey Mr. Pete, I get Climate Change too. And Global Warming. And Agenda 21. They are all a scam of the globalists. There are more people on this planet then globalists, yup, that’s right, globalists are not people, they are the ultimate capitalists, and the opposite of equality, and freedom. Take the Earth while you can, never let a disaster go to waste, or create a disaster, and utilize the opportunity, that is the theory of they, not the theory of we, the people, and natural selection. Soft tyranny, Agenda 21, The Green movement, I had on of those once, and it freaked me out, too much green beer. lol.

I am glad two of the few allowed questions pertained to the pipeline, but I am also dismayed that people were not allowed to weigh in on subjects that are obviously important to them. This was a photo opp and a staged performance where our public officials got to puff themselves up and pat each other on the backs for the great job they are doing, while we (who have put them into office) were told to sit in our seats and not interrupt with signs or statements about issues that are at the crux of what they were supposedly talking about.

I believe University of Vermont engineering professor Paul Hines had it right when he said that those that deny climate change are doing so out of fear. Well, I think that I am safe in saying we are all afraid of something. For many of us, it is what our elected officials are allowing to happen to our world.

I have said it before and I will say it again; If the people are not being heard, their voices will get louder.

VTDigger.org requires that all commenters identify themselves by their authentic first and last names. Initials, pseudonyms or screen names are not permissible. The purpose of this policy is to encourage a civil discourse among neighbors who are willing to stand behind their identities and their comments.

As a result of our comment policy, VTDigger.org has created a safe zone for readers who wish to engage in a thoughtful discussion on a range of subjects, regardless of where they stand. We hope you join the conversation.

VTDigger.org does not share specific information about our readers with other entities. Email addresses we collect through our subscription list and comment submissions are kept private.

We use Google analytics to generate aggregated data regarding the size and geographic distribution of our readership. This information helps us gauge how many readers come to the website and what towns they live in. It does not include addresses or other identifying characteristics about our readers.

We're an independent nonprofit organization, your donation helps fund the digging, and, it's tax deductible.

Thanks for reporting an error with the story, "U.S. Energy Secretary speaks at Middlebury College"
