
During the sad time after my mother’s death in 2012, a sickening thing happened. As I prepared for the funeral, her house was burgled.

It broke my heart to see the windows smashed in and footmarks all over her immaculate worktops - she had always been so house-proud, so obsessive about tidiness all her life.

When I went into the house and saw what had happened I fell into a blind rage. Both my parents were now dead and I felt that everything in their world had been defiled.

I went storming out of their front door, wanting to lay into someone.

Perhaps luckily, there was just the dark empty street and behind me a house full of memories smashed up for ever.

But one positive thing came out of it. The burglars had ripped open Dad’s beautiful old desk where he’d sat clunking away on his ancient typewriter for more than 40 years.

It was a diary — an old one, dating back to 1944. It was hard to read and much of it was incomplete. But, for the first time, I had in my hands my D-Day veteran father’s own record of his wartime experiences.

Seven years after his death, I had been given the  most wonderful, and unexpected, opportunity to bring his memories to life.

In my attempts to piece together the story of Dad’s war years, I have been able to use snippets from his diary, as well as the recollections of his old comrades, to tell his remarkable story — one that not even those of us closest to him ever knew.

The marching was tough. Wearing heavy battledress and carrying full packs of arms and ammunition, my father and his men were surrounded by the smell of death.

Just 12 weeks after their successes at D-Day in June 1944, his regiment had been disbanded and its members were on their way from Normandy to join the Wiltshire regiment stationed at Vernon, halfway to Paris.

Dad’s comrade Doug Botting, whom I have been privileged to interview, told me that conditions were horrific.

‘The weather was baking hot,’ said Doug. ‘We were all super-fit with rippling muscles after weeks of unloading supplies [on the Normandy beaches, to support the Allied push into France], but it got really tough.

‘Men were passing out from the gagging heat and the air was filled with the cloying, sickly stench of death.

Robbie remembers a particularly disturbing episode that has remained etched in his mind for 70 years.

‘As we were marching through France, a farmer came up to me, calling “Monsieur!” and, using sign language, indicated he wanted me to follow him.

‘He had a horse, alive but dreadfully wounded, with its guts hanging out. Clearly he wanted me to put it out of its misery.

‘Even though we’d killed a lot of the enemy since we had landed on D-Day, I hadn’t killed an animal and I really hated the thought of it.

These were the horrific scenes my father Basil and his men had to face.

‘We knew we just had to keep marching,’ wrote Dad in his diary. ‘At night when it cooled, the stench went away for a while, but in the morning as the fierce August sun got up, the smell came back. It was a tough time on everyone.

At Vernon,  Dad’s men were charged with helping secure an area near the  Seine to  allow troops to cross. Tragically, this was to cause more of his men to  be killed, and in a horrific way.

Due  to a terrible mistake by Allied artillery men, shells intended for the  enemy landed short of their target, right in the middle of his boys.

The memories of that day are seared forever on Robbie’s brain.

‘I lost several of my closest mates,’ he said. ‘There were many casualties — several men lost their legs, one lad sat there dying with his lungs hanging out and one poor blighter had his head blown off.

This was the real horror of war. Young men lying dead somewhere on a hill in northern France blown to pieces in a tragic accident by their own artillery.

And, of course, for Lt Tarrant and his shattered men there was no going back; they still had to carry on and take the hill. With heavy fighting, but not too many more losses, they eventually achieved their aim.

The action saw a lot of bayonet fighting, which I have always found a sickening thought. I still find it hard to imagine my dear, kind father killing someone in this way.

Doug explained: ‘We’d only done it with straw dummies in training. The real thing was very different.

It was August and Dad must have been wondering about the odds of his own survival. So many officers had been killed since they had landed in Normandy two months previously.

An infantryman’s average survival rate in World War II was just seven weeks; for an infantry officer, it was just four. Dad and his men were on borrowed time.

Doug says he was becoming more and more impressed with Basil, though he feared he was slightly mad.

‘He was obviously a very brave man, but I thought he was a bit of a nut,’ he told me.

‘We were being picked off by sniper fire at one point so, as we lay huddled below a wall, Tarrant said: “I’ll move forward, keeping low, and then put my head up. As they fire, you all look where it’s coming from.” So, this is what we did. He very quickly showed his head, the sniper fired and we saw Lt Tarrant fall.

Doug had his own theories about Dad. ‘It was as if he always had something to prove. He was full-on all the time, in the thick of everything, always active, always.

I wonder whether he wanted to prove he was worthy of officer rank, that he wanted to live up to his position.

No one seems to have ever suggested he couldn’t do it, but perhaps he just wanted to prove it  for himself.

As the Germans retreated through Belgium and Holland, Dad and his regiment followed them.

On September 13, they travelled 190 miles in a single day by truck into Belgium.

It was remarkable progress, especially given the fact they were repeatedly stopped by crowds of grateful, liberated locals.

Dad recalled this as ‘one of the most  unforgettable, extraordinary days of my life’.

Everywhere they went they were cheered and thanked with gifts of flowers and fresh fruit — a rare and very welcome luxury for men who had spent much of the past few months living on basic rations out of tins.

It was many years after the war  before Dad would eat corned beef — and he never touched a baked bean again.

On the night of November 7 came Dad’s finest hour. His instructions were to take his patrol of 16 men under cover of darkness to pinpoint and silence two key enemy positions at the far end of a minefield near the German border with the Netherlands.

There were two farmhouses at either side of the field — one was known to be in the hands of German soldiers, the other was not confirmed. My father’s orders were to take one out and, if necessary, destroy the other.

Progress, on their hands and knees, with blackened faces and carrying sub-machine guns and ammunition, was at a snail’s pace.

By the first farmhouse, they could hear German voices and see sentries, but they showed no reaction as Basil and his platoon silently moved  into place.

Then, on his signal, all hell broke loose. Round after round of machine-gun fire was pumped into the farmhouse and grenades hurled through the windows.

Dad’s diary takes up the story: ‘Some men came running round from the back of the building, but they were all shot up as they ran towards us.

There were Germans in the second house and they had been alerted to the attack, but Basil took his men behind the building and led the charge. In total, they probably killed as many as 60 Germans, but  Lt  Tarrant led his men home without a scratch on any of them.

His instinct for survival, not just for himself but for his men, made him the sort of officer you’d want to be with in a fight.

He was recommended for the Military Cross and the order was  signed off by no less than Field Marshal Montgomery. Reflecting later on the moment he received the MC, Dad was infuriatingly  low-key, as ever, about it.

‘When I was able to show it to her after the war, my wife was very impressed,’ he said. ‘And many years later, so was my grandson.’ I have it locked carefully away and one day will pass it on to Toby, Basil’s beloved grandson.

What I still find most surreal about the whole thing is that though we all knew Dad had won the MC, I didn’t have the slightest idea until just a couple of years ago about how he had gone about it. And I still find it hard to equate his heroic, expedient — but nonetheless bloody — actions with the naturally laid-back, funny man I knew as ‘Dad’.

It wasn't until the very end of the war that Dad’s luck finally ran out.

Travelling through the German village of Flechum in a convoy of lorries and tanks on April 10, he and his men came under heavy fire as they rounded a bend.

After the enemy had backed off, realising they were heavily outnumbered, Major Tarrant — as he then was — tried to contact his HQ to let them know the road was once again clear and passable.

Failing to get through by wireless, he decided in the interests of speed to go himself in a Red Cross Jeep.

As he and the driver raced between rows of trees and piles of sandbags, the wheel of the Jeep touched a soft verge and suddenly there was the most tremendous explosion.

The vehicle was thrown high in the  air, and Dad and the driver landed unconscious in bloody heaps.

They’d gone over a Teller mine, a massively powerful weapon used for blowing up tanks.

Extraordinarily, both men were still alive. Later, Dad would remember: ‘I walked something like half a mile, and around the corner were three tanks with a friend of mine from the Grenadier Guards.

‘They were all lying out in the sun as it was a lovely morning. “Hello, Basil,” he said, and then — and I can hear him now — “Bloody hell!” He came down and was the first to give me a shot of morphine, marking my forehead with the mystic  letter M.

‘I can see myself with the provost sergeant from the 5th Battalion, a sergeant I had never really liked.

It was feared that Dad would lose his arm, and he was flown home to RAF Lyneham. He saw the fireworks of VE  Day in a military hospital with Mum, his new bride of just eight weeks.

But he was only too aware that,  compared with many, he’d got off lightly. After a series of painful grafts, which took a great deal of skin from his stomach and legs, his arm was saved. Dad gradually regained the feeling in his fingers.

Despite never telling me or even Mum anything but the broadest detail of the day he came closest to death, I found out  purely by chance in conversation with my son Toby that not only did my father tell him in great detail exactly what happened, but he even drew a detailed map of the whole incident on a table napkin.

Like so much about those years, I will never know.

- Extracted from Dad’s War by Chris Tarrant, published by Ebury on Thursday, price £16.99. To order a copy for £14.99 (P&P free), tel: 0844 472 4157.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
