
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .

If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .

Video will begin in 5 seconds.

RAW VISION: protests in Istanbul over the Soma mine blast turn violent as riot police use water cannons to disperse the crowd.

Soma, Turkey: Turkish prosecutors have charged three people with reckless manslaughter over a mining disaster that left 301 dead and sparked fury at the government and company officials.

Rescue operations ended on Saturday in the western town of Soma after the bodies of the last two trapped miners were retrieved following the country's worst ever industrial disaster.

Prosecutors said they have ruled out an electrical fault, which was initially believed to be the cause of the devastating coalmine blast.

A preliminary report into the disaster "suggested the fire could have been caused by coal heating up after coming into contact with air", prosecutor Bekir Sahiner said on Sunday.

This could have caused a massive amount of carbon monoxide to fill the mine.

"Twenty-five people have been ... detained, including the chairman of the company and three of them have been charged with reckless manslaughter," Mr Sahiner said.

Six people have since been released and the others were still being questioned.

The Dogan news agency reported that those charged were plant manager Akin Celik and two mining engineers from mine operator Soma Komur.

Soma Komur has vehemently denied any negligence.

The Milliyet newspaper claimed to have seen the preliminary report, which it said noted several safety violations in the mine, including a shortage of carbon monoxide detectors and ceilings made of wood instead of metal.

One woman said her engineer husband was among those detained inside and one man, whose engineer brother was being held, said dozens of people had been questioned as part of the probe. Both declined to be named.

"We know that we have lost 301 loved ones, but we have loved ones inside as well," the man said.

The rescue operation at the coalmine ended on Saturday after the bodies of the last two workers were carried out. They were buried on Sunday. Mourners cried and prayed beside a line of recently filled graves as one of the dead was buried in Soma. Holding their palms open to the sky, about 1000 people said "amen" in unison as an imam recited verses.

As the rescue operation wound up, police put Soma on virtual lockdown, setting up checkpoints and detaining dozens of people to enforce a ban on protests in response to clashes on Friday between police and several thousand demonstrators.

Daredevil wingsuiters take on 'epic challenge'

Onlookers cheer as two Dutch wingsuiters jump from a helicopter and soar around the Euromast building in Rotterdam.
