
Refering to the 50% to 60% portion of the Refuge that is closed to the public, she pointed out that it is still used by archeologists and  scientists as a natural lab to conduct research. "The scientists and project staff  need to access their study area daily, but will not be able to, if it is  included in the SDZ."

As for the 12% portion of the refugee open to the public that will be effected by the SDZ, she said  "the boundary where the SDZ ends ... is almost half a mile  away from the existing access road to Ritidian. In order to build a new  road, it would require cutting into a limestone cliff and forest. One of  the caves that we visited will also be included in the SDZ, and half of  the beach area that thousands of residents and tourists visit every  year."

She also argues that the economic beifits are slight. "our tax revenues will only see a slight 3 percent increase ... only 3,058 Guam residents can expect  temporary full-time jobs in construction, and after the construction  phase, only 762 Guam residents can expect full-time jobs" states Won Pat.

Buenas yan Hafa Adai,

On Friday, a group of senators and legislative staffers were given an incredible tour of Ritidian, which our ancestors named Litekyan, meaning the stirring place.

My office organized the tour with the Guam National Wildlife Refuge Ritidian Unit for Senators and their staff to learn more about the cultural, historic and natural resources found there. This area is included as part of the Surface Danger Zone of the Department of Defense's preferred alternative for the Marine Live Fire Training Range Complex. I invited all of the senators on the tour to learn about how this will impact Ritidian. I’d like to thank Vice Speaker B.J. Cruz and Senator Tina Muna-Barnes for joining me on the tour, and Senators Ben Pangelinan, Dennis Rodriguez, Rory Respicio, and Mike Limtiaco for sending members of their staff.

On the tour, I learned that there are a thousand ancient burials in the area. I walked the path my ancestors traveled hundreds of years ago. I saw their handprints and pictographs on the walls of caves. I saw stalactites and stalagmites, indigenous plants, over 70 medicinal herbs and a fanihi. All in four hours.

Thousands of local students visit Ritidian every year to learn about their history, culture, and natural environment. As an educator, it saddens me to think that the inclusion of Ritidian in the Surface Danger Zone will limit their ability to learn in one of the most pristine areas of our island.

Also included in the SDZ is an area that is used by archeologists and scientists as a natural lab to conduct research. Over 20 years of research on how to repopulate the refuge with native species will go to waste if the area is converted into an SDZ. This research also includes a major project focused on the eradication of the Brown Tree Snake, which is just now entering its second phase. The scientists and project staff need to access their study area daily, but will not be able to if it is included in the SDZ.

I saw the boundary where the SDZ ends, and it is almost half a mile away from the existing access road to Ritidian. In order to build a new road, it would require cutting into a limestone cliff and forest. One of the caves that we visited will also be included in the SDZ, and half of the beach area that thousands of residents and tourists visit every year. Studies show that a national wildlife refuge not only enriches our lives and protects our heritage, it also boosts the economy. The Ritidian Unit employs Guam residents, who may lose their jobs if they cannot do their work as a result of the SDZ.

I do not believe this area is compatible with the plans for the Firing Range, and it should not be included in the SDZ. We have been made to believe that the use of these sites for training is a small sacrifice compared to the economic boom our island will experience from the build-up. But in my close reading of the SEIS, I have learned that our island’s economic activity will only slightly improve.

Our tax revenues will only see a slight 3 percent increase by the end of the construction phase. Only 3,058 Guam residents can expect temporary full-time jobs in construction, and after the construction phase, only 762 Guam residents can expect full-time jobs. However, our government will also have to incur the cost of the strain on our public agencies, which lessens our profit from the increased revenues.

The SEIS also states that higher costs of goods, services and housing will push people on the verge of poverty into poverty or even homelessness. We need greater guarantees that the build-up will actually benefit the government and people of Guam. We need a cost benefit analysis to understand the true impact of this build-up, and whether or not it is worth the sacrifices our community will have to make.

I do not want our children to only see the handprints of their ancestors in pictures. I want them to be able to experience Litekyan in person, to reconnect with our heritage and feel secure in knowing that cultural and environmental destruction are not sacrifices to be made for the buildup.

Saina Ma’åse’.
