
UGA Extension celebrated its 100th anniversary in 2014, and past Extension directors gathered for an event on May 15. From left to right are College of Agricultural and Environmental Sciences Dean Scott Angle, UGA Extension Director Beverly Sparks and past UGA Extension directors Mel Garber (2003-2006), Bobby Tyson (2001-2003), Wayne Jordan (1988-1996) and Tal Duvall (1977-1988).

Posted: Monday, May 19, 2014 10:00 pm | Updated: 4:03 pm, Sun Jun 29, 2014.

University of Georgia Extension invites Georgians to celebrate 100 years of community-centered information, education and service.

On May 15, UGA Extension celebrated its 100th anniversary with the opening of a multimedia museum exhibit in the Richard B. Russell Building Special Collections Libraries highlighting the impacts the organization has had over the past century.

“In the past 100 years, UGA Extension helped eradicate the boll weevil, introduce new food safety measures and promote land conservation,” said Beverly Sparks, associate dean of Extension in the UGA College of Agricultural and Environmental Sciences.

Today, Extension in the state of Georgia is a cooperative effort by federal, state and local government partners administered by the university.

The centennial museum exhibit, located in the Russell Special Collections Building, features personal anecdotes and a timeline of important events throughout the history of UGA Extension. It will be open for public tours through the end of June and will travel throughout the state later this summer.

As part of the exhibit’s gala opening, Rep. Chuck Williams, R-Watkinsville, and Sen. Bill Cowsert, R-Athens, presented resolutions recognizing the centennial to Dean J. Scott Angle of the UGA College of Agricultural and Environmental Sciences and to University System of Georgia Chancellor Hank Huckaby. The resolutions, passed by the Georgia General Assembly this past winter, recognize UGA Extension as a source of timely, research-based education and information that has helped to transform Georgia’s farms, families and communities over the last century.

An expanded version of the exhibit is available online at 100years.extension.uga.edu . The dynamic website shares the history of UGA Extension through articles, pictures, videos, timelines and personal stories. The public can join in the celebration by visiting the site and sharing how Extension has touched their lives.

For more information about UGA Extension, see extension.uga.edu or call 1-800-Ask-UGA1.

Posted in Uganews , Athens , Campus , Science health on Monday, May 19, 2014 10:00 pm. Updated: 4:03 pm.

1 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language.

2 Don't Threaten or Abuse. Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated. AND PLEASE TURN OFF CAPS LOCK.

3 Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.

4 Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.

5 Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.

6 Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness accounts, the history behind an article.

Welcome to the discussion.
