
QUEENSLAND school students are set to benefit from the state hosting the G20 Leaders' Summit later this year with new teaching and learning resources being rolled out across the state.

The new G20-based curriculum resources will be promoted to all schools, principals, teachers, parents, carers, relevant governing bodies as well as the general public.

Education Minister John-Paul Langbroek said all school sectors would have access to G20 teaching and learning resources for implementation in semester two.

He said the age-appropriate resources would enable students to become involved in the G20.

"While use of these classroom resources is not compulsory I encourage all Queensland schools to include the G20 in their programs of study," he said.

"The materials will focus on geography and economics and will include activities linked to other subjects such as English and maths.

"Teachers can use the new materials along with those already available to add a G20 focus to lessons.

"This is about getting every Queenslander involved in one of the most important events our great state has ever hosted."

Mr Langbroek said the Queensland Studies Authority had been instrumental in developing the G20 curriculum resources.

"The new materials are being designed for Queensland students as the state plays host to the most important meeting of world leaders ever held in Australia," he said.

"Every Queensland student will have the opportunity to study the G20 Summit, an event that will not only help shape the global economy, but is being held right on our doorstep.

"There is no better opportunity for Queensland students to further explore the world in which they live and Australia's place in the world."

Help make the news! Share your photos, stories, events or just post a general notice to the community.

© Central Queensland News Publishing Company Pty Ltd 2014. Unauthorised reproduction is prohibited under the laws of Australia and by international treaty.

Refer to our helpful FAQ section for any problems you might be experiencing.
