
Torrington Mayor Elinor Carbone leads a brief presentation on the cityís budget during a special joint City Council and Board of Finance meeting on Monday, May 6, 2014, in Torrington. The cityís proposed total budget is $128 million.

TORRINGTON >> It’s never been done, the city clerk said Monday, but the city’s charter allows for a referendum on a citywide budget after successful approval of a rejection petition.

City Clerk Joe Quartiero said there’s never been such a referendum, although many towns in the northwest corner approve town budgets via a town referendum. Torrington’s budget is passed through its Board of Finance, which approved a citywide budget of $123 million, a $5 million increase from last year’s combined $118 million budget, last week on May 15 .

The budget includes $52.08 million for the city and $70.93 million for the Board of Education.

According to city charter section C13-12, residents may force a referendum on the budget if enough signatures are acquired through a petition delivered to the clerk’s office rejecting the budget. That provision allows residents to reject an adopted budget.

City Attorney Ray Rigat is not familiar with the section, but he examined the language on Monday afternoon.

“This is a safety valve, where I guess, if there was a huge movement and people were radically unhappy with a budget, you could force it to go to referendum,” Rigat said.

Mayor Elinor Carbone said the provision only allows residents to use the referendum to vote on an increase to the budget’s bottom line, not a decrease. Residents cannot vote for an increase for a specific line item.

The questions on the referendum would ask voters if they want to see an increase on the city’s side or the educational side, with a specific dollar amount listed.

According to the charter, a petition to reject the budget must have signatures from at least 10 percent of the voters of the city; last year, the city’s registrar’s Nan Gallicchio said there were 19,034 registered voters in Torrington . This means proponents would need to acquire roughly 1,903 signatures from registered voters for the petition to be accepted by the city clerk’s office.

Additionally, the 10 percent of signatures must come from residents who pay more than $1,000 in property taxes to the city, Carbone said.

The petition must be delivered within 10 days to the city clerk’s office after the third day that the budget is posted in a newspaper. Quartiero said the budget is posted in three consecutive days and has yet to be posted, so a deadline is not available yet. City comptroller Alice Proulx said the first posting could be as early as Wednesday, although she is in the process of receiving quotes from The Register Citizen and the Republican-American. The budget would be posted in only one of the papers.

Once the petition is accepted, Carbone would need to call a special meeting to act on the petition. The referendum would take place within 15 days of the city clerk’s certification, according to the charter.

A referendum would cost the city between $10,000 and $12,000, Quartiero said. Carbone estimated it could cost up to $15,000.

However, a 20 percent voter turnout is required for the referendum to work. This means at least nearly 3,900 residents to vote in order for the referendum to function. Quartiero said in addition to registered voters, non-residents who have property assessed for more than $1,000 in the city also have the right to vote in the referendum.

Quartiero said in his 21 years of serving as the city clerk, he has only seen referendums on schools improvement projects, which draw between 1,200 and 2,000 voters.

If the budget is rejected through the town vote, the finance board would need to create a new budget within 15 days of the referendum.

The charter also has a provision, under section C13-3d, that would allow voters to submit a petition that would force a special meeting where voters present could act on items and adjust, modify, reject or approve line items as decided by the majority of those present in the meeting. This would only apply to the city’s capital budget, however, referred to as Section B in the charter. Carbone said such a scenario would be a “nightmare” for city officials, as it would open up every single line item in the city’s budget for approval and change. This would include items as small as office supplies, for example.

Reach Esteban L. Hernandez at (860) 489-3121, ext. 328.
