
A large earthquake has rolled through California, damaging some buildings, igniting fires and knocking out power.

Beirut - At least 162 000 people have been killed in Syria's three-year-old conflict, a monitoring group said on Monday, and thousands more are missing after being captured by President Bashar Assad's forces and rebels trying to overthrow him.

The pro-opposition, British-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said losses among fighters on the government side were higher than those among pro-rebel groups, and estimated that at least 54 000 civilians had been killed since the conflict began.

It estimated 62 800 deaths among the army, pro-Assad Syrian militia, Lebanese Hezbollah fighters and other foreign Shi'ite gunmen.

That compared with 42 700 people who had died on the rebel side, including fighters from al Qaeda's Nusra Front, other Islamist brigades, and soldiers who defected from Assad's army.

Nearly 3 000 people of unknown identity or affiliation had been killed, it said.

The Observatory said all sides in the conflict played down their losses, making an accurate count almost impossible, and the overall death toll was probably around 70 000 higher at 230 000.

Efforts to find a political solution to the conflict collapsed in Geneva three months ago and the international mediator Lakhdar Brahimi will step down at the end of the month.

Assad, who has steadily clawed back control over the centre of the country, is widely expected to win a third seven-year term in a 3 June election which his enemies have condemned as a charade.

The Observatory said its figures did not include 18 000 people who had been detained by authorities and whose fate was unknown, as well as thousands more who were missing after raids by security forces.

Another 8 000 soldiers and pro-Assad militia were also missing after being held by rebels, and hundreds of people had been kidnapped, it said. A further 1 500 fighters were abducted during inter-rebel conflict.

Travel - Look, Book, Go!

SMS Alerts Get breaking news stories via SMS.

Blogs Your opinion on you, me and everyone.

Calais Website keywords automated by OpenCalais.

© 2014 24.com. All rights reserved.

Creating your profile will enable you to submit photos and stories to get published on News24.

This username must be unique, cannot be edited and will be used in the URL to your profile page across the entire 24.com network.

* The image you selected could not be uploaded.

Hi News addict,

Join the News24 Community to be involved in breaking the news.
