
Owner of the Saratoga Casino and Raceway in Saratoga Springs are increasing public relations efforts as they continue to push for local support to build a $300 million casino in East Greenbush, New York.

The developers of the proposed Casino at East Greenbush are stepping up their public relations and community outreach to build support for the $300 million project in Rensselaer County, New York, starting with an informational meeting tonight.

The meeting will be held from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. at Columbia High School, 962 Luther Road.

The developers will make a presentation about the proposed resort casino on Thompson Hill Road off Route 4, and then answer questions. They say the casino will create thousands of jobs and generate millions in revenue for the town, county and Capital Region.

The presentation comes just two days before the East Greenbush Town Board holds its next regularly scheduled meeting on Wednesday, May 21, at 7 p.m.

A grassroots group opposed to the casino has planned a protest for Wednesday at 6 p.m. at Town Hall.

Some town residents are upset the Town Board quietly, and unanimously, passed a resolution in support of a casino in April. Days later, the news about a possible casino in town became public. A Facebook page called No East Greenbush Casino has nearly 700 "likes."

The developers, a partnership of Saratoga Casino and Raceway and Churchill Downs Inc. , must include a resolution of support from the town board when they submit their casino license application to the state by the June 30 deadline. Up to four licenses will be awarded in three upstate regions, including Albany/Saratoga. A competing application could be submitted by developers for one or more other locations in the area, including the city of Albany.

If you are commenting using a Facebook account, your profile information may be displayed with your comment depending on your privacy settings. By leaving the 'Post to Facebook' box selected, your comment will be published to your Facebook profile in addition to the space below.
