
Share This Story!

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

The Hoosier Veterans Assistance Foundation has been awarded $55,000 from the Wounded Warrior Project, based in Florida. Funds will be used to offer services, including career and legal help, to more post-9/11 veterans. From left, Duane Sims, Gary Benge, Steve Ward, and Jonathan Smith discuss finding jobs at the foundation in November 2011. Veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan have a higher rate of unemployment than others their age. At that time, Benge and Ward worked for the state’s WorkOne centers helping veterans find employment.

More wounded vet­erans from Indiana will get expanded legal, ­career and other services thanks  to a new grant from the national Wounded Warrior Project .

The Indianapolis-based Hoosier Veterans Assistance Foundation will use its $55,000 grant to support a long-term commitment to post-9/11 wounded veterans, the group announced Monday.

The money  will allow the foundation to serve an additional 50 veterans and 25 family members. They  also will get assistance with housing, basic needs and preparation  for employment.

The foundation was one of 11 organizations ­selected from 250 applications to the Wounded Warrior Project.

The nonprofit organization, headquartered in Jacksonville, Fla., has been awarding grants for three years to groups that provide injured service members with specialized programs and services, often in remote areas of the country. Nearly 80 ­organizations nationwide have received grants.

“All of these services work hand in hand to increase a veteran’s confidence, as well as prepare him/her emotionally to ace an interview or begin a new position,”  Charles Haenlein, president and CEO of Hoosier Veterans Assistance Foundation, said  in a release.

He said a comprehensive network of commu­nity resources must be ­offered to help ensure veterans are successful and well-adjusted.

Nationwide, more than 50,000 servicemen and women have been  injured in recent military conflicts, according to the foundation. An additional  320,000 have experienced a traumatic brain injury while deployed, and as many as 400,000 addi­tional service members live with invisible war wounds, including combat-related stress and post-traumatic stress disorder.

Call Star reporter Barb Berggoetz at (317) 444-6294. Follow her on Twitter: @barb.berg.
