
Michael Frayn is known for writing clever farces, particularly Noises Off, often described as “perhaps the funniest play ever written” – but Copenhagen is very different.  And yet it still has the careful construction and flawless language needed for farce, but interwoven with physics, and laced with meaning and uncertainty.  The play tells the story, through the memory of those present, of a famous meeting in 1941 in Nazi-occupied Copenhagen between Niels Bohr and Werner Heisenberg, two of the greatest physicists of the first half of the 20th century.  The two had been close friends, and worked together extensively, each developing a revolutionary new way of looking at matter on an atomic level. The war had already soured the relationship between the two somewhat – Bohr was half Jewish, and Heisenberg was a German working with the Nazis. But something happened at the meeting that ended the friendship completely, though it was never clear exactly what was said. Frayn has constructed the play around this uncertainty, describing what happened from multiple perspectives, imagining what could have happened if things were different, explaining things, yet cleverly leaving them unresolved.

Director Bernie Cardell uses the small, intimate space very effectively, with the actors delivering monologues from far downstage, directly to the audience, yet still thoughtful and serious.  The blocking reinforces the interlacing of monologues and scenes on the sparse set.  This is not theatrical in the sense of interacting with the audience, but it is storytelling that moves deftly between staged scenes and exposition, drawing the audience into the story more and more. Part of this is the writing, but the intimacy of the space and Cardell’s direction reinforce and follow through on the concept.

Marc Graham is remarkable in the role of Heisenberg.  The role is complex – he is brilliant and arrogant, yet unsure and vulnerable at times. When he describes the reality of life during war, he seems to have a deep and visceral understanding of what that means. Wes Munsil plays Bohr initially as more thoughtful, the older, father figure.  But he later becomes agitated, moving about like an electron in orbit, and then finally realizes the parallels between Heisenberg’s choices and his own decision about playing a “small but helpful part in the deaths of 100,000 people.”  Anne Smith Myers is Margrethe, Bohr’s wife. She and Munsil capture the familiarity and affection of a long married couple, complementing each other, but still different people.  The three work well together – none dominates either of the others as actors, and the performance is well balanced.

Jeff Jesmer’s set is simple and clean, providing the basics needed for furniture, appropriate for this show. Rosemary Smith’s costumes fit the ambiguous time frame, though I expected the men’s suits to be more clearly from the 1940s.  The lighting, designed by Alexis Bond, works well for the most part, but the specials for the monologues may have been a bit tight – Myers had trouble finding them a few times – and the timing of the fades could have been tied to the action more closely.

Copenhagen is about relationships and history, woven with the fabric of physics. I had no trouble understanding the science they were describing, and my son, a freshman in college studying film (not as scientific as I am), also commented that he understood most of it, certainly enough to follow everything in the performance.

This is a play that anyone can understand and appreciate.  It is brilliantly and tightly written, well acted, and impactful. It forces us to look at ourselves, and consider what might have been, think of life from the other side.  Heisenberg loved his country, even though he knew it was in the wrong.  We connect with these characters as we watch, gaining a better understanding of what they are going through, and a better understanding of ourselves as we watch.  This is what good theater ought to do.

Tell us what you're thinking. Just like our print newspaper, you must sign your name.

If you want a pic to show with your comment, go get a gravatar !

as well as receive other site updates!

The Tribune will send you a short email every time we add content. We will do not share emails with anyone else.
