
Share This Story!

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

There's a myth that human trafficking happens in faraway places, but the truth is, it's happening right here in our own backyard and our children are the most vulnerable victims. Children as young as 12 years old are being sold for sex right here in Southwest Florida.

The statistics are a wake-up call: According to the National Human Trafficking Resource Center (NHRTC), one in three runaways is exploited for sex trafficking or pornography. Children are sold as many as 15 times per day, and the average life expectancy of a child sold for sex is seven years. NHRTC data indicates that 84 percent of human trafficking inquiries from Southwest Florida concern women and children, and 66 percent of human trafficking inquiries to NHTRC from Southwest Florida concern sex trafficking.

Manipulative traffickers target our most vulnerable children: Many were lured away from foster care, are runaways or were victims of sexual abuse as young children. It's horrific and must be stopped.

There is movement to stop sex trafficking in Southwest Florida: The Women's Fund of Southwest Florida recently invested $150,000 to establish the Southwest Florida Regional Center on Human Trafficking. The center is hosted on the campus of Florida Gulf Coast University and supports the multi-agency Human Trafficking Task Force, led by the U.S. Attorney's Office, Middle District of Florida. The center covers Lee, Collier, Charlotte, Hendry, Glades and DeSoto counties.

The broad regional representation on the Human Trafficking Task Force positions the center to address human trafficking in a coordinated manner.

In addition, the Southwest Florida Regional Center on Human Trafficking has launched a speaker's bureau and training program, and representatives from the center are available to speak to local groups and organizations as well as to coordinate training sessions. The center is currently developing a regional protocol that includes the enhancement of victim support provided by law, order and victim service agencies. The center also will develop and implement a data collection method that facilitates the coordination of services and forensic investigations on human trafficking cases. Victims of trafficking will be identified and assisted as survivors, not criminals.

As well-informed, well-intentioned citizens of our community, we need your help to expose the truth. To help spread the word about the prevalence of sex trafficking, and the various ways the public can help, The Women's Fund of Southwest Florida recently launched a public awareness campaign aimed at educating the community on the prevalence of child sex trafficking in Southwest Florida. The public service announcements are airing on local media outlets, including news-press.com. The public is encouraged to share the PSAs via social media, email or word of mouth to help raise awareness. The PSAs can also be accessed under "news & blog" at stopsextraffickingswfl.org, a new website established by The Women's Fund to educate the community on human trafficking.

We must take ownership of children in our community, and not ignore these children that attend our local schools and live in our neighborhoods. They are our children, and they need your help.

The Women's Fund invites the community to attend The SMART Party on Thursday, June 19, 5:30-7:30 p.m. at the Performing Arts Center in Bonita Springs. Proceeds from the event will support The Women's Fund programs dedicated to stopping the sale of children for sex and promoting women's economic security. For more information, visit smartparty.org/swfl/ .
