
Channing is excited to continue working in the Shenandoah Valley after spending time with TV3 Winchester as an anchor, reporter, and weather forecaster.

Follow Channing Frampton on Facebook and Twitter .

BRIDGEWATER, Va. (WHSV) -- A senior prank involving plastic forks and toilet paper has the community talking about Turner Ashby High School.

The TA Principal Steven Walk says part of what the students did is actually a good thing.

On Sunday night at Turner Ashby High School, toilet paper, hundreds of forks, and chalk were all over the place. It got the attention of Bridgewater Police, and they notified the school's leaders.

After checking on the kids, he says they agreed to keep things clean and help remove the mess Monday morning. It was no simple job, though. The students say they actually used 48 rolls of toilet paper to redecorate their campus Sunday night.

Judging by the before and after photos, they did a pretty good job of cleaning up. The principal says their willingness to cooperate and be respectful says a lot about their character.

"We hear all the time the horror stories and other situations. We feel very blessed that we have the kind of students who are respectful," shared Walk.

That's something one parent of a TA grad says the school is known for, "I'm an extreme supporter of TAHS. We've had one daughter who has gone through the program. We have been 100 percent pleased with Turner Ashby," shared Pam Estes.

As for the students who pulled off the prank, they say they're proud of what they did and glad the school was willing to work with them.

The principal says the students won't receive any disciplinary action. Turner Ashby High School seniors will graduate on Saturday, June 7.

© Copyright 2014 WHSV / Gray Television Group, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Keep it clean, keep it civil, keep it truthful, stay on topic, be responsible, no links, share your knowledge, and please suggest removal of comments that violate these standards.
