
A battle in the ongoing war for the heart of Montana’s Republican Party is being played out in Ravalli County, where an outfitter and a timber man are hoping to win a state Senate seat.

Sen. Scott Boulanger has been working hard to paint his opponent, state Rep. Pat Connell, as a Democrat in disguise.

Connell said Friday that he’s celebrating his 50th anniversary as a Republican operative.

The two candidates from the Bitterroot Valley are part of larger philosophical clash occurring throughout the country in the Republican Party, between candidates taking a no-surrender conservative slant versus a more moderate group that appears willing to compromise with those across the aisle.

During the last legislative session, that minority group of Republican senators joined with Democrats to pass some major legislation.

Considering Montana currently has a Democrat as governor, Connell said sometimes compromise is the only way that anything will get accomplished.

Connell can’t say for sure what’s caused the rift in his party. He thinks it comes, in part, from the fear of the current Washington administration and a 24-hour media that delivers mostly sound bites and very little detail.

“I can tell you that there’s no question in my party today there are an awful lot of folks who believe you have to be ultra-conservative to be a Republican,” he said. “I will tell you that the road to dictatorship is paved with political purity.

“The Republican Party that I’ve been involved with for 50 years was an amalgamation of people like Ronald Reagan, Steve Forbes and Gerald Ford. They were big-tent people who did not support exclusivity. They wanted to bring in all ideas.

Connell said he would hate to see the country move back to a point like in the 1850s where people posted signs that Irish or Catholics need not apply.

Boulanger and Connell ran against each other in 2012 for the House seat held by Connell. Connell won that race. Boulanger was later appointed to the Senate seat by the Ravalli County commissioners.

Boulanger believes the difference this time around is that voters will be able to compare voting records of the two.

Conservative groups have consistently scored Boulanger higher than Connell for votes in the last session, he said.

Boulanger said his race is one of five in Montana targeted by the “20 percenters” in the state Senate.

Boulanger said that group has a vision of expanding government, increasing taxes and hiring more state employees.

Copyright 2014 missoulian.com. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

ya got me....good call.

.... and some day I'll even be able to spell "intolerant."

Commentary and photos submitted to the Missoulian (Missoulian.com)  may be published or distributed in print, electronically or other forms.  Opinions expressed in Missoulian.com's comments reflect the opinions of the  author, and are not necessarily the opinions of the Missoulian or its parent  company. See the Terms of Service and Privacy Policy for more information.

Our guidelines prohibit the solicitation of products or  services, the impersonation of another site user, threatening or harassing  postings and the use of vulgar, abusive, obscene or sexually oriented language,  defamatory or illegal material. You may not post content that degrades others  on the basis of gender, race, class, ethnicity, national origin, religion,  sexual orientation, disability or other classification. It's fine to criticize  ideas, but ad hominem attacks on other site users are prohibited. Users who  violate those standards may lose their privileges on missoulian.com .

No short policy such as this can spell out all possible  instances of material or behavior that we might deem to be a violation of our  publishing standards, and we reserve the right to remove any material posted to  the site.

Username & Password Required!
