
FIVE survivors of a crippled American ship owed their lives to the Grimsby trawler Northern Duke.

It was in 1956 that the Pelagia was overcome by heavy seas off the Northern Norway coast.

Skippered by Billy Greene, the Northern Duke ploughed through high seas in a courageous attempt to get to the scene.

She not only made it, but picked up the six survivors.

She landed them exhausted, but forever grateful, in the Norwegian port of Harstad.

Skipper Greene was to receive the personal thanks of President Eisenhower in the shape of a gold pocket watch.

The trawler's part in the rescue attempt was acknowledged as a fine piece of seamanship even in fishermen circles.

The watch was presented to Skipper Greene on the BBC TV programme In Town Tonight when he told the story of the rescue.

Sadly, although five of the American survivors lived to tell the tale, 32 men lost their lives in the tragedy.

Ironically a few years later on July 8,  1960, the Northern Duke was involved in a tragedy of her own.

One man died and three others were injured when fire broke out aboard the vessel while she was operating off Iceland.

The crew made a courageous attempt to rescue the trapped men. That bravery was eventually rewarded when three men were awarded Royal Humane Society awards for the part they had played.

The Northern Duke had not initially been intended to fish out of Grimsby.

She was built in 1936 as payment of a German debt to Lever Brothers and went to Fleetwood where she had little success.

She was one of three vessels transferred to Hull, but she fared little better in the North Bank port. Eventually she was taken over by the Grimsby firm of H Markham Cook Ltd, and brought south of the river.

As part of the renowned Northern fleet she was to earn praise during her career.

In 1946 she was converted into the first oil-burning trawler of her kind in the country.

The switch from coal cost more than £12,000. At the time some 13 tons of coal a day were needed while the vessel was at sea so she had to carry more than 270 tons to make a trip. Oil, of course, was much less bulky.

Sadly, like many of her other Northern "sisters" the Northern Duke finished her eventful career in the breaker's yard.
