
EDINBORO -- It bothered 9-year-old Abby Walker when she saw some of her classmates keeping to themselves during recess at Edinboro Elementary School.

So when her grandmother mentioned the idea of a "buddy bench" where students could connect and look for new friends, Abby, a third-grade student, couldn't wait to tell her teachers and friends at school. The idea apparently comes from a similar bench in York created by a second-grade student there.

"They made it because there were kids who were lonely at recess," Abby said. "And we had the same problem."

Third-grade teacher Heidi Kalicky said she was immediately on board after seeing their enthusiasm for the project.

"The girls are just so compassionate and caring," Kalicky said. "They even monitor (the bench) each day to see who is using it."

Abby and three friends -- Bailey Cannon, Chloe Kiser and Katelynne Langer, all 9, -- started working on the bench in December, sacrificing their recess time to paint and agonize over how to decorate it to make it appealing to all students at the school with help from McKean Elementary School art teacher Christina Martin.

This missed having the chance to play at recess, but they were happy to make the sacrifice.

"We thought this might have been more important," Chloe said.

The girls decorated the bench by splattering paint, making a point to not choose colors that might exclude boys or girls.

Kalicky said the girls were so happy about working on the bench, they'd proudly display their paint-covered hands after recess. So far, the work seems to be paying off.

If all the anxieties and social pressures of life at school are one big game of tag, then the buddy bench is home base. It's a spot where students can stop and relax while clearly sending the message "I need a friend."

The bench was put outside earlier this month, and the group that put it together say it has been a success so far.

They said they have even seen a classmate who helped inspire the bench make new friends in the past few days and now is regularly playing with others after sitting on the buddy bench.

"It makes it seem like it works," Abby said.

SEAN McCRACKEN can be reached at 870-1714 or by e-mail. Follow him on Twitter at twitter.com/ETNmccracken.
