
The Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), USA has renewed its institutional cooperation with the Accra Institute of Technology (AIT) to enable the AIT to have access to top-class teaching and learning materials of all the courses.

Prof. Clement Dzidonu, President of AIT, said through the agreement, AIT’s faculty and students will have direct and free access to teaching and learning materials on over 2,000 courses, spanning MIT’s entire curriculum via AIT’s university campus network.

A statement issued and copied to the Ghana News Agency on Monday said the agreement was in line with AIT’s determination to offer its campus-based and open university students in Ghana and elsewhere, high quality education and professional training offered by top universities anywhere in the world.

It said as part of the cooperation, MIT has made available to AIT a specially configured system containing materials and learning resources on all MIT’s programmes, including syllabi, reading materials, lecture notes, student handouts, courseware, lessons, learning videos and lectures, exams, e-books, e-journals, e-lab resources for all MIT’s undergraduate and postgraduate degree programmes.

Mr Michael Obiri, Head of Network Systems and Services at AIT, said AIT students at any of their campuses can now have direct and free access to MIT’s top-class and quality learning resources and lecture materials on all courses being taught by world-class MIT Professors in the fields of engineering, science, architecture, management and computer science.

He said: “Our students access these extensive learning and teaching support resources on AIT’s campus network server without the need to download them over the Internet.

Mr Daniel Nettey, Head of Learning Management Systems Development Unit at AIT, noted that the agreement will help their students to have direct and free access to all learning resources on all degree programmes available to MIT’s students.

Professor Rafael Reif, President of MIT, said their mission is to advance knowledge and educate students, and bring knowledge to bear on the world’s challenges, and that, open sharing of knowledge is the purest manifestation of this mission.

Professor Francis K.A Allotey, Chairman of the AIT Board of Trustees, said AIT is privileged to be partnering with such a prestigious institution of learning to provide world-class education at an affordable cost to their students.

The AIT is a technology-focused research university, modelled on internationally recognized institutes of technologies, like the MIT and the California Institute of Technology, both ranked in the top 5 of the world ranking of universities.

The AIT operates both campus-based university and Open University systems. It offers a number of undergraduate campus-based programs as well as undergraduate and postgraduate Open University programs in various fields including engineering, computer science, information technology, business, project management, education among others.

The AIT is a leading PhD research university currently enrolling over 250 PhD students and candidates.
