
Winnebago County Sheriff’s officials say a suicidal person had to be treated for exposure after jumping from the Roland Kampo Bridge in Menasha early Sunday morning. Sheriff’s deputies and fire departments from the Town of Menasha and Neenah-Menasha were dispatched shortly before 4 a.m. The person who jumped swam to a nearby residence and was taken to a hospital to be treated for exposure.

Fond du Lac Public Works Director Jordan Skiff says the dredging of the channels at Lakeside Park won’t interfere with Walleye Weekend or any other event in the park this summer. Skiff says the contractor will have the project substantially completed by the time of the annual festival. He says materials will be removed from the channels by then. He says the piping for the materials being taking out of the channels will also be removed from the grounds for the safety of Walleye Weekend vendors and those attending the festival. Skiff says he can already see that the dredging is making a difference especially just south of the Promen Drive Bridge where dredging was done last December.

Fond du Lac Schools Superintendent Jim Sebert says the school board will likely take a look at the district’s policy regarding oversight of student publications during a workshop this summer. He says the original policy from 1988 provided that the high school principal develop guidelines for oversight of those publications, but none were in place when a controversy over an article in the Cardinal Columns cropped up. They decided to give the principal and ultimately the superintendent oversight. He says they consulted with their legal counsel about developing those guidelines. He says no matter what the board decides they do need some oversight of student publications. He says what’s published in the Cardinal Columns represents the students, the school district and is seen by students and members of the community.

(WBEV-Beaver Dam)-A fourth Republican has entered the race for the 6th Congressional District seat. U-W Oshkosh researcher Nancy Olson has announced her bid for the seat Tom Petri is retiring from.  Olson grew up on a family farm in central Wisconsin.  She has worked in the agricultural industry, as a legislative aide, and as a reporter for the Marshfield News-Herald.  Olson has been in her current job since 2011, and she lives south of Oshkosh.  She says her goals would be to boost job creation, reduce the national debt, and reign in what she calls "uncontrolled spending."  Her husband Todd Olson was killed in Iraq almost a decade ago, and she said helping families is another of her priorities.  She'll run in an August primary against three G-O-P state lawmakers -- Senators Glenn Grothman and Joe Leibham, and Representative Duey Stroebel.

Bond was recently set at $10,000 cash for a 19-year-old West Bend man charged with multiple drug offenses including delivery of heroin. Kyle Ryan was recently charged in Washington County Court. He was the subject of an investigation by the County’s Multi-Jurisdictional Drug Enforcement Group. A several week investigation and execution of a search warrant culminated in his arrest. Two others arrests were made also made. Both people were charged with lesser drug offenses. Ryan is back in court for a hearing this Wednesday.

Ripon School District officials say 985 community surveys were completed over a two week period asking the public for their input on the facility planning process. Survey results will be reported on during the School Board’s meeting at 7 p.m. tonight in Room 167 of the Ripon High School. The community is invited to attend the meeting to hear the results. The information collected will help the Board in making short and long-term facility decisions.

Fond du Lac Fire Department officials recently received word that a home sprinkler system will be installed in the Habitat for Humanity home that is being built at 141 Hamilton Place. Division Chief of Fire Prevention Troy Haase says the National Fire Sprinkler Association and J. F. Ahern are making it possible. He says J.F. Ahern is donating all the equipment and labor to install it. He says it will be a comfort to the Taylor and Sarah Schanilec family who will be living in the home when it’s complete. It’s the third Habitat home in Fond du Lac in the past three years that’s included a home sprinkler system.

North Fond du Lac village officials will be providing the manpower for the televising of village board meetings starting tonight. Village Administrator Chuck Hornung says the contract ended with the person who did the camera work for them. He says they will the camera mounted in the village board meeting and use remote control to operate it. He says one of their department heads will handle operation of the control when he’s not giving a report to the board. He says they don’t need much sophistication for the televising of the board’s meetings. North Fond du Lac Village Board meetings can be seen on Charter Cable channels 21 and 980.

City offices in the Fond du Lac City-County Government Center will be closed next Monday in observance of the Memorial Day holiday. The Municipal Service Center will also be closed for all services, including refuse and recycling collection and bulky waste drop off. There will be no refuse and recycling collection next Monday. Refuse and recycling normally collected on Monday will be collected on Tuesday, May 27th with the normal Tuesday collection. Although, yard waste and brush may still be dropped off during the holiday hours.  The Senior Center and Fond du Lac Public Library will both be closed next Monday, resuming regular hours on May 27th. City Transit Buses will not operate next Monday, but will resume regular routes on May 27th.

If you don't want people to see your email address, simply type in the URL of your favorite website or leave the field empty.

Try to be civil to your fellow readers.

Stay on topic. We want to hear your opinions and thoughts, but please only comment about the specified topic in article.

Rate the story.
