
About 3,000 families living in slums of Kalkaji and Govindpuri are set to get swanky new homes, courtesy the Delhi Development Authority's (DDA) new housing project.

After rehabilitating residents of the Kathputli Colony in the Capital, the slum dwellers of South-east Delhi are next on the land-owning agency's list.

According to DDA officials, this new housing society has been named the Kalkaji In-Situ Housing Society and is located at Govindpuri Main Road in Kalkaji Extension, near the Bhoomi-Heen Camp. The project will cost approximately ` 232 crore and is expected to be completed by the end of 2016.

"Families living in Navjeevan Camp, Bhoomi-Heen Camp and other camps will be rehabilitated to this housing project. Initially, we will be able to rehabilitate 3,000 families out of the existing 8,000 families (living in slums of Kalkaji and Govindpuri). After the completion of this project, another housing colony will come up in the area (to accommodate the remaining slum dwellers)," a DDA official told Mail Today.

The housing project will be built on about 30,000 square metre area and will consist of 3,024 flats. The housing buildings will have 14 floors and a lift will be fitted in each building. Twenty-four of these flats will be reserved for DDA officials.

Each flat will be a one-bedroom set flat - comprising a bedroom, a sitting room, a toilet, a kitchen and a balcony - and will be constructed onan area of 37 square metre.

In addition, there will be a community centre, places of worship, playground for children among other facilities.

"The construction work has already begun and we are hopeful that by early 2017, families will be able to move into these apartments. In addition to the flats, the complex will have a community centre, places to worship, playground and parking facility. It will also have a rain-water harvesting system to manage water shortage during the summer months," the official added.

According to the sources, the land-owning agency had got the project land vacated in 2013 but it took them a year to get all the necessary clearance certificates, including the fire safety clearance certificate.

The authority has outsourced the construction of these flats to ERA Infra Engineering Group.

Meanwhile, DDA officials said the planning department will soon start the process of shortlisting people for the 3,000 flats. The screening process will be at the discretion of the DDA and is yet to be decided upon.

While people in the area are excited about getting these proposed new homes, they are clueless as to whether they will make it to the list of the first 3,000 families.
