
AN ALASKAN child abuse victim who was severely beaten and endured maggot-infested wounds while in care has won a US$1 million ($1.067 million) settlement from social services.

Thomas Joseph White, 20, was awarded the sum as a result of an Office of Child Services decision to place him with Sherry and Patrick Kelley, in spite of concerns voiced by his relatives, the Anchorage Daily News reports .

The Kelleys served prison sentences of 17 months each, beginning in 2004, for their ill treatment of Mr White over a three-year period from 2000 to 2004.

Although child protection was aware of problems with White’s drug-addicted mother as early as 1993, he was not removed from her until 1999, when he was placed with his great aunt. In July 2000, he was reunited with his stepbrother and two stepsisters in the Kelley’s anchorage home. They adopted him in December, receiving US$3,400 a month in adoption subsidies for the four children. Things were reportedly happy at first, before a sudden change saw the children deprived of furniture and  locked in their rooms. “Us kids thought it was our fault,” Mr White said.

Mr White’s aunt Betsy Golan made an unannounced visit from Florida in 2001 and expressed concern about the childrens’ conditions.

Insisting on seeing how the children lived, Golan said that when she and her police officer husband entered the house they saw locks on the outside of the children’s doors and a bucket in the corner of their rooms, which acted as a toilet.

Ms Golan and her husband say they contacted Alaska’s Division of Family and Youth Services but no action was taken. The DFYS they have no record of a complaint being made.

In May 2001, the Kelleys moved to a remote area of Alaska near Big Lake, near Sherry’s parents, and put the children to work on the land.

The children were made to sleep outside in freezing temperatures, with the protection only of a tarpaulin. Mr White accidentally set himself on fire one night using a kerosene lamp, suffering third degree burns. He bears scars from his shins to his torso.

The Kelleys refused to seek professional treatment, keeping his wounds clean by painfully rubbing alcohol on them. Regardless, Mr White ended up with maggots infesting his wounds, which the Kelleys used a bristle brush to remove.

Mr White also later lost part of a finger to frostbite, from wearing a glove with a hole in it while stacking firewood.

Mr White says Sherry’s parents did not intervene until 2004, when they called the police. Sherry panicked and attempted to flee with Mr White, but eventually returned to the compound where she was arrested.

Mr White spent the next three weeks in the hospital, undergoing skin grafts and treatment for malnourishment.

Patrick and Sherry Kelley faced 92 counts of abuse, neglect, kidnapping and child endangerment. The charges were reduced in a plea deal to felony assault and criminal non-support against Sherry and felony child endangerment against Patrick.

Despite the settlement payment, the Office of Child Services will admit no wrongdoing.

“The only lesson to be learned was that OCS does not have a crystal ball that will perfectly predict the future,” wrote Director Christy Lawton in an email to the Anchorage Daily News. She does believe the system has improved since 2006, although not directly as a result of the Kelley case. Workers remain overloaded, however, with an average of 20 families each when the target is 12, she said.

Mr White was fostered at age 12, and eventually adopted at 16. He managed to graduate high school in 2012, in spite of being barely able to read when rescued from the Kelleys.

After paying for lawyers and costs associated with bringing the case, Mr White said he will end up with around US$600,000 from his settlement. “I don’t want to waste this money,” he said. Most will be held in a bank trust and dispensed at key moments, he said, including at ages 25 and 30, and if he buys a house.
