
Last Modified: Sunday, May 18, 2014 at 8:20 p.m.

OCALA | In her Haitian village, Deline Louigene had kept the giant tumor in her mouth shrouded with a cloth.

Now, she was resting in a hospital nearly a thousand miles from her home. A missionary had found her, a church in Florida had raised money to bring her here, and a surgeon stood ready to help.

The mass behind the shroud had grown to the size of a softball, preventing the 34-year-old mother of four from eating and forcing her to speak in a mumbled whimper. Only soup broth and liquids nourished her. Without help, the tumor soon would have blocked her airway and she would have died.

It hadn't always been this way. Louigene's unblemished face glowed in her wedding photo from 2004. Then, about five years ago, the tumor started to grow.

As the mass swelled, she sought help at the closest clinic, but she didn't have the money to pay. A few neighbors advised her to visit the voodoo priest, but her Christian faith wouldn't allow it.

She withdrew, not wanting to be seen in public.

Then, by a twist of fate, she found herself in early April in a room at Halifax Health Medical Center in Daytona Beach.

One of her caregivers pulled back a towel covering the tumor. The pink mass consumed Louigene's jaw, stretching her mouth wide open. A few white teeth protruded from the fleshy ball.

As a nurse popped in for a routine check, Louigene's face showed no sign of worry. No, Louigene said, she wasn't afraid.

"In the name of Jesus, I am not," Louigene said through a translator in her native Creole.

Louigene's journey to America for a lifesaving operation started with her encounter with Marie Dagis, a Haitian missionary from West Palm Beach.

Louigene's husband, Jonel, had asked Dagis to come see his ailing wife and pray with them. They lived in a remote mountain village called Hess, which Dagis estimated had fewer than 1,000 inhabitants.

Dagis walked into the two-room cabin where the couple lived with their two boys, ages 16 and 12, and two girls, ages 9 and 1.

They had no running water, no electricity. Louigene cooked the family's meals on a fire outside the home.

Louigene and her family worked the land as sharecroppers, growing corn, beans, sorghum and potatoes. What they didn't eat, they sold in the village market. But sometimes, Dagis said, they didn't even have enough food for themselves.

Louigene had visited a doctor in the closest city, Grand-Goave, and been turned away. "They say she doesn't have enough money for them to do anything for her," Dagis said through a translator. "She just waited to die because she didn't know what to do. Nobody could look at it. She was alone. She was isolated."

Dagis thought the tumor looked curable. She tried to find a team of doctors in Haiti who could do the operation, but the waiting list was too long.

Then, she had an idea. Dagis worked with a Haitian church in Belleview that her nephew, Boaz Anglade, attended. Christ for All Church of God agreed to help and raised about $8,000 through its foundation for Louigene's travel and living expenses in the United States.

Anglade phoned around in search of medical help for Louigene. One hospital told him it would cost $40,000 to do the operation.

Then he contacted Operation Changing Lives, a Daytona Beach nonprofit organization created to perform life-altering surgeries on disadvantaged patients.

"Looking at the four kids, she did not think Louigene had to die," Anglade said, translating for Dagis. "This is something that can easily be cured. She knew that if Louigene could come here -- as long as she could come here -- she would not die."

Dr. Curtis Schalit, a maxillofacial surgeon with Florida Oral & Facial Surgical Associates, said he grew up in a poor home in a small town in Missouri.

Schalit, 45, recalled his parents not having money for braces for him and the struggles of doing without. He saw academics as a pathway to a better life.

As he built a successful practice with offices in Daytona Beach, New Smyrna Beach and Palm Coast, he began taking regular trips to the Dominican Republic to repair cleft lips and palates.

Seeing the need in their own community, he and Dr. John O. Akers started Operation Changing Lives to repair scars and deformities for those without a means to pay. The group does about 50 to 70 procedures a year,   mostly locally.

"It was horrible thinking they had to live their life that way, with no opportunity of being reconstructed," Schalit said. "It's a blessing to be able to do this."

Halifax Health and Operation Changing Lives performed Louigene's six-hour operation for free.

The tumor was not cancerous, but without intervention, Schalit estimated it would have been fatal within six months to a year because of its size. Doctors also had discovered a blood clot in Louigene's leg. That too could have proved deadly.

On April 28, Louigene left Halifax Health Medical Center after being there for 24 days. She went to Schalit's office for a follow-up visit.

The swelling had started to subside, and her lip had contracted. While once her voice was muted, now she spoke loudly.

As she waited to see the doctor, Louigene spooned yogurt into her mouth. That seemed unimaginable a few weeks earlier.

Louigene said she felt well. "Very well, very well," Louigene said through a translator. "Thank God. I feel comfortable."

Doctors want to perform a second operation on Louigene. They would remove bone from her hip and implant it in her jaw. Then her jaw would regrow, allowing for dental implants.

Dagis' husband, Delima, also spoke about his wife's intervention and the support  of the congregation and medical workers.

Reader comments posted to this article may be published in our print edition. All rights reserved. This copyrighted material may not be re-published without permission. Links are encouraged.
