
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

SPRINGFIELD — The image of Massachusetts Rep. Benjamin Swan, D-Springfield, a local leader of the Civil Rights Movement, now hangs in a place of honor at Forest Park Middle School where students have been studying his life and times for the last few months.

Swan was the guest of honor at the school on Monday at the unveiling his iconographic portrait by artist Pamela Chatterton-Purdy in recognition of his work in the fight for equal rights for minorities.

The combined social studies and art project was sparked by a class trip in November  to an Elms College art exhibit by Chatterton-Purdy, “Icons of the Civil Rights Movement.” The art installation exhibit depicted 30 Civil Rights heroes including Abraham Lincoln, Rosa Parks and President Barack Obama.

The project was the result of a collaboration between the school and Trinity Methodist Church which is located just across the street from the school and financed the field trip to Elms.

Following the visit to the exhibit, students discussed the art of iconography and studied the Civil Rights Movement . After learning about Springfield leaders involved in the movement, students brought together lessons learned in art and social studies and chose Swan as the subject for a Springfield icon in the movement.

The church commissioned Chatterton-Purdy to create the image of Swan. The Cape Cod based artist’s work used an ancient art form, often associated with religious adoration, to honor national leaders in the fight for equality.

Swan, who has represented the 11th Hampden District since 1994, is an Army veteran. He was arrested several times protesting for civil rights in the city during the summer of 1965 when he was one of the leaders of the Springfield chapter of the Congress on Racial Equality.

Check here if you do not want to receive additional email offers and information.

You are now signed up for our Breaking News newsletter. You will receive occasional emails from us as stories break.  To view and subscribe to any of our other newsletters, please click here .

© 2014 MassLive LLC. All rights reserved ( About Us ).
