
As the sun set and the wind picked up, hundreds of students approached the stage in the middle of the Woodland Community College campus, walking away from the institution as college graduates.

More than 250 students made this journey on Friday during the annual Commencement Ceremony at WCC. Wearing their caps and gowns as well as smiles, the graduating class listened to staff, faculty, and their fellow students share stories, speaking from their educational experience.

Judy Walters, interim president at WCC, introduced the ceremony by pointing out the 50 small flags displayed across the stage. Each flag represented a country that a student, staff, or faculty member was from. Walters said that even though WCC is a community college, it has a global perspective.

Walters was hired as interim president in January, serving in this position while the Yuba Community College District board searched for a new president to begin the 2014-2015 academic year. The search is nearing its end, and the four remaining candidates will soon be narrowed down to one.

Walters was thrilled to be a part of the ceremony, even though she has only been with the college a short time.

Jesse Foster, president of the Associated Students of WCC, took his turn at the podium, leaving his fellow students with several words of encouragement.

"You have struggled hard to get where you are," he said. "You woke up early and stayed up late day after day to study for that test, even though you were tired beyond the ability to think. You did it because you had been given an opportunity, one you were not about to walk away from."

Sydni Shimada, who was selected to be the student speaker, also commemorated the students on all of their hard work throughout the semesters.

"Today is the day that marks a milestone in each of our lives," she said. "Some of us will go onto furthering our education at a 4-year institution, while others may be ending a chapter in their lives and starting a whole new journey from this point forward. Regardless, we all have something in common, our drive for success."

Shimada graduated from Woodland High School in 2012, a year early, and enrolled in WCC that same year. She is transferring to UC Irvine in the fall to study criminal law and society. After she receives her bachelor's degree, she plans to enroll in law school and some day become a judge.

Melissa Moreno, an ethnic studies professor at WCC, addressed the large Spanish-speaking population in the audience, switching between both languages throughout her speech. A majority of the students at WCC are Latino, many of which, like Shimada, are first-generation college students.

Moreno was also a first-generation college student, and could relate to many of the graduates in the audience before her. She spoke of the "struggle" to succeed when you are a part of that population.

"Today, you need to continue moving forward, you particularly need to continue your educational journey in order to improve conditions in schools, society, and in low-income communities, and communities of color," Moreno said. "New graduates, you can make a difference in this struggle by continuing your educational journey and seeking new opportunities, today."

Another student who can relate to this "struggle" is class valedictorian Prajedis Orozco, who was in such disbelief of her accomplishments that she had WCC staff member, Vanessa Cuevas, pinch her during her speech.

Orozco, who left WCC with a GPA of 3.93, was not always the strongest student. Graduating from Esparto High School in 2004, Orozco's overall GPA was a low 1.86, and when she finished high school she decided that college was not for her, but things change.

During the five years following high school, Orozco had two daughters who inspired her to make that change.

"What you would think is my biggest challenge as a single mom is actually my biggest strength," she said. "They are what have kept me going when at times I felt like giving up. I have now become the person I know my daughters, sisters, and others can look up to not only for my accomplishments, but also for the mistakes I have overcome."

Orozco credits the TRiO program — which offers counseling, tutoring, and guidance — for helping her succeed at WCC. TRiO had 60 students graduate at Friday's ceremony.

Looking ahead, Orozco plans to transfer to UC Berkeley in the fall where she will be studying anthropology, another step toward her dream of becoming an archeologist.

"She is such an inspiration," Cuevas said. According to Cuevas, UC Berkeley is difficult to transfer into on its own, while the anthropology program has an acceptance rate of less than 17 percent.

The keynote speaker for the evening, Jorge Ayala, described his educational journey to becoming superintendent of the Yolo County Office of Education.

Ayala came to California from Mexico as a child. Moving to Fortuna with his family, Ayala said that there were no ESL classes in elementary school at the time, and he learned English from other students during recess.

"I was fascinated by the English language," he said. "You have to have that initiative, that desire to learn. And what drove me was learning English."

Ayala continued to describe how he "floundered" in high school until a counselor put him on the right track.

"I think counselors are such a significant piece of the system, because they do encourage you," he said. "That counselor took me under her wing."

Ayala graduated from the College of the Redwoods, a community college in Humboldt county, before transferring to Humboldt State University. He was yet another example of how a first-generation college student can succeed.

As the graduates lined up to get their diplomas, many of them have already been accepted into 4-year institutions, including Sacramento State, UC Davis, and UC Berkeley.

WCC received accreditation in 2008, making it the 110th community college in state to do so. Prior to 2008, WCC was part of the Yuba Community College District, but served as a center where students could take additional classes.

With a new president scheduled to take over in July, WCC will continue to grow in terms of community partnerships and student achievement for many years to come.

Contact Sarah Dowling at 530-406-6234.
