
We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. By continuing to browse our site, you are giving your consent for us to set cookies.

However, if you would like to, you can change your cookie settings at any time. Read our cookie policy .

Run by the Deputy News Editor for Latin America, Sandra Bernard, and Mexico’s Senior Producer Manuel Carrillo, the five-day course given by Reuters Television journalists was a great success. Covering a broad range of skills such as production, research, visualisation, story focus, logistics, video news gathering, scripting and editing for off-air presentation, the course outlined the essential elements of effective television journalism as well as touching on the areas of ethics and legal issues.

Twenty four TV journalists from major television channels in Ecuador, like Ecuavisa, Tele Amazonas, RTV Ecuador, Telerama, Andes TV, Canela TV and Reuters TV Ecuador, took part in the course. Amongst them two journalists from Ecuavisa Guayaquil who covered their own flight and accommodation costs to attend the training course in the capital Quito.

Those attending came from a wide range of professions within television journalism such as news anchors, editors, producers, cameramen and reporters.

Some of the participants reported that it was the first time such a course on television journalism had been offered in the Andean nation.

The “Making TV News” training course was specially designed and put together in accordance with the style and trends of television news in Ecuador. We developed several modules and exercises on different areas such as breaking news, camera work, editing, social networks, visual investigations, stand-ups, live reporting, lighting, logistics, natural disasters, new video technology as well as UNICEF’S Rights of the Child reporting guidelines.

Special recognition goes out to our producer in Ecuador, Cristina Munoz and Reuters TV cameraman Daniel Tapia, for their contribution in the organisation of this course.

One of the many highlights was the positive comments received by participating journalists in regards to the journalistic values of those who work at Reuters News.

We welcome comments that advance the story through relevant opinion, anecdotes, links and data. If you see a comment that you believe is irrelevant or inappropriate, you can flag it to our editors by using the report abuse links. Views expressed in the comments do not represent those of the Thomson Reuters Foundation. For more information see our Acceptable Use Policy .
