
GARY — A 12-year-old Brunswick area boy was shot in the arm Sunday afternoon, but police have not determined what kind of weapon was used, according to police.

The victim’s mother told police that her son and friends were shooting bottles with a pellet gun in an alley in the 200 block of Tompkins Street when he was wounded.

While he was being treated at an emergency room, medical personnel called police because the wound appeared too large to come from a pellet, police said.

Elderly man,

GARY — A 72-year-old Glen Park area resident was abducted at gunpoint late Sunday night by two men who took his bank card and drove to various ATMs to get cash, according to police.

Roger Johnson told police he was stopped at a traffic signal at 5th Avenue and Madison Street when two men walked up, pointed guns and demanded that he let them into his car.

After driving Johnson to the ATMs and obtaining about $200, the men drove Johnson back to near 5th and Madison and then ran from his car., police said.

GARY — Two men involved in an altercation t involving gunfire have been charged with criminal recklessness, carrying a handgun without a license and resisting law enforcement, police spokeswoman Cpl. Gabrielle King said.

James P. Clark, 26, of Indianapolis, and Clifton Spencer, 27, of Gary, were at a house party in the 3700 block of Keck Place last Wednesday night when the resident saw Spencer pull a revolver because Clark thought a woman was being too loud, police said. The resident told Spencer to put the gun away, saying there were children present.

Police said that a few minutes later, Spencer told the resident to go outside, but once there, the resident became suspicious and ran back toward his house. He told Detective Cpl. James Nielsen that he heard gunfire and later found broken glass and bullet holes at his house.

Patrolman Brandon Gildon found Clark stopped in a truck at a nearby gas station and arrested him, but Clark cursed, struggled and kicked during the arrest, according to police. They said police found Spencer walking from the scene with a revolver that contained several spent rounds.

Clark also was wanted on a warrant with $35,000 bail. Spencer, who was charged last month with possession of cocaine and carrying a gun without a license, will be held without bail, court records show.
