
Haza stopped reading and looked around at the 40 people crowded at three big tables. She had only just met them, yet they knew exactly what she was talking about. And now they were friends.

Elia Haza, left, and twin sister Eva Jimenez hold the letter Elia wrote as a girl of 8 to her parents in Cuba. They attended a reunion of Pedro Pans at Lauriol Plaza. (David Montgomery/The Washington Post).

Haza had written the letter from a group home in Miami to her parents back in Cuba. Her parents, like the parents of the others gathered at the restaurant, had made the desperate decision to send her and her twin sister, Eva, away from home in Cuba — forever, as it turned out. What became known as “Operation Pedro Pan” was one of the largest organized exoduses of minors in the Western Hemisphere, with more than 14,000 making the trip from 1960 to 1962. Parents of mostly middle-class families gambled that their children would be better off in the U.S. as Fidel Castro consolidated his revolutionary government.

The youngsters traveled unaccompanied, landing in Miami, then being scattered across the U.S. to live in group homes, with foster families, or with relatives, until their parents could join them. The sudden rupture of their childhoods, and the commencement of a completely different way of life, was deeply searing.

This group of Pedro Pans held an all-day reunion in Washington Sunday — inspired by reading the story of Juan José Valdés in the Washington Post Sunday Magazine in February. The article described how Valdés, who grew up to become the Geographer at the National Geographic Society, was haunted by scraps of memories of his life in Cuba. He resolved to return to Havana, which he had left at the age of 7, in search of his past.

The story sparked an emotional response from readers , including Susana Gomez of Arlington, a Pedro Pan who worked in Jimmy Carter’s White House and was assistant director of civil rights for the AFL-CIO, before retiring. She organized the reunion.

Susana Gomez, left, organized the Pedro Pan reunion. Eloísa Echazábal, right, also a Pedro Pan, attended from Miami, where she is a college administrator and a Pedro Pan researcher. (David Montgomery/The Washington Post).

The reunion coincided with planning for an exhibit on the Pedro Pan experience at the Smithsonian National Museum of American History,  part of the Smithsonian’s ongoing Our American Journey project on immigration. Smithsonian researchers attended the reunion to invite Pedro Pans to loan objects, photos and letters for the exhibit, tentatively scheduled for 2016. Pedro Pans also can record their stories for the project.

Despite the pain evident in her childhood letter, Haza does not regret her parents’ decision.

“They wanted their daughters to be free,” she said.

Eventually the family was reunited in the United States. And yet, as a mother herself, Haza wonders if she could have made the same decision, to send her children away.

“I don’t know if I would have had the strength,” Haza said. “To this day I can still feel the anxiety I felt as I walked up the stairway” to the airplane.

To start their reunion, Pedro Pans worshipped at St. John’s Church, where the Rev. Luis León, the rector, back row in white, is himself a Pedro Pan. (David Montgomery/The Washington Post).

Experiences vary, of course, and there are those like Emilio Cueto, who arrived in Washington at 17 and became a lawyer, who did not feel shaken by the experience.

“To me, it was an adventure,” he said.

Still, even for Cueto, the drama had its costs. His father had already died when the boy was sent to the States, but his mother chose never to leave Cuba to be with her son, because of family ties. He only managed to visit her years later, in the mid-1970s, when she was dying. He had to go on a hunger strike to pressure the Cuban government to let him in, he said.

Since then, Cueto has returned to Cuba dozens of times, frequently on research trips, making new acquaintances in his native land. He has turned his home in Washington into a kind of archive and museum to all things Cuban.

Many Pedro Pans vow never to return while the current government remains in power. Others feel the tug, especially as they grow older.

And yet, the Pedro Pans made new lives, new memories and new families in this country. While they were waiting for their parents to join them, many formed strong bonds with foster families that endure to this day.

Margarita Prats Lora, of Kensington, and Lola Prats-Kamprad, of Gaithersburg, lived in the Syracuse, N.Y., area for about four years before their parents made it out of Cuba. Their mother passed away earlier this year — but they consider their foster mother in North Syracuse another mother. They talk a couple times a month.

Their birth mother saved all the letters the girls and their two brothers, who lived with a different family, sent home during the separation.

“Every letter begins, ‘When are you going to come?’” said Prats Lora.

One thing about Syracuse was a shock: the climate.

“For two little tropical girls, our first snow was amazing,” said Prats-Kamprad.

David Montgomery joined The Washington Post in 1993. He currently writes general features and profiles for the Sunday Magazine, Sunday Style and Sunday Arts, with a focus on the Latino community and Latino arts.

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
