
Thursday evening, Competitive Power Ventures Inc. (CPV) officials met with concerned citizens, local officials, reporters and anyone else who wanted to know more about the 700-megawatt natural gas-powered electric-generating plant it proposes to build in Atkins.

Thursday, a variety of the Silver Springs, Md.-based company’s staff and consultants were on hand at Atkins Elementary School to discuss details of the project with the public. The session was a public briefing required by Virginia’s Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ) as part of the long review process for CPV’s application for an air quality permit for the Smyth project .

CPV formally filed its Prevention of Significant Deterioration permit application with the DEQ in February. However, it will be some time before a final air quality permit could be approved.

Rob Feagins with the DEQ’s Abingdon office attended the briefing and explained that it will likely be 12 to 18 months before an air quality permit could be awarded. He said the PSD application is an early step and that CPV hasn’t filed the air quality permit yet. Once it’s filed, he said, it takes about a year to review and process. The DEQ must evaluate what emissions the plant will produce, computer dispersion models, impact on the environment and CPV’s pollution control equipment. Among the potential emissions are nitrogen oxides, carbon monoxide, particulate matter, sulfuric acid, volatile organic compounds and greenhouse gases. The Air Quality Permit is the “most complex permit we do,” said Feagins, who is in his 25th year with the state agency.

While Thursday’s briefing was informal, Feagins said, the DEQ will hold a 60-day comment period with a formal public hearing that will be advertised in the newspaper and on DEQ’s website for oral comments. Individuals will also be able to submit written comments.

Gener Gotiangco, a CPV vice president, has said the air quality permit is the most critical permit needed for the project.

CPV officials have said the Smyth plant, which would be built on a 108-acre site next to Mountain Empire Industrial Park, would generate enough electricity to power 700,000 homes.

Local officials have long heralded the project for its potential impact.

During its approximate four-year construction phase, CPV officials have estimated the plant would generate $96 million for the Smyth County economy annually and support 286 jobs per year.

Once operational, CPV has projected the plant would have a total annual economic impact in Smyth County of $50 million, supporting a total of 68 jobs per year.

Over its 20-year operating life, CPV says, the power plant would have an economic impact of more than $1 billion.

Smyth County Commissioner of Revenue Jeff Richardson said CPV expects to pay $4.9 million annually in local taxes. Local tax revenue now, he said, is about $17.6 million annually. It would take two and a half of the amount of taxable equipment from every industry in the county to equal the anticipated revenue from CPV, the commissioner said.

However, the project is not supported by everyone. From the offset, CPV officials have said they want to sell the electricity to Appalachian Power Company. Directly from the plant site, CPV could connect to one of APCO’s 765-kV transmission lines. However, APCO officials have said recently they don’t need the power.

Some neighbors of the project in Atkins also have concerns about the impact on their property, air quality and other factors.

Thursday, Gotiangco said he believed many people were getting the answers to their questions and concerns. He appreciated the turnout of about 70 local officials and citizens. “It’s only to our benefit to know how the community feels,” he said.

He acknowledged “ongoing obstacles,” but said, CPV continues to be optimistic that a solution can be found that will benefit APCO, Virginia rate payers, Smyth County and Virginia.

The process to getting all the necessary permits is long, Gotiangco said, and the county’s involvement is important and a tremendous benefit to the project.

Steve Sullivan, a CPV consultant who works on the company’s projects across the country, said he’d never seen another similar project receive such community support.

Steve Price, an engineer working with CPV for an outside company, said he has worked with several energy companies and he considers CPV to be the best.

Posted in Smyth county on Monday, May 19, 2014 5:45 pm.

1 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language.

2 Don't Threaten or Abuse. Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated. AND PLEASE TURN OFF CAPS LOCK.

3 Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.

4 Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.

5 Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.

6 Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness accounts, the history behind an article.

Welcome to the discussion.

We're always interested in hearing about news in our community. Let us know what's going on!
