
ELWOOD — Community pride is on display in Elwood as its downtown undergoes a face-lift.

It began in 2009 when Ed Houlden, then the fire protection officer for the Elwood Volunteer Fire Department, told the library board the fire hall needed more space. EVFD wanted space occupied by the village library in the same building.

It was a good time to think about a new home for the library, which was located on the north side of busy state Highway 23. The location forced grownups and kids to cross the highway to get to the books and CDs.

The library was in something of a hand-me-down facility, formerly used as the village offices. The village trustees discussed a new building tailored to the needs of a library.

The village leaders thought first of a building on the east side of the Gosper County Courthouse, but the county commissioners said no.

Dawson Area Development’s Jennifer Wolf said, “We’ll see about a community development block grant.” Wolf, the executive director of DAD, secured a $350,000 grant that required a 25 percent match by the village.

Architects found a library would fit alongside the village hall on Calvert Avenue. When all the money was counted, the village had $540,000 for a brand new library.

That was in 2010 and a new library opened in July 2012.

In late 2011, a group of city officials were invited to Omaha where the village was honored as an Economic Development Certified Community.

Officials of the Nebraska Department of Economic Development said Elwood was the smallest city to ever receive this designation.

But a crisis developed when Elwood’s privately owned grocery store closed Jan. 15, 2012.

Leahann Brell, chairman of the Elwood Chamber of Commerce, met with Sharlette Schwenninger, who’d moved back to Elwood in 2009 and had become the chamber’s executive director.

“We knew Elwood had to have a grocery store for Elwood to prosper, and other people also agreed how detrimental it would be to not have one,” Brell said.

She and Schwenninger called a community meeting at the Gosper County Senior Center. The turnout was good, and was support was offered.

Jim Crandall of Holdrege and the University of Nebraska-Lincoln Extension Service was at that first meeting. He outlined how to organize a cooperative that would be community-owned. Several citizens formed a steering committee to provide leadership and sell shares in the co-op.

In the next year, the building was gutted, rewired, replumbed and refloored. New coolers were purchased, new paint and new shelving installed. It looked like a brand new grocery store in a building that was built in 1914.

So, the ceiling was painted.

“The co-op had its first annual meeting recently. We found the store had exceeded its sales projections for the first year,” Brell said.

An effort to improve the appearance of downtown Elwood dove-tailed with the grocery store campaign. After Elwood was certified as an economic development community, Dawson Area Development proposed revitalizing the business district.

Deb Jensen, DAD’s community development coordinator, helped Elwood apply for a grant from the Department of Economic Development. A grant of $350,000 was awarded and requiring a match of $117,625 from the businesses that would use the money.

Completion of the program is winding down. The commercial benefits have included energy improvements, heating, ventilation and air-conditioning, some new roofs, energy-efficient windows, gathering places for people to chat with friends, and strategically located trash cans and benches.

Any views or opinions presented below are solely those of the author and do not represent those of the Kearney Hub. We reserve the right to remove comments and or (if necessary) ban users that repeatedly fail to abide by the following rules. PLEASE NOTE: All discussions are closed automatically after 7 days.

Keep it clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language.

Disagree respectfully and stay on topic.

Don't threaten or abuse. Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated. AND PLEASE TURN OFF CAPS LOCK.

Be truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.

Be nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.

Advertising is not free. Do not use comments as a means to promote your website or business.

Be proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.

Share with us. We'd love to hear eyewitness accounts, the history behind an article.

Users will receive one warning.

Any offense thereafter will result in a ban.

© Copyright 2014, Kearney Hub , Kearney, NE. BH Media Group Holdings, Inc |  13 East 22nd Street, Kearney, NE 68848; 308-237-2152.
