
West KY Mentoring, Inc. has received a $5,000 grant from the Murray State University Office of Regional Outreach to expand its operations into other communities in the region.

WKYM Executive Director Suzy Crook said this was the third grant it had received from the MSU office. Gina Winchester, the executive director for the Office of Regional Outreach, said the goal of these grants has been to replicate the local success of the mentoring program – which was formed in 2012 to replace Big Brothers Big Sisters when that organization closed its western Kentucky operations – in other counties across MSU’s 18-county service region. She said that even when BBBS was in operation, the only chapters it had were in Murray and Hopkinsville, so the regional expansion is something that the Office of Regional Outreach and Crook have wanted for years.

Winchester said the Office of Regional Outreach has a 21-member advisory council, which is comprised of citizens throughout MSU’s 18-county service region. She said organizations could apply for grants each year by filling out an application on the office’s page on the university website, www.murraystate.edu/HeaderMenu/Administration/Outreach.aspx . She said the new grant cycle would open on July 1. Winchester said the amount of money her office is able to put toward regional projects has been significantly cut in the last few years, but they are still able to fund about 12-15 projects a year.

Winchester said the advisory council decides which projects to fund based on three main criteria. The first is that the project must be in some way related to education, regardless of the age of the citizens who will benefit. The project must also have a regional impact and not be limited to just one community. The third is that the project must be new, innovative and sustainable, she said.

Crook said the first grant WKYM received from Regional Outreach came after BBBS dissolved, so it helped WKYM get off the ground in its first year of operation under the new name. The goal of providing services elsewhere in the region was in the organization’s mission statement from the beginning, and was the reason did not name itself after Murray or Calloway County, she said. Crook said the WKYM board will meet on Tuesday to discuss exactly how to use the grant. She said she would like to put together a “vision group,” which could be a committee made up of people who have worked around the region deciding the best ways to allocate the funds.

Crook said she gets calls all the time from people around the region asking how they can bring a mentoring program to their communities. In particular, she has talked to people in McCracken, Graves and Marshall counties who are interested in starting something. She said she would try to work with anyone who approached and asked her for help, and she was hoping the word would spread about WKYM’s regional aspirations.

Crook added that WKYM was well on its way to meeting its annual fundraising goal of $35,000. She said they had about $15,000 more to go, and the organization would be raising money at least until the end of the month.

Posted in News on Monday, May 19, 2014 7:00 am.

Welcome to the discussion.

We're always interested in hearing about news in our community. Let us know what's going on!
