
A Tennessee High School student has placed in a contest challenging students to create videos about new laws.

"Middle and high school students from across Tennessee were challenged to produce three-minute videos addressing the statement "There ought to be a law..."

The contest asked students to identify an issue affecting their communities and either propose a new law or suggest taking one off the books to address the situation.

Students created videos addressing a range of topics, including environmental protection, public safety, civil rights and educational policy. The top videos not only addressed issues needing solutions, but also examined the costs and benefits of the proposal and identified possible allies or opponents of the legislation.

The top three winners in each age group will receive cash awards. The first place winners in each age division also have been invited to attend the TBA's Annual Meeting in Gatlinburg on June 13 and have their winning videos shown to leaders of the states legal community.

First place goes to Jack Tucker of Signal Mountain, who will receive a cash prize of $500 for his video "A Four Day School Week."

Second place goes to Alyssa Neuhoff of Signal Mountain, who will receive a cash prize of $300 for her video "An Idea That Could Save a Life: Bicycle Helmets."

Third place goes to Thomas Hill from Christ the King School in Nashville, who will receive a cash prize of $200 for his video "Access to Justice."

An honorable mention also was awarded to a group from the Southside Elementary School Studio in Lebanon.

First place goes to Caroline Rogers from Knoxville for her video "Ban Mountaintop Removal." Rogers will receive a cash prize of $500 for her winning video.

Second place goes to Lindsey Callis of Jackson, who was sponsored by Southside High School. She will receive a cash prize of $300 for her video "The W.E.E. Pact Furthering the Tennessee Promise."

Third place goes to Olivia Ellis of Bristol, who wins a cash prize of $200 for her video "WiFi Law."

An honorable mention also was awarded to Joseph Igoni, Faith Brown and Daniella Fisher from Lausanne Collegiate School in Memphis.

The YouTube Contest was created in 2010 to generate knowledge and interest in the law and the American judicial system among Tennessee students. It was the primary public service project of then-TBA President Sam Elliott, who made civics education a focus of his year in office. The first contest winners were named in 2011. The 2011 competition focused on Tennessee's unique history of law and liberty. The 2012 competition focused on the constitutional right of freedom of communication. The 2013 competition asked students to explore the importance of a fair and impartial judiciary.

Copyright © 2014 by WCYB. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

The views expressed are not those of this site, this station or its affiliated companies. By posting your comments you agree to accept our terms of use.

A Carter County corrections officer has been terminated amid an investigation into an assault on an inmate.

A Washington county, Virginia man was arrested this morning after drinking and driving in the parking lot of an elementary school.

Ten-year-old Noah Cordle kicked off his summer vacation by dipping his toes into the Atlantic Ocean, only to make an ancient discovery when a sharp object hit his foot.

No email address was supplied by .                                 To complete your registration on this site, please supply an address.

Please confirm or modify the email address to which you will have subscription offers sent.

For a more personalized experience, please supply the following optional information.
