
Welcome Back!

Thanks for being a frequent visitor to columbustelegram.com . You have now viewed of your FREE premium pages this 30-day period. After you have viewed FREE pages, we will ask you to purchase a subscription.

The Nebraska Emergency Management Agency said Sunday that 16 homes in Beaver Crossing were completely destroyed by the May 11 storms, with an additional 22 homes suffering "major damage."

A total of 227 homes in the Beaver Crossing area were damaged in some way, according to Linda Stewart, disaster recovery coordinator for the Great Plains United Methodist Conference. Businesses and churches also were damaged.

The village is holding a town hall meeting Monday about the storms, which sent 17 tornadoes rolling across central and southeast Nebraska on Mother's Day evening.

Members of the Nebraska Army National Guard will remain in the affected areas until Tuesday, helping local emergency management officials.

Those involved in the relief effort have requested tarps for buildings, as well as blankets and towels with washcloths. Those items can be left at the Beaver Crossing United Methodist Church.

Workers also need help repairing roofs.

Volunteers can contact the Seward County Emergency Management Office at 402-643-4722 or report to the fire hall in Beaver Crossing, on the southeast corner of Dimery and West streets in the middle of town.

Volunteers must be 19 or older, and should bring an I.D. along with sturdy shoes, long pants, gloves, a hat and sunscreen. Ear and eye protection is recommended, and volunteers should bring rakes, silage forks and hand tools if they can.

Household items such as furniture and clothes for donation can be left at Etcetera Thrift Store in Seward or New Beginnings in Crete.

Financial donations for Beaver Crossing residents can be made to The Hope Center, c/o the Village of Beaver Crossing, P.O. Box 116, Beaver Crossing, NE 68313. Money intended for the village's infrastructure can be made to the Village of Beaver Crossing, P.O. Box 116, Beaver Crossing, NE 68313.

Copyright 2014 Columbus Telegram. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Login here with a previously connected Facebook account.

Username & Password Required!
