
Frankly speaking, I’m glad that they chose the Philippines for the WEF so that the 2,500 delegates who are mostly world leaders and top business executives would be able to see for themselves what is happening in the Philippines. This is why I liked the caricature in The Star last Saturday which showed President Benigno “PNoy” Aquino, III welcoming the foreign guests, while trying to shut down the skeletons trying to get out of his closet.

I was in Plantation Bay Resort over the weekend with my whole family for our annual Avila Family weekend and my good friend, Plantation Bay owner Manny Gonzales, joined us for breakfast to exchange our views in the tourism industry. He apparently wrote his recommendations to Tourism Secretary Ramon Jimenez, but the tourism boss never bothered to answer his letter. This shows you that the Cabinet secretaries under Pres. PNoy Aquino don’t want to be advised on anything even by the people working inside the tourism industry. This is one for the ethics committee, which should chastise the tourism secretary for not responding to his letters.

Almost this week, pundits are concentrating their focus on the sorry state of our international airports… and this can only be traced to the bad mismanagement of Pres. PNoy Aquino…whom his political ally, Sen. Serge Osmeña III already tagged as an “awful manager.” If Pres. PNoy believes that he is an awful manager, just imagine what his political opponents are saying about this incompetent President.

Now back to the WEF… if there is anything going for the Philippines, the Global Gender Gap 2010 Report released its findings last week and the Philippines ranked 9th amongst nearly 200 countries in gender equity. We are the highest-ranking country on education and health among Asian countries because we finally had the Reproductive Health Law approved. But in truth, these foreign delegates don’t know that this is toothless and therefore, a useless law that cannot be implemented.

The report also states, “In terms of the Philippines, this high ranking helps illustrate the great strides Filipino women have made in society; they have a longer lifespan than men; more women than men are enrolled in colleges and universities. Many more women hold CEO positions than before in top corporations and in previously male-dominated positions like law, medicine and engineering. More women are registered to vote than men, and women make up a higher percentage in Congress than ever before.
