
[JURIST] An Egyptian court on Monday acquitted 169 Muslim Brotherhood [BBC backgrounder; JURIST news archive ] supporters on charges relating to the violence following the ouster of president Mohammed Morsi [BBC profile; JURIST news archive ] last year. The men had been charged [Reuters report] with "illegal gathering" last August but will now be released from prison. The acquittals represent a break from the pattern of mass trials of Morsi supporters resulting in convictions. Also Monday another judge convicted 62 people of involvement in last summer's violence, sentencing them up to 25 years in prison and upholding the death penalty against one. On Sunday 170 Morsi supporters were convicted [AP report] and sentenced to up to 15 years in prison.

Egyptian authorities have arrested hundreds of Morsi supporters since he was ousted last July. Last month an Egyptian judge sentenced 683 Muslim Brotherhood supporters to death [JURIST report], including the group's supreme guide, Mohamed Badie [Washington Institute backgrounder]. The judge also confirmed the death sentence of 37 of 529 Muslim Brotherhood supporters sentenced to death in March [JURIST report]. The remaining defendants' sentences were commuted to life prison.

Paper Chase is JURIST's real-time legal news service, powered by a team of 30 law student reporters and editors led by law professor Bernard Hibbitts at the University of Pittsburgh School of Law. As an educational service, Paper Chase is dedicated to presenting important legal news and materials rapidly, objectively and intelligibly in an accessible format.

JURIST is a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization dedicated to bringing objective legal news and reasoned expert analysis to the public.

JURIST cannot and does not provide legal advice.                         As such, nothing on this site is intended as legal advice. If you have a legal problem, please consult an attorney.

We wish you the best of luck with your case, but we can't help.

© Copyright JURIST Legal News and Research Services, Inc., 2013.

Please note that JURIST cannot and does not provide legal advice.

As such, nothing on this site is intended as legal advice. If you have a legal problem, please consult an attorney.
