
Monday 19 May 2014 5:13 p.m.

Prime Minister John Key will not say whether more Kiwis have been killed in drone strikes overseas.

He has also rubbished claims by a US journalist the country's spies likely provided information which led to a drone strike which killed a New Zealander.

American investigative journalist Jeremy Scahill's claim is based on files he'd seen from Edward Snowden and documented in a new book.

Kiwi Daryl Jones, a member of al-Qaida, was killed a strike in a small town in south Yemen in November last year, along with an Australian.

Mr Jones lived in Australia, but was taking part in a terrorist training camp and still has family in New Zealand.

Today Mr Key would not discuss whether a second New Zealander has been killed in a drone strike.

"I'm not going to go into all of those details and I strongly urge you don't speculate on that – I just don't comment on those particular issues," Mr Key says.

"What information I might or might not know and the information I'm prepared to divulge are completely different issues."

The only reason he is commenting on the strike that killed Mr Jones was because it was put in the public domain by Australian media, he says.

Mr Key says he and the Government Communications Security Bureau (GCSB) were unaware and didn't have any involvement in the strike which killed Mr Jones. However Mr Key is "totally comfortable" information passed on by the GCSB could be used to justify a drone strike.

He says New Zealand has previously gathered information, including Afghanistan, and passed it to the International Security Assistance Force (ISAF), but didn't know what it was used for.

"I can't rule out that [information] hasn't been used for activities undertaken by the Americans," Mr Key says.

"[But] it would be in the pursuit of trying to hold to account very bad people."

Labour leader David Cunliffe says it probably wouldn't be possible for the Prime Minister to make public operational details of what spy agencies do.

[However,] he owes the New Zealand public an explanation at a policy level about the engagement of our security services with overseas services and what the rules are," Mr Cunliffe says.

Mr Cunliffe believes no New Zealander should be spied on by a domestic spy agency unless there is a judge's warrant and he wants the same assurance from Mr Key.
