
At least nine people died and six others remained in the hospital after a van suspected of carrying illegal immigrants rolled over Tuesday night along Expressway 83's eastbound frontage road near Minnesota Road. The bodies, believed be those of illegal immigrants, remained scattered on and along the eastbound frontage road hours after a Chevrolet Astro Van rolled over several times following a traffic stop late Tuesday night.

EDINBURG — The teen driver who was fleeing authorities in April 2012 in Palmview when he crashed a minivan packed with immigrants who’d entered the country illegally pleaded guilty to nine counts of manslaughter Monday.

Wearing an orange jumpsuit and shackles, 17-year-old Junior Benjamin Rodriguez went before 430th state District Judge Israel Ramon Jr. and pleaded guilty. He’d first been charged with murder, but he accepted a plea bargain that included pleading guilty to the lesser charge of manslaughter.

On the night of the crash, Rodriguez was driving a minivan — with at least 16 people inside — eastbound along Interstate 2/Expressway 83 toward the Mission area when he was stopped by U.S. Border Patrol agents near Palmview.

Once the vehicle stopped, the man who had been leading the group — Carmelo Diaz Gopar, who is now 27 — jumped out of the van while Rodriguez fled from authorities, driving eastbound on the road until he spun out near a shopping center in the Palmview area. During the wreck, several of the passengers were thrown from the speeding vehicle.

After the wreck, authorities charged seven people — including Diaz Gopar — in federal court with human smuggling charges.

But because Rodriguez was only 15 at the time, federal authorities didn’t take the case, opting to turn it over to the Hidalgo County District Attorney’s Office.

Because of his young age, Rodriguez went through a certification hearing, and March 27, 2013, 332nd state District Judge Mario Ramirez certified him as eligible to stand trial as an adult. Shortly after certifying the teen, Ramirez formally charged him with nine counts of murder and nine counts of causing the death of an individual while evading arrest.

During Monday’s hearing, Ramon asked Rodriguez whether he understood what he was pleading to and whether he was comfortable with that choice. The teen said he did.

The guilty plea came after a plea deal between Rodriguez attorney’s Jaime Aleman and Ricardo Flores with prosecutors who agreed to lower the charge to manslaughter and that the sentence would run concurrent.

Ramon clarified during the hearing that the sentencing range that Rodriguez was looking at had changed from five to 99 years in prison to a term of two to 20 years in prison.

Rodriguez is set to be sentenced in August.

Human smugglers typically cross the Rio Grande through the rural areas of Hidalgo and Starr counties before making their way east to cities closer to Interstate 69C/Expressway 281, which is the main highway heading north out of the Upper Valley toward larger cities like San Antonio, Houston and Dallas.

Saturday, La Joya police once again pursued a vehicle loaded with 15 persons that sped off through the city streets before falling into a ditch and hitting a tree, court records show.

The individuals in the vehicle suffered minor injuries; authorities set off a manhunt and caught Santos Sanchez from El Salvador who was the driver of the vehicle. Monday, a federal judge formally charged Sanchez with human smuggling.

No one was seriously injured in that pursuit, but several pursuits in recent years have turned deadly, as in Rodriguez’s case.

Friday, a failed human smuggling attempt — in which an SUV carried more than 20 immigrants believed to have entered the country illegally — ended in a fatal rollover in La Joya after the driver tried to elude capture.

As the SUV sped away through a residential area, the driver lost control, rolling over several times. One woman died at the scene of the crash, and 16 other immigrants believed to have entered the country illegally were rushed to local hospitals for treatment.

Authorities set off a manhunt and after a few hours were able to capture the driver of the vehicle; he had run into a brushy area. The man is scheduled to be formally charged this morning in federal court.

We're always interested in hearing about news in our community. Let us know what's going on!

The contents of this website may not be reproduced without written permission from The Monitor. All rights reserved.
