
The 2014 primary has a noteworthy number of high profile Jewish candidates running for statewide offices. Some are competing against each other, which could set off a secondary battle for candidates vying for the Jewish vote.

In a move that surprised other campaigns, rabbis from two of the state’s largest Jewish congregations in Baltimore and Montgomery counties have thrown their support behind attorney general candidate Del. Jon Cardin, the nephew of U.S. Sen. Ben Cardin.

Beth Tfiloh is the largest synagogue in the Baltimore area, with 1,300 families. Wohlberg said he has known the Cardin family since Jon was seven years old.

“He is the kind of person that our state and country needs in positions of leadership. I support him in his race for attorney general,”Wohlberg said.

Rabbi Stuart Weinblatt of B’nai Tzedek Congregation in Potomac also endorsed Cardin last week. B’nai Tzedek has 630 members. Both rabbis offered personal endorsements not intended to represent their congregations.

Gubernatorial candidate Attorney General Douglas Gansler, who is Jewish, is running against Lt. Gov. Anthony Brown in the Democratic primary. Brown’s running mate, Howard County Executive Ken Ulman, is also Jewish.

Three of the four attorney general candidates are Jewish. Cardin and Montgomery County Sen. Brian Frosh will face each other this June in the Democratic primary, along with Del. Aisha Braveboy of Prince George’s County.

The winner will meet Republican Jeffrey Pritzker of Baltimore County in the November general election. Pritzker is a member of the Beth El synagogue board.

Gubernatorial candidate Del. Heather Mizeur chose an African American pastor as her running mate.

There are approximately 241,000 Jewish residents in Maryland, making up 4% of the state’s population, according to 2010 U.S. Census Bureau records . While small, the largely Democratic constituency is known for turning out the vote.

The greater Baltimore area, comprised of Baltimore County, Baltimore City and Howard County, is home to 100,000 Jewish residents, according to the Baltimore Jewish Council. That is nearly half of the state’s Jewish population – 93,400 in Baltimore County and Baltimore City where where many Orthodox Jews live and 17,000 in Howard County.

According to the Jewish Federation of Greater Washington, the latest figures available from 2003 show 113,000 Jews in Montgomery, and 7,200 in Prince Georges.

Baltimore Jewish Council Executive Director Art Abramson said the candidate’s religion won’t determine how the election turns out, rather it is about how each candidate has supported the Jewish community. He also believes name recognition is a factor.

“I would say Doug Gansler and Anthony Brown both have their support locally, but I don’t think in either case does the fact that they’re Jewish [or not] indicate a majority of the votes are going to go one way or another,” Abramson said. On the attorney general’s race, Abramson said Cardin has a well known – and important –  name throughout the state and in the Baltimore area, where the Cardins live.

In December, a high-dollar fundraiser was held for Gansler in Silver Spring. The invitation included over two dozen Jewish committee host names.

Gansler has been on the board of the Jewish Community Center for Greater Washington for the last 15 years, and last month he was featured in the Baltimore Jewish Life, where he was described as having close ties with the Baltimore Orthodox community.

Lt. Gov. Anthony Brown, wearing a white yarmulke, with members of Israel Defense Forces at a gala for Friends of the IDF in 2012.

But the former executive director of the Friends of Israel Defense Forces, a charity organization, may have summed up average voter’s sentiments the best.

“Like most Americans, I am very disappointed with Washington,” said Baltimore County resident Charlie Levine who said he is frustrated with ‘Obamacare’ and wants to see term limits for elected officials.
