
Monday's corporate espionage charges against Chinese military personnel cast a spotlight on sensitive trade battles simmering between China and the U.S. in industries such as steel and solar power.

The timing of the alleged cybersnooping coincides with the filing of dozens of U.S. company complaints targeting Chinese trade practices. At least some of the hackers under indictment allegedly sought information that could help Chinese state-owned enterprises litigate the cases, the U.S. Justice Department said.

"This development clearly creates obstacles to improving economic ties with China," said Sen. Ron Wyden (D., Ore.), chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, in a statement. "It is clear that China will go to any length and break any rule to create an unfair playing field."

The Obama administration has come under increased pressure from Congress to challenge China's trade practices under the rules of the World Trade Organization, and the U.S. business community has repeatedly sought punitive tariffs over Beijing's subsidies for Chinese firms and alleged "dumping," or flooding the U.S. market with competing products at below-market prices.

U.S. industries can petition the Commerce Department and U.S. International Trade Commission to review the trade practices of their overseas competitors for evidence of improper subsidies or dumping in ways that harm U.S. products. If the review concludes there were improper trade practices, then the U.S. government levies punitive tariffs on imports of the foreign products.

Concerns about overproduction of steel in China, where economic growth is slowing, contributed to 40 trade complaints about foreign steel imports from U.S. companies since the beginning of last year.

Cases have been filed by U.S. Steel Corp. and other domestic steelmakers, and concern steel imports ranging from Chinese prestressed concrete steel rail tie wire to South Korean pipe and tubes, and a dozen are due for a ruling this summer. Rulings have already been handed down on two cases, with one being in favor of domestic industry and the other in favor of foreign importers.

China's solar-panel industry has also been in the U.S. government's cross hairs, with U.S. solar-panel producers saying China has adjusted production by splitting up the supply chain to avoid trade penalties. The charges unveiled Monday cited evidence the Chinese hackers had allegedly sought information on a U.S. solar company involved in a trade dispute with competitors in China.

U.S. government experts and business leaders say the espionage charges may have, at least, a temporary effect on trade ties, including on Washington's efforts to negotiate better investment access in China for U.S. companies.

The charges are likely also to inflame what has already been a fraught, public back-and-forth between China and the U.S. on cybersecurity. The charges could also spell trouble for U.S. technology companies doing business in China, some of which have complained of new moves by the Chinese government to give business to local companies.

China said Monday it would suspend its participation with the U.S. in a cyberissues working group. Beijing's foreign ministry said the charges were ungrounded and absurd and called on the U.S. to halt what it called a serious violation of international norms.

"China is going to try to have people view it as a victim, try to get the U.S. to back down by pulling the plug on activities for a while," said Michael Wessel, a member of the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission, a U.S. government agency created to monitor the trade and economic relationship between the two countries.

But the longer-term toll on economic and business ties will depend on what China does in response, whether the U.S. brings more high-profile spying cases and Beijing's long-term calculation on the importance of good relations with Washington.

"If this is only the beginning, and there are a bunch of these indictments rolled out over some months, there might be a cumulative effect, although I think more on investment than on trade," said Bill Reinsch, head of the National Foreign Trade Council, which represents businesses. "As for an effect on the overall trade relationship, these things generally do not do that--there is too much at stake, particularly on the Chinese side as their growth slows, to allow these things to escalate."

A senior administration official said the U.S. is committed to expanding its economic relationship with China and that the spying charges are meant to delineate "clear and predictable rules of the road" for businesses in both countries.

Amid the industry wrangling, U.S. and Chinese officials have been working on a bilateral investment treaty, a framework that would set the rules for investing in each country in what would potentially be the biggest advance in trade ties since China's WTO admission.

The talks appeared to gain momentum nearly a year ago at a set of meetings known as the U.S.-China Strategic and Economic Dialogue.

Officials are already preparing for this year's dialogue, likely to be affected by the spying issues, business leaders said. The U.S. frequently seeks to separate spying issues, including the Edward Snowden disclosures, from commercial relations, a tactic that doesn't always work well with trading partners, especially China.

Last week, a senior U.S. official said that it is unclear where trade ties with Beijing are headed. Positive and negative signs are coming out of Beijing, and talks have been hurt by China's efforts to block a long list of industries from open investment by foreign companies, the official said.

At an international gathering Sunday, China said it wants to push, this year, toward a new free-trade zone among Pacific Rim countries, a move that would undercut U.S.-led efforts to establish a trade partnership among select Pacific countries that don't include China.

Paul Mozur contributed to this article.

Copyright ©2014 MarketWatch, Inc.  All rights reserved.

Intraday Data provided by SIX Financial Information and subject to terms of use .                 Historical and current end-of-day data provided by SIX Financial Information. Intraday data                 delayed per exchange requirements. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones & Company, Inc.                 All quotes are in local exchange time. Real time last sale data provided by NASDAQ. More                 information on NASDAQ traded symbols and their current financial status. Intraday                 data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, and 20 minutes for other exchanges. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM)                 from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. SEHK intraday data is provided by SIX Financial Information and is                 at least 60-minutes delayed. All quotes are in local exchange time.
