
Israeli air strikes launched before dawn on Tuesday killed two Palestinians and destroyed much of one of Gaza's tallest apartment and office buildings, setting off huge explosions and wounding 20 people, Palestinian health officials said.

Chinese police have arrested 38 people and busted nine factories for allegedly producing and selling contaminated chicken feet snacks, one of the country's favorite delicacies.

Mourners gathered to remember Michael Brown in an emotional service that consecrated the killing of the black 18-year-old by a white police officer as another in the long history of the civil rights movement, and implored black Americans to change their protest chants into law.

A Chinese antitrust regulator said on Tuesday that Microsoft Corp's sales of its software were not fully transparent, but that the company had expressed willingness to cooperate with an ongoing investigation.

Like an increasing number of Iranians, Mahnaz divorced after marrying young because of the pressures of a conservative society that she feels often ignores a relationship's most important ingredient: love.

"All the places where I used to train are leveled," he said. "I'm handcuffed."

UN chief Ban Ki-moon has asked India and Pakistan to resolve their issues peacefully through dialogue, against the backdrop of cancellation of foreign-secretary level talks between the two nations and continued ceasefire violations by Pakistan along border posts.

The United Arab Emirates has secretly sent warplanes on bombing raids against Islamist militias in Libya over the past week, using bases in Egypt, US officials said Monday.

Australian airlines Qantas Airways Ltd and Virgin Australia Holdings Ltd said passengers can use smartphones and tablets throughout flights from Tuesday after a regulator relaxed a ban on electronic devices on planes.

The United States on Monday said Suleiman Abu Ghaith, a son-in-law of Osama bin Laden, should spend the rest of his life in prison following his conviction on terrorism-related charges.
