
In one of the previous broadcasts of Voice of Russia's ' .RU ' - daily Runet review we're talked about Net neutrality. In this progran we are continue to discuss it on air and at  voiceofrussia.com .

We have an update in the battle for network traffic which is currently heating up in the United States. Certain parties – like major internet service providers and telecom operators – are interested in doing away with net neutrality and being able to discern traffic depending on its type or origin. This would allow companies to throttle or slow down internet connection for end users any way they see fit. Another option would be to charge either users or providers of content. And according to the latest ruling of the United States telecom regulator – the Federal Communications Commission – mobile operators and internet service providers may charge online services for giving content through their networks – in return for guaranteed traffic quality. So essentially providers can now charge for increased guaranteed throughput in cases where such deals are commercially viable – at least, in theory. In fact, the FCC has prohibited blocking or throttling traffic coming from websites which refuse to strike such deals.

United States Chief Technology Officer Todd Park previously stated that US president Barack Obama completely supported the net neutrality standard. I wonder whether this decision will be interpreted as infringement of this principle – judging by the online comments which came in the wake of the ruling, most American users, and those who support net neutrality regardless of the county, it certainly seems so. I’ve already mentioned that major internet companies, such as Google, Facebook, Netflix, Amazon, eBay, Twitter and Microsoft, have previously addressed an open letter to the FCC, in which they wrote: "According to recent news reports. the Commission intends to propose rules that would enable phone and cable Internet service providers to discriminate both technically and financially against Internet companies and to impose new tolls on them. If these reports are correct, this represents a grave threat to the Internet."

The FCC ruling gives reason to believe that such deals in the future may become commonplace. Obvious candidates for companies which would be inclined (or forced to) take the deal are streaming video providers, voice over IP companies and similar traffic-heavy services. Internet companies believe this trend will negatively impact the internet industry as it will essentially discriminate against small players, which are incapable of paying for the online “fast lane” and thus will be forced to provide services of sub-par quality while larger competitors can essentially pay their way to market domination. Think about it – if you have an option to use a service with reliable connection compared to one with worse throughput, the choice is really not that difficult. There are other concerns as well – such as censorship and internet services transferring the burden of paying internet service providers for better throughput to the end users. Meanwhile, Tom Wheeler, the Chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, has promised to use his power not to allow traffic throttling for services which do not pay for ‘better’ connectivity. We’ll see how that turns out.

We may have a similar trend brewing here in Russia. For example, last year major cellphone operators asked the government to look into activity of over the top (OTT) services, which operate by sending specialized data through internet channels. Mobile carriers complained that Skype is gaining market share in voice communications, without having a license to operate in Russia. It should be noted that revenue which mobile operators receive for data services is extremely small compared to what they make on voice calls. No resolution followed the letter – but you know what they say – where there’s smoke, there is fire.

All rights reserved.
