
The biggest selloff of Dubai stocks in nine months is failing to deter Schroders Plc and Shuaa Asset Management from seeing further gains in the world’s best-performing stock market.

The benchmark DFM General Index slumped 5.5 percent yesterday, taking its drop to 8.7 percent in the three days since MSCI Inc. named the Dubai companies it will include in its emerging-markets gauge from June 1. Stocks on the measure, the world’s third most-volatile index, traded at a peak of 19.1 times projected 12-month earnings on May 14, a 77 percent premium to developing-nation peers. The multiple fell to 17.4 yesterday.

The DFM has more than doubled in value in the past 12 months, beating 92 global benchmarks tracked by Bloomberg, on bets the MSCI upgrade would lure investors managing about $8 trillion in assets who monitor the index provider’s gauges. Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , developer of the world’s tallest skyscraper in Dubai, and Dubai Islamic Bank PJSC (DIB) were among nine United Arab Emirates companies that will join the MSCI Emerging Markets Index in the revamp.

The MSCI reclassification may attract more than $905 million to stocks in the U.A.E., the second-largest Arab economy, HSBC Holdings Plc said in a note to investors last week.

Emaar, whose shares are up 38 percent this year, slid 6.3 percent yesterday, while Dubai Islamic lost 6.2 percent, the most since Aug. 27 and trimming its 2014 rally to 33 percent. Price swings in Dubai’s gauge were the third-highest after Vietnam and Greece yesterday among 72 indexes monitored by Bloomberg. Thirty-day historical volatility climbed to a seven-month high of 30.3.

Dubai’s economy grew at the fastest pace since 2007 last year and is set to expand by an average 4.6 percent through 2015, according to government forecasts. More than 80 percent of listed companies in the emirate that have reported first-quarter results showed stronger earnings, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.

Press spacebar to pause and continue. Press esc to stop.

U.S.

U.S.

Today’s national average mortgage rates. Rates may include points.
