
Regional legislators and stakeholders are this week expected to meet in Arusha where they will deliberate strategies to attain positive socio-economic transformations and sustainable methods to contain insecurities in the region.

The two-day conference is a follow-up to a previous conference held in Bujumbura, Burundi in 2008 that focused on obstacles to peace in the Great Lakes Region.

It will be held between May 23 and 24 this year and is dubbed The East African Societies and Regional Security forum.

The meet is to be attended by an excess of 100 delegates and has been organised by multiple organisations including the East African Legislative Assembly and the African Leadership Centre (ALC) in collaboration with the Association of European Parliamentarians with Africa (AWEPA) and the GIZ East African Community program.

Chairperson of the EALA Committee on Regional Affairs and Conflict Resolution (RACR),  Abubakar Zein Abubakar and the Director of the African Leadership Centre, Dr. Fumi Olonisakin are expected to officiate the conference opening.

Detailing, EALA spokesperson Bobi Odiko said the conference will review among other things emerging security priorities, needs and challenges in the region and the feasibility of a new vision on regional security and sustainable, peaceful co-existence.

Among other areas to be addressed include the pressures of migration, persisting refugees and the IDP question, dilemma of citizenships as well as the ever-changing demographic profiles.

According to the organisers, East African Societies have transformed greatly since the transition to pluralist politics in the early to mid-1990s.

They also noted that more recently, such transformations have been enhanced by the renewed initiatives by Partner States towards providing a common framework for the building of an East African citizenry.

The conference takes place against a backdrop of increased insecurities with Al-Shabab embodying the greatest threat to peace and stability in the region.

As part of that reality, mid- last year, a group of extremist gunmen stormed the Westgate shopping mall in Nairobi, killing at least 67 people. An Al-Qaeda-group linked to the Al-Shabaab claimed responsibility for the attack, saying it was a warning to Kenya to pull its troops out of Somalia.
