
A U.S. district judge struck down Oregon's ban on same-sex marriage Monday, the seventh ruling that a state's ban is unconstitutional since the Supreme Court invalidated sections of the Defense of Marriage Act last year.

The decision came after the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals rejected a bid by the National Organization for Marriage to stay the ruling. The Oregon judge, Michael McShane, had denied NOM's effort to intervene in the case.

"Because Oregon's marriage laws discriminate on the basis of sexual orientation without a rational relationship to any legitimate government interest," he wrote, "the laws violate the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution."

He added, "I believe that if we can look for a moment past gender and sexuality, we can see in these plaintiffs nothing more or less than our own families, families who we would expect our constitution to protect, if not exalt, in equal measure."

After last year's Supreme Court decision, federal judges have overturned bans on same-sex marriage in six other states: Idaho, Michigan, Oklahoma, Texas, Utah and Virginia. Those cases are on appeal.

But in Oregon, McShane's decision to leave NOM out of the case means there is no one with standing to appeal his ruling. Oregon officials, anticipating the ruling, prepared to issue marriage licenses to same-sex couples almost immediately.

In Portland, couples lined up outside the Multnomah County clerk's office in anticipation of Monday's ruling, according to the Associated Press. Among them were Laurie Brown and Julie Engbloom, who got engaged in April on their 10th anniversary as a couple, the AP reported.

"We always knew we wanted to spend our whole life together," Brown said. "This opportunity has come. It feels right. Everything has fallen into place."

Four couples sued over the ban on same-sex marriage, and state Attorney General Ellen Rosenblum, a Democrat, said that she would not defend the decade-old law.

Oregon voters passed the constitutional amendment defining marriage as reserved for heterosexual couples in 2004 by 57 percent to 43 percent. Public opinion polls show state residents would reverse themselves: A survey conducted last week found that 58 percent of Oregon voters would support a proposed constitutional amendment to allow same-sex marriage.

Oregon was the only state to put a pro-same-sex marriage initiative on the ballot this year, although after McShane's ruling, supporters are likely to withdraw it.

In Utah on Monday, a federal judge ordered state officials to recognize more than 1,000 same-sex marriages that took place in the state before the U.S. Supreme Court issued an emergency stay. If the ruling stands after a 21-day hold the judge placed on it, the state would be required to lift its freeze on benefits requested by gay couples.

The American Civil Liberties Union filed the lawsuit in January on behalf of four couples who said the state's decision to freeze benefits for same-sex couples violated their rights.

The gay and lesbian couples married after a federal judge overturned Utah's same-sex marriage ban on Dec. 20. Those weddings came to a halt Jan. 6 when the Supreme Court granted the stay.

Utah officials argued they had no choice but to hold up benefits until an appeals court rules on same-sex marriage.

U.S. District Judge Dale Kimball disagreed in his ruling Monday, saying Utah's decision to freeze all benefits put the couples in an unacceptable legal limbo regarding adoptions, child care and custody, medical decisions and inheritance, among other things.

"These legal uncertainties and lost rights cause harm each day that the marriage is not recognized," Kimball wrote.

He stayed his ruling three weeks to give the state an opportunity to appeal to the 10th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Denver.

The conservative Sutherland Institute of Utah decried the ruling in a statement, saying it gives too much merit to a "novel ruling" by one judge.

John Mejia, legal director for the ACLU in Utah, called Monday's ruling thorough and well-reasoned, and said he expects to withstand any challenge.

The ACLU argued that the marriages performed during the 17-day window when gay marriage was legal are valid no matter what the appeals court rules.

This report includes information from the Washington Post and the Associated Press.
