
FALL RIVER — Aaron Hernandez’s recent indictments for a double homicide in Boston will probably not help Bristol County’s murder case against him, according to legal analysts.

“It will further taint the jury pool,” said Steven Sabra, a Somerset trial lawyer and host of WSAR’s Law Talk radio show.

Sabra said the indictments of Hernandez in connection to the July 2012 drive-by shooting of two Dorchester men in the South End of Boston reveals “some cooperation” between the Bristol and Suffolk county district attorneys’ offices. During a May 15 press conference to announce the indictments, Suffolk County District Attorney Daniel F. Conley thanked the Bristol County District Attorney’s State Police Detective Unit with assisting in the investigation.

Whether that means the cases could be linked, and evidence from one case introduced into the other, remains to be seen.

In general, prosecutors cannot offer evidence that casts a defendant’s character in a bad light unless the evidence is directly connected to the crime. Shortly after his arrest last year in connection to Odin Lloyd’s June 2013 murder in North Attleborough, an old photograph emerged that appeared to show Hernandez, 24, the former Patriots star tight end, holding a handgun in front of a mirror. That photograph would not be admissible at trial.

However, evidence that could suggest a related motive, or a common method or modus operandi, could theoretically be admitted from one case to another if the judge feels the evidence’s probative value outweighs its prejudice to the defendant.

Gregg Miliote, a spokesman for the Bristol County District Attorney’s Office, declined to comment on any possible connections between the Boston double homicide and the fatal shooting of Lloyd in the North Attleborough Industrial Park. Last summer, a Bristol County grand jury indicted Hernandez for murder and firearms offenses stemming from Lloyd’s slaying.

“We’ll see how their case goes, and how their case affects ours, and vice versa,” Miliote said.

“We have an obligation to our counterparts in Bristol County not to make any statements that will compromise their prosecution,” Conley told reporters during last week’s press conference.

Some media outlets have reported that Hernandez may have orchestrated Lloyd’s murder because Lloyd allegedly knew about the double homicide in Boston. In new court documents filed last week, Hernandez’s attorneys mention a security officer at Rumor nightclub in Boston who reportedly told police that a patron provided him information that linked Lloyd’s murder to the double homicide. However, there are no police reports or other official documents that identify that patron.

Page 2 of 2 - If Bristol County prosecutors were to try to argue a “nexus” between the two cases, or a common method, Hernandez’s defense team would be expected to contest any attempts to introduce evidence of the Boston case into the Lloyd trial.

“As a defense attorney, I would vigorously oppose any aspect of that case coming in,” said Gerald FitzGerald, a New Bedford defense attorney and a former Bristol County prosecutor who handled several murder cases in superior court.

J. Drew Segadelli, a Cape Cod defense lawyer who has represented several murder defendants in Bristol County, said he did not think the Suffolk County case will have any bearing on Hernandez’s case in Bristol County.

Suffolk County prosecutors allege that Hernandez, driving an SUV in July 2012, pulled up alongside the victim’s vehicle at a stop light in Boston and fired several rounds from a .38-caliber revolver. Conley said Hernandez “ambushed” and “executed” the men after a “chance encounter” with them inside a nearby Boston nightclub.

In the Bristol County case, prosecutors alleged Hernandez “orchestrated” the murder of Lloyd, 27, who was shot five times with a .45-caliber handgun. The murder weapon has not been discovered. Hernandez’s two alleged accomplices — Carlos Ortiz, 27, of Bristol, Connecticut, and Ernest Wallace, 45, of Miramar, Florida — have also been charged with Lloyd’s murder.

Conley said he expected the Bristol County case to reach trial first. As defense attorneys, Segadelli and FitzGerald said they would be worried about the negative media coverage tainting prospective jurors.

“He has a right to a fair trial. He has a right to an untainted jury pool to the extent it can be reasonably accomplished,” FitzGerald said, adding that it will be interesting to see if Hernandez’s lawyers request a similar gag order in Suffolk County that they asked for, and obtained, in Bristol County.

Sabra said he expects Superior Court Judge E. Susan Garsh to strictly enforce the rules of evidence in Hernandez’s Bristol County case.

Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.

Your privacy is important, read our privacy policy.

Original content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted.
