
SCOTTISH  researchers are hoping to develop a cure for a disease which kills hundreds of thousands of people around the world each year.

Fifty years after an outbreak of typhoid struck Aberdeen, scientists in the city are spearheading work to identify the molecules which could help kill off the disease.

They eventually hope this will lead to new drugs to treat typhoid, which still affects millions of people in developing countries with poor sanitation.

On 20th May 1964, the first cases of typhoid were discovered in Aberdeen in what was set to become the biggest outbreak of the infection in recent British history.

It led to more than 500 people being quarantined in hospital and fears across the country of many deaths. However, the outbreak passed without a single fatality.

An investigation traced the source back to a single large tin of Argentinean corned beef sliced and sold by a supermarket.

While cases of patients being diagnosed with typhoid are now rare in developed countries, it still claims the lives of over 200,000 people around the world each year.

Aberdeen University is now hoping its work could help reduce this deadly toll and lead to the development of new treatments.

The work is being led by Dr Stefania Spanò, who joined the university from Yale in the United States at the end of last year.

The research will focus on how the infections defences can be broken down, allowing drugs to destroy it before it can kill.

Dr Spanò said: “To many, it may seem that typhoid is almost a historical disease.  But in developing countries where poor sanitation is a concern, it continues to kill hundreds of thousands of people each year, with 26 million new cases being diagnosed annually.

“Our work here in Aberdeen is seeking to identify what remains elusive – the molecules that have the ability to kill the pathogenic bacteria, Salmonella Typhi, which causes the infection.

“It is just one in over 2,000 types of Salmonella bacteria, but among the least understood.

Unlike most bacteria that are harmless and killed off by cells within the body called macrophages, pathogenic bacteria like Salmonella Typhi cause potentially deadly infections and can survive within these cells.

Dr Spanò added: “Typhoid is an infection that is unique to humans.

“We know that, unlike us, animals host macrophages within their bodies that have the ability to fight it.

Work already carried out by the researcher at Yale in the laboratory of Dr Jorge Galán has identified two molecules that are key to the process by which Salmonella Typhi is killed off in animals.

Dr Spanò said the movement of molecules was critical to many processes that happen within the body’s cells, including the removal or killing of bacteria.

“Two molecules that are part of the transport process that occurs when Salmonella Typhi is destroyed have already been identified,” she said.

© 2014 Johnston Publishing Ltd.

This website and its associated newspaper adheres to the Press Complaints Commission’s Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion, then contact the Editor by clicking here .

If you remain dissatisfied with the response provided then you can contact the PCC by clicking here .

The Scotsman provides news, events and sport features from the Edinburgh area. For the best up to date information relating to Edinburgh and the surrounding areas visit us at The Scotsman regularly or bookmark this page.

For you to enjoy all the features of this website The Scotsman requires permission to use cookies.

Cookies are small data files which are sent to your browser (Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome etc) from a website you visit. They are stored on your electronic device.

This is a type of cookie which is collected by Adobe Flash media player (it is also called a Local Shared Object) - a piece of software you may already have on your electronic device to help you watch online videos and listen to podcasts.

Yes there are a number of options available, you can set your browser either to reject all cookies, to allow only "trusted" sites to set them, or to only accept them from the site you are currently on.

However, please note - if you block/delete all cookies, some features of our websites, such as remembering your login details, or the site branding for your local newspaper may not function as a result.

A tool used by some of our advertisers to target adverts to you based on pages you have visited in the past. To opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

Our sites contain advertising from Google; these use cookies to ensure you get adverts relevant to you. You can tailor the type of ads you receive by visiting here or to opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

This is used to help us identify unique visitors to our websites. This data is anonymous and we cannot use this to uniquely identify individuals and their usage of the sites.

This comes from our ad serving technology and is used to track how many times you have seen a particular ad on our sites, so that you don't just see one advert but an even spread. This information is not used by us for any other type of audience recording or monitoring.

ComScore monitor and externally verify our site traffic data for use within the advertising industry. Any data collected is anonymous statistical data and cannot be traced back to an individual.

Our Classified websites (Photos, Motors, Jobs and Property Today) use cookies to ensure you get the correct local newspaper branding and content when you visit them. These cookies store no personally identifiable information.

We use Grapeshot as a contextual targeting technology, allowing us to create custom groups of stories outside out of our usual site navigation. Grapeshot stores the categories of story you have been exposed to. Their privacy policy and opt out option can be accessed here.

Our partner for Newspaper subscriptions online stores data from the forms you complete in these to increase the usability of the site and enhance user experience.

Add This provides the social networking widget found in many of our pages. This widget gives you the tools to bookmark our websites, blog, share, tweet and email our content to a friend.

We use Advertising agencies to provide us with some of the advertising on our websites. These include (but are not limited to) Specific Media, The Rubicon Project, AdJug, AdConion, Context Web. Please click on the provider name to visit their opt-out page.
