
Measure your success by your own values, not by how others view you, Jeff Steinhart told graduates of Missouri University of Science and Technology during commencement ceremonies at Missouri S&T on Friday, May 16, and Saturday, May 17.

Measure your success by your own values, not by how others view you, Jeff Steinhart told graduates of Missouri University of Science and Technology during commencement ceremonies at Missouri S&T on Friday, May 16, and Saturday, May 17.

In his commencement address, Steinhart, retired vice president of engineering and environmental affairs for Anheuser-Busch Inc. and a 1979 engineering management graduate of University of Missouri-Rolla (now known as Missouri S&T), discussed his career and shared some of the key principles he learned as a student that allowed him to advance.

“Ask questions, listen to the answers, seek out a mentor, gain people’s respect and be action-oriented versus passive,” Steinhart told the graduates. “Remember, each of you is responsible for taking the necessary actions to advance your careers.

During commencement, Steinhart was awarded the doctor of engineering, honoris causa. He also holds a master of business administration degree from Southern Illinois University.

In 1982, Steinhart joined Anheuser-Busch, where he worked in the corporate engineering organization for the next 28 years.

In 2000, he was promoted to the position of vice president of engineering and environmental affairs for Anheuser-Busch.

Steinhart retired from Anheuser-Busch in 2009. In 2003, UMR (now known as S&T) awarded Steinhart with a professional degree in engineering management.

In 2007, he was named an Honorary Knight of St. Patrick and received the Miner Alumni Association’s Alumni Merit Award for his service to the university.

A current member and past president of the Missouri S&T Board of Trustees, Steinhart is president of the Academy of Engineering Management and a member of the Order of the Golden Shillelagh donor recognition society and Tau Kappa Epsilon fraternity.

Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.

Your privacy is important, read our privacy policy.

Original content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted.
