
Banda Aceh. Police in Aceh have arrested more suspects, including two police officers, for their alleged involvement in the March shooting of a politician from the Aceh National Party, or PNA.

Aceh Police Chief Insp. Gen. Husein Samidi said on Monday that the authorities had arrested eight people in total, including two serving police officers.

“Brig. Husaini, 32, was the one who gunned down the victim while Brig. Alhadi, 27, was involved in planning the shooting of the victim,” Husein said at a press conference in Banda Aceh.

The investigating, which comprises officials from the local police and Densus 88, the National Police’s counterterrorism unit, has also arrested six civilians, including Tengku Ahmad Barnawi, 44, a teacher at the Al-Mujahadah Islamic boarding school in Sawang, South Aceh district.

Barnawi allegedly ordered the killing of 35-year-old Faisal, a legislative candidate from the PNA, in the Ginting Mancang area of South Aceh on March 2. The politician was heading home when he was attacked by gunmen on an isolated stretch of road through the hills between Labuhan Haji and Sawang.

Other suspects have been identified as Muhammad Yahya, 38; Usman, 29; Nasir, 35; Rifki, 34; and Ibnu Sina, 22. They were allegedly assigned to keep track of the victim during his travels that evening as well as monitor his house and stash the weapons after they were used.

“The shooting was triggered by personal revenge, because the victim led a demonstration and raided Barnawi’s Koran recital center,” Husein said.

“So the shooting had nothing to do with politics, it just so happened that the victim was running as a legislative candidate for the National Aceh Party and the shooting happened at around the same time as the campaign period,” the police chief said.

The local branch of the Indonesian Council of Ulema, or MUI, had last year declared Barnawi’s Islamic teachings heretic and blasphemous, and ordered him to end all religious activities at his school, although he resumed shortly after in secrecy.

The resumption of the activities incited the ire of local residents, who held a protest and raided the premises, led by the PNA’s Faisal.

Barnawi told the Globe last year that the accusation against his teachings was groundless.

Faisal was gunned down while driving his car, which police found riddled with 42 gunshots. The killing was one of several violent incidents linked to political rivalry between the various local parties in Aceh.

Subscribe to our newsletter to get a briefing on the day's top stories, photos and more.
