
Planning is well underway for one of the longer natural gas pipeline projects in recent history in Nebraska.

Black Hills Energy invited landowners along the route to open houses earlier this month in Bancroft and Norfolk, which will serve as the starting and ending point for the 50-mile pipeline.

“We had nearly 70 landowners attend and many of them wanted to learn more about options for using natural gas for agriculture operations or residential use,’’ Jeff Sylvester, vice president for gas operations in Nebraska, said.

Most of the underground line will be north of and parallel to Highways 51 and 275.

The company said the cost hasn’t been determined yet. New pipeline typically costs between $450,000 and $700,000 per mile, which means a total price tag of $22.5 million to $35 million.

The line will supply natural gas to, among others, Houston-based Tejas Tubular Products, which will build a plant next year near Nucor Steel.

In addition, the Nebraska Department of Economic Development will invest $1.4 million in the project and Tejas Tubular plans to apply for state incentives under the Nebraska Advantage Act, according to Gov. Dave Heineman’s office.

The new gas line will connect to the Northern Natural Gas interstate pipeline, allowing the area to receive gas from multiple pipelines and easing the capacity bottleneck at Norfolk.

Information on the company’s web site said construction is expected to begin as soon as weather permits in the spring of 2015. Gas should be flowing by November 2015. Whether a 6-inch or an 8-inch line will be installed hasn’t been decided yet.

Easements from landowners are being negotiated for 20 feet on each side of the line plus 35 feet of temporary easement during construction.

Black Hills said the goal is to bury the line to depth of five feet. The company will work with the counties to assure a 3-foot minimum under the bottom of a ditch and to bury the line at least 10 feet under a creek bed.

  The carbon steel line will have an epoxy coating on the pipe and joints. Three or four regulator values will be installed along the line and be monitored by the company’s load control group in Papillion.

  Also working on the project are Olsson Associates, JCG Land Services and Midwest Right of Way Services.

Black Hills said there will be no immediate impact on existing gas rates. A significant portion of the recovery of the cost of the Northeast Nebraska Line will come from larger natural gas customers, which have contracts with Black Hills.

In the Lincoln area, the company has been working on the Northwest Loop Project. Installed last summer was a new line that increased gas availability and reliability to  Lincoln customers and provides additional capacity for growth.

© 2014 The Norfolk Daily News . All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

4 Be Truthful.

5 Be Nice.
