
The territory’s top financial official dismisses the suggestion that there will be new reins on the use of China UnionPay cards here in July, stressing that the government will step up the rules if needed though.

The comments from Secretary for Economy and Finance Francis Tam Pak Yuen follow in the wake of a Reuters agency report that the Macau administration is urging local banks to restrict the use of the Chinese state-backed bank cards at shops located on casino gaming floors.

Mr Tam said yesterday on the sidelines of an event receiving the Portuguese President that the government has paid attention to the recent reports of mainland gamblers cashing in tens of billions here using the cards in contravention of national currency controls.

“We have always had measures ready [regarding the UnionPay cards] were there such a need,” said Mr Tam. “But at this moment we’ve not reached the step of issuing clear guidelines to stop some activities at a certain date.” The government is “closely monitoring” the situation and “will strengthen supervision if needed”, the secretary added.

In the past two weeks, it has been reported that China UnionPay Co would introduce more measures to curb the funnelling of funds into Macau. Reuters report that UnionPay transactions from shops inside or near casinos here last year totalled 180 billion patacas (US$22.5 billion) or half of the 360.75 billion of the Macau gross gaming revenue last year.

Mainlanders are only allowed to take up to 20,000 yuan (25,913 patacas) in cash over the mainland border each day but some get around this cap to gamble in Macau by pretending to purchase luxury items using UnionPay cards.

Reuters reported on Friday that the Monetary Authority of Macau had said in a meeting on May 9 with local banks that it would lay out guidelines to restrict UnionPay card usage at shops selling luxury items like jewellery on casino floors. The measures will come into force on July 1, the agency said.

Mr Tam responded yesterday that it is difficult to say all shops on casino floors conduct illegal practices.

But Macau has been stepping up raiding the illegal use of handheld UnionPay card swiping machines. Macau Judiciary Police said on Friday that they had arrested two mainlanders illegally using the swipe card devices to help gamblers cash in 140 million patacas since May last year.
