
If you aren’t investing beyond America’s borders, you’re missing out on some spectacular opportunities.

Take Asia, for example.

Home to 4.2 billion people—60% of the world’s population—Asia generates $18.5 trillion a year and keeps its workforce busy with a low 3.8% unemployment rate.

Last year, Asia’s overall GDP grew 7.9%, compared to just 3.6% for the U.S.

Now consider this: Today, Asia has as many millionaires as the U.S.—and it’s cranking out new ones much more quickly.

With numbers like these, I’m sure you can see why I firmly believe that savvy investors can no longer afford to stay away from Asia.

But don’t just take my word for it. Ask Warren Buffett.

In 2008, Buffett made a 500% gain by investing in BYD Company (SEHK: 1211), an electric car factory in China. He made over $1 billion in less than a year—one of his biggest short-term gains to date. Buffett continues to invest in this and other China-based holdings.

Japan has been posting attractive numbers lately. In 2013, the Nikkei 225 index rose over 60%—the biggest gain of any major stock market in the world.

South Korea is home to what’s known as the “Miracle on the Han River,” which refers to the country’s unprecedented growth after the Korean War. Its economy surged from $30 billion in GDP in 1960 to a whopping $1.1 trillion in 2012.

Other Asian countries are following right behind, like India, Hong Kong and Singapore.

 The bottom line? It’s time to acknowledge the fact that all smart investors need to get a foot in the door of the Asian economy. The next 20 years will be a period of historic growth, with significant gains in exports and GDP, while the U.S. faces a slower and slower recovery.

Still, investing directly in Asian countries can be complicated. Breaking news is often unavailable in English, currencies can be volatile and foreign capital gains taxes can be confusing.

But I have great news for you: there’s an easy solution to these complications.

I’ve discovered a place where U.S. investors can tap into the incredible profits of the Pan-Asian Pacific without having to learn another language or exchange strange-sounding currencies.

It’s a place with steady growth, a solid economy and unique access to Asia. It’s English-speaking, but it’s a long way from the U.S.

This country’s stocks are considered the world’s most profitable. Its stock exchange has remained strong for 110 years. Its equity market is the eighth-largest in the world.

The World Economic Forum says this country has the fifth-safest banking system in the world (the U.S. is #80).

This country has become the world’s largest coal exporter. It’s also a major exporter of oil and liquefied natural gas (LNG), as well as minerals, precious metals and uranium.

Best of all, it’s a country that gives you all the riches of Asia but is stable enough to guarantee the safety of your money.

This country is Australia.

You don’t hear much about it in the U.S., but Australia is hands-down your best investment play on Asian development.

The country’s gifts are almost too many to count, but it all boils down to this: it’s sitting in Asia’s backyard; it’s well established; and it’s not subject to the ups and downs most Asian countries experience.

What’s more, it cranks out a bounty of natural resources, crops and other goods—from wine and spirits to the latest electronic gadgets—that its ever-wealthier neighbors are falling all over themselves to buy.

Take coal.

Despite big investments in nuclear power, China still burns more coal than anywhere else in the world—and demand is growing. According to research firm Wood Mackenzie, Chinese coal use will rise from 1.5 billion metric tons a year today to nearly 2.1 billion by 2030. In comparison, the U.S., the world’s second-largest coal market, consumes only 1 billion metric tons a year.

And China is buying its coal from Australia.

Meanwhile, Japan has always relied on imports for its energy. It has next to none of its own, and it’s willing to pay a premium for a steady stream of coal, LNG and oil. The Fukushima nuclear disaster has made it a matter of national urgency.

Japan is the world’s largest LNG consumer, and it buys 37% of global supplies. It’s also the world’s second-largest coal importer.

Japan’s trillion-yen orders are paid to Australia.

But that’s not all.

This breakthrough comes on the heels of similar deals with Hong Kong just a few months ago—and others are expected with China and Japan in the next 10 months.

These deals are precisely why I’m writing you today: to give you a chance to get in prime position now, before they kick in and send a select group of Australian stocks soaring.

The best news? I’ve put together a brand new special report that helps you do just that.

This one-of-a-kind report reveals 6 stocks with direct exposure to 3 rising Asian countries: China, Japan and South Korea. It gives you everything you need to know about these 6 exciting picks: names, stock symbols, a complete breakdown of their operations and more.

Best of all, it’s yours free just for taking a no-risk, no-hassle trial to my Australian Edge advisory. This special deal gives you our complete service for 3 full months. You get monthly issues; two portfolios (one conservative and one aggressive) packed with my very best Aussie picks; access to our members-only website; and much more.

But you have to act fast. Due to the time-sensitive opportunities in this report, we’re only keeping this offer open for a limited time.

Discover what these—and many more—investors already know about the profits waiting to be made in the Land Down Under. We can’t wait to help you get started. Take the first step by clicking here now .

Our Stock Talk section is reserved for productive dialogue pertaining to the content and portfolio recommendations of this service. We reserve the right to remove any comments we feel do not benefit other readers. If you have a general investment comment not related to this article, please post to our Stock Talk page . If you have a personal question about your subscription or need technical help, please contact our customer service team . And if you have any success stories to share with our analysts, they’re always happy to hear them. Note that we may use your kind words in our promotional materials. Thank you.

* Investing Daily will use any information you provide in a manner consistent with our Privacy Policy . Your email address is used for account verification and will remain private.

David Dittman is chief investment strategist of Australian Edge , Canadian Edge and Utility Forecaster . David's valuable contributions on economic, regulatory and legislative changes help subscribers make informed decisions about investing in high-dividend-paying Australian and Canadian companies.

He also serves as an investment analyst at Personal Finance , Investing Daily's flagship newsletter.

David authors the companion to Canadian Edge, Maple Leaf Memo, which provides regular commentary on and analysis of macroeconomics, geopolitics, global trade, central banking, domestic politics and other issues related to investing in the Great White North. He also writes a weekly supplement for Australian Edge, Down Under Digest.

David is co-author of The Rise of the State: Profitable Investing and Geopolitics in the 21st Century, which was published in August 2010 by FT Press. He also edited The Silk Road to Riches: How You Can Profit by Investing in Asia’s Newfound Prosperity, which was published in 2006 by FT Press.

David is a reformed lawyer with a juris doctor from Villanova University School of Law. He’s also a former stockbroker who worked the fixed-income desk for a two-man team managing more than $100 million in assets.

He earned his undergraduate degree from the University of California, San Diego, where his interest in the changing nature of the global economy was shaped during courses with the esteemed Asia scholar Chalmers Johnson and on periodic visits across the border to Tijuana.

One of the most important events in David’s investing career was reading Benjamin Graham’s The Intelligent Investor. He uses Graham and Dodd’s Security Analysis mainly for reference purposes now but used to try to read it straight through.

Copyright © 2014 Investing Daily, a division of Capitol Information Group, Inc. All rights reserved.
