
The infamous anti-royalist Sam Bracanov has made headlines again - this time throwing mud at a New Zealand MP outside an Auckland court.

The 78-year-old is no stranger to controversy as he was arrested for planning to throw horse manure on the Prince of Wales and Duchess of Cornwall during their visit to New Zealand in 2012.

Despite the criminal conviction and being fined $184 over the incident last year, there was nothing stopping the pensioner on Monday.

But before he entered the court house, a disgruntled Brancanov dressed in purple, yelled out to the politician.

'John! You bastard,' he said before he emptied a bucket of mud over Banks who was dressed in a suit.

'You stole my $8000!'

Banks was given time to change and later returned to face his trial in a new suit.

The MP is charged with knowingly filing a false electoral return after his failed 2010 Auckland mayoral bid, One News reported.

The crown alleges that Banks declared $65,000 in donations from Internet entrepreneur Kim Dotcom and Auckland casino SkyCity as anonymous gifts.

MailOnline reported in 2012 that Bracanov was ordered to stay away from the Prince of Wales and Duchess of Cornwall after planning to throw manure at them on their visit to New Zealand.

He was arrested in Auckland less than an hour before the royals arrived in November.

The elderly man was told to stay at least 500 metres from the couple as part of his bail.

Sitting outside the courthouse, Bracanov admitted he would have thrown the manure at Charles and Camilla if he had not been arrested.

'I make it liquid like porridge,' he told reporters. 'I would have done it. I was going to mix it with water, stir it around and make it easy to throw and then throw it at them.

'Royalty smells, so what difference does it make if I hit them?'

Bracanov was also previously convicted and fined for spraying air fresheners at Prince Charles to 'remove the stink of royalty' during his visit to Auckland in 1994.

In 2013, he was found guilty of planning to commit an assault on the royal couple.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
