
A federal judge threw out Oregon's same-sex marriage ban Monday, marking the 13th consecutive legal victory for gay marriage advocates since last year's U.S. Supreme Court ruling that overturned part of a federal ban.

U.S.  District Judge Michael McShane in Eugene ruled the voter-approved ban  unconstitutionally discriminates against same-sex couples, and he  ordered the state to stop enforcing it.

"I believe that if we can  look for a moment past gender and sexuality, we can see in these  plaintiffs nothing more or less than our own families," he wrote.  "Families who we would expect our constitution to protect, if not exalt,  in equal measure."

State officials earlier refused to defend Oregon's constitutional ban, and said they'd be prepared to carry out same-sex marriages almost immediately if McShane struck it down.

In  Portland, couples lined up outside the Multnomah County clerk's office  in anticipation of Monday's ruling. Among them were Laurie Brown and  Julie Engbloom, who got engaged on their 10th anniversary in April.

"We  always knew we wanted to spend our whole life together," Brown said.  "This opportunity has come. It feels right. Everything has fallen into  place."

The National Organization for Marriage sought to intervene in the cases brought by four gay and lesbian couples, and defend the ban on behalf of its Oregon members. But McShane rejected its request.

The  group then appealed, and on Monday a three-judge panel of the 9th U.S.  Circuit Court of Appeals denied its bid for an emergency stay.

McShane joins judges in seven other states who have struck down same-sex marriage bans, though appeals are underway.

Many  predicted last year's Supreme Court ruling would create a pathway for  states to act, as polls showed a majority of Americans now support gay marriage. Indeed, lower-court judges have repeatedly cited that decision when striking down bans.

Gay and lesbian couples can legally marry in 17 states and the District of  Columbia. The two most recent states to make the unions legal were New  Mexico and Hawaii, both of which did so in late 2013. Oregon's ruling is  not expected to be challenged, which would make it the 18th state where  gay marriage is legal.

In 11 states, federal or state judges recently have overturned same-sex marriage bans or ordered states to recognize out-of-state marriages.  Appeals courts are reviewing those decisions. Ten are in the hands of  federal appeals courts, and one is with a state appeals court.

They've  been all over the country. Federal or state judges in Idaho, Oklahoma,  Virginia, Michigan, Texas, Utah and Arkansas recently have found state  same-sex marriage bans to be unconstitutional. Judges also have ordered Kentucky, Ohio, Tennessee and Indiana to recognize same-sex marriages from other states. The New Mexico Supreme Court declared the state ban  unconstitutional in a ruling that is not being challenged.

No. Oregon Attorney General Ellen Rosenblum is one of seven top state prosecutors who have refused to defend same-sex marriage bans in court. Attorney generals in Virginia, Pennsylvania, California,  Illinois, Nevada and Kentucky, all Democrats, have made the same  decision. Virginia and Kentucky still appealed rulings. A county clerk  who was sued in Virginia is fighting that ban, and Kentucky hired  outside attorneys.

Opposition remains stiff in many places, with critics pointing out that most states still prohibit gay marriage. They also note that in most states that do allow gay marriage, it was the work of courts or legislatures, not the people.

The  Oregon Family Council released a strongly worded statement Monday  saying the state colluded with gay-rights groups to sidestep the will of  voters, and a judge allowed it.

"While tonight's newscast will  feature tearful couples at staged PR activities in courthouses across  the state, the real tears should be for the next generation as we  witness our constitutional republic sink into a banana republic,"  spokeswoman Teresa Harke said.

Yes.  At least 17 other states have filed lawsuits asking judges to throw out  state bans. Only three states have no challenges pending: Montana,  North Dakota and South Dakota. In addition, attorneys for gay couples in Nevada are challenging in a federal appeals court a 2012 ruling from a judge who upheld the state's same-sex marriage ban.

A  ruling from a federal appeals court is expected soon, either from a  panel in Denver reviewing rulings from Utah and Oklahoma or judges in  Richmond, Virginia, reviewing Virginia's case. Many legal observers say  they expect the U.S. Supreme Court to take a case at some point, but  they acknowledge it's impossible to predict what the high court will do.  The Supreme Court could also just wait and see how the nation's  appellate courts rule. It often waits until there is a conflict between  appellate courts before taking a case.

Thank you for registering!

We have sent you a confirmation email. Please check your email and click on the link to activate your account.

Thank you for registering!

We look forward to seeing you frequently. Visit us and sign in to update your profile, receive the latest news and keep up to date with mobile alerts.

Don't worry, it happens. We'll send you a link to create a new password.

We have sent you an email with a link to change your password.

We've sent an email with instructions to create a new password. Your existing password has not been changed.

To sign in you must verify your email address. Fill out the form below and we'll send you an email to verify.

Check your email for a link to verify your email address.
