
Six months after the legalization of internet gambling, New Jersey state officials say it’s going surprisingly well.

”I think that from a regulation perspective which I represent in New Jersey, I think that we're much better than I thought we'd be after being operational after 6 months,” said David Rebuck, director of New Jersey’s Division of Gaming Enforcement.

At a forum Monday, gaming officials from around the country talked about the lessons learned since New Jersey’s iGaming rollout.

"Our worlds are still colliding with the other games businesses and the console businesses and the social gaming businesses and I don't think that's gonna stop,’ said former chairman of the Nevada state gaming control board Mark Lipparelli. “A lot of people are investing private money into these worlds and I think it ends up as part of our industry."

"I think the hope was if you have a regulated website, customers would move to a regulated site. I think to a large degree that's been true. I think customers, especially New Jersey customers so prefer to play on a regulated site,” said A. Jeff Ifrah, founding member of the Ifrah Law Group.

According to these experts, one of the biggest challenges for legalized gambling sites is competition from illegal sites that don’t require betters to provide personal information.

"There's an option for them today. They can go to an illegal site and get on and play without disclosing their address, without disclosing their social security number,’ said Borgata President and C.E.O. Tom Balance.

"It's gonna take a lot of hard work on the part of the legal sites to be aggressive in attracting customers through their marketing efforts,” said Rebuck.

Despite these challenges, industry insiders see a lot of positives to take from the first six months of iGaming, and they believe online gaming will be an even bigger part of next year’s East Coast Gaming Congress.

All content © Copyright 2000 - 2014 WorldNow and WMGM. All Rights Reserved.
