
Just as Labour defended itself well against the 2010 Tory surge in inner London, the Liberal Democrats held it back in its south-west suburban strongholds, including the council of Royal Kingston-upon-Thames . Not by much , though, and the Tories have clawed closer to them since. They need to pick up just three seats to hit the outright winning total of 25. If there's to be a Conservative gain on Thursday, Kingston will be it.

But Lib Dems have doughty form for holding on to besieged redoubts. They've bossed Kingston for twelve years. Local Lib Dem MP Ed Davey is reported to have been sighted leafleting in lycra at the weekend, not something for which cabinet members are renowned. The Conservative campaign says it is confident but not complacent. "You can't apply national poll findings to Lib Dems in local government," says one of their organisers on the ground. "It's the same with parliamentary by elections. They won Eastleigh despite all the bad publicity around Rennard and Huhne."

The Tories say they're trying to conquer new territory, emboldened by post-2010 by elections where their vote share stayed solid or improved. Council tax, potholes and basic services still matter, but they have more of an eye on the borough's built-up parts: Surbiton; Chessington; New Malden; Kingston itself. Their manifesto majors on a five-point plan: building more schools (of the "free" variety); supporting the borough's high streets with 30 minutes of free parking; putting more money into improving the streets, especially with trees; action against anti-social behaviour, as night-time economies expand.

Three were four split wards in 2010 - Alexandra, Berrylands, Canbury and Chessington North - and the Tories say they're hopeful in Grove, St Mark's and Beverley, where they made their by election gain. A Twitter overture to the Lib Dems has brought no response, but their website is here . Labour, which will, I think, be pleased to get on the scoreboard at all, wryly tweeted that the Libs are "playing Leonard Cohen records to cheer themselves up". Ouch.

Our editors' picks for the day's top news and commentary delivered to your inbox each morning.
