
Share This Story!

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

The Republic regularly asks Phoenix City Council members and the mayor to share their thoughts on issues.

This month, the council  approved new contracts that cut compensation for  employee unions. These contracts include a 1.6 percent pay and benefit cut next fiscal year and a 0.9 cut in the following year. The cuts will help the city close its $37.7 million budget deficit.

The contracts come after four years of employee concessions. In 2010, the city's unions agreed to a 3.2 percent pay and benefit cut. Half of that cut was restored in 2012. The remaining 1.6 percent of the 2010 cut remains in effect.

Meanwhile, no mayor or council member has taken a pay cut since at least fiscal 2010, according to city records. But Mayor Greg Stanton, Councilman Sal DiCiccio and then-Councilman Tom Simplot each gave up some form of city-provided benefits: Stanton said he stopped taking a cellphone and auto allowance several months ago; DiCiccio hasn't taken either allowance to offset a pension he receives from the state for his prior council terms; and Simplot did not take a cellphone allowance during his service.

Also, the mayor and council members do not receive  merit pay raises and longevity bonuses that the  majority of city employees get annually. While employees have taken compensation cuts since 2010, many have earned more every year because they are receiving these raises and bonuses. Those amount to an average 4.8 percent per year.

Since 2005, annual salaries have been $88,000 for the mayor and $61,600 for each council member. Last year, a commission of residents recommended no salary increases,  given the  economy.

Many residents and city workers  want the mayor and council to take the same compensation cuts as other city employees.

"The decision to reduce the pay of our employees was difficult, as I believe we have the hardest-working employees in the nation. I hope to never have to vote to decrease employee pay again. Our employees deserve better. Our residents deserve better. As I stated publicly during last week's vote, I will take the same reduction our employees are taking over the next two years through a combination of reduction in deferred compensation and a donation to the city's Change for Phoenix fund, which supports city programs and services."

"Yes, I will take the same pay cut as employees. Each union contract is different, but the city manager defined a plan for our office that is an equivalent to the cut in each contract. It is one furlough day this year and two next year (since council members technically cannot take a furlough day, the money will be donated to charity), and a 1.3 percent concession through the benefit package reduction."

"I will take concessions and give back a portion of my salary that is equal to the agreed upon percentages for both years. My office also continues to make every effort to reduce our own expenses. Over the last three years, we have returned to the general fund $46,814 without compromising constituent services. For instance, in this fiscal year, we will have 15 Movies in the Park, three neighborhood cleanups and over 90 community events or meetings, such as the Star Spangled Celebration, scheduled for May 23, honoring our fallen police, fire and veterans at Cesar Chavez Park."

"I believe we all need to do our part — including elected officials — to ensure we balance the budget with as little impact to community programs and services as possible. In addition to the reduction in deferred compensation, I have committed to declining the cellphone allowance, which amounts to about $1,200 per year. When everyone gives a little, we can ensure no single group carries the entire burden."

"Yes. To date, I have voluntarily returned over $45,000 to the city. I've returned my car and communication allowances, cash and part of my deferred compensation and will return more to cover additional 'cuts.' The compensation cuts bragged about by Phoenix staff are not true; in fact, they are misleading the public. All labor groups receive more in compensation than in previous contracts. The 'cuts' are made to the proposed $19 million in new pay raises. Yes, $3 million in new pay raises are still doled out in this 'scare the public' budget. You didn't know that, did you?"

"To help balance the city budget, I will voluntarily take a 1.6 percent cut in my base pay in the coming fiscal year. My staff will also be taking the same percentage of pay reductions. I will continue to run my office effectively and efficiently, keeping costs as low as possible while providing excellent customer service to my constituents."

"I believe in leading by example, so I absolutely intend to take the same level of pay and benefit cuts required of other city employees. I plan to do this through a variety of means. For starters, I have chosen to forgo the city-offered health plan, which translates to an annual savings of over $10,000 to the city. I will also write a check to the Change for Phoenix fund to give back to the city to support programs and services to the community, and lastly, I will take a reduction to deferred compensation. I would not be able to sleep at night asking the employees to give up a portion of their income without doing the same myself."
