
MINISTERS and elders who discriminate against women should “get out” if they are not willing to adhere to the Kirk law, a former Church of Scotland moderator has said.

In a strongly worded attack, the Very Rev David Lacy branded those who refuse to accept women as elders and ministers as “grumbling grunters”.

His comments came as departing moderator, the Very Rev Lorna Hood, called on women members of the Kirk who feel they are being barred from office because of their gender to take a stand.

She has recently talked about her visit to the presbytery of Lochcarron and Skye last year, where she was told her preaching in Skye “was restricted to three parishes at the top of the island” because of her gender.

Accusing those who discriminated of “antiquated gangsterism”, Mr Lacy yesterday told the Kirk’s General Assembly: “There are certain individuals in the church, ministers and elders, and they by no means represent a majority, but they are powerful, grumbling grunters.

He claimed people who thought they could stop the Kirk’s moderator from speaking inside a church because she was a woman were “oddballs”.

Mr Lacy raised the Rev Hood’s visit during yesterday’s Assembly hearing, asking what action could be taken against “this flagrant disobedience” of the church’s law.

He was told any complaint of discrimination should be raised with the presbytery itself, but if the complainer was not satisfied with the outcome it would then come to the Assembly.

Women have been able to hold the post of elder since 1964, and minister since 1968.

In 2007, the Kirk passed legislation banning any discrimination on grounds of gender or sexuality. Despite this, it is estimated there are up to 30 parishes across the country out of 1,400 that have no female elders.

Mr Lacy said a moderator being refused the right to speak in pulpits was “a slap in the face to the Court”.

Rev Hood said there was “embarrassment” among the presbytery that there were areas where she would not be welcome.

While in the area, the departing moderator said she was told stories about women who had been ordained as elders elsewhere but, having moved to the area, could not get on to the Kirk Session, being told it was “because you’re a woman”.

Speaking outside the Assembly Hall in Edinburgh yesterday Rev Hood admitted she had been a victim of sexism, and said that she was angered by the pain expressed to her by women members of the presbytery who had been discriminated against.

Steve Fennell, an elder at Kilmore Parish Church in Sleat on Skye, who spoke during the Assembly, claimed only a small minority of ministers in the presbytery area were opposed to Rev Hood preaching in their pulpits.

Rev Hood said men within such presbyteries should fight discrimination by giving their support to women who wanted to become an elders.

Also yesterday, the General Assembly, led by Moderator the Right Rev John Chalmers, said there will be “much work” for ministers following the independence referendum.

In a letter presented at the opening of the Assembly on Saturday, the Queen recognised the role of the Kirk in “holding the people of Scotland together” as they decide the country’s future.

© 2014 Johnston Publishing Ltd.

This website and its associated newspaper adheres to the Press Complaints Commission’s Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion, then contact the Editor by clicking here .

If you remain dissatisfied with the response provided then you can contact the PCC by clicking here .

The Scotsman provides news, events and sport features from the Edinburgh area. For the best up to date information relating to Edinburgh and the surrounding areas visit us at The Scotsman regularly or bookmark this page.

For you to enjoy all the features of this website The Scotsman requires permission to use cookies.

Cookies are small data files which are sent to your browser (Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome etc) from a website you visit. They are stored on your electronic device.

This is a type of cookie which is collected by Adobe Flash media player (it is also called a Local Shared Object) - a piece of software you may already have on your electronic device to help you watch online videos and listen to podcasts.

Yes there are a number of options available, you can set your browser either to reject all cookies, to allow only "trusted" sites to set them, or to only accept them from the site you are currently on.

However, please note - if you block/delete all cookies, some features of our websites, such as remembering your login details, or the site branding for your local newspaper may not function as a result.

A tool used by some of our advertisers to target adverts to you based on pages you have visited in the past. To opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

Our sites contain advertising from Google; these use cookies to ensure you get adverts relevant to you. You can tailor the type of ads you receive by visiting here or to opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

This is used to help us identify unique visitors to our websites. This data is anonymous and we cannot use this to uniquely identify individuals and their usage of the sites.

This comes from our ad serving technology and is used to track how many times you have seen a particular ad on our sites, so that you don't just see one advert but an even spread. This information is not used by us for any other type of audience recording or monitoring.

ComScore monitor and externally verify our site traffic data for use within the advertising industry. Any data collected is anonymous statistical data and cannot be traced back to an individual.

Our Classified websites (Photos, Motors, Jobs and Property Today) use cookies to ensure you get the correct local newspaper branding and content when you visit them. These cookies store no personally identifiable information.

We use Grapeshot as a contextual targeting technology, allowing us to create custom groups of stories outside out of our usual site navigation. Grapeshot stores the categories of story you have been exposed to. Their privacy policy and opt out option can be accessed here.

Our partner for Newspaper subscriptions online stores data from the forms you complete in these to increase the usability of the site and enhance user experience.

Add This provides the social networking widget found in many of our pages. This widget gives you the tools to bookmark our websites, blog, share, tweet and email our content to a friend.

We use Advertising agencies to provide us with some of the advertising on our websites. These include (but are not limited to) Specific Media, The Rubicon Project, AdJug, AdConion, Context Web. Please click on the provider name to visit their opt-out page.
