
A 26-year old man named Chibuzor Onuegbe is currently wanted by the Lagos Police in connection with the theft of $1.5million from the Muritala Muhammad International Airport.

Until his disappearance, Onuegbe was a janitor at the airport.

The money reportedly belongs to an unnamed woman, who kept the money at the airport’s baggage store for safe keeping.

The police have arrested his accomplice Ifeanyi Francis, his girlfriend Chioma Obinabor and his elder brother Kalu Faith Onuegbe, and investigations have revealed that Onuegbe had fled the country to the United Kingdom.

“I met Chibuzor early last year when I travelled to Enugu and we became friends. I am aware that he works as a cleaner at the Murtala Muhammed Airport, Lagos. Sometime in October, he called me that there is a job that he wants to execute and I will earn so much money.  I travelled down to Lagos with the excuse that I wanted to visit my sister who lives in Lagos.

“He told me that he wanted to smuggle out some abandoned luggage from the baggage store at the international airport. He gave me a bag containing old laptops and clothes. He also gave me a tag ticket which was attached to the bag.

The deal was that I would get to the airport as early as 6am and move to the baggage store and drop the bag.  I will tell the store keeper that I want to register the bag and will be back in evening to pick it up.

The next day as agreed, Francis went through the same process and dropped the bag. In the evening at about 7 pm, he went back and picked the bag. “I discovered that the bag was unusually heavy.  Since I knew what was on ground, I pretended that it was the same weight. It was easy to pick the bag because I had a tag and a ticket.

“I quickly moved and joined Chibuzor who was already with a taxi.  I asked him what was in the bag and he told me to calm down that I will get to know. We arrived his street and stopped in an area where cars were parked. He opened the bag; it was then that I realised that it contained bundles of dollar notes.

“I was speechless because the amount was much. He told me that as a cleaner, he had access to the baggage room. All he did was to unlock my bag to which he had the key and transfer the bag of money into my own bag.  He told me to calm down that there is a lot to gain and that he needs to contact his friends at the airport before the money will be shared.  Those friends, he explained were the ones who gave him information that such amount of money was in the baggage room and the colour of the bag. He tried to close the bag and it was difficult, so he had to remove some bundles into another bag. We heard the voice of some boys coming towards us, so Chibuzor hurriedly left the spot and moved into their house. He forgot that he kept some money in the bag that I was holding. He rushed out and promised to call me for my share,” Francis further said.

According to him, as soon as he got home Chibuzor realised that he was carrying the naira equivalent of N60 million.

Investigations into Onuegbe’s whereabouts are still ongoing.

Blogger. Writer. Ranter. 3-time Gold Medalist at the Moin-Moin Olympics. Jet Li's distant nephew. Lead singer of fictional rock band, 20 Minutes To Ogbomosho. 7 shades of Awesome. Music Enthusiast.

Notify me of follow-up comments by email.

Notify me of new posts by email.

Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
