
GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip (AP) — Rivals Hamas and Fatah are moving toward a unity government as early as next week, in what seems to be their most promising attempt yet to heal a seven-year split that weakened the case for Palestinian statehood.

Both are propelled by crisis. The Islamic militant Hamas, which seized the Gaza Strip from Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas of Fatah in 2007, is having trouble governing alone because of crippling financial problems. Abbas needs a new political program after his strategy of statehood through talks with Israel yielded deadlock. Yet even if the sides manage to replace their competing governments in the West Bank and Gaza with a joint one, the potential of failure remains high because of their ideological divide and the false starts of the past.

Here's a look at what lies ahead.

Abbas is to head a temporary government of 15 independent technocrats that prepares for elections for president, parliament and the leadership of the Palestine Liberation Organization, the main Palestinian representative body of which Hamas is currently not a member. The Hamas-dominated Palestinian parliament, inactive since the 2007 split, is to resume its work until new elections are held.

Abbas returned to the West Bank from abroad Monday, and is to begin selecting government ministers from names accepted by both sides. Under previous understandings, he would retain his job as president and also serve as prime minister, but the possibility has been raised that he might name someone else as prime minister to ease his work load. The government should be formed by May 27, or five weeks after the latest reconciliation deal was struck, though an extension is possible. The government is to remain in power for at least six months. Parliament should resume work a month after the Cabinet is formed.

Hamas needs a bailout. The Palestinian offshoot of the regional Muslim Brotherhood is in its worst shape since it seized Gaza, largely due to the ouster of a Brotherhood government in Egypt last year. Egypt's new rulers have sealed the border with Gaza, closing hundreds of smuggling tunnels that had delivered cash and weapons to Hamas and kept the Gaza economy going with cheap cement and fuel. Deprived of tunnel revenues, Hamas has been unable to make its government payroll, and the last partial salaries were paid in February. Hamas is also increasingly isolated in the region, having previously alienated longtime patrons Iran and Syria. Separately, reconciliation would offer Hamas a possible entry to the PLO and with that greater political legitimacy.

Abbas wants to remove the stain of the Palestinian split from his decade-old presidency. With Egypt unlikely to ease up on Hamas, Abbas believes he has the upper hand over the Islamic militants. While Abbas doesn't see enough common ground for a peace deal with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, he hasn't abandoned the idea of negotiations entirely. Netanyahu says he won't negotiate with a government that in any way includes Hamas, which he considers a sworn enemy, even if Abbas is the leader.

Upgrade your browsing experience with a paid subscription to the U-T.
