
Durban - Two rhinos died and one survived when they were darted and then dehorned at Tala Private Game Reserve near Eston in broad daylight this weekend.

The reserve’s general manager, Derek Grose, said management and staff were still in shock. It was the first time rhinos had been poached at the reserve.

Grose said he was doing regular his rounds on Saturday when he saw the rhinos lying on the ground.

When he arrived at the scene, Fiona, who was about 30 years old and her eldest female offspring, Mary - about 20 years old - were already dead.

She had been sent for rehabilitation.

Grose said he let some of his staff - who worked closely with the rhinos - go home after the news broke.

Lonely Masiyane, a field ranger at Tala, said poaching was destroying their industry.

Masiyane said the rhinos were his closest friends. He said Fiona and Mary were always together “and that is why they were poached at the same time”.

Grose said he was grateful for the support they received from people in the Richmond and Eston areas after the news broke.

The two rhinos would be buried on Monday.

KwaZulu-Natal Environmental Affairs spokesman Jeffrey Zikhali said the department was worried about the escalation of poaching, especially after an elephant was poached in the Kruger National Park for the first time in 10 years.

He said 150 people had been arrested in connection with poaching, nationally, this year.

Police spokesman Jay Naicker confirmed the incident. He said Hawks were investigating a case of illegal hunting.

- A Mozambican man, caught red-handed while hunting a white rhino in Imfolozi Game Reserve, has been jailed for eight years.

On Friday, Antonio Sendes Langa, 36, of Maputo, pleaded guilty in the Mtubatuba Regional Court to contravening the National Biodiversity Management Act by hunting a white rhino in September last year.

Langa’s plea was accepted by State advocate Yuri Gangai, who withdrew charges against Langa’s co-accused Xolani Mkwanazi and Mbhekiseni “Absa” Mkhwanazi because of insufficient evidence.

Handing down sentence, Magistrate Malcolm de Klerk said rhino poaching was “getting out of control” and the court had a responsibility to impose stiff sentences.

According to statistics released by the SA environmental affairs department this month, 376 rhinos have been poached this year.

Langa admitted that his actions had been “wrong and unlawful”, as he knew that rhinos were a protected species.

Login and register, if you haven’ t already.

© Copyright 1999 - 2014 Independent Online, a division of Independent Newspapers (Pty) Limited. The copyright in the literary and artistic works contained in this online news publication and its other related and connected websites, as well as in the published editions of group newspapers, their supplements and any other content or material, belongs exclusively to Independent Newspapers (Pty) Limited unless otherwise stated.
