
Share This Story!

When it came time to decide where to locate his high-tech medical business, Richard Birkmeyer knew he wanted to be in Delaware.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

A test device used to detect infections is assembled at CD Diagnostics.

When it came time to decide where to locate his high-tech medical business, Richard Birkmeyer knew he wanted to be in Delaware.

CD Diagnostics , which creates diagnostic tests for joint disease, is his second business in this state.

Birkmeyer, CEO and president of the company, knows and likes the people of the First State. Proximity to I-95 is another perk of being located in Claymont.

“There’s a lot of local support for the company and a lot of familiarity for the state,” Birkmeyer said.

The Pennsylvania startup has opened an office at the Brandywine Corporate Center, 650 Naamans Road. The move comes after CD Diagnostics signed a partnership to work with Zimmer , a large provider of joint replacement technologies, a decision that is helping to grow the business.

“All that research and all that manufacturing will be done here in Delaware,” Birkmeyer said.

Birkmeyer has said he turned down an economic development grant from Pennsylvania, opting instead for Delaware for his new venture.

The company was awarded a $500,000 incentive from the Delaware Economic Development Opportunity Office to locate here and create jobs.

Generally speaking, CD Diagnostics makes tests that are developed to provide doctors with fast and accurate diagnostics.

There are about 35 employees at the Claymont office now, and they expect to bring at least 170 jobs here. They will be seeking researchers with doctoral degrees to do research. Also, they plan to hire for high-tech manufacturing.

This month, two new people started working there in research and development.

Martin Gould, who has more than 40 years’ experience and holds several patents, is an immunoassay development fellow. He has worked on projects that include creating tests to detect if there are pathogens, such as salmonella, in foods.

James W. Stave, joins the company as the vice president of corporate development and as an antibody research fellow. He has worked in development for more than 30 years testing products for the commercial sector.

This is the second company started by Birkmeyer in Delaware. He founded Strategic Diagnostics in 1990 after a career at DuPont. That company, which later went public, sold its life science assets to OriGene Technologies . The company was under control of CEO Francis M. DiNuzzo when that happened.

Birkmeyer said last year he hoped to replicate the success of that company with starting up CD Diagnostics.

And he wants to do it again in Delaware.

“Our goal is to improve patient outcomes,” Birkmeyer said.
