
SUNGAI PETANI - The Customs department will be corporatised next year after the matter is tabled in Parliament in October.

Treasury secretary-general Tan Sri Dr Mohd Irwan Serigar Abdullah said the move will be very good for efforts to raise the productivity of Customs personnel.

"Tax revenue collected will also increase," he told reporters after officiating the RM13.02 million Customs Office (Enforcement) building in Tanjung Dawai near here today.

He said a study on the matter had been completed and would be tabled in Parliament in October, and amendments to several Acts relating to taxes would also be made.

He cited the Inland Revenue Board as an example that succeeded in contributing high revenue to the country after its corporatisation.

Mohd Irwan said Customs contributed revenue totalling RM33.12 billion last year and projected revenue collection of RM36 billion this year.

Meanwhile, Customs director-general Datuk Seri Khazali Ahmad said 55 small-scale companies that had bought the goods and services tax (GST) software package would receive a government subsidy of RM1,000.

He said the subsidy would help reduce the burden of acquiring the software, that would make it easier to calculate prices of goods to be imposed with GST.

Komentar yang diutarakan melalui laman sosial ini adalah milik peribadi dan tanggungjawab pemilik akaun laman sosial ini. Malaysia Chronicle tidak bertanggungjawab diatas segala komentar yang disiarkan dibawah. Para komentar dinasihatkan bertanggungjawab dalam menulis dan elakkan komentar berbaur perkauman, seksis, serangan peribadi, lucah ataupun menghina.

Komentar yang berbentuk "drama bersiri", yakni salin & tampal artikel pihak ketiga secara bersiri ataupun komentar yang keluar tajuk juga ditegah dan akan dianggap sebagai penyalahgunaan kemudahan komentar ini.

Harap maklum bahawa anda perlu log-masuk melalui Facebook, Yahoo, MSN atau akaun sosial media yang disediakan untuk meninggalkan komentar. Juga maklum bahawa terpulang kepada jalur-lebar di kawasan-kawasan tertentu, komentar anda mungkin tidak akan disiarkan dengan serta-merta.
