
A group of state officials and business leaders toured Railex's warehouse in Rotterdam, New York last year as part of the Capital Region Economic Development Council tour of local sites that received or requested state funding.

Experts say the Albany, New York region once again looks to finish among the top regions in the state in the competition for economic development funds.

"The area has a pretty good sense of self and we are focusing on the right things," said Jeffrey Lawrence , executive vice president for the Center for Economic Growth in Albany.

Lawrence is responsible for manufacturing and technology programs, two key industries for the region.

"There is a great energy around manufacturing and technology again. It's vital to our economy and the middle class," Lawrence said.

The application period for round four opened May 1 and is set to close at 4 p.m. on June 16, with no exceptions. The announcement of the winners is expected in October, just before the November general election.

Representatives from Empire State Development said all 10 regions are eligible to be top performers regardless of what they've received in the past.

"It's competitive across the state," Lawrence said. "It's not a zero-sum game. Everyone is getting better."

Last year, the Albany area council finished among the top of the Regional Economic Development Councils statewide having been awarded $83 million in state funding -- a jump after finishing dead last in 2012.

Since the funding rounds began in 2011, the Capital Region has been awarded $195.8 million for 272 economic development projects -- making it second to last in terms of funding awarded.

But in terms of total projects, the region has the most.

"Creating jobs is what we want to do," said Capital Region council representative Omar Usmani . "It's creating that tax base so we can have a better future."

If you are commenting using a Facebook account, your profile information may be displayed with your comment depending on your privacy settings. By leaving the 'Post to Facebook' box selected, your comment will be published to your Facebook profile in addition to the space below.
