
A STYLE guru who influenced leading figures in the world of fashion including Alexander McQueen was hailed as “inspirational” and a “legend” yesterday following her death at the age of 52.

Louise Wilson, long-serving director of the prestigious MA fashion course at Central Saint Martins (CSM) at University of the Arts London, is believed to have died in her sleep on Friday while visiting her sister in  Scotland.

She is credited with shaping the careers of a host of designers including Stella McCartney, and Scots Jonathan Saunders and Louise Gray.

Wilson, who grew up in the Borders, was recently included on a list of 125 of the most “intelligent, empowered and inspirational” women to mark the 125th year of The Lady magazine. In 2008 she received an OBE for services to fashion and education. Writing on Twitter, McCartney said: “What an inspiration and force in fashion. I send my deep sympathy to your family.

Alexandra Shulman, the editor of the UK edition of Vogue magazine, said Wilson “played a remarkable role in making the British fashion scene as successful and relevant as it is today”.

Prof Jeremy Till, head of the college, said Wilson’s legacy would live on through her former students and colleagues.

“Louise has been an inspirational person both within the college and the wider world of fashion,” he said.

“Since becoming course director for MA Fashion in 1992 she has taught a huge proportion of the world’s leading fashion designers and her course continues to produce talented ground-breaking graduates.

“Her commitment to her students and passion for creative excellence are legendary. Her deep understanding of fashion and her drive for funding for bursaries, facilities and opportunities are part of what made her such an extraordinary educator.

Wilson attended art college before completing the Central Saint Martins course she went on to direct. She moved to Hong Kong following her graduation, finding work as a consultant and a designer before returning to the UK to teach at Central Saint Martins.

She also arranged for a number of her students to research and catalogue Pringle of Scotland’s extensive knitwear archive in Hawick.

In an interview in September 2011 she said her “formative education was in Jedburgh” and that her first fashion influence had been her mother.

© 2014 Johnston Publishing Ltd.

This website and its associated newspaper adheres to the Press Complaints Commission’s Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion, then contact the Editor by clicking here .

If you remain dissatisfied with the response provided then you can contact the PCC by clicking here .

The Scotsman provides news, events and sport features from the Edinburgh area. For the best up to date information relating to Edinburgh and the surrounding areas visit us at The Scotsman regularly or bookmark this page.

For you to enjoy all the features of this website The Scotsman requires permission to use cookies.

Cookies are small data files which are sent to your browser (Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome etc) from a website you visit. They are stored on your electronic device.

This is a type of cookie which is collected by Adobe Flash media player (it is also called a Local Shared Object) - a piece of software you may already have on your electronic device to help you watch online videos and listen to podcasts.

Yes there are a number of options available, you can set your browser either to reject all cookies, to allow only "trusted" sites to set them, or to only accept them from the site you are currently on.

However, please note - if you block/delete all cookies, some features of our websites, such as remembering your login details, or the site branding for your local newspaper may not function as a result.

A tool used by some of our advertisers to target adverts to you based on pages you have visited in the past. To opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

Our sites contain advertising from Google; these use cookies to ensure you get adverts relevant to you. You can tailor the type of ads you receive by visiting here or to opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

This is used to help us identify unique visitors to our websites. This data is anonymous and we cannot use this to uniquely identify individuals and their usage of the sites.

This comes from our ad serving technology and is used to track how many times you have seen a particular ad on our sites, so that you don't just see one advert but an even spread. This information is not used by us for any other type of audience recording or monitoring.

ComScore monitor and externally verify our site traffic data for use within the advertising industry. Any data collected is anonymous statistical data and cannot be traced back to an individual.

Our Classified websites (Photos, Motors, Jobs and Property Today) use cookies to ensure you get the correct local newspaper branding and content when you visit them. These cookies store no personally identifiable information.

We use Grapeshot as a contextual targeting technology, allowing us to create custom groups of stories outside out of our usual site navigation. Grapeshot stores the categories of story you have been exposed to. Their privacy policy and opt out option can be accessed here.

Our partner for Newspaper subscriptions online stores data from the forms you complete in these to increase the usability of the site and enhance user experience.

Add This provides the social networking widget found in many of our pages. This widget gives you the tools to bookmark our websites, blog, share, tweet and email our content to a friend.

We use Advertising agencies to provide us with some of the advertising on our websites. These include (but are not limited to) Specific Media, The Rubicon Project, AdJug, AdConion, Context Web. Please click on the provider name to visit their opt-out page.
