
WESTPORT, Conn., May 19, 2014 /PRNewswire/ -- Save the Children marked the solemn anniversary of a series of deadly tornadoes in Oklahoma one year ago and thanked the "champions for children" who prevented the impact from being even more devastating.

In all, 48 people died and thousands of homes were destroyed or damaged by tornadoes that struck central Oklahoma on May 19, 20 and 31 of last year. Two elementary schools and two child-care centers full of children were also totally destroyed, and many more damaged.

"We want to thank the unsung heroes who did all they could to protect countless children in the tornadoes' path, and those who have stood by kids in the difficult year since," she added.  "Without them, the disastrous toll on children could have been far worse."

Save the Children posted a sampling of the "champions for children" the organization has encountered through its Oklahoma response and recovery programs at www.savethechildren.org/Oklahoma .

They include a child-care worker who saved a 4-year-old girl from being sucked away by the tornado ( click here for video ), a school counselor who has helped suicidal elementary school students, a nurse who refused to abandon a laboring mother as the tornado destroyed the hospital around them, a junior high student who raced younger siblings to safety just in time, child-care providers who put lifesaving emergency plans and a cleverly revamped shelter in place, state officials who strengthened protections for children with special needs, and a Girl Scout leader who became a lifeline to a girl who survived a flash flood—but lost five family members who did not. Find their stories here .

Lassie also helped surprise emotional staff and parents at the Agapeland Learning Center with a groundbreaking for a new safe room Save the Children is supporting.  The tornado destroyed the center's former location with dozens of staff and children inside, including the heroic worker who saved the 4-year-old girl .

"While there is still more to be done, many children in Oklahoma are safe today because schools, child-care centers and families had regularly practiced emergency plans," Spangler said. "We urge all Americans to get prepared to protect children now. You never know when a disaster can strike."

Save the Children invests in childhood – every day, in times of crisis and for our future. In the United States and around the world, we give children a healthy start, the opportunity to learn and protection from harm. Follow us on Twitter and Facebook .

Visit PR Newswire for Journalists for releases, photos, ProfNet experts, and customized feeds just for Media.

Browse our custom packages or build your own to meet your unique communications needs.

Request more information about PR Newswire products and services or call us at (888) 776-0942.
