
The second edition of the European Social Business Week took place in Sweden recently, where the social problems the continent is struggling with were discussed.

Nobel laureate Prof Muhammad Yunus participated in the week-long forum in Lund and Malmö from May 12 to 16, Yunus Centre said in a statement in Dhaka yesterday.

The problems and their solutions were discussed and explored by and with academics, entrepreneurs, students, NGOs and public officials during the event in the Medicon Village of Lund University, the largest university in Sweden with 47,000 students.

The theme of this year's European Social Business Forum was social business in the European Union.

Prof Yunus opened the forum and gave a speech on the role of social business—the idea he himself has developed and now being copied across the world—to help Europe come out of the crisis.

Drawing examples from Bangladesh where a number of social business projects have already been implemented, the founder of Grameen Bank explained the concept of social business and the effect of every individual's creative power to society.

Through presentations, panel discussions and workshops, the forum elaborated on the relevance and implementation of social business in Sweden and the European Union.

The Bangladeshi economist also visited Tunisia from May 9 to May 11, where he launched 11 social businesses generated by the first Social Business Accelerator in the African country.

Prof Yunus also delivered a speech at a reception hosted by Mazars, a global audit, accounting and consulting group.

The reception was attended by the elite of the city, including chief executives, bankers, and politicians. Taoufik Jelassi, higher education, scientific research, information technology and communication minister of Tunisia, was also present.

The African Development Bank and Yunus Social Business jointly launched the Holistic Social Business Movement programme in Tunisia during a national conference on the new business model in March last year.
