
The most inspirational award for innovation is reincarnated this week. The    original Longitude prize changed nautical history, unlocked the secret of    accurate navigation, saved countless lives, and helped traders to exploit    the Earth’s vast resources, from minerals to spices and more besides.

Now, in the 300th anniversary year of the Longitude Act, which launched the    prize that helped humanity to conquer the world, a new £10 million challenge    has been unveiled, intended to solve a key problem of the 21st century.

Announced with a fanfare last year by the Prime Minister, the Longitude Prize    was developed by Nesta, the UK’s innovation foundation, funded by the    Technology Strategy Board, and will be outlined in detail in a special    edition of BBC’s Horizon programme this week. But this time it will be the    British public, rather than the Government, who will decide which challenge    to tackle.

At the heart of the original endeavour, launched in 1714, was John Harrison, a    working-class clockmaker from Lincolnshire who, with little formal    education, attempted to crack the conundrum that had baffled some of the    greatest minds of the 18th century.

He set out to solve a problem that became the talk of London’s coffee houses    and captured the imagination during an era of extraordinary transformation.    Global position is described by longitude and latitude, both measured in    degrees. The problem was that while lines of latitude parallel to the    equator are easy to measure accurately using the sun, the lines of longitude    running pole to pole presented a formidable challenge. Cracking this    navigational problem would potentially offer vast benefits, both in terms of    trade and military might.

As other nations – Spain, the Netherlands and France – sought to rule the    waves, each offered its own rewards; Philip II of Spain had put up a sum 150    years earlier. But it was in Britain that the solution was found, following    the passing of the Longitude Act in 1714, which offered a prize for    determining a ship’s longitude.

Harrison wanted to use a highly accurate chronometer – as one moves across    lines of longitude, the local time moves one hour ahead for every 15° eastward. Accurate pendulum clocks existed then but his challenge was to    maintain accuracy in a moving ship that was subject to significant changes    in humidity and temperature.

But it was Harrison who succeeded, with his marine chronometer. After tireless    campaigning to have his achievement recognised, along with the intervention    of George III, he finally managed to wring money out of a reluctant    Parliament in 1765, at the age of 72.

Historians of science will carp that the details of the original £20,000    challenge – worth more than £1 million today – were more complicated than    the heroic story of Harrison, the lone genius, suggests. There will also be    debate about how much a prize is able to spur efforts that depend on a rump    of existing talent, ideas and innovations. But no one can doubt the power of    the Longitude story to make the mind race, the chest swell and the heart    beat faster.

Three centuries on, the resurrected Longitude panel has identified six key    challenges of the 21st century, from helping to defer the post-antibiotic    era, when a scratch could prove lethal once again, to finding more efficient    ways to plumb the planet with safe drinking water. The public will be asked    to vote from 22 May for the one they deem most pressing; once the theme is    selected in June, experts will have the tricky job of devising a    specification that is tough enough to spur creative thinking around defined    technical challenges, but not so hard that it seems out of reach. Then it is    over to anyone, within specific rules, to come up with a solution.

One key aspect of how we crack problems has changed profoundly since the days    of Harrison, thanks to the global reach afforded by the world wide web. When    it came to finding the Higgs particle, some 10,000 scientists and engineers    joined forces in the Large Hadron Collider, in Geneva, distributing data for    analysis worldwide.

The effort to crack the genetic recipe of a human being depended on highly    specialist skills splintered among many minds within a wide array of    institutions. Even mathematics, once the domain of the gifted loner, is more    collaborative now, thanks in part to the Polymath Project to coordinate    efforts online, launched by Sir Tim Gowers, a Fields medallist (the    mathematical answer to a Nobel).

But this new prize is'surely an experiment worth trying, according to Lord    Rees, the Astronomer Royal, who chairs the Longitude 2014 committee. He    believes it answers a pressing need to channel more brainpower into    innovation, to jump-start new technologies, and to enthuse young people.”I    do, too.

The winning idea, which will probably be announced by 2020, is likely to be    the product of many minds, in many countries, using many technologies. But    the spur remains the same as in Harrison’s day. It is not the money, though £10 million is certainly newsworthy. Nor is it the glory of being the first,    or best, or most innovative. It will be the satisfaction of changing the    world for the better, not just for the benefit of this generation but for    the next.

The UK has agreed to aim to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by at least 80    per cent (from the 1990 baseline) by 2050, and the rapid rise of emissions    caused by air travel needs to be tackled. The majority of flights from UK    airports are short haul.

If Flight wins the vote, the challenge will be set to design and build a zero,    or close to zero, carbon aeroplane that is capable of flying from London to    Edinburgh, at comparable speeds to today’s aircraft. Like the original    Longitude challenge, this innovation could significantly change transport.

As the world’s population heads towards nine billion in 2050, and becomes    richer, tastes will turn to more resource-hungry foods such as meat and    milk. In the face of limited resources and climate change, we must learn how    to feed more with better and for less.

If Food wins the vote, the challenge will be set to invent the next big food    innovation, helping ensure a future where there is enough nutritious,    affordable and environmentally sustainable food for all.

Because of the success of modern medical technologies, doctors have steadily    got better at saving patients with catastrophic injuries and serious    conditions, such as stroke, though this has led to a rise in the numbers of    paralysed people.

If Paralysis wins the vote, the challenge will be set to a wide range of    disciplines, from robotics to stem cell research, to invent a solution that    gives people with paralysis something approaching the same freedom of    movement that most of us enjoy.

Although we live in a water-filled world, 98 per cent of it is too salty for    drinking or agriculture, and one in 10 of the world’s population don’t have    access to safe drinking water. As demand grows and our water reserves    shrink, many are turning to desalination, though current technologies are    too expensive, energy-hungry and damage the environment.

If Water wins the vote, the challenge will be set to create cheap,    environmentally sustainable desalination technology for those who need it    most.

As the world’s population lives longer, more people are developing dementia,    at great personal cost and with a huge impact on society. According to    Alzheimer’s Research UK, 820,000 people in the UK suffer from dementia and    25 million have a close friend or family member who is affected.

If Dementia wins the vote, the challenge will be to develop intelligent, yet    affordable technologies that revolutionise care for people with dementia,    enabling them to live more independent lives.

The evolution of superbugs is threatening to make antibiotics ineffective.    Senior public health officials now talk of a “catastrophic threat”, one    comparable to that of climate change. Yet we are still unable to distinguish    bacterial from viral infections, or the type of bacteria, which has caused    the overuse of antibiotics and the evolution of multidrug-resistant    superbugs.

If Antibiotics wins the vote, the challenge will be set to create a cheap,    accurate, rapid, and easy to use test for bacterial infections that will    allow doctors and nurses to better target their treatments, administering    the right antibiotics at the right time.
