
Please register to gain free access to WSJ tools.

An account already exists for the email address entered.

The email address you have entered is already in use.

Please re-enter the email address.

The escalating dispute between Vietnam and China over a Chinese oil rig drilling in contested waters has thrown a sidelight on another claimant to vast stretches of the South China Sea: Taiwan.

While Taiwan plays no part in the current Beijing-Hanoi standoff, the confusion has a basis in at least one respect. Taiwan and Beijing share identical claims in the South China Sea. Among the sea’s more than 200 reefs, shoals, atolls and sandbars, Taiwan controls less than a handful: Taiping island and a trio of tiny islands clustered along an atoll known as the Dongsha.

Taiping is the largest of the Spratly group, is centrally located and has an aircraft landing strip and freshwater sources, making it a strategic asset.

Taiwan’s and China’s shared claims are a legacy that dates to their civil war in the middle of the last century. The Nationalist party, or Kuomintang, led by Chiang Kai-shek controlled China, which back then was called Republic of China.

In 1949, the KMT was ousted by the communists from the mainland and retreated to Taiwan where it reestablished the Republic of China’s government. It retained all of the republic’s territorial claims, including the South China Sea. So did Mao Zedong’s Communist government once ensconced in Beijing.

As part of that shared history, the map Beijing now uses to outline its claims to the South China Sea—and that has stirred unease among neighboring countries–was initially drawn up by the preceding Nationalist government. The map shows a nine-dash line which arcs near the coasts of Vietnam, Philippines, Malaysia and Brunei, the other claimants to various islands.

In recent decades, Taiwan has undergone a democratic evolution, and sovereignty over the South China Sea has been an issue of only episodic interest for most Taiwanese. It resurfaced last year after the Philippine coast guard fatally shot a man on a Taiwanese fishing trawler in a part of the Luzon Strait off the South China Sea both governments claim as inside their exclusive economic zones. Taipei has spoken out forcefully about its claims to other islands in the East China Sea that are the focus of tense jostling between Japan and China.

Still, when it comes to the South China Sea, the Taiwanese government does not want to be dealt out of any regional deal-making.

“Any international conferences that deal with this issue must not alienate Taiwan. We have a few islands under our control, so don’t treat us like we are nobody,” Shen Lyu-hsun, Taiwan’s representative to Washington, said in an interview with Voice of America last week. “China can’t speak for us, because we own Taiping and Dongsha islands,” said Mr. Shen.

The secretary-general of the government’s National Security Council  Hu Wei-jen flew to Taiping in September 2012 with a group of lawmakers from the ruling KMT to make a point about Taiwan’s interest. Mr. Hu said Taiwan is willing to jointly develop the South China Sea’s natural resources with other claimants, though it won’t share sovereignty.

Experts point out that most of China’s shipping passes through or near the region and so Taiwan could use Taiping as a base for attack submarines and aircraft in the event of war with China, which wants unification with Taiwan and has vowed to use force if necessary .

To beef up Taiping’s defense readiness, in 2013, Taiwan earmarked NT$3.4 billion (US$110 million) to extend the existing runway and construct a new dock, large enough to accommodate frigates to berth there. That move drew strong reactions from the Philippines and Vietnam.

With its armed forces shrinking in size and strength, Taiwan has steered clear of threatening force in territorial disputes, staying out of the tensions that have increasingly risen between China, Vietnam and the Philippines. Taipei has called on all claimants to settle the differences across the negotiation table, rather than through force.

An error has occured and your email has not been sent.

• Seperate multiple addresses with Commas.

• Must enter an email address.

• You must enter the verification code below to send.

• Invalid entry: Please type the verification code again.

An error has occured and your email has not been sent.

• Seperate multiple addresses with Commas.

• Must enter an email address.

• You must enter the verification code below to send.

• Invalid entry: Please type the verification code again.
