
Apprenticeship opportunities in the United States may be declining, but some federal grants are aimed at helping to turn that trend around.

The phrase "earn and learn" sounds quite attractive to anyone who wants to work in a specialized industry but can't afford to pay education costs. However, apprenticeships and internships have gotten a bad reputation in the United States; where tales of woe from underpaid interns and a uniquely American resistance to putting youngsters on a career "track" have kept industries from using the apprenticeship model as a way of building a specialized, skilled workforce.

Indeed, the Wall Street Journal recently wrote about the decline of apprenticeships.

"There is a growing skills gap in the U.S.," says Jennifer Grasz, vice president of corporate communications for Chicago-based CareerBuilder, which recently put out a survey in which more than half of employers said they currently have open positions for which they can't find qualified candidates.

"An internship or apprenticeship program not only helps prepare workers for in-demand roles, it builds loyalty," she says. "Workers we surveyed said they are more likely to stay with an organization that has invested in developing them."

CareerBuilder's Re-employment Initiative is an ongoing program where six-month internships in technology are provided for approximately a dozen long-term unemployed; most of whom have no technical experience. Grasz says that an average of 75 percent of these interns find jobs in technology,

outside of CareerBuilder. "We purposely set up the program to place people outside of CareerBuilder, because we wanted to show other companies that it is possible to give people very marketable skills in technology if you just give them the chance," she explains. "That can help bridge the skills gap in your own organization and the community at large."

According to John Ladd, administrator for the Office of Apprenticeship at the U.S. Department of Labor, apprenticeship programs benefit companies by providing a better prepared, more productive workforce.

And this is not your grandfather's apprenticeship. Certified by the U.S. Department of Labor, today's Registered Apprenticeship differs from internships in that Registered Apprenticeship is a proven and structured "earn and learn" model that pairs paid on-the-job learning with related technical classroom instruction in a number of career fields.

"A Registered Apprenticeship is so employers and participants know that the training that's offered passes national standards to industry-recognized training," Ladd says, noting that employers using Registered Apprenticeships can expect to benefit from customized training; increased productivity and knowledge transfer; recruitment and retention advantages; a stable and predictable pipeline for the development of qualified workers; and a systematic approach to training that ensures highly-skilled, certified employees.

The main components of a Registered Apprenticeship include an identified "skills plan" or curriculum for what the apprentices will learn and at least a year's worth of on-the-job training (usually supervised by a mentor or skilled professional) and job-related education (which can be classroom-based, online or delivered on the job). Apprentices are employed and must be paid at least the minimum wage -- with opportunities to earn more as their skills increase.

Registered Apprenticeship culminates with the apprentice earning a national and industry-recognized DOL Certificate of Completion in that occupation. The DOL Certificate of Completion is portable, and may be transferrable for credit at a college or university in conjunction with further education and credentials. Ladd says that today's average apprenticeship completer earns more than $50,000, and earns $300,000 more than their counterparts with little or no student debt.

A new partnership between the U.S. Department of Labor and the U.S. Department of Education, called the Registered Apprenticeship College Consortium, has been developed to help apprenticeship graduates transfer their years of classroom instruction and on-the-job training into credits toward a two- or four-year college degree.

Wisconsin's Department of Workforce Development's Registered Apprenticeship program was the nation's first. According to DWD Secretary Reggie Newson, Wisconsin had 3,350 new apprentices in 2013, up 31 percent from the previous year, 56 percent from the 2010 figure and 21 percent from 2008. "Under Governor Scott Walker's leadership, Wisconsin now provides reimbursement for 25 percent of the training costs, up to $1,000 per participant in the Registered Apprenticeship program," he says. "As baby boomers retire and demand grows for workers with new skills, more and more employers in Wisconsin are rediscovering the value of apprenticeship training."

Wisconsin also runs a Youth Apprenticeship program in which high-school juniors and seniors can explore career opportunities while they earn a wage and gain some work experience. "This school-to-work program is popular with students, parents, employers and participating schools," says Newson, adding that state grants in support of Youth Apprenticeship programs have increased under Governor Walker's leadership. "Last year, he awarded more than $1.8 million in grants to participating schools. This year, that figure will increase by an additional $500,000 to let more youth participate."

Labor and employment attorney Dana Kravetz, of Michelman & Robinson in Los Angeles, calls himself a fan of the apprenticeship model because it can serve as an alternative to schooling.

"Not everyone can put down tens of thousands of dollars to go to school," he says, "but if you can make a little money and come out with a skill set that's marketable, you'll be in demand." He adds that it's about "paying your dues and getting paid at the same time."

However, he advises employers to be careful about ancillary issues, such as a clothing allowance, regarding this kind of temporary employment.

"For instance, do you have to pay for uniforms, or do you provide the apprentice benefits? They would be part of your labor force and would have certain entitlements. Don't lose all of the advantages and protections you built up with the rest of your employees regarding work-related accidents by risking it on an intern. They're still working for you."

Kravetz also notes that an employer's offer letter should make it clear that the apprentice or intern is an at-will employee and can be terminated at any time with or without notice.
