
A heartbroken couple are seeking answers following the shock death of their precious baby son at just 40 days old.

Carly Lee and husband Martyn have complained to Cwm Taf Health Board after claiming their child was discharged from hospital without medics noticing his severe heart condition.

A spokesman for the health board, which declines to comment on individual cases, said a full internal investigation will take place into the incident.

Little Hunter Lee, who was born October 23 last year at the Royal Glamorgan Hospital, weighing 5lb 5oz, spent 19 days in the hospital’s special care baby unit before being sent home with a clean bill of health.

But he took a turn for the worse at 23 days old when he was re-admitted to the Llantrisant-based hospital and diagnosed with a severe coarctation of the aorta and a weakened third valve.

Hunter was transferred to the intensive care unit at Bristol’s Royal Children’s Hospital where he underwent an operation to correct the heart problem.

But he then contracted bronchiolitis – a viral infection which affected his breathing – from his identical twin Carson while the family were back at their Rhondda home.

Hunter, whose lungs had collapsed, was taken to a hospital in Leicester for a pioneering lung and heart bypass. But the operation came too late and left Hunter with 75% brain damage resulting from a cardiac arrest.

His devastated parents made the heart-wrenching decision to turn off his life support machine and wanted him spend his last moments in Bristol next to his twin brother who also had initial lung difficulties. Hunter died on December 1, 2013, in his mother’s arms and his funeral took place seven days before Christmas Day at Holy Trinity Church in Tylorstown.

Grieving mother Carly said: “As we came off the ambulance and into Bristol, the whole family were there to greet us and applaud Hunter into the hospital.

The family, who live in Clydach Vale, say they are struggling to come to terms with losing Hunter so soon.

They are now in the process of setting up a charity, called Hope For Hunter, which aims to raise funds for Bristol Children’s Hospital.

An inquest will soon take place at Aberdare Coroner’s Court but a date has not yet been set.

Carly said: “Hunter fought so hard for so long and his body simply couldn’t take any more.

“His death tore a massive hole in his family’s heart; a hole that can and will never be filled.

“His family are determined to let his memory live and his charity will do so by helping other families who have lost a child.

The family claim Hunter could still be alive if his heart condition had been picked up by doctors at the Royal Glamorgan when he was born.

Despite suffering reflux problems in the first 18 days of his life, the decision was made to discharge Hunter – a move the family say proved fatal.

“They severely neglected his condition and his human rights,” Carly added.

“He was born with this heart problem – it wasn’t something he developed.

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

Join us on social media.

For the latest local news straight to your Twitter, Facebook feed, e-mail inbox or tablet .

WalesOnline.co.uk conforms to the newspaper industry's voluntary Code of Practice, administered by the Press Complaints Commission.

If you feel we have made an error in a report, or have fallen below our usual high standards, please write in the first instance to: Ceri Gould, Online Editor, WalesOnline.co.uk, Media Wales, Six Park Street, Cardiff CF10 1XR. Tel: 029 2024 3672.

We reach over 1,384,563* unique users a month with dedicated coverage of all things Welsh.

WalesOnline is part of Media Wales, publisher of the Western Mail, South Wales Echo, Wales on Sunday and the seven Celtic weekly titles, offering you unique access to our audience across Wales online and in print.

Ceri has been editor of WalesOnline since April 2012. She was previously executive editor of Media Wales and deputy editor of the Western Mail. She started her career on the Glamorgan Gazette.
