
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

NEWTON — A former president of the Hardyston Volunteer First Aid Squad -- along with a former treasurer -- who stole more than $40,000 from the squad, was sentenced  to three years probation, the Sussex County Prosecutor’s Office said.

Eva Boswell, 60, who now lives in Cherryfield, Me., was also ordered to pay $13,588 in restitution and perform 100 hours of community service, which will be transferred to Maine, the prosecutor’s office said.

Boswell, who was sentenced last Friday, pleaded guilty to stealing the money from the squad in 2009 and 2010 and using it to pay for prescription medications and other personal items.

Boswell and the former squad treasurer, Wayne Ross, 63, of Hardyston, both pleaded guilty last month to third-degree theft.

According to his arrest affidavit, Ross spent $27,585 on unauthorized credit card charges from 2008 to 2013.

In addition to gas for his vehicle and pen-making supplies for his business, Ross also used squad money to repair his own vehicle, dining expenses, ESPN subscriptions, large quantities of cigarettes from Southern states and other miscellaneous items.

The thefts were first brought to the attention to the Hardyston Township Council by two residents in January 2012 and an investigation was begun in August 2012, the affidavit states.

Ross, who served as a Hardyston councilman from 1992 until his arrest last year, is scheduled to be sentenced on June 13 before Superior Court Judge Thomas Critchley, sitting in Newton.

Check here if you do not want to receive additional email offers and information.

Thank you for your subscription!

To view and subscribe to any of our other newsletters, please click here .

© 2014 New Jersey On-Line LLC. All rights reserved ( About Us ).

The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of New Jersey On-Line LLC.

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
