
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

That's what Washington Post Executive Editor Martin Baron told  Lehigh University graduates today at the school's 146th commencement at Stabler Arena in Bethlehem .

Baron, who said his only degrees come from Lehigh, told the graduates about some of the largest national headlines his newsrooms chased and what he learned as those controversies unfolded.

Before being presented an honorary doctorate degree of humane letters, Baron shared three career-defining news stories that put his beliefs to the test.

"You will be asked to make unimagined decisions. And no matter how well Lehigh has done its job, nothing in your coursework will fully prepare you," Baron said.

As executive editor of The Miami Herald during the 2000 elections, Baron advocated for the right to read every single Florida electoral ballot following the controversial Supreme Court ruling that made George W. Bush president. His newspaper came under fire from Republicans for the recount demand.

"We were seeking something else entirely. It was the truth: Who had really won? We felt Americans should know," he said.

During his 12-year tenure with The Boston Globe, Baron's staff was responsible for revealing that Catholic church officials failed to investigate and covered up decades of sexual abuse.

"No one should be immune from responsibility, least of all the powerful," Baron said. "No one should be denied a hearing, least of all the powerless. We owe them a duty to listen and help.''

Lastly, Baron discussed The Post's work with Edward Snowden last year that revealed the National Security Agency's controversial surveillance tactics and earned the publication a Pulitzer Prize.

"We published because we felt it served the public interest," Baron said. "Silence is, at times, an unacceptable option."

Baron concluded by encouraging students to seek the truth and to hold those in power accountable.

"Securing our constitutional rights, however, requires more than a vibrant press," Baron said. "It requires vigilant citizens. These rights are a fragile gift. They are yours to safeguard."

Following Baron's discussion of risks, university President Alice P. Gast, at her eighth and final commencement before becoming president of Imperial College in London this August , reminded students about the risks they've already taken.

"In 2010 you all came to Lehigh University to forge a new life," Gast said. "You left behind what you knew for what you wanted to know. You took the risk and Lehigh took the risk on you, too."

"Today we celebrate the risk you took and the one we took in you. We were right," Gast said.

Gast echoed Baron's words about how difficult the "real world" can be after graduation, but added how a Lehigh education aids its students.

"Lehigh University breeds risk-takers," Gast said. "Aim high, take risks and believe in yourselves. I wish you happiness and fullness in your lives."

Gast's work was acknowledged throughout the ceremony. Lehigh board of trustees Chairman Brad Eric Scheler told the students that "in your mind's eye, you and President Gast will always be connected through this day."

© 2014 PennLive LLC. All rights reserved ( About Us ).

The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of PennLive LLC.

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
