
Tel Aviv University President Joseph Klafter said funding will be sought from private and government sources for the joint venture.

TEL AVIV, Israel ― Two top universities from Israel and China announced Monday that they are starting a $300 million research project focused on nanotechnologies, the latest move in booming ties between the Jewish state and the Asian giant.

Tel Aviv University and Beijing’s Tsinghua University said they will exchange graduate students and faculty members to work at a joint research center based at the two institutions.

The cooperation initially will focus on nanotechnology, particularly with medical and optics applications, but may be later expanded to other areas, including raw materials, water treatment and environmental issues, officials from both sides said at a news conference at the Israeli university.

Tel Aviv University President Joseph Klafter said funding will be sought from private and government sources, adding that almost a third of the money already has been raised for the project, which is to be formally launched on Tuesday.

Tsinghua President Chen Jining said part of the funding will be used to design prototypes, connect academics to the business world and commercialize the products of research. “We have collaborations with many other universities around the world, but this is the first that is so in-depth and innovative,” he said.

Israeli Premier Benjamin Netanyahu, who traveled to China last year, has made ties with Beijing a priority.

“We celebrate the success and huge growth of cooperation and connections between Israel and China,” Netanyahu said in a statement after meeting with visiting Chinese Deputy Prime Minister Liu Yandong.

Israel is still a tiny partner for the Chinese giant, but trade between the two countries has been growing, reaching $ 8.4 billion last year, compared with $ 6.7 billion in 2010, according to Israel’s Central Bureau of Statistics. Beijing seeks access to new technologies in fields where Israel is considered a leader, including agriculture, water desalination and medicine, while the Jewish state is eager to gain a foothold in the huge Chinese market.

Last year Haifa’s Technion technology institute and Shantou University, located in the southern Guangdong province, signed a smaller cooperation agreement valued around $ 150 million. Chinese companies also have vied to acquire stakes in local companies, including a top insurer and a dairy giant, and expressed interest in the proposed construction of a railway project linking the Mediterranean to the Red Sea.

Yoram Evron, a researcher on China-Middle East ties at the University of Haifa, said that Beijing is seeking to increase its influence in the region, especially to secure the energy imports needed to fuel its growing economy.

For Israel, agreements like the one announced Monday allow it to boost ties with Beijing without angering its key ally, the United States, as increased military cooperation would do, Evron said.

“It serves both interests, it gives China Israeli technology and brings Israel closer to China without irritating Washington,” he said.

RESPONSIBILITIES:  We are looking for a colleague to assume the position of Provost and Vice President of Academic Affairs and to lead us in our efforts to negotiate the multiple challenges that are confronting higher education nationwide and to meet the region-specific opportunities that are unique to UNF.

RESPONSIBILITIES:  The successful candidate will teach an introductory course in the history of medicine, prepare classes in her/his area of specialization, be active in research and publication, perform university service, and contribute to a growing community of faculty interested in the medical humanities.

RESPONSIBILITIES:   Candidates for Assistant Professor should have a Ph.D. in accounting, outstanding research potential, and a strong commitment to excellence in graduate and undergraduate teaching.

Diverse: Issues In Higher Education, a CMA publication.

Join the conversation with our 30,000 social media participants by following us on Twitter @DiverseIssues and like us on Facebook at https://www.facebook.com/DiverseJobs as we celebrate the 30th anniversary of Diverse: Issues in Higher Education.
