
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

Omar Mendoza and Rodolfo Navarro nearly got married in Washington state.

Together for six years, the Hillsboro couple said it was time to make things official. But they also had been following the news of Oregon's gay marriage case. Family persuaded them to be patient.

And just as they hoped, the historic ruling came down at noon Monday, when a federal judge struck down Oregon's ban on gay marriage, making it the seventh state to do so since the U.S. Supreme Court last year invalidated key sections of the federal Defense of Marriage Act. Nearby Washington legalized gay marriage through a statewide vote last year.

Same sex marriage in Washington County Omar Mendoza, 24, and Rodolfo Navarro, 39, have been together almost six years and were glad they didn't have to drive to Washington to get their marriage license.  They were the first same sex couple to fill out the new marriage form at the Washington County Public Services Building.

Around 1:30 p.m., Mendoza, 24, and Navarro, 39, became the first gay couple in Washington County to obtain a marriage license. The county's electronic marriage license application system had been updated by 1 p.m. to reflect same-sex couples.

"It was just time," Navarro said. "I know it's just a document, but to us it certifies our relationship. We don't really need it to love each other, but in the eyes of the courts ... it just makes it a lot easier."

There was no line -- Navarro and Mendoza, dressed casually in jeans and khakis, walked right up, underneath the sign that advertises marriage licenses, domestic partnerships, deed recordings and land records. They went dutch, each paying half of the $60 license fee.

Washington County's office of Assessment and Taxation remained relatively quiet, though by the end of the day eight gay couples had purchased marriage licenses. Same-sex couples in Multnomah County had lined up in anticipation of the decision, but Clackamas County was just as silent .

Mendoza said he had seen straight couples get their marriage licenses while he was at the county building for other errands. It was a good feeling, he said, to finally go through the same process himself.

"For us to come over here and do it the same way," he said, "it feels as if we're saying we're equal to the rest of the people around here."

Navarro said he and Mendoza had been invited to a few straight couples' weddings in Oregon.

"You look at them happy and you're like, 'When is it going to be our chance to do this too, you know? And it is today.'"

"Finally," Mendoza added, smiling.

© 2014 Oregon Live LLC. All rights reserved ( About Us ).

The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Oregon Live LLC.

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
