
China's real estate sector cooled down further in April, with concerns mounting over its drag on the country's overall economy.

Among 70 major cities, eight saw month-on-month price declines in the new-home market last month, double that for March, the National Bureau of Statistics said in a statement on Sunday.

Meanwhile, 44 cities experienced price gains on a monthly basis, down from 56 for March and 57 for February, according to the NBS. The biggest increase was recorded in the southeastern coastal city of Xiamen, where prices rose 0.4 of a percent month-on-month from March.

Hangzhou, the provincial capital of East China's Zhejiang province, saw the biggest price drop of 0.7 of a percent from the previous month.

In the pre-owned market, prices rose in 35 cities on a month-on-month basis, notably down from 42 in March and 46 in February, NBS data showed.

For Huang Jinlao, vice-president of Huaxia Bank, this round of home price correction is market-driven rather than policy-led.

In addition to a boost in the government's subsidized housing and the oversupply in some smaller cities, banks' unwillingness to offer mortgages to home buyers is another major reason for a cool-down in the real estate sector, according to Huang.

The average annual yield of wealth management products stands at a range of 5 to 6 percent, compared with a favorable mortgage rate of 5.9 percent for first-time home buyers. The interbank offering rate hit 6.8 percent in December, which means banks' investment in other fields will be more lucrative than offering mortgages.

Looking forward, the divergence in home prices and property developers' performances will be more obvious.

"Home prices in the country's first-tier cities are still expected to see an increase ranging from 5 to 10 percent this year, though smaller cities with high stock will experience a price fall," said William Kwok, director of Cheung Kong Real Estate Ltd.

According to recent research by China Index Academy and Tsinghua University, the performance of listed property developers polarized last year, and this trend is set to continue in 2014.

Wang Shuo, a 32-year-old company executive in Beijing, said he was considering a home purchase within six months, betting on a price rebound next year.

With property investment growth decelerated alongside declines in housing sales and prices, more economists and investors are worried about a drag on the country's GDP growth, as real estate contributed nearly one-fourth of fixed-asset investment.

The latest Chinese macro data for April indicate a further economic deceleration in the second quarter. And the country could see the slowest annual rate of growth since 1990, according to Fitch Ratings.

"The data underscore our view that the property market poses the greatest risk of a sharper-than-expected slowdown," Andrew Colquhoun, a senior analyst with Fitch Ratings, said in a research note.

The feed-through effects from a weakening property sector on the economy as a whole confirm that real estate is a principal source of risk to China's sovereign and financial stability in the near term, Colquhoun added.
