
NEW HAVEN >> A familiar face will return to Lincoln-Bassett Community School next year to spearhead state-led turnaround efforts.

In a special meeting, the Board of Education announced the decision to bring in former Lincoln-Bassett Assistant Principal Janet Brown-Clayton to lead the school.

The current principal, Yolanda Jones-Generette, is being transferred to Barnard Environmental Studies Magnet School, where she will replace outgoing Principal Michael Crocco.

Lincoln-Bassett was added to the Commissioner’s Network this year , joining the city’s High School in the Community and Wilbur Cross High School. The network seeks to significantly improve struggling schools through collaboration between local stakeholders and the state Department of Education.

Before being selected for the network, a state audit of the school painted a dim picture of the school, including a divide among staff, chronic absenteeism among students and lack of basic resources, such as projectors and whiteboards. The school also has been the source of many troubling public testimonies at recent school board meetings. Staff members at the school have repeatedly noted feeling neglected and concerned that the district was not paying enough attention to Lincoln-Bassett.

Brown-Clayton, a product of New Haven schools herself, said she is excited about the work ahead and plans to work with Jones-Generette during the transition. She said it will take “rigor, relevance and relationship” to raise academic achievement and improve the school.

“I’m extremely honored that God and life has brought me to full fruition, and that I’m able to give back and share my passion for learning and to build on the work that Ms. Jones-Generette began, and to continue what she began,” she said.

Brown-Clayton served as assistant principal at Lincoln-Bassett in the 2012-13 school year and also worked in turnaround Brennan-Rogers School. Brown-Clayton also worked at Sheridan Middle School for a decade.

Jones-Generette offered an emotional speech after the announcement, recalling many positive moments during her nine months at Lincoln-Bassett.

Jones-Generette said it’s her desire to see teams such as the curriculum leadership team, attendance committee and parent teacher organization continue after her departure.

Jones-Generette said after the meeting that she was focusing on returning “home” to Barnard, where she previously worked.

Alder Delphine Clyburn, D-20, voiced her concerns about the leadership selection process. Clyburn said she felt Harries should have included her and the community in that decision.

“We did not know that our principal was being pulled from us,” she said.

Clyburn said Harries met with her and others in April and failed to mention that Jones-Generette would be transferred.

“He kept that from us,” she said.

Harries explained his decision ltaer in a statement.

“Alder Clyburn is a strong advocate for Lincoln-Bassett and I have been very clear on her support of Yolanda Jones-Generette as the principal. That said, I made the decision to transfer Ms. Jones-Generette based on what I think is in the best interest of students at both Lincoln-Bassett and Barnard.

“The timing of tonight’s appointments was strategic to allow new principals to begin planning for next year and to let turnaround work at Lincoln-Bassett continue in earnest with new leadership.

The board announced two other appointments Monday. Shanta Smith was appointed principal of Edgewood Magnet School and Fallon Daniels was appointed principal of one of the two academies at James Hillhouse High School. Zakiyyah Baker will serve as principal of the second academy.

Hillhouse Principal Kermit Carolina will remain at his post and will focus on the eleventh and twelfth grades, Smith said.

Have questions, feedback or ideas about our news coverage? Connect directly with the editors of the New Haven Register at AskTheRegister.com .
