
Nigel Farage has expressed regret over remarks he made about Romanian immigrants last week.

He later told BBC News: “I didn’t use the form of words in response that I would have liked to have used.

We contacted the unit about this last year and they were unable to share any underlying data with us, but told us the figure was “based on police intelligence”.

The 92 per cent figure is very similarly to one attributed to analysts at the EU law enforcement agency Europol by a Times article last year.

Again, hard underlying data is lacking here, and note that we are lumping Bulgarians and Romanians together now, whereas Mr Barnard was only talking about Romanians. But he’s obviously not the only policeman linking the country to this type of crime.

It’s difficult to know what to make of this: “police intelligence” isn’t the same as real numbers for arrests or convictions, but equally it could be that low arrest statistics don’t reflect the real size of the problem.

Note that these Met figures do suggest that Romanian nationals are disproportionately more likely to be arrested for certain other types of crime in certain locations: almost half the beggars arrested in 2012 were Romanian across London and in one London borough, Westminster, the proportion was 70 per cent.

This number is accurate (it’s 27,725, to be precise) and comes from another Met Police Freedom of Information release . This is based on the nationalities people use to describe themselves when arrested, hence the inclusion of a number of “countries” that no longer exist (the Irish Free State, British Central Africa) or indeed have never existed (Yanam).

The data has been very widely misreported and indeed Mr Farage got it slightly wrong again in today’s Telegraph ad.

The figure of 28,000 is for the number of arrests made over five years from 2008 to 2012, not the number of people. One shoplifter can be arrested and re-arrested dozens of times and each one of those arrests counts towards this total.

But of course this applies to all countries, and compared to others, Romania does not come out of these arrest figures covered in glory.

Only Poland saw more arrests of its citizens over those five years (nearly 35,000) and there are likely to be many more Poles living in the Met Police area.

We can’t be precise about this because the next population survey doesn’t come out until August next year (recent estimates from the Labour Force Survey suggest there are in the region of 180,000 working age Romanians in the whole of England, but there are big margins of error here).

The latest census data showed there were 579,000 Poles and 73,000 Romanians in England and Wales in 2011.

Unless our estimates of the likely Romanian population in the capital are out by an enormous amount, it is safe to say that the average Romanian is more likely to be arrested than the average Pole.

The country’s ambassador to the UK, Dr Ion Jinga , has been at pains to point out that arrests are not the same as convictions, which is quite right.

He has released figures showing an apparent recent fall in the number of criminal convictions among Romanian migrants.

We haven’t managed to track down figures for criminal convictions by nationality (we’ll update if we do), but the Ministry of Justice gave us stats on the numbers of foreign prisoners in jails in England and Wales.

On March 31 this year there were 588 Romanian nationals in prison here out of a total prison population of 85,265 – so 0.7 per cent were Romanian.

A year earlier there were 671 Romanians behind bars in England and Wales out of 83,769 prisoners. That’s 0.8 per cent.

While the number and rate has dropped slightly, Romanians remain the fourth most numerous foreign group in the prison system, behind Poland (898 inmates) , Ireland (778) and Jamaica (711).

This stems from the same Times article mentioned above. Europol director Rob Wainwright was quoted as saying that about 240 organised crime groups from Romania have been identified by Europol, accounting for 6.7 per cent of the total number of criminal networks active in Europe.

Note that this refers to the numbers of criminals, not the amount of crime committed.

It may be a source of concern that Romanian gangs have a lot of manpower, but it’s not true to say that 7 per cent of all EU crime is carried out by those gangs.

We think Mr Farage has cut a few corners here: police intelligence isn’t the same as conviction rates; 28,000 arrests isn’t the same as 28,000 people; 7 per cent of criminal networks isn’t the same as 7 per cent of crime.

Nevertheless, we ought to say that the Ukip leader is not plucking these claims of criminality out of thin air. They are based on real statements put out by various police forces, some of whom have real concerns about the activities of Romanian wrongdoers.

Met figures show that Romanians are disproportionately more likely to be arrested compared with the citizens of many other countries.

And Ministry of Justice figures similarly show that while the number of Romanians in UK prisons has fallen slightly over the last year, the number still remains large as a percentage of the likely total Romanian population.

The request is for information on all UK arrests but the figures only relate to arrests made by the Met.

Well, the Channel 4 news bias has just shot itself in the foot by interviewing a Romanian lady who agreed with Nigel Farage and she wouldn’t want to live next door to a Romanian criminal gang either!  Channel 4, and all the other left wing biased media- you have no idea that the British people are right behind UKIP and we agree with every word they say!

Dianne Abbot interview  -just a sickening reflection of manipulating the truth!

I think I speak for most people when I saw I wouldn’t want to live next to *any* gang. So her statement does not back up him at all – unless she is saying that all Romanians, including herself, are in gangs. Which I dought.

I don’t necessarily disagree with the sentiment of this article but it’s point is so poorly portrayed.

Maybe I’m incorrect but “While the number and rate has dropped slightly, Romanians remain the fourth most numerous group in the prison system, behind Poland (898 inmates) , Ireland (778) and Jamaica (711).” discounts the UK nationals but Isn’t really stated here. The Romanians would be ninth.  English, Scottish, Welsh and Northern Irish come massively before these four foreign nationalities in terms of incarcerated citizens.

I have added the word “foreign” to this sentence to avoid any ambiguity.

Your fact on arrests is wrong. The figure is for arrests across the UK not just the Met arrea. The freedom of information request was made to the Met but it was total number of arrests in the UK.

Sorry Qwerty – I’ve double and triple-checked this with the Met Police. The numbers are MET ARRESTS ONLY, not UK-wide. I know the FOI asked for UK-wide figures, but that’s not what they got! As a journalist, if I wanted figures for the whole of the UK I would have to FOI every force or approach a national body like ACPO or the Home Office.

Give us a break.

No sooner do we get rid of one myth than another springs up.

As a dual citizen, Romanian born and British (naturalised) I feel frighten and deeply disgusted by the ways that the entire British media is portraying Romanian people. Surely there are a lot of decent British people who might try and search libraries, or on the Internet in order to learn the REAL FACTS about Romania for themselves, rather than being manipulated by the media. Historically, Romania as a country offered refuge to a lot of minorities who were not wanted in other parts of the continent, such as Jews and Roma people (gypsies or otherwise known as travellers). Roma people are being accounted for a mere three percent of the population and “boy!,” they are travellers, hence they’ll go where the opportunities are. Sadly, there wasn’t and there is not a successful formula for integrating the Roma people within the local communities nor it has had been in Romania, Poland, Slovakia, Hungary, Ireland, UK, etc. From that point onwards to say or suggest that Romanian people are persona non grata in terms of being your neighbours it is racist. How short is people’s memory! It became socially unacceptable to call names to the Asian or Afro-Caribbean people but, it became acceptable to stick the label of East-Europeans on the forehead of a lot of nations. Romanian language is a latin language not slavic as Russian, Polish, etc. Outside that, Romania is geographically situated in the Centre of Europe, not in the East.

In financial terms, Romania is definitely not the poorest nation in Europe and has a relatively good position in terms of external and internal debt. Reality is that although UK seems wealthy, it is one of the most indebted nation in the world. Of course if politicians and bankers were not biased, they would have borrowed lots of moneys to Romania how they did with Spain, Portugal, Italy or Greece…If so, maybe today Romania would have had a better economy and a greater standard of living. How convenient was to broadcast over the years appalling images about children in Romanian orphanages! At the same time it was a consensus in not to dwell in the “export” of over a quarter of a million white poor British children sent by the establishment to Australia. Is it not biased to borrow to Greece, just because Germans and English like the Greek sunshine and not based on hard economic data? It is not biased to bail them? Why it’s OK to scrimp when it is about Romania? Who is deciding what nation must be reach and what nation must be poor? But how do you stop the poor finding a better life for themselves? Well, politicians should have taken into account that. They created a very generous welfare system in the Western Europe based on money borrowed by governments and taken from honest hard working people  who pay their taxes, millions of them being immigrants. Yes, salaries in Romania might be five times lower versus UK, but so is the price of housing and the cost of living. Of course, media conveniently has chosen not to mention anything about the 4,000 doctors educated on the expense of Romanian government who work for the NHS. Also, nobody likes to mention the 5,000 Romanian nurses qualified and trained on Romanian’s taxpayers’ money who work in the NHS. Nobody likes to interviews Romanians who teach in the best British Universities or the scientists or the brilliant IT specialists who are working and paying a lot of money into the UK’s coffers. They only show or interview bar tenders, workers in the hospitality sector, overall labelling Romanians as “low paid workers”. Any resemblance to how UK portrayed Asian people, or the Irish? We all like to rip the benefits of globalisation but only when its suits our interests.

Bravo DC – excellent comment. The bias in the media in general is shocking. I am English with no particular axe to grind for Romania but I can see the political and, in my view, immoral bias.

Good for you DC.

I am sick of the British media, And as you say if people would just research & read about other cultures, especially other europeon cultures.

I am shocked & embarrassed as to how the British people are becoming more & more xenophobic.

Great comment DC ! Unfortunately facts are less interesting to common people compared to political controversy. Indeed, nowadays it’s “cool” to blame Eastern Europeans for all the problems in a given country. Before there were the Irish, Jews, etc, now its the Poles, Romanians and Bulgarians who are at fault. There must always be a scape goat to distract attention from real problems which might turn out to be harder to fix.

I just listened to the statistics programme on Radio 4 doing a similar check and the police reports seem to be correct. The point is that there are Romanians and Romanians, Poles and Poles. The Romanian I know is a perfect gentleman and is a lecturer. The Poles I know are all educated and not doing anything they shouldn’t be doing. On the other hand there are obviously a lot of rough and ready foreign nationals coming here who are NOT nice. And criminal gangs can come and go at will just by hopping on a bus. The undesirables of any country can come here whether they have a job or not and that is the problem. They can come and they do. It is wrong to blacken an entire nation when we are really talking about the undesirables and riff raff from all over Europe. There Germans will have them too but Germany is a better place to live for a German than Britain is.

If  one looks at:  the GDP/Capita, Wealth/wage ratios, the bias of the Torycons towards private profits,  the governments apparent inability to control immigration  all make sense. Who could possibly have an interest in a flood of disorganised low wage and slave  labour living in the unregulated favela’s springing up in the old industrial towns. There is lots of indigenous villainy to account for in our so called free competitive economy.

By posting on this website you are agreeing to abide by our Comments Policy .

Your email address will not be displayed to the public.
