
A State witness on Monday pointed to Czech fugitive Radovan Krejcir as the man who poured boiling water over his head.

Bheki Lukhele, who was kidnapped from his Katlehong home on June 25 last year, allegedly by Krejcir and his five co-accused, was sworn in in the High Court in Johannesburg, sitting in Palm Ridge, on Monday morning.

When prosecutor Louis Mashiane asked if he could remember who poured water over him, Lukhele said yes.

"It is the gentleman over there wearing a white suit," he said.

Lukhele stood up and pointed at Krejcir, who was wearing a light suit with a white shirt.

Lukhele told the court how the men kidnapped and assaulted him when he could not tell them where his brother was. He described how he was taken from his Katlehong house on June 25, forced into a car, blindfolded and driven away. Later he was taken into a room and made to sit on the floor facing the wall.

"They were kicking me on my stomach and on the side of my torso," he said.

One of the men kicked him in his neck. He was slapped. Someone told him in English that his brother robbed him of his money and that he was looking for him and his money, the court heard.

He said when the blindfold was taken off he could see a man with a white kettle who again asked where his brother was.

"I told him that I don't know and then he poured the water over my head," Lukhele said.

"I felt pain. I screamed but with a low voice. As he was pouring the water over my head he again asked where my brother was and I said I don't know and he kicked me with a booted foot. Twice."

Lukhele said he was bleeding inside his mouth.

"My skin peeled off because of the water."

He was held until June 29 and guarded day and night, he said.

Lukhele's brother Doctor worked for a cargo company at OR Tambo International airport. He apparently disappeared with 25kg of crystal methamphetamine (tik) he was supposed to help transport to Australia, allegedly for Krejcir.

He was allegedly held at Krejcir's Money Point gold exchange business in Bedfordview, Johannesburg, in June last year.

Krejcir's co-accused are Desai Luphondo, warrant officers Samuel Modise Maropeng and George Nthoroane, Jan Lefu Mofokeng, and Siboniso Miya. All have pleaded not guilty to charges of dealing in drugs, attempted murder, and kidnapping.
