
The FDA has released new information about the investigation into jerky treats for pets that have killed more than 1,000 dogs.

According to the FDA, they've received more than 4,800 complaints about sick pets who ate chicken, duck, or sweet potato jerky treats.  Nearly all of the treats were imported from China.

The complaints include more than 5,600 dogs, 24 cats and three people.  Sixty percent of the cases report gastrointestinal/liver disease, 30 percent report kidney or urinary disease and 10 percent report various other health issues.  Many of the reports came in from owners with multiple dogs.  The FDA says they received almost 2,000 cases since last October.

The FDA has received case reports from veterinarians who treated animals sickened after eating the treats. They also did postmortem examinations on 26 dogs.  They found clues that linked the treats with the cause of death in at least half of the pets.

The tests the FDA has done on the jerky treats show low levels of antibiotics, as well as the drug Amantadine, which is an antiviral and antiparkinsonian medication that is FDA-approved for use in people.

The FDA started investigating in 2007 and has struggled to make much progress.  Last year the FDA sent letters to veterinary clinics throughout the U.S. and asked them to tell pet owners about illness associated with the treats.

The FDA recommends pet owners talk to their veterinarians before giving their pets treats.

KKTV firmly believes in freedom of speech for all and we are happy to provide this forum for the community to share opinions and facts. We ask that commenters keep it clean, keep it truthful, stay on topic and be responsible. Comments left here do not necessarily represent the viewpoint of KKTV 11 News.

If you believe that any of the comments on our site are inappropriate or offensive, please tell us by clicking “Report Abuse” and answering the questions that follow. We will review any reported comments promptly.

The next time a crook calls and tries to scare you into wiring him money, grab a whistle!

I'm SO CLOSE to being able to do a pull-up. So my trainer introduced something new into my training.

Even if you don't plan to workout on your vacation, you may be surprised at the calories you're burning without even trying!

We did a quick helicopter tour of the Black Forest burn area. Someone asked why the video looks shaky.
