
Hundreds of students and adults gathered on the Lincoln County Fairgrounds grandstands in the morning as the rain dissipated.

“As we celebrate our 10th Annual Blue Ribbon Walk to stop child abuse, we say thank you for your support. Thank you for standing with us in our commitment to forge ahead,” said Crystal Guess, executive director of Junior’s House, Inc. Child Advocacy Center.

“The statistics tell us that 1,900 children will be abused today in this country, and four of them will die,” she continued. “As a community and as a society, we must continue to make a stand against child abuse and say ‘no’ we will not stop our commitment to make sure every child has a safe and loving home,” Guess stated.

Guess thanked the sponsors for their support and recognized John Karby of Edward Jones for being a Blue Ribbon Friend of the Year with a plaque.

The next Blue Ribbon Friend of the Year she introduced was Danny Berryhill. Berryhill hosted the Wingstock event, which generated over $14,000 for Junior’s House last year and the same amount for another non-profit.

Next, Platinum Sponsors were introduced, including HM Management, N-Design, Wal-Mart of Lincoln and Marshall County, Goody’s and ARP Women’s Group. Megan Hall, chairman of the Junior’s House Board of Directors, presented the plaques to the sponsors.

Gold Sponsors, Junior’s House Student Advisory Board 2013/1014, FLC Chamber of Commerce Student Advisory Board, Edwin and Debbie McAlister, The Exchange, Inc. J.S. Taylor Art, Bank of Lincoln County, Hope Assembly of God, Howell Cumberland Presbyterian Church, Women of the Way, Marshall County Junior Auxiliary, Lincoln County Health System, Carter’s Drug Store, Amy Grubb, Redstone Federal Credit Union, WEKR, Elk Valley Crafters, Frito-Lay and Ottley Family Dental, were recognized with plaques.

Additionally, Guess thanked Silver and Bronze Sponsors and noted that the names of those businesses were posted on the blue boards around the walk.

The Silver Sponsors include the First Presbyterian Women’s Group, Fayetteville First United Methodist Church, Donna Orr Hargrove, Public Defender, The Rock Family Worship Center, Ascend Federal Credit Union, Dixie Smith Insurance Agency, New Hope Baptist Church, Gerald’s Foodland, Fayetteville Kiwanis Club, Brooke Grubb for Circuit Court Judge Part 1, Higgins Funeral Home, Karma Bakeria, Kahuna’s Market, Walgreen’s and Ottley Family Dental.

Bronze Sponsors were Sabghi’s Jewelers, Lisa McKern of Edward Jones, David Kidd and Luanne Kidd, District Attorney Rob Carter, Centerstone of Fayetteville, Norman’s Furniture, David Hall Signs, Lawler’s Barbeque, Mimosa Church of Christ, Bruce and Terri White, Copperweld Bimetallics LLC, Pat and Mary Marsh, Tom Bingham III, DDS, First National Bank, Assembly Products, Attorney Susan E. McCown, Cahoots Restaurant, Department of Children’s Services, Flower House, Ivy Wreath Florist and Gifts, Angie’s Catering Service, Cash Express, Shoney’s Restaurant, Locker Ice and Bagley and Bagley.

Megan Hall, chairman of Junior’s House Board of Directors, introduced Senator Jim Tracy and Representative Pat Marsh, who posed with the event sponsors as they received plaques representing their organizations.

Senator Tracy stated that Junior’s House is well known across the state. He thanked the sponsors for the funds they raised and stated that he was honored to represent this district.

Representative Marsh expressed his admiration for the people of Lincoln County following the tornadoes.

“Nothing gets Lincoln County down,” he stated.

He also noted that he learned that the Department of Children’s Services would soon have an office in Junior’s House.

Morgan Porter, member of the Junior’s House Youth Advisory Board, introduced student representatives of county and city schools which raised a combined total of more than $13,903.

School participants were Unity School, South Lincoln, Highland Rim, Blanche School, Flintville School, Lincoln County High School Cheerleaders, Fayetteville High School, Fayetteville Middle School, Huntland High School and Ninth Grade Academy.
