
The Justice Department has indicted five members of the Chinese military on charges of hacking into computers and stealing valuable trade secrets from leading steel, nuclear plant and solar power firms, marking the first time that the United States has leveled such criminal charges against a foreign country.

The landmark case paves the way for more indictments and demonstrates that the United States is serious about holding foreign governments accountable for crimes committed in cyberspace, officials said at a news conference Monday.

The Obama administration “will not tolerate actions by any nation that seeks to illegally sabotage American companies and undermine the integrity of fair competition in the operation of the free market,” Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. said.

The decision to confront China grew out of a White House strategy formulated two years ago to impose increasing costs on Beijing if it didn’t respond to requests to stop its widespread hacking for commercial advantage . The indictment is intended to address what President Obama and senior intelligence officials have called one of the top threats to national and economic security , with an estimated annual cost to the U.S. economy that ranges from the tens of billions of dollars to more than $100 billion.

The criminal charges provoked a response from Beijing, which said Monday that it was suspending high-level cyber talks with the United States that began in June.

China has summoned the U.S. ambassador over the hacking charges. According to an online notice posted Tuesday by state-run Xinhua on Weibo, Assistant Foreign Minister Zheng Zeguang summoned Abassador Max Baucus to complain that U.S. authorities published their indictment ignoring the strong protests by Chinese authorities.

“Given the lack of sincerity by the United States for cooperation to solve cyber security problems through dialogue, China has decided to suspend the activities of the Sino-U.S. Cyber Working Group,” Foreign Ministry Spokesman Qin Gang said in a statement .

The leaks from former National Security Agency contractor Edward Snowden already had complicated the talks. Beijing has pointed to disclosures by Snowden of vast NSA surveillance activities — including spying on Chinese companies — to assert that the United States is the greater aggressor in the area.

State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki said, “We regret China’s decisions.” But she added that she does not think the development will affect strategic and economic dialogue meetings with China, scheduled for early July.

The indictment, which was filed May 1, charges five officials in the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) — hackers with handles such as UglyGorilla and KandyGoo — with computer fraud, conspiracy to commit computer fraud, damaging a computer, aggravated identity theft and economic espionage.

The indictment is the result of years of work, officials said, in which investigators followed a complex trail of computer bits to one building in one Chinese city.

That nondescript 12-story building under military guard in the Pudong New Area of Shanghai is home to Unit 61398 — part of the PLA and identified by researchers as one of the most prolific hacking crews targeting Western companies’ trade secrets and intellectual property.

The 56-page indictment describes the hacking of five companies and a trade union. All but one are located in the Western District of Pennsylvania, where the charges were brought.

The companies — which include U.S. Steel, the country’s largest steelmaker, and Alcoa, the largest aluminum manufacturer — agreed to come forward, bucking what for years had been a reluctance by many firms to acknowledge that they had been hacked for fear of shareholder lawsuits and damage to reputation.

The other companies are Westinghouse Electric, which builds nuclear power plants; Allegheny Technologies, a metals manufacturer; and SolarWorld, which makes solar products in Hillsboro, Ore. Also hit was the United Steelworkers union, which opposes Chinese trade practices.

The indictment alleges that the hackers stole trade secrets that would have been particularly beneficial to Chinese companies.

PLA member Wen Xinyu — also known as “WinXYHappy” — hacked SolarWorld’s computers and stole thousands of files containing cost and pricing information, prosecutors allege. Hackers took detailed production information that could help a competitor shorten its research and development timeline.

The American company rapidly lost market share to Chinese competitors that were accused of systematically pricing exports well below production costs.

After a complaint from SolarWorld, the Commerce Department and the U.S. International Trade Commission found that China had “dumped” solar products in the U.S. market.

e-mails contained malware that, when clicked on, surreptitiously loaded onto employees’ computers and allowed back-door access.

Although the indictment does not name the state-owned enterprises that may have benefited from the espionage, according to open-source literature, they are State Nuclear Power Technology, the Baosteel Group and the Aluminum Corporation of China, which is commonly known as Chinalco.

James Lewis, a cyber policy expert with the Center for Strategic and International Studies, said China’s withdrawal from the talks was “childish” and a mistake. “If you want to get the United States to do something different, you don’t say, ‘I’m not going to talk to you,’ ” he said.

Wan reported from Beijing. William Branigin and Karen DeYoung in Washington contributed to this report.

William Wan is The Post’s China correspondent based in Beijing. He served previously as a religion reporter and diplomatic correspondent.

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
