
Tim Metcalfe unloads sauerkraut from one of his Sentry store's trucks during the 2011 Brat Fest at the Alliant Energy Center's Willow Island.

It's wonderful! Just one more reason Madison is so great.

It's gotten too big.

Meh. It's OK for some, obviously, but I'm not a big fan.

I don't support some of the businesses tied the to the event, so I don't go..

Other (positive response).

Other (negative response).

After an objection from at least one local political leader, Metcalfe's Market president Tim Metcalfe has decided not to include a speaker he invited to appear at The World’s Largest Brat Fest, a charity event his company sponsors annually.

Madison Ald. Lisa Subeck had written an open letter to Metcalfe rejecting an offer to participate in the 34-year-old Memorial Weekend event as a “celebrity cashier” because of a scheduled speech by Bob Lenz, a motivational Christian speaker who is deeply involved in Save the Storks, an anti-abortion movement. The organization sponsors “Stork Buses,” vehicles which park in front of abortion clinics offering ultrasound exams in an effort to divert women from terminating pregnancies.

Although Lenz told the Wisconsin State Journal that his talk would not focus on abortion, instead touching on general Christian themes, Subeck, the head of progressive group United Wisconsin and one of two Democrats running for an open state Assembly district on Madison’s west side, said the two could not be separated given Lenz’s prominent role in anti-abortion activism.

She compared it to inviting prominent anti-gay activist Fred Phelps of the Westboro Baptist Church to speak on a topic besides homosexuality.

“Bob Lenz not only speaks out about his personal beliefs, but as a leader in the Save the Storks bus tour program, he participates directly in the interference of access to women's health care,” she wrote in the letter.

In a statement on his Facebook page Monday, Metcalfe said that he was inspired to invite Lenz due to the speaker’s involvement in suicide prevention awareness, but decided that his anti-abortion activities would bring unnecessary controversy to what he wanted to be an apolitical event.

The inclusion of religious-themed performances this year is a change for the traditionally secular Brat Fest, a development that Metcalfe told the State Journal was a result of a religious awakening he experienced while attending a Christian music festival last year.

This is not the first time that Brat Fest has become the center of a political debate. In past years, progressive activists, citing large contributions to Gov. Scott Walker from executives of Johnsonville Brats, which provides the event's sausages, have organized alternative brat festivals .

Copyright 2014 madison.com. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Vote!

It's great. Madison is moving forward and growing!

The road construction is needed, but all the development is overkill.

The development is needed, but there's too much road construction.

There's too much construction (road and building) all together!

As long as it doesn't impact my life negatively, I don't care!

Username & Password Required!
