
The famously expensive Norwegian capital, Oslo is quite the trendy place to be. The city is best known for it's housing of "The Scream," by Norway's best-known painter, Edvard Munch, whose 150th birthday was celebrated last year. There's much more then an iconic bland man yelling on Ekeberg hill going on in this city. The Scandinavian capital blends modern architecture, a dark past and luxury all into one magnificent studded waterfront with a glacier-white opera house that has the ability to induce envy in Sydney.

If seclusion within reach of the city is your aim, The Thief Hotel, located in the vibrant arts district five minutes from the center of town, is the best bet. The stylish hotel has a lot going for it. The Thief is built on the site where thieves and prostitutes of 18th Century Oslo did dark deeds and were executed for such deeds, across the water from the present site, on Tjuvholmen, also known as Thief Island. The impeccably designed hotel overlooks the city's fjord and is located across the street from Italian architect, Renzo Piano's Astrup Fearnley Museum of Modern Art, which opened September 29 of 2012. New restaurants, galleries and shops are being erected around the residence so quickly locals can barley keep up with the new development.

Check out one of the area's many new dining options, Festningen Restaurant with a focus on fresh seafood caught mostly from the nearby Norwegian seas. Snag a table by the window watch the sunset over the city's landscape. Ekebergrestauranten, set in the hills of Ekebergparken - a 64-acre public park located high above the city sprinkled with 80 sculptures, is another wonderful option. After dinner stroll the green paths and see sculptures by classic masters like Salvador Dalí, and contemporary works by artists like Jenny Holzer. After a walk on the wild side head to No. 19 for a designer cocktail worth the extra flourish.

This is only the beginning of Norway's transform that will render it one of the most happening places in Europe.

© 2014 FashionTimes.com All rights reserved. Do not reproduce without permission.

The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Fashion Times.
