
SINGAPORE, May 19, 2014 /PRNewswire-iReach/ -- Southeast Asia's leading real estate gurus will gather to examine the pressures and opportunities of the region's senior housing market at the Retirement Living and Senior Care Southeast Asia 2014 event in Kuala Lumpur from 17 - 19 June.

Southeast Asia's attractiveness as a retirement hub is growing, with Malaysia securing 3rd place out of the Global Annual Index's Top 15 Best Countries to Retire in 2014.

Joining Malaysia on the list is Thailand, who came in 11th. While Indonesia and the Philippines are not listed in the Top 15 this year, they are likely to join Malaysia and Thailand with the onset of several up-and-coming senior housing projects.

Retirement facility projects are on the rise in Southeast Asia, as the region anticipates a rapid increase in both local and foreign seniors over the next decade. Southeast Asia expects to see its over 60 population rise to 183 million by 2050, a 345% leap from the 53 million aged 60 and above in 2012. The region is under pressure to build and provide professional senior housing and services for both its residents and foreign retirees seeking a better climate for their sunset years.

Chong Heng Kiong, co-founder of Total Investment Group and retirement village GreenAcres, told the New Straits Times in an interview last year, "We've seen retirement villages overseas many years ago and thought that it was a good solution to address the lifestyle needs of the retirees here in Malaysia. There is certainly a gap in the marketplace, so we decided it was the right time to go ahead with developing a proper retirement village for Malaysians so that the needs of the retirees are catered for."

Dr Chua Hong Teck, Director of NKEA Healthcare, PEMANDU, said in the same article; "The impending demographic shift will exacerbate current challenges such as capacity and access to healthcare, funding of long-term care and the provision of adequate facilities for the retired,"

Malaysia, Thailand, Indonesia and the Philippines all have several major senior housing projects that have launched or are due over the next year. For a full free report on projects from around the region, download our e-books here . To engage first-hand in industry dialogue and get unparalleled insights into the projects, register for Retirement Living and Senior Care Southeast Asia 2014 here .

In response to growing investment opportunities in the region's retirement industry, IMAPAC will maximize the impact of Southeast Asia's senior care potential by bringing key investors and policymakers under one roof in Kuala Lumpur this June. Download our brochure here for more information.

The event will feature speeches by key senior housing players such as Total Investment, MKH Berhad, Life Care Residences, Ashiana Housing, HSB Development Sdn Bhd, as well as keynotes by government bodies and regulators such as PEMANDU, the Director General of Social Welfare and Malaysia Property Incorporated, as well as many more. With over 18 hours of networking and knowledge share opportunities, more than 150 Southeast Asian aged care representatives on site, and more than twenty presentations, Retirement Living & Senior Care Southeast Asia 2014 promises to be the year's definitive meeting point for the industry's bellwethers and influencers. With an exclusive closed-door investor's conclave and site tour to AraGreens Residences & Village, visitors will have every opportunity to see for themselves the mentioned powerful opportunities and tangible commercial viability of the region.

We look forward to meeting you there.

Visit PR Newswire for Journalists for releases, photos, ProfNet experts, and customized feeds just for Media.

Browse our custom packages or build your own to meet your unique communications needs.

Request more information about PR Newswire products and services or call us at (888) 776-0942.
