
NEW YORK, May 19, 2014 /PRNewswire/ -- REVOLT EVP, Head of Ad Sales & Integrated Marketing Bob Gruters announced today six new strategic executive hires within the music platform's ad sales division. Eyeing aggressive growth over the next year, REVOLT will rely heavily on these industry veterans as the network continues its mission of connecting brands on a multi-platform level with Millennials and artists through music.

Michael Roche joins as senior vice president of ad sales, coming to REVOLT after spending 10-plus years with Fuse and MuchMusic, most recently as vice president of advertising. Julie Pinkwater joins as vice president of client development with responsibilities that include deepening client relationships within key Millennial-focused ad categories. New ad sales team members also include account executives Aaron Woods, Henry Villa III, Matthew Colban, and Alexander Hunter.

"REVOLT is experiencing upward momentum and expanding the team to keep pace with the demand of marketers and agencies looking for fresh and innovative ways to reach Millennials in a meaningful, relevant and real-time manner," said Bob Gruters, REVOLT's EVP, Head of Ad Sales & Integrated Marketing.

Michael Roche joins REVOLT as senior vice president of ad sales, leading a team of energetic music experts in their mission to connect brands with music. Michael has over 15 years of experience in music and media, including 13 years with Fuse and MuchMusic. Most recently, he served as their vice president of advertising sales at Fuse, overseeing the Eastern Region's TV and Digital sales teams. Prior to that he opened Fuse's first-ever Midwest office in Chicago, serving as director of sales. Skilled in branded content creation, music-driven events, and technology partnerships, Michael has formulated first of its kind co-sales initiatives with major players including Twitter, VEVO, Electus, Future US, and Funny or Die. Michael earned his bachelor's degree from University of Delaware's Lerner College of Business and Economics. His passion for music and technology was already in focus, working with Hi Frequency Marketing, interning at Blue Note Records, and hosting his own show on WVUD's college radio station.

Julie Pinkwater has over 30 years of brand positioning and marketing experience, with extensive and deep client relationships across all major categories, and has developed strategic solutions for a wide variety of brands including L'Oreal, Mercedes Benz of North America, and Tiffany & Co. Following a long career in publishing, where she served as Publisher of MORE, Fitness and Ladies' Home Journal magazines and Web properties, Julie moved to Univison Communications to serve as SVP in the Client Development Group. After Univison, Julie co-launched PinkwaterNewman Sales Solutions, a media agnostic consulting firm with expertise in go-to market strategies, sales representation and sales training with a client roster that included Modern Luxury. Julie is a graduate of Boston University.

Aaron Woods' REVOLT responsibilities include acting as a link between advertisers, marketers, and brands seeking to tap into REVOLT'S brand as the new #1 name in music.  Prior to REVOLT, Woods held sales and business development roles within The Walt Disney Company's Disney Interactive digital and mobile publishing group, driving strategic relationships with blue-chip accounts. Aaron brings with him experience in interactive digital media and in-depth knowledge of digital sales and marketing. Woods is a graduate of the College of the Holy Cross in Worcester, MA.

Henry Villa III is a seven-year veteran of the ad sales business in the Midwest. Deeply passionate about music, Henry's REVOLT responsibilities will include helping the brand develop cross-platform business in that market. Throughout a career started at A+E Television Networks (where he developed his love of sales), Villa has formed strong and trusting client relationships. He spent the last six years working for the Cooking Channel and the Food Network covering the Chicago and Minneapolis markets and was instrumental in helping his Food Network team grow their revenue by +20 percent. Villa III graduated from DePaul University in Chicago.

REVOLT is the new #1 name in music. Focused on expertly curating the best of the best in music and engaging youth in social conversation, the multi-genre, multi-platform network offers breaking music news, videos, artist interviews, exclusive performances, and original programming. Attracting over 50 million young adults through television, digital properties, social and mobile, REVOLT is accessible 24/7 – anytime, anywhere, any screen. Launched in broadcast in October 2013, REVOLT is available on Time Warner Cable, Comcast and Century Link in over 40 of the top 50 U.S. markets including New York City, Los Angeles, Chicago, Miami, Boston, Atlanta, and DC.
