
A murderer who absconded from an open prison has today been traced and arrested after going on the run for the fourth time.

Arnold Pickering, 44, who stabbed a blind man to death, was held for being unlawfully at large at an address in Oldham this morning.

The killer was recaptured by Greater Manchester Police after failing to return to jail on Saturday afternoon.

Thomas Moffett, a violent thief and fellow inmate with Nazi tattoos who was also on temporary licence, also absconded on the same day from the same prison.  Last night Moffett was arrested and being held in custody.

Their escape comes a fortnight after  Michael ‘Skull Cracker’ Wheatley absconded from an open prison and  allegedly robbed a building society before being caught four days later.

Justice  Secretary Chris Grayling this morning promised to 'tear up' the current  day release programme and suggested prisoners who had a history of  escaping would no longer be allowed out.

It came after MPs attacked the  'absolute scandal' of murderers being allowed out of prison 'willy  nilly'.

In 1991, a judge said Pickering  appointed himself as an ‘executioner’ when he decided to kill  53-year-old Thomas Leigh, who was wrongly thought to be a paedophile.

His three previous escapes have been from Strangeways in Manchester and  open prisons in Lancashire and Sussex.

Pickering, 44, and Moffett, 51,  had been allowed out from HMP Kennet – an open category C prison in  Maghull, Merseyside – at 9.30am on Saturday. They failed to return as  agreed at 4.30pm.

Moffett,  who has swastika tattoos on his arms, was jailed for seven years in 2006  for a two-month spree of ‘professionally executed robberies’.

He  threatened shop workers with a nail gun in a series of raids on off-licences in Blackburn. He was caught after an employee slipped an  explosive dye pack into a bundle of cash.

The day release programme is designed to help prisoners settle back into ordinary life towards the end of their sentence by allowing them to attend work or training.

But it has come under fierce attack for leaving the public at risk from unreformed, dangeours criminals.

The Government has admitted that more than 1,600 murderers, druglords and other hardened criminals were granted day release last year.

Last July, Ian McLoughlin (pictured above) was convicted of murdering Graham Buck in the village of Little Gaddesden, Hertfordshire, while on day release.

Murderer Joseph Williams carried out 11 armed raids on bookmakers after being handed a release pass in 2010.

And Mark Neville, a drug dealer, spent his day out of prison in 2008 overseeing a £14million cocaine deal.

Last week it was revealed more than 400 killers were kept in open prisons, which have minimal supervision.

Justice Secretary Chris Grayling this morning added: 'I'm not happy with the way things are at the moment.

'Although the number of people absconding is tiny, we've seen in the last few months a number of serious offences committed by people on temporary licence. But we are tearing up the system as it exist at moment.'

Mr Grayling said he would ban prisoners being allowed to walk around town centres.

He said: 'Town-leavers will only be allowed out on temporary licence to do something tangible like a day's work.

'Serious offenders will be subject to a much stricter risk assessment. And I can't see why we allow back into open conditions people who have absconded before, so I'm looking at moving reforms in that area quickly.

'People who have absconded cannot go back to open conditions. These changes will happen within next few weeks.'

But prison officers said overcrowding and job cuts were to blame for the escapes.

Peter McParlin, chairman of the Prison Officers Association, said: 'We have been saying for many years now that we have overcrowding in the prison estate, people are being put into open conditions who are unsuitable for open conditions.

'Twenty prisons have closed in the last three years and prison staff numbers have reduced by 6,000 since 2010.

"There is immense pressure on the system and it is clear to me that the tick box mentality that goes into transferring prisoners to open conditions has failed the public.

Tory  MP Philip Davies added: ‘Convicted murderers should not be released on  temporary licence, it’s common sense, the public are being put at  unnecessary risk. The idea that there is a robust risk assessment in  place is for the birds, the system is in complete shambles.

He said the disappearances were an 'absolute scandal' and questioned why convicted murderers were ever given temporary release when figures which he obtained through parliamentary answers showed 106 had absconded in the past 10 years.

A  spokesman for Merseyside police said both Pickering and Moffett had  been ‘risk assessed’ as suitable for release, but warned the public not  to approach them and to call officers instead.

Pickering was jailed for life with a minimum of 18 years for stabbing Mr Leigh to death in Oldham.

But  he absconded while in the exercise yard of Strangeways prison and later  went on the run from Kirkham open prison in Lancashire after being let  out to empty bins in Manchester city centre.

He  disappeared from Ford open prison in Sussex in 2006 and spent nine days  on the run before being caught in a flat in Bournemouth.

A  third prisoner who absconded from HMP Kennet two months ago remains on  the loose. Robert Gavin, 36, disappeared on March 23 and police say the  robber poses a risk to some former contacts.

An urgent review is currently taking place into why Wheatley was allowed temporary day release earlier this month.

Despite  going on the run twice beforehand, the robber was allowed to walk out  of Standford Hill open prison in Kent where he was serving 13 life  sentences.

He was eventually  caught in East London on May 7 after spending almost four days on the  run and has since been charged with robbing the Chelsea Building  Society, in Sunbury-on-Thames, Surrey, at gunpoint.

Last  year, HM Chief Inspector of Prisons Nick Hardwick said HMP Kennet had  ‘needlessly restrictive’ security for an open prison. Located near  Liverpool, the prison is home to almost 350 men and is located next to  Ashworth high security hospital,  which houses Moors murderer Ian Brady.

Sorry we are not currently accepting comments on this article.
