
PLATTSMOUTH – A Weeping Water man learned Monday morning that he would serve time in prison for pointing a handgun at a fellow bar patron last year.

Seth N. Kinnison, 34, appeared in Cass County District Court for sentencing on a Class IV felony count of terroristic threats. Kinnison pled guilty to the charge in March. The state agreed to dismiss an additional Class 1C felony count of use of a firearm to commit a felony in exchange for the guilty plea.

Kinnison and a friend had been drinking beer in the Hide Away Bar and Grill in Manley near closing time Nov. 9. Another bar patron ran toward Kinnison’s friend and began fighting him. Several other people joined the dispute and others tried to stop things from escalating.

Deputy County Attorney Steven Sunde said the fight was nearly over when Kinnison pulled out a handgun and pointed it in the face of another bar patron. Sunde said videotape evidence showed the victim was trying to calm people down and had not threatened Kinnison in any way. Kinnison did not fire the weapon but did threaten the victim with the gun.

Kinnison had recently obtained a concealed handgun permit. State law prohibits people from bringing concealed weapons into a bar. The state statute also forbids people from carrying a concealed handgun while he or she is consuming alcohol.

Sunde asked the court to follow the recommended sentence of one year in the Nebraska Department of Corrections. He said Kinnison’s actions were dangerous and could have led to fatal consequences.

Defense attorney Julie Bear also asked the court to follow the recommended sentence. She said Kinnison had apologized and taken full responsibility for his behavior. She also said many people had written letters to the court detailing his positive character.

District Court Judge Jeffrey Funke said Kinnison should have realized the problems that could arise from the combination of alcohol and firearms. He said Kinnison had not acted in self defense and had caused mental anguish to the victim.

Funke ruled Kinnison would serve one year in the Nebraska Department of Corrections. He will receive credit for five days already served. The sentence will also affect Kinnison’s ability to own a firearm in the future.

Copyright 2014 Fremont Tribune. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Login here with a previously connected Facebook account.

Username & Password Required!
