
YEREVAN, May 16. / ARKA /. Orange Foundation and “Arabkir” United Children’s Charity Foundation have announced today the scope of the “Let’s Help Autistic Children” project for the year 2014. Launched in 2010, the project aims at improving early detection of autism in Armenia, supporting autistic children and their parents in all related issues, as well as implementing modern tools for autism diagnostic and treatment.

“This is already the 4th year of our cooperation with “Arabkir” United Children’s Charity Foundation.  One of the most important objectives of this partnership is to create the necessary environment for autistic children, which will  contribute to the full integration of these kids in the society, will help their parents, will as well provide the professional staff with more innovative tools for autism diagnostic and treatment. This partnership will also contribute to the development and education of the children diagnosed with autism,” said Francis Gelibter, Chairman of the Board of Orange Armenia Foundation.

In 2014 the project will focus on establishing a community-based comprehensive model of integrated services for children with autism and other communication disorders. The kindergarten and school in Malatia-Sebastia community will be adapted to the needs of autistic children - necessary tools will be provided as well as corresponding training and experience sharing sessions will be organized for mentors and teachers working with these children.

The pilot project of vocational education for autistic children, first time implemented in Armenia in 2013, will continue with the French-Armenian Vocational Educational Center, and the young boy, having his vocational education as a tailor, will already pass his professional internship in the workshop and will get a job there in future. Efforts will as well be concentrated on involving other institutions in the educational process of young people diagnosed with autism.

“With great joy I’d like to note that each year this project shows great results and sets new goals which aim at improving the quality of life of autistic children and boosting their integration in the society. One of the key achievements of this project, as I believe, is the pilot project of vocational education for autistic children implemented in Armenia, the success of which is being witnessed by all of us today. This project will boost independence, social welfare and full integration in the society of the young people diagnosed with autism. Another key achievement of the project is the implementation of the comprehensive community model of integrated health and educational services, which is key for establishing a structural approach and strategy relating to the issue. Hope that the project will be ongoing and will support welfare of autistic children in Armenia,” said Ara Babloyan, Chairman of “Arabkir” United Children’s Charity Foundation.

If you are new on the site, please fill out the registration form.
