
Chancellor George Osborne has backed calls for an improved rail service between Nottingham and Newark.

Mr Osborne added his support to the idea of doubling in the number of trains – with at least one non-stop train between Nottingham and Newark every hour – that is being tabled by Robert Jenrick, the Conservative candidate in next month’s Newark by-election.

Mr Osborne said: “Robert Jenrick invited me to Newark as part of his campaign to ensure the area has the rail infrastructure it needs.

“He’s made a very powerful case for improvement. I want to see the Nottingham-Newark train service transformed – with double the number of trains and at least one non-stop train to Nottingham every hour.

Mr Jenrick, who invited the Chancellor to visit Newark on Monday, said addressing the rail issue was of upmost importance to the town.

He said: “This by-election is an important opportunity to secure a better future for Newark.

“Things have been improving locally under the Conservatives and I’m delighted that the Chancellor has signalled his support for further improvements to our local railways.

“For too long the area has suffered from a poor East-West train line with trains connecting Lincoln to Nottingham slower now than they were almost a hundred years ago.

The announcement came as both the Chancellor and Mr Jenrick visited Newark-based communications company Timico,before then heading to Newark Castle train station.

While at Timico, Mr Osborne spoke with Robert Ainsworth, 16, who has been working as an internal IT apprentice at the company for the last ten months.

The former Magnus School pupil said: “I quite liked him. He seemed a nice chap.

Shannon Walker, 19, also spoke to the Chancellor about her journey from an apprentice at Timico to becoming its client services executive.

She said: “He was really lovely.

“I’m a Conservative anyway. I just believe in what they have put forward since the last election.

While in Notts, the Chancellor also told the Post he would “do everything humanly possible” to help workers set to be hit by the closure of Thoresby Colliery next year.

Mr Osborne visited Notts’ last deep coal mine in November last year, saying at the time that he had been talking with UK Coal about the potential of extending the pit’s life.

But UK Coal announced last month it is to close with the loss of more than 500 jobs.

The Government has loaned £10m to UK Coal to keep the pit open for now.

Of the situation, Mr Osborne said: “It was clear talking to UK Coal at the time, and now, that it was facing very serious difficulties. Sadly that has led to the closure.

“There was an option of the pit just closing overnight. We thought that would be terrible for the workforce so the Government stepped in.

It is ok for the travellers and can understand but what about the people who live on route next to the railway. Increasing to twice the amount is not acceptable. My house is on the market for sale and two weeks ago we lost the sale totally because of this article. There are 1,000's of residents who live next to railways so please spare a thought how there lives will be affected. We knew the amount of train traffic when we bought the house and certainly don't wish to see it doubled.

Good idea.  Rather better the one to cut Nottingham Inter City services by half to help pay for HS2.

A key improvement needed on the line between Nottingham and Lincoln is to remove the bottleneck caused by the flat crossing north of Newark. Both capacity and running speeds as well as safety standards would be considerably improved if a graded junction was constructed.
