
Vasian Markollari moved from Albania to Missouri as a child. Over spring break, the MU junior traveled to Albania for the first time in six years.

The above image shows a mosque located right in the city center, and only two blocks from the Eastern Orthodox Christian Church. My grandfather told me that the significance of this mosque was that it had a mosaic border all around with images that were less common in some kinds of Islamic art.  I grew up in an Orthodox Christian household in the U.S., and although the majority of Albanians are Muslim, there is a very widespread religious tolerance amongst the people living there.

This is one side of the city center square, and the building that you see is the National History Museum. I toured all three floors of the building with my grandfather, who seemed to know more about the artifacts and history of Albania than the people working there. One of my favorite things that I saw was a large section of the mosaic tiles that covered all of ancient Dyrrhachium, now the present day city of Durres, Albania. The significance of the city's people, the Illyrians, was that they could fend off the Roman Empire, at least for a while.

This image is taken from the west-facing windows of my grandparents' apartment. The purple building faces a main public transportation street, and the building is one of the many that were revamped in efforts to revive and add color to a stagnant Albania after many years of communist/fascist rule.

The east side of the apartment faces a chain of mountains and also oversees many ceramic rooftops and apartment buildings. This view has stayed the same for over six years and as far back as I can remember. The area the east side looked out over is the area I remembered the most from when I was a little kid, as I would always peer over the window to see the mountains and the clouds passing by.

This story is part of a section of the Missourian called  From Readers , which is dedicated to your voices and your stories. We hope you'll consider sharing.  Here's how . Supervising editor is  Joy Mayer .

Report corrections or additions here. Leave comments below here.

You must be logged in to participate in the Show Me the Errors contest.

Don't use obscene, profane or vulgar language.

Don't use language that makes personal attacks on fellow commenters or    discriminates based on race, religion, gender or ethnicity.

Don’t solicit or promote businesses.

We are not able to monitor every comment that comes through. If you see   something objectionable, please click the "Report comment" link.

You must be logged in to comment.
