
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

For Lake James Perriguey, the lawyer who represented a Portland couple in their lawsuit to overturn Oregon's ban on same-gender marriage, Monday's ruling was a long time coming.

Perriguey was arrested during a protest related to the 1986 case of Bowers v. Hardwick case, a failed challenge to Georgia sodomy law that, in essence, made homosexuality illegal in the state.

"That's why I went to law school," he said.

On Monday, he brought flowers to the Multnomah County building for Deanna Geiger and Janine Nelson, the couple who filed a lawsuit last year that sparked Oregon's legal battle over gay marriage.

"I'm feeling elated," he said minutes after the news arrived that Judge Michael McShane had struck down Oregon's ban, effective immediately. "With this decision, gay and lesbian Oregonians are finally, for the first time, equal under the law."

Same sex couples win right to marry in Oregon Judge Michael McShane ruled the ban on gay marriage in Oregon unconstitutional.  Geiger and McShane are two of the plaintiffs in the case.

Geiger noted that McShane's decision mentions "same gender" marriage, rather than "same-sex," a point he said is less restrictive of varying gender identities.

The folks from PDX Pedicab showed up at the Multnomah County building Monday to show their support by offering free rides to gay couples.

After wedding, Geiger and Nelson said they were headed out to get a glass of wine with friends. "We need to have a toast," Geiger said.

Bill Griesar, who officiated Geiger and Nelson's wedding, called it "a super positive experience." Griesar, who is also gay and married his husband during a 2003 ceremony in Canada, joined Geiger and Nelson in suing the state to overturn Oregon's ban. "It was overdue," he said. "It felt right."

My Portland!

© 2014 Oregon Live LLC. All rights reserved ( About Us ).

The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Oregon Live LLC.

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
