
Morgan Dillon plans to attend Texas A & M University to major in Biology and the continue in a program which will help her into a career in Dental Hygiene.

Indya Finch plans to attend Sam Houston State University once she graduates from Coldspring-Oakhurst CISD. She plans to double major in English and Music Education and hopes to teach one of these subjects after she graduates.

As high school seniors come to the final chapters of their last year of education, the next phase for many of them is to enroll into college to begin their first steps into a higher level of learning.

College is not for the light of wallet, and for many students, that makes financial support crucial for their college path. For two graduating seniors, one from Shepherd ISD and one from Coldspring-Oakhurst CISD, American Legion Post 629 elected to help soften those financial burdens by providing their first scholarship opportunity for the respective schools.

According to American Legion Post 629 First Vice Commander Dale Everett, Post 629 has wanted to help most of the schools in San Jacinto County in some form or another.

“We decided we’d go the scholarship route,” said Everett.

Post 629 had set up an essay contest for the students titled “What the First Amendment Means to Me,” where students wrote how the First Amendment of the United States Constitution impacted their individual lives and what it guarantees in each student’s view.

“We thought it’s important to be able to put your thoughts on paper,” said Everett.

The First Amendment specifically prevents the United States government from making any laws that respect an established religion, impede the free exercise of religion, violate the freedom of speech and press, violate the right to for groups of individuals to peacefully assemble, or violate the right to petition.

Everett says Post 629 received nine essays total from both schools, which were then judged based on content and how well the students wrote their essays based on the topic given to them. Post 629 then had judges narrow down the list until only one winner from each school was left.

For Shepherd High School, the winner of the American Legion essay contest is Morgan Dillon, who plans to attend Texas A & M University in the fall where she hopes to major in Biology. From there she plans to continue in a program that leads to a dental hygiene career.

Indya Finch won the contest for Coldspring-Oakhurst High School. Finch plans to attend Sam Houston State University where she hopes to double major in Music Education and English. Finch plans to teach either of these subjects once she is finished with college.

Dillon and Finch will both be awarded $500 each from Post 629. According to Everett, their funding will be given to them directly so that both students will have direct access to the money.

“We will present them a check, which they can use immediately,” said Everett.

Everett says Post 629 plans to do this again next year to help future students.

“We’re pleased to be able to help the students,” said Everett.

Post 629 also supports the San Jacinto County schools and communities by doing special events for classes with special needs at Christmastime and by contributing to the local Shepherd and Coldspring youth leagues.

Posted in News on Monday, May 19, 2014 10:56 am.

1 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language. PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.

2 Don't Threaten. Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated.

3 Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.

4 Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.

5 Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.

6 Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness accounts, the history behind an article.

Welcome to the discussion.
