
Fashion professor Louise Wilson has died at the age of 52. She reportedly passed away in her sleep on Friday while visiting her sister in Scotland, which is where Louise grew up.

Wilson, who helped mold the careers of top designers like Alexander McQueen and Christopher Kane , was the director of the Fashion MA course at Central Saint Martins in London. She was known for her honest critiques and high standards.

"Louise has been an inspirational person both within the college and the wider world of fashion. Since becoming course director for MA Fashion in 1992, she has taught a huge proportion of the world's leading fashion designers and her course continues to produce talented ground-breaking graduates," Jeremy Till, head of Central Saint Martins, said in a statement.

"Her commitment to her students and passion for creative excellence are legendary. Her deep understanding of fashion and her drive for funding for bursaries, facilities and opportunities are part of what made her such an extraordinary educator. Louise's legacy will live on at CSM through her former students and current teaching colleagues who were so close to her. Central Saint Martins is grateful to have been able to enjoy the fruits of Louise's great talent for educating for the last 20 years and will support her staff and students as they go forward from here."

While at Central Saint Martins, Wilson also tutored a number of now-famous designers including Jonathan Saunders, Roksanda Ilincic and Phoebe Philo. She was also awarded an OBE for her work in the fashion industry in 2008.

"Louise Wilson played a remarkable role in making the British scene fashion as successful and relevant as it is today," Alexandra Shulman , British Vogue's editor-in-chief, told Business of Fashion.

© 2014 FashionTimes.com All rights reserved. Do not reproduce without permission.

The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Fashion Times.
