
If you are interested in this story, you might be interested in others from The Journal Gazette. Go to www.journalgazette.net/newsletter and pick the subjects you care most about. We'll deliver your customized daily news report at 3 a.m. Fort Wayne time, right to your email.

WASHINGTON – UnitedHealth Group Inc., once leery of Obamacare’s new health insurance exchanges, is starting new plans in at least two states as competition grows stiffer in the government-run marketplaces.

In Washington state, four insurers plan to sell for the first time on the exchange next year, including UnitedHealth. In Virginia, a local health plan owned by a hospital and physicians in Lynchburg has proposed to join Aetna Inc., Kaiser Permanente and WellPoint Inc. in 2015. And in Indiana, the health exchange’s offerings may double to eight companies.

While the three states offer the first glimpse of a movement by insurers to embrace the exchanges, the heightened competition may not be enjoyed everywhere. Exchanges in West Virginia, Alabama and Mississippi offer plans from only one or two companies this year, for example. About 8 million people signed up for private plans using the marketplaces created by the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act in 2014, beating projections, and at least 13 million are expected next year.

UnitedHealth sells health plans in just five exchanges now, and its executives previously have said they expected to expand their offerings in 2015. In addition to Washington, the company anticipates it will offer coverage under its Allsavers brand in Indiana next year, according to the Indiana Department of Insurance.

Jost, who is a consumer representative to the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, said new competition should mean lower premiums for consumers, or at least more moderate increases. In Washington state, Molina Healthcare Inc., which offered relatively expensive plans this year, has proposed an average 6.8 percent reduction in its 2015 premiums.

Among all the plans selling to individuals in Washington state, the proposed rate increases average about 8.25 percent, said Mike Kreidler, the state’s insurance commissioner. That’s the lowest requested increase in seven years, he said; final rates may be lower.

Within Washington, competition will vary. While the new entrants would bring the number of companies on the state’s exchange to 12, they aren’t required to sell their plans statewide. UnitedHealth plans to sell coverage across the state, Richard Onizuka, the CEO of the Washington Health Benefit Exchange, said in a phone interview.

Insurers that sat out the exchanges in 2014 and plan to enter next year may benefit because customers in the second year of Obamacare are expected to be younger and healthier, relative to the first year. Sicker Americans are thought to have been the first to sign up this year, and the U.S. tax penalty for not carrying insurance will double next year, to as much as 2 percent of annual income.
