
Hundreds of people flocked to the closing day of The Museum Week 2014 at Senayan City Mall in South Jakarta on Sunday, with the promise of a bigger event with a greater variety of activities next year.

Merry Marlina, 42, from Kampung Makassar, East Jakarta, said Museum Week was an educational event that could act as a reminder for those who were not really concerned about the country’s history and culture amid the consumerism of the capital.

Merry said.

Ward Berenschot, a Dutch national who brought his wife and two children, said Museum Week encouraged his family to learn more about Indonesian history, language and culture.

“I have never seen this before. This [The Museum Week] is amazing,” said Berenschot who has lived in Jakarta for a year.

Nanik Suwarni, a 32-year-old attendant at the West Papua booth, said that her booth had been full of visitors and most were really interested in trying on Papuan traditional costumes, ranging from a chieftain’s headdress to coconut-leaf skirts.

“After visiting this booth, visitors said that they wanted to go to our tribal house in the Indonesia Miniature Park [Taman Mini] to learn more about Papua,” she said.

The Virtual Museum, which could bring people to the Majapahit era through the 4D Oculus Rift virtual-reality headset, also attracted many visitors of all ages, said Ivan Chen, 33, who manned the booth.

“After using the Oculus Rift, visitors frequently asked me how to find the artifacts [...] because they had never previously seen them in local museums,” he said.

The Museum Week, which was also utilized by participants to sell goods, received positive feedback from the visitors.

Nanik said that Papuan batik was the most-purchased West Papuan product because of its unique, colorful motifs and sacred symbols, ranging from crocodiles to cendrawasih birds of paradise, and from spears to traditional tifa drums.

“Besides the Papuan batik, male visitors were really excited about buying lintah tapa oil, a Papuan herbal tincture that could improve their libido,” she added.

Riyadi Suparno, executive director of The Jakarta Post, which organized Museum Week, said that this year’s event attracted more visitors than last year because it featured more interesting programs such as excursions to the Old Town (Kota Tua), batik-making demonstrations, magic tricks and traditional dance and musical performances.

“We estimate more than 20,000 visitors, up from last year’s 9,000, came to this year’s Museum Week,” he said prior to the event’s closing ceremony.

Riyadi said that a bigger event would be held next year with more museums taking part, more activities on the sidelines and a focus on developing local museums by inviting foreign experts to share their knowledge and experience.

“The foreign experts will not only give lectures, but also will help local museum organizers make interesting programs to attract more visitors,” he went on.

Selected comments will be published in the Readers’ Forum page of our print newspaper.
