
Youth for Democratic Africa, a continental grouping of likeminded young men and women committed to entrenching democracy in Africa, has slammed world leaders, especially those on the African continent, for their inactions and actions that have allowed the rebellion in South Sudan, led by Reik Marchar, to “grow into a major continental nuisance.” Mr Marchar, the country’s former Vice President, was accused of attempting a failed coup d’état. He, however, managed to assemble an army of rebel fighters mainly from his ethnic Neur group.

YoDA is worried about the fact that leaders on the continent had looked on unconcerned after the event and allowed the rebellion to be established.

“This is an attempt to circumvent the democratic processes and procedure through the use of brute force. The apparent silence of African leaders and African peoples also gives us course to worry.The inactions and actions of African leaders and indeed the world at large have allowed Mr. Riek Marchar rebellion to grow into a major continental nuisance. Today rebellion and the use of violence as a means to attaining, retaining and transferring power appears to have been legitimized in South Sudan. The rebel leader is being given a hero’s welcome in neighbouring countries and he is demanding certain conditions before he negotiates with the duly elected and constitutional government with which he disagrees,” YoDA stated at press conference Friday.

Pius Enam Hadzide, YoDA’s Coordinating Secretary, who read the press statement, called on Riek Marchar to disarm and disband his group of irate fighters and begin to use prescribed ways of seeking answers and redress.

“This is important because the democratic elected Government has shown good faith by inviting Riek Marchar for negotiation. We hope that Mr Marchar ceases this opportunity to engage with the Government in the interest of the people of South Sudan. We abhor the silence of African and world leaders as they watch aloof whiles South Sudan are being destroyed.

“We remind them that if no immediate and drastic action is taken to return to the status quo, others may derive motivation from the situation in South Sudan and rebellions could spring up everywhere in the whole region,” Mr Hadzide added.

YoDA also expressed serious concerns about the activities of Boko Haram in Nigeria and called for concerted efforts to tackle the situation.

“The situation in Nigeria involving mass abductions and killings of innocent citizens also undermines democracy and freedom in Africa. YoDA is grateful that some world leaders have begun to respond to the cries of innocent and ordinary African voices. We continue to cry not only to world leaders but also our “brothers” in Boko Haram. If they indeed are Africans, Nigerians; if they indeed are human beings, we beg them in the name of Allah to release the young ladies in their custody. We humbly ask that all Muslims dedicate the Jum’ah prayers of Friday 23 may to these young and innocent ladies,” the group added.
