
ONE of the owners of a firm that sells discount cards denied they are running an illegitimate business.

Rowena Obeso Diamante said Vinta Advertising and Marketing’s discount cards are acknowledged by 109 establishments.

She said Vinta has permits from the Department of Trade and Industry, Office of the Cebu City Mayor, Bureau of Internal Revenue and from the barangay where the firm operates.

Her business partner is Christopher Chavez, who was arrested by the National Bureau of Investigation in Davao City for illegal recruitment last year.

Diamante denied firing 1,500 employees last week, saying it was the employees who stopped working.

“I told them during our meetings that after May 20, we will be downsizing because 75 percent of the people are not working,” she told Sun.Star Cebu.

She said her employees’ salaries are dependent on their sales.

She said their salaries were delayed because they weren’t meeting their sales quota.

She said she was going to pay them today, but they already left the firm.

Diamante said she plans to sue Chavez’s cousin Kenneth Lagrito, who allegedly persuaded the employees to stop working last May 12.

Lagrito was the firm’s human resource (HR) supervisor and branch manager.

She said Lagrito is trying to discredit them because he wants to take over the firm.

Diamante said Lagrito also failed to remit P1.8-million worth of discount cards to Vinta.

Lagrito denied the allegations, adding that he only has a traffic violation.

He and around 200 former Vinta employees filed an estafa case against Diamante and Chavez before the Cebu City Prosecutor’s Office yesterday afternoon.

In their joint-affidavit, former Vinta employees Jose Tedjie Ortega, Jonnafe Ortega, Raneil Tagalog and 11 others said Diamante and Chavez recruited them separately.

“We were made to sign a supposed ‘job agreement’ detailing our duties and obligations as HR/team supervisor of Vinta, the effective dates and terms of our employment and compensation,” they said.

After signing the agreement, they said the two collected P1,500 from them for their medical examination and training. Then they started selling discount cards.

Diamante said the amount was paid to Vinta’s partner that conducted the medical examination and training.

An employee who sells cards is supposed to get P13,000 a month, while an HR employee will get P16,000.

The complainants said they were not “paid a single centavo” because the sale of discount cards was down.

“We found out later that Vinta’s supposed discount card business is a fictitious and fraudulent operation that is not backed by any legal and binding agreement with the companies whose products and/or services are supposedly covered by the said discount card,” they said.

Lagrito said they learned the discount cards were fakes after these were not honored by the establishments that Vinta claims as partners.

Published in the Sun.Star Cebu newspaper on May 20, 2014.

DISCLAIMER: Sun.Star website welcomes friendly debate, but comments posted on this site do not necessary reflect the views of the Sun.Star management and its affiliates. Sun.Star reserves the right to delete, reproduce or modify comments posted here without notice. Posts that are inappropriate will automatically be deleted.

Forum rules: Do not use obscenity. Some words have been banned. Stick to the topic. Do not veer away from the discussion. Be coherent and respectful. Do not shout or use CAPITAL LETTERS!
