
The dominance of the Osman family in Narayanganj is set to be challenged in the by-polls to the Narayanganj-5 constituency on June 26.

The one-sided January 5 parliamentary polls was a blessing for the controversial Osman brothers -- Shamim and Nasim -- as both of them were elected unopposed in the district.

After Jatiya Party MP Nasim Osman passed away on April 30, thus leaving the Jatiya Sangsad seat for Narayanganj-5 constituency vacant, the Jatiya Party, which got the seat through a deal with the ruling Awami League, is thinking about nominating Nasim's widow Parvin Osman.

Talking to The Daily Star, a cross section of people, including local politicians and cultural activists, said they were taking the by-polls as a chance to be rid of the Osmans, who are involved in “unlawful activities”.

The man in the forefront of the challenge is SM Akram.

He was the convener of Narayanganj district Awami League but had resigned in 2011 protesting the AL's backing of Shamim Osman in the Narayanganj city corporation election in 2011.

Akram is now a leading figure in Nagarik Oikya, a civil society platform led by Mahmudur Rahman Manna. The Oikya had backed Selina Hayat Ivy in the 2011 Narayanganj city corporation election. Ivy won the election by beating Shamim Osman.

Akram claimed that if a candidate of the Jatiya Party got nomination in the constituency, many AL leaders and activists would support him.

Cultural activists, members of civil society and activists of left leaning parties told The Daily Star that they would back Akram. They said Ivy would unofficially support Akram as he was always vocal against the controversial activities of the Osman family.

Rabbi, who accused the Osmans of killing his son Tanvir Mohammad Tawki, said if they could back a person with a clean image, it would be easy to achieve victory.

In November last year, Sultan Shawkat Bhramar, an accused in the Tawki murder case, in the confessional statement he made before a court, said Tawki was killed at the business establishment of Ajmeri Osman, son of Nasim Osman.

The Jatiya Party would nominate a candidate for the constituency as the party had negotiated with the Awami League and the ruling party would not compete for the seat, said Jatiya Party Secretary General Ziauddin Ahmed Bablu.

Asked about the JP candidate, Bablu told The Daily Star that the party's parliamentary board would select the nominee.

JP insiders said the party was very likely to nominate a family member of Nasim Osman, most probably Parvin Osman, considering Nasim's contribution to the party.

Nasim's brother Selim Osman, president of the Bangladesh Knitwear Manufacturers and Exporters Association (BKMEA), and Parvin have already expressed their desire to contest the election.

Chief Election Commissioner Kazi Rakibuddin Ahmad yesterday announced the election schedule for the Narayanganj-5 by-polls. As per schedule, the last day for submission of nomination papers is May 29. The date for withdrawal is June 9.

The nomination papers will be scrutinised on June 1.
