
Share This Story!

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Anamosa has one of nine state prisons with about 8,100 total inmates.

An assault involving several inmates occurred at a new prison unit meant to protect male juvenile offenders, sending one person to the hospital who was beaten with a padlock, the Iowa Department of Corrections confirmed Monday.

The altercation involving two groups of inmates broke out March 18 at the unit for 17-year-old offenders at the Anamosa State Penitentiary, department spokesman Fred Scaletta said. A third group didn't participate.

Scaletta said it's not clear what prompted the assault, which he called a "serious incident." But he confirmed that one inmate was assaulted by others, which included getting hit with a prison-issued padlock. That person was taken to a local hospital for treatment of unspecified injuries and returned to the prison later the same day. Two other inmates received medical treatment at the prison for minor injuries, Scaletta said.

The department did not announce the assault when it occurred, and no criminal charges have been filed. Scaletta confirmed the assault Monday in response to an inquiry from The Associated Press.

Scaletta said a review by corrections officials had been completed and did not lead to any changes in procedure. He said padlocks are issued to inmates to secure their belongings in lockers.

"There wasn't anything that could predict this and probably nothing could have stopped it," he said. "Nothing has changed. We're just monitoring as close as we can."

Corrections officials opened the unit in January to house 17-year-old offenders who have been convicted as adults. It currently has eight inmates but the number has fluctuated to around 15. They are kept away from the general population at the maximum-security prison and then relocated after they turn 18 based on their needs. Previously, such offenders had been housed in different locations throughout the prison system.

The inmates responsible for the assault will face internal disciplinary action, Scaletta said.

"It's not like it happens every single day but we have times where there are conflicts between inmates," he said. "We take care of them and address them, investigate and go from there."

Corrections Director John Baldwin told the Board of Corrections last year that the department was hiring correctional officers and a treatment manager to staff the new unit. Scaletta said the unit had already been built as part of the prison, and features similar living arrangements afforded to the adult population.

"We decided now that it's probably better to put them all in one location until they turn 18. It makes things a little easier," Scaletta said.
