
COPENHAGEN, Denmark – Kurdish father Ali Riza Sahbaz has ended a 10-day hunger strike near the Danish capital Copenhagen, protesting against a prison term handed down for murder to his 17-year old son.

The Kurd from Turkey believes that his son, Hikmet, was wrongly convicted in a murder trial.

After having received the support of many Kurds, Turks and Danes, Sahbaz ended his protest and talked to the media, thanking them for his support.

"Thank you to everyone who supported us. You’ve made a difference! Both your physical and moral support has helped to create hope for me," said Sahbaz, who has lost four kilograms during the strike.

Relatives in Holland also demonstrated against the judgment in front of the Danish Embassy at The Hague, in Netherlands.

With a sign next to him, Sahbaz drew a great deal of attention in the Danish media by spending nights at one of the busiest railway stations in the country.

The station is located at the crime scene where 19-year-old Ricko Treholt was killed last year after being stabbed with a knife. A surveillance video showed that the perpetrators chased their victim at the station before he was killed in a scuffle.

After arriving from Turkey, Sahbaz received political asylum in Sweden, but has lived in Denmark for 18 years.

The Kurdish father states that he and the family lawyer will continue to fight for the son. In addition, he believes that the judgment is an expression of discrimination.

According to Sahbaz, his son was defending himself during the scuffle. But Hikmet had no intention of killing the 19-year-old Danish boy, the family says.

"The punishment for my son is not adapted to his situation, nor is it proportional," Sahbaz told Rudaw.

Hikmet’s older brother, 26-year-old Aytac Sahbaz, admits that a video shows his brother committing violence.

"My little brother should be punished for violence, but he should not get 10 years for murder, because he had not planned the killing," Aytac told Rudaw.

The Danish Foreign Minister Martin Lidegaard was recently on a visit to Turkey, where he said the government could not get involved in the case.

killing is killing! he should've thing before getting so violent! I understand the father heart, but the victim has got a father and family as well!

@jana, did you not even read the article? The father is sure that his son is not guilty, his son was sentenced without any proof.

"The station is located at the crime scene"  Thats a weird way of writing.

@Renas, did you even read that his brother admits it was his little brother who committed the violence? Justice is justice, doesn't matter where it's served. We need the same justice and courts to have in Kurdistan.

Be Part of Your Rudaw!

Share your stories, photos and videos with Rudaw, and quite possibly the world.

In the future, sell your oil to the far east market. I am very sure, korean, japanese, chinese are willing to buy without hesitation.

This is a very good news that brings Kurdistan much closer to independence and separation from that mad-house called Iraq!

They are many extreme muslims within kurds to, not long ago. YPG cought some kurds from Southern Kurdistan and north.
