
Disney Cruise Line, in a first for San Diego, is originating a dozen voyages from here over the next year and a half, a hopeful harbinger of better times to come for a local industry that has been in steep decline for the last several years.

While it’s not clear what Disney’s plans are for the long term, San Diego port officials are buoyed by the cruise line’s decision to bypass other California ports to launch a variety of short sailings as well as repositioning cruises heading to Vancouver and the Panama Canal.

The first of those trips was Saturday, when the 2,700-passenger Disney Wonder docked in San Diego for a quick two-day getaway at sea. A second Disney sailing departing today, this one a five-night trip to Vancouver, wrapped up the current season, which will resume in September. On Monday, Disney announced it was adding six more cruises to Baja California beginning in October 2015.

“This is very significant,” said Adam Deaton, the port’s cruise marketing representative. “Disney has a very high standard when it comes to its passengers. They want that complete vacation experience, and they feel San Diego has that capability with the airport being within a couple miles from the cruise terminal.

For the last few years, a coalition of local officials has been trying to woo Disney to come to San Diego, Deaton said.

Before signing up for a two-year home port stint in Los Angeles in 2011, Disney had briefly tested the market in 2005 and again in 2008. Following its two-year tenure at L.A.’s San Pedro port, the Disney Wonder opted to leave Southern California for Miami.

The West Coast, however, remains an important market for the cruise line, Disney said. It was attracted to San Diego when it was scheduled as one of the stops during a series of Pixar-themed, California coast cruises in the fall of 2012.

Clearly, San Diego’s return to its glory days as a bustling cruise ship port is still a very long ways off, with the number of calls this year and next still less than a third of the peak traffic in 2008 when ships regularly traveling to the Mexican Riviera carried more than 920,000 passengers.

Upgrade your browsing experience with a paid subscription to the U-T.
