
For the second straight year, a group associated with an area church has made a significant contribution to ensure Roselle has fireworks in July.

Village officials say this year's fireworks show is scheduled for July 3 at Lake Park High School's west campus in Roselle.

Custom reprints are a powerful and strategic way to share your article with customers, employees and prospects.

The YGS Group provides digital and printed reprint services for Daily Herald. Complete the form to the right and a reprint consultant will contact you to discuss how you can reuse this article.

Need more information about reprints? Visit our Reprints Section for more details.

The event is possible because For the 10, the community outreach ministry of Mission Church in Bloomingdale, donated most of the $18,000 the village needed to pay for the display. The specific amount of the donation wasn't disclosed at the request of the group.

It's the second time For the 10 has contributed money so Roselle could have a successful "Get a Bang for Your Buck" campaign. Last year's fireworks were saved after the group donated $9,000.

"I couldn't be more pleased," Mayor Gayle Smolinski said Monday. "I love this event. For the 10 stepping forward to do this is just phenomenal. It shows their commitment to our community. I'm glad we can partner with them."

Roselle appealed to the public for donations in recent years because it hasn't been able to pay for fireworks out of its budget.

Community groups such as the Roselle Chamber of Commerce and area businesses came to the rescue to pay for the display in 2010 or 2011. The show was canceled in 2012 after the village couldn't find a sponsor.

It appeared this year's show was in jeopardy of being canceled, too, when the "Get a Bang for Your Buck" campaign received less than $4,000 in donations from residents.

Then, last month, officials learned about the contribution from For the 10.

John Frank, director of operations at Mission Church, said the ministry is honored to help the Independence Day tradition continue.

"Through our For the 10 ministry, we are regularly searching for ways to give back to the communities we serve," Frank said Monday in an email to the Daily Herald.

Smolinski said the donation wasn't announced until Friday because the village and group first wanted to finalize the details of the July 3 event.

In addition to the donation, For the 10 is sponsoring a "Party in the Park" celebration before the fireworks. It will start at 6:30 p.m. and feature a concert by the cover band Mike & Joe.

"It's a wonderful way for people to come and sit and listen to some great music and enjoy ourselves before the fireworks," Smolinski said.

She said the fireworks display is expected to last about 25 minutes.

Officials said the "Party in the Park" is being used to promote awareness of Project Just Start, which provides backpacks fully loaded with school supplies to children from local families facing economic challenges in Addison, Bartlett, Bloomingdale, Carol Stream, Glendale Heights, Hanover Park, Itasca, Medinah, Roselle, and Wood Dale. Last year, 1,460 backpacks were provided to students in need from 28 different elementary schools.

"This event not only provides a great celebration for thousands of Roselle residents," Frank said, "but it will also assist in sending many local students from families facing economic challenges back to school this fall with the supplies necessary for (a) just and equal start."

For more information about the fireworks and the "Party in the Park" event, visit the Roselle website at roselle.il.us .

Guidelines: Keep it civil and on topic; no profanity, vulgarity, slurs or personal attacks. People who harass others or joke about tragedies will be blocked.              If a comment violates these standards or our terms of service , click the X in the upper right corner of the comment box. To find our more, read our FAQ .
