
Residents concerned about plans for a 37-lot development off Southwest West Hills Road met for the second time Monday night with the developers.

A federal judge threw out Oregon’s same-sex marriage ban Monday, marking the 13th consecutive legal victory for gay marriage advocates since last year’s U.S. Supreme Court ruling that overturned part of a federal ban.

And Benton County officials were preparing Monday to issue marriage licenses to same-sex couples immediately and to begin performing marriages in a few days.

According to Benton County spokesman Rick Osborn, within an hour of the judge’s ruling that same-sex marriages would be allowed in Oregon, county officials had worked out the systemic details with the state and were ready to begin processing those marriage licenses immediately.

However, because the filing process for all marriage licenses includes a three-day wait, same-sex couples will have to a wait just a little longer to marry.

“We are going to apply the same standard for the waiting period that we have always applied for marriage licenses,” County Clerk James Morales said.

Local clergy lost no time in preparing to perform wedding ceremonies for same-sex couples.

Rev. Liz Oettinger of the First Congregation United Church of Christ of Corvallis said Monday that local ministers and secular officiants will be ready to wed same-sex couples, starting Thursday.

As of Monday afternoon, she had lined up 14 clergy in five churches who will participate in weddings on Thursday and Friday, with updates and announcements of who, what and when to be updated.

She’s still looking for volunteers to help with rounding up cookies, punch and flowers. Volunteers who would like to help can contact her at 541-602-3797.

U.S. District Judge Michael McShane in Eugene ruled Monday that the voter-approved ban unconstitutionally discriminates against same-sex couples, and he ordered the state to stop enforcing it.

State officials earlier refused to defend Oregon’s constitutional ban, and said they’d be prepared to carry out same-sex marriages almost immediately if McShane struck it down.

In Portland, couples lined up outside the Multnomah County clerk’s office in anticipation of Monday’s ruling. Among them were Laurie Brown and Julie Engbloom, who got engaged on their 10th anniversary in April.

The National Organization for Marriage sought to intervene in the cases brought by four gay and lesbian couples, and defend the ban on behalf of its Oregon members. But McShane rejected its request.

The group then appealed, and on Monday a three-judge panel of the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals denied its bid for an emergency stay.

McShane joins judges in seven other states who have struck down same-sex marriage bans, though appeals are underway.

Many predicted last year’s Supreme Court ruling would create a pathway for states to act, as polls showed a majority of Americans now support gay marriage. Indeed, lower-court judges have repeatedly cited that decision when striking down bans.

Gay and lesbian couples can legally marry in 17 states and the District of Columbia. The two most recent states to make the unions legal were New Mexico and Hawaii, both of which did so in late 2013. Oregon’s ruling is not expected to be challenged, which would make it the 18th state where gay marriage is legal.

In 11 states, federal or state judges recently have overturned same-sex marriage bans or ordered states to recognize out-of-state marriages. Appeals courts are reviewing those decisions. Ten are in the hands of federal appeals courts, and one is with a state appeals court.

They’ve been all over the country. Federal or state judges in Idaho, Oklahoma, Virginia, Michigan, Texas, Utah and Arkansas recently have found state same-sex marriage bans to be unconstitutional. Judges also have ordered Kentucky, Ohio, Tennessee and Indiana to recognize same-sex marriages from other states. The New Mexico Supreme Court declared the state ban unconstitutional in a ruling that is not being challenged.

No. Oregon Attorney General Ellen Rosenblum is one of seven top state prosecutors who have refused to defend same-sex marriage bans in court. Attorney generals in Virginia, Pennsylvania, California, Illinois, Nevada and Kentucky, all Democrats, have made the same decision. Virginia and Kentucky still appealed rulings. A county clerk who was sued in Virginia is fighting that ban, and Kentucky hired outside attorneys.

Opposition remains stiff in many places, with critics pointing out that most states still prohibit gay marriage. They also note that in most states that do allow gay marriage, it was the work of courts or legislatures, not the people.

The Oregon Family Council released a strongly worded statement Monday saying the state colluded with gay-rights groups to sidestep the will of voters, and a judge allowed it.

“While tonight’s newscast will feature tearful couples at staged PR activities in courthouses across the state, the real tears should be for the next generation as we witness our constitutional republic sink into a banana republic,’’ spokeswoman Teresa Harke said.

Yes. At least 17 other states have filed lawsuits asking judges to throw out state bans. Only three states have no challenges pending: Montana, North Dakota and South Dakota. In addition, attorneys for gay couples in Nevada are challenging in a federal appeals court a 2012 ruling from a judge who upheld the state’s same-sex marriage ban.

A ruling from a federal appeals court is expected soon, either from a panel in Denver reviewing rulings from Utah and Oklahoma or judges in Richmond, Virginia, reviewing Virginia’s case. Many legal observers say they expect the U.S. Supreme Court to take a case at some point, but they acknowledge it’s impossible to predict what the high court will do. The Supreme Court could also just wait and see how the nation’s appellate courts rule. It often waits until there is a conflict between appellate courts before taking a case.

Copyright 2014 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Then you are advocating for is a change in the definition of marriage. At least have the intellectual honesty to say so rather than pretend is about equal rights as the sanctimonious phonies do.

Tell just what "right" is being denied and who it is being denied to and who it is not being denied to.

nocapes. At leat you had the decency to respond. I suspect your with the "happy people" group , but thats okay. And when I feel the need, I can write as good as you, maybe gooder.

Marriage should have nothing to do with gender. Should two heterosexual people who are not going to have children be denied marriage because no offspring will be forthcoming? The homophobic one-man/one-woman idea is completely based on producing offspring. I have to wonder Austin how many books you've read on the history of sexuality. Do you understand why human's reproduction has been controlled over the years by the church, the monarchy, the law, the culture, etc...Marriage is a state-recognized institution that allows distribution of benefits and tax status and should not be based on gender (an artificial cultural construction), genitalia, economic status (class), race or any other bias other than age. I'd be happy with doing away with the institution of marriage forever. If you want something "special" and "pure" in your mind, then go get married in your church. Sorry, unlike the church, the State is not allowed to discriminate.

Yes, surrounded with poor grammar, bad sentence construction, partly formed thoughts and an obvious tendency toward misinformation and isolated ideation. Other than that, we are shaking in our boots, all us liberal bootlicking people.

"Gay people are discriminated against when they are not allowed to marry the people they want to marry. "

And so are straights. Name one group that IS allowed to "marry the people they want to marry" without restrictions then tell me how their restrictions, if any are any different than those applied to gays.

I am not lying and you, sir, are the one attempting to mislead. "One Man-One Woman" is designed specifically and deliberately to disallow gay people to marry people of the same sex.  It has no other meaning.

Gay people are discriminated against when they are not allowed to marry the people they want to marry.

Gay people deserve all the benefits and responsibilities of marriage that heterosexual people enjoy, and that includes insurance, spousal benefits, the rights to inherit estates, Social Security, etc.

"One (gay) guy" happened to be in a position to override an unconstitutional amendment to the State Constitution that should never have been there in the first place and should never have been on the ballot in the first place because no one should be allowed to vote on the civil rights fellow citizens enjoy.

>"The notion that the "majority" approved of discriminating against gay people didn't make discriminating against gay people "right" or "correct". "

Why do you feel the need to lie or mislead, Peppertree? There was no such vote or such measure and the State Constitution makes NO mention of gays in regards to the "One Man-One Woman" provision. Discrimination against gays would be "Gays cannot marry"---which they can and are not prohibited from doing (subject to the EXACT same restrictions applied to ALL). Or it would allow straights to marry same sex and exclude gays from doing such--- which is not the case.

But....now that one (gay) guy has decided to override the State Constitution (for now) and there is nothing stopping same sex marriage...every municipality that pays with our tax dollars for health insurance for domestic partners (which ONLY means gay...not straights) should stop immediately! As their excuse of we can't marry is gone.

Austin. I like your style. Wish I could say something witty to help you out but Im not very good at that. Besides, it looks like you have these liberal bootlickers surrounded. Good man..

I disagree.  This is NOT how it should be done.  This amendment should never have been on the ballot 10 years ago.  NO ONE should be allowed to vote on the basic civil rights of other people.  The notion that the "majority" approved of discriminating against gay people didn't make discriminating against gay people "right" or "correct".  The judge decided that the amendment had been unconstitutional, in the first place.

Then…I can “marry” the sick elderly guy down the street who worked for the government and has a great tax-payer health and pension plan that transfers to his “spouse” when he dies.

heh, heh, heh. This won’t harm marriage at all….

>"this would've been on the ballot in November anyway"

And that is EXACTLY how it should be done. Want the definition changes to say same sex....them put it in the constitution. Rather than have an activist AG who shirks her duty and promise and one guy hearing only one side in trial.

Don't need to watch since I am not a hater.....except for pandering politicians more worried about themselves than the rule and process of law.

Yahoo for equal rights!  Yahoo for love!

A message for the haters out there.

Hmm, it seems if that tired old argument had any validity one of the last 13 appellate courts would have ruled in favor of discrimination.  But the reality is unnecessary discrimination just isn't Constitutional.

How sweet it is.  It's called freedom, get used to it.

Austin, this would've been on the ballot in November anyway. There were already plenty of signatures collected, and polls showed a majority supported the repeal of the ban. This just happened six months earlier than it was expected to. I'm sorry you weren't ready, but that's too bad. Friends who have been together for 25 years got their marriage license today. Have YOU been with someone for 25 years? I'm guessing no.

For the record, I've been married 17 years, and this doesn't affect MY marriage whatsoever. It's the right thing to do. You'll live.

It's not about "equal rights" as gays have not been denied the right to marry neither have men or women. In fact the limitations on who can marry whom in this state are EXACTLY THE SAME FOR EVERBODY. Try being intellectually honest and admit It's about changing the definition of marriage. Want it changed to include the same sex....get it into the [state] constitution. The rest of your points are irrelevant.

Austin - I can hear the anger in your message.  However you're not understanding one simple thing.  This isn't about two sides of an issue and one side not being heard...it's about equal rights and protecting these rights against the tyranny of the majority.  THAT'S DEMOCRACY.  If 51% of Oregonians are deluded into voting to outlaw public education for girls, would that be okay with you since the majority voted in favor for whatever reason?  America is supposed to protect minority citizens as well as majority.  And denying an entire group of people the basic right to marry is WRONG.  Remaining in ignorance is not a valid excuse either.  Educating yourself on why this matters to Oregon and our nation would benefit you and all of us.  Get to know a same-sex couple who is (now) married!  Lots of minds have been changed by that one simple act, expand your world and open your heart to new possibilities.  Good day to you sir.

A majority of the voters approved a constitutional amendment allowing same sex marriage. An activist group challenges it, the Attorney General refuses to defend it in court, the other side is not heard and one person decides to overturn the will of the people and change the state constitution banning same sex marriage.

If you find it offensive that one person hearing only one side can reverse the will of the people then you should be outraged at the way was undertaken. If you are fine with it, then consider what kind of system we have and explain why we even need legislatures when rules can be imposed or changed by one person in a state of 3.5 million......and don't howl when your ox gets gored in such a manner.

The AG should be recalled and thrown out of office!

I'm glad religion isn't holding us back as far now.

Follow Us!

Username & Password Required!
