
Last weekend alone, more than 1,000 unaccompanied youths were being held at overflowing border stations in South Texas, officials said.

The flow of child migrants has been building since 2011, when 4,059 unaccompanied youths were apprehended by border agents. Last year more than 21,000 minors were caught, and Border Patrol officials had said they were expecting more than 60,000 this year. But that projection has already been exceeded.

By law, unaccompanied children caught crossing illegally from countries other than Mexico are treated differently from other migrants. After being apprehended by the Border Patrol, they must be turned over within 72 hours to a refugee resettlement office that is part of the Health Department.

The Green March was a mass trek of 350,000 Moroccans into Western Sahara (former Spanish Sahara) on November 6, 1975 to claim the mostly desert territory from a regional insurgency and to declare control over the territory as a contiguous and connected subset of a “Greater Morocco.” The “march” allowed the Moroccan state to triumph over countries in the Western Sahara region, which was contested by the Polisario Front, an acronym for the Popular Front for the Liberation of Saguia el-Hamra and Río de Oro (Frente Popular de Liberación de Saguía el Hamra y Río de Oro), a national liberation organization formed by Moroccan students of Sahrawi descent. While neighboring Algeria and Mauritania claimed the territory, the Green March proved decisive in consolidating a large territory of 103,000 square miles with fewer than 500,000 people composed of Sahrawi and Moroccan descendants. The goal of Moroccan King Hassan II was to present the world with a fait accompli occupation that would be irreversible.

by HarrisonBergeron2 .

Large barges filled with hundreds of captured illegal aliens, should be shoved aground on the beaches of Cancun, Alcapulco, etc, etc, by tugs escorted by US Warships!……………..Destroy the Mexican tourism business, and they will get serious about controlling their borders, As for the rich & famous, they can be run over by a barge or spend their American dollars in other destinations.

Those children are brave.  Unloved by the parents, they take the risk.

They’ll have to be dealt with, but give them their fearlessness, stuck in an absurd situation.  Loathed by parents, they made a run for it.  Two maybe 10 will survive the ordeal.

The billionaires are not impressed, if not disgusted.  Service industries are beneath them–what with all that factory farm food.  They get humiliated just tying themselves to the general push for cheap labor–those billionaires want that cheap tech labor, not this.

Hawthorne,

Don’t worry about these “dreamers” – in addition to having the media, the entire educational establishment, powerful advocacy groups, the Billionaire Boys Club, and the federal government on their side, they will soon be joined by their families when they, too, get amnesty.

Bet on it.

Chipotle’s CEOs (two CEOs) have drawn attention for large pay packages this year.  Last year they made $50 million combined. I don’t know that they’ve lobbied for cheap labour, but I do know their business is *closely* tied to cheap labour. Chipotle can’t grow as quickly, and the CEOs can’t justify paychecks like that if labour costs rise.

And when the masses take their revenge, it’s the hard-working wealthy and upper-middle class who pay the price. We *need* some moderately wealthy people. The problem is largely the billionaires, the 0.01%! I’m aware the 1% enjoys cheap yardmen and such, but they’re much more closely tied to the rest of the population.

If a person makes money ethically, it’s more deserved than a CEO who managed to drive up Tyson profits for a few years, via cheap labour, to be awarded a bonus.

Adam Smith’s invisible guiding hand causes globalism.

If profit comes from exploiting the US social capital, it’s done. Greed is killing us, even if it’s granted a short-lived degree of power and wealth. Capitalism kills as well as socialism.

The Buchananite solution has been to raise wages naturally, through the free market. That way people could support themselves without a minimum wage, without welfare. If the economy shifts, the Buchananite steps in where needed and strives to act minimally and at the most local level of government.

Many of the French “socialist” ideas want this exact outcome as well. I think they simply don’t know how to bring it about.

An immoral and inefficient socialism is our unfortunate future. I just hate to oppose “socialism”, since “capitalism” isn’t any better.

It’s easy to imagine some “capitalist” activist marrying a Mexican and proclaiming that his children will inherit his great fortune, and that they ought to keep it. Well, that doesn’t interest me to defend haha.

And it’s easy to see some white state seceding to set up capitalist policies only to repeat the same mistakes and become flooded within 50 years.

I do not have a solution, an alternative, to the US corporate system.

I just hope that if I curse what seems to be the problem, a solution will arise.
