
CHENNAI: When the  city corporation cleared the  Pondy Bazaar pavements of  hawkers in November last year, following the expiry of a deadline for hawkers to move into the complex erected for them, Natarajan Ramaswamy did not just lose his  tea stall.

The 55-year-old, who is afflicted with dwarfism, lost his livelihood as well because he failed to find a place in the new complex. Since then, he has been shuttling between the Madras high court and Ripon Buildings, seat of the city corporation, seeking a small corner to regain his livelihood.

On Monday, the man who stands just three feet tall, walked barefoot into Ripon Buildings, on another of his umpteen visits. Clad in an oversized shirt and trousers and clutching a yellow plastic bag crammed with documents, Ramaswamy said he wasn't allotted a place in the hawkers complex since he was not part of any association of hawkers or traders.

Some of the documents in the bag are copies of a department of social welfare order dated 1982 leasing him "6ftx4ft of corporation public space for three years" as he was handicapped.

"Till 1993 I was paying a monthly rent of 100 to the corporation and I've been selling tea, biscuits and tobacco for more than 35 years now," said Ramaswamy. "I got a stay order from the high court last August but they still took away my bunk. I filed a case again but it is getting delayed and I don't have any more money. I've met senior corporation officials at least six times now and they have been promising me but I still do not have a place."

Ramaswamy has plotted on a hand-drawn blueprint places where he could be allotted a small spot outside the three-storey hawkers' complex. The man who earned 1,200 every day says he gets 1,000 a month from the government as 'maintenance allowance' due to his disability. "I've been reduced to begging from relatives and friends. I sent my wife to her home in Kallakurichi where our two daughters study in a corporation school," he said.

With no job and having vacated his rented house, Ramasamy now stays and sleeps in the very complex where he has been denied a place and where his friend, another street vendor, sells clothes. When contacted, corporation officials said a space would be arranged for him soon.
