
KUALA LUMPUR: Malaysia's remittance business is expected to expand by 20% to RM30 billion this year from RM25 billion last year, with continued growth expected over the next two years, said Malaysian Association of Money Services Business (MAMSB) president Ramasamy Veeran.

"I believe the industry will continue growing this year because there are more regulations coming in thus informal (channels) are shrinking and people are going the formal way. For remittance we can touch RM30 billion (in terms of collections) this year," he told reporters at the opening of the Regional Conference on Money Services Business hosted by Bank Negara Malaysia yesterday.

The RM30 billion projection was based on the number of agents and outlets expected to open this year as well as the growing number of foreign workers in Malaysia brought in especially by the construction sector in Iskandar Malaysia, Johor, where a lot of projects are expected to start work this year.

Ramasamy said most remittance players are licensed money changers who provide remittance services and those who are allowed, also operate on weekends and public holidays thus providing convenience to foreign workers.

"The rates they are offering are much better too, it can almost compete with the illegals, so I think the illegals are moving away," he said.

However, BNM deputy governor Datuk Muhammad Ibrahim In his opening speech yesterday, said there was still a significant number of businesses and migrant workers who still prefer informal remittance channels.

"It is timely for money services business providers to reassess their products and services in terms of cost, speed, convenience and trust so that we can draw this group of users away from the informal channels," he said.

Ramasamy said MAMSB is focused on ensuring the industry's system structure and governance process are in place to avoid criminal activities in the industry.

Meanwhile, he said, Malaysia's money changing business is expected to grow to RM60 billion this year from last year's RM52 billion, despite the slight slow down over the last two to three months.

"What I got to know from my members, there was some slow down in terms of Malaysians traveling overseas but I guess after this holiday, it will pick up again.

"We've been observing the situation, to see if there's any impact on tourism but I think there's still growth. Malaysians are still traveling, a lot of tourism is still coming in. This is an important factor for the money changing industry. The new airport has opened so more aircraft are coming in, more tourism will come."

Ramasamy, who is also managing director of Merchantrade Asia Sdn Bhd, said the company's remittance business is expected to touch RM3 billion in terms of collections this year, compared with RM2.2 billion last year.
