
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

"Violence has reached epidemic proportions," co-chair Councilwoman Rose Mendez (D-Manhattan) said Monday.

Her co-chair Andy King listed incidents of violence across the city in recent weeks across the five boroughs.

"That is not a lot to ask. We're talking about increasing precinct resources, increasing opportunities for law enforcement and communities to work together, going back to the notion of community policing that we have lost for far too long," Councilwoman Vanessa L. Gibson (D-Bronx), who has seen a spike in crime in her district.

Councilwoman Debi Rose (D-North Shore), a member of caucus who represents the Mariners Harbor neighborhood where the two mentioned shootings took place, couldn't attend the press conference because she was meeting with members of the Cure Violence initiative on Staten Island .

"Nothing has changed: The rise in violent crime is just not acceptable and the fact that we are the recipient of a Cure Violence program, whose focus is to eliminate gun violence in the targeted communities, I think is so important," Ms. Rose said in a telephone interview.

She said the Council's request of another 1,000 police officers was also key to communities who have experienced a spike in crimes. It would be important to combine law enforcement, mental health services, mediation, and other opportunities, she said. Other Council members, too, cited such programs as means to prevent violence.

But members of the caucus - which strongly backed the Community Safety Act, aimed at reforming the city's use of stop, question and frisk - said those reforms, protested by police unions as liable to make the city less safe, were not behind the crime increase in their communities. They said the technique was still in use, just when constitutionally called for.

"The stop and frisk policies never led to getting more guns off the street. The stop and frisk policies were unconstitutional," Ms. Mendez said.

And Councilman Jumaane Williams, an architect of the bill, said some of the years crime went down the most were when the number of stops also plummeted - arguing there has never been a correlation between the two.

"The whole city, from what I was told, was going to go to ruin if we started treating the Constitution like it was something that should be treated with respect," he said.

Ms. Rose said she expected critics of the Community Safety Act to blame it for any increase in crime, but that there was no correlation.

But King said his district has seen more shootings in two recent weeks than all of last year. He said he didn't attribute it to any recent police policies, but rather long-standing issues in his community, and the recent rise of "youth crews."

"Not because of any change in NYPD policies -- just because of economic opportunities and lack of services and options for our young people," he said.

© 2014 SILive.com. All rights reserved ( About Us ).

The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of SILive.com.
