
BEND — A 32-year-old motorcycle rider was flown to a Bend hospital Saturday with injuries that were not life threatening after reportedly striking a bear that ran in front of her on Century Drive southwest of Bend, Deschutes County sheriff’s deputies said.

Sheriff’s deputies, the U.S. Forest Service and Sunriver Fire Department medics were dispatched about 4:45 p.m. to the crash, sheriff’s Sgt. Troy Gotchy said.

Dana Alaine Harriger, 32, of Westfir was riding a 2008 Honda motorcycle when she struck the bear.

Harriger was treated by medics at the scene, then flown by AirLink helicopter to St. Charles Medical Center in Bend. She was not listed as a patient Sunday morning, a nursing supervisor said.

Beginning today and running through June 1, Oregon State Police and local law enforcement agencies will conduct a “Click It or Ticket” campaign across Lane County and the state.

The enforcement will focus on safety belt use, including proper restraints for child passengers and during night travel, police said.

A June 2013 survey found that 98 percent of state motorists use safety belts, making Oregon one of the two highest belt use states. Nonetheless, 61 of 198 fatalities in Oregon in 2012 were reported to be victims who were not restrained by a belt, police said.

The extra enforcement is underwritten by a state Department of Transportation grant.

Catholic Community Services of Lane County will dedicate its renovated community service center Tuesday, with a dedication and blessing by Portland Archbishop Alexander Sample.

The public event will begin at 4 p.m. at the center, 1025 G St. in Springfield.

The center has been renamed the Joe Softich Food & Resource Center, in honor of a longtime agency employee noted for his innovative approaches to distributing food to low-income and homeless people. Softich, who retired last year, will attend the event.

The renovated center includes large food storage and distribution space, a centralized intake area for residents seeking food, utility and housing assistance, and handicap-­accessible restrooms.

Major funders for the $150,000 project include the Murphy family, city of Springfield, Collins Foundation, Oregon Community Foundation and Oregon Food Bank.

Dramatic, open-living architecture combined with advanced technologies redefine all the comforts of home for a Eugene couple.
