
When Indian drug companies promised former US President Bill Clinton in 2003 to supply HIV/AIDS medicines at reduced prices for global programmes, then Health Minister, Sushma Swaraj of the BJP, told the drug-makers they needed to give medicines at lower prices to the local population as well.

Medicine prices apart, it was during Swaraj’s time in office that “spurious drugs” received some serious attention from the Government. She wanted death penalty for makers of spurious drugs, who were labelled as “merchants of death” by Bollywood actor Shatrughan Sinha, who had preceded Swaraj in the last National Democratic Alliance Government.

The pharmaceutical space in India has since seen a tectonic shift, with the Patents Act being amended in 2005 to honour product patents. And the last several years have seen intense legal battles as drug companies, Indian and foreign, test flexibilities in the Act.

The incoming Health Minister inherits this fragile healthcare landscape, dotted with litigation on patents, besides concerns over medicine prices, to name a couple of immediate stress points.

A patent gives the innovator a 20-year exclusive period to make and sell a product. And health workers worry that such monopolies could price medicines beyond the reach of patients.

The situation gets further complicated as India walks the razor’s edge on intellectual property rights (IPR), involving the protection of data generated during research, for instance.

Last month, India saw a low-point in relations with the US, following its ‘Special 301’ report that grades trade partners on IP. In the report, the US continued to keep India under its “priority watch list” in terms of protecting IP rights.   Though the US Trade Representative’s report did not further downgrade India’s status, as demanded by sections of the US industry and Government representatives, it did subject India to “out-of-cycle” reviews.

The angst over India’s IP track record was triggered by the high-profile case over Swiss multinational Novartis’ blood cancer drug Glivec. Last year, the Supreme Court dismissed Novartis’ patent application on the drug, paving the way for local drug companies to make their less expensive versions of this drug.

The other case that sent tremors across the global pharmaceutical sector was when the Indian Patent Office issued the country’s first compulsory licence to Natco, allowing it to make less expensive versions of Bayer’s advanced kidney cancer drug Nexavar, but on the payment of a revised royalty of seven percent to Bayer.

Though emotions were riding high on the different cases, judicial authorities stuck to provisions in the Patents Act, while deciding these cases.

At the same time, a fresh healthcare concern emerged on the Government’s radar, as foreign companies bought out Indian drug-makers, entirely or in parts. The outgoing Government took measures to ensure the country did not erode its “health security”. Uncomfortable with some of these above actions, foreign companies say India needs to address her concerns on affordability and access to medicine by increasing the Government’s spending on healthcare from the present about 1 per cent to 3 per cent of GDP.

Who Prime Minister-elect Narendra Modi appoints as Health Minister to tackle these tricky issues will be critical to whether healthcare indeed sees good days ahead.

Exemption limit for investment in financial instruments under 80C raised to Rs 1.5 lakh from Rs 1 lakh.

Deduction limit on interest on loan for self-occupied house raised to Rs 2 lakh from Rs 1.5 lakh.

5 more IITs in Jammu, Chhattisgarh, Goa, Andhra Pradesh and Kerala.

Govt’s plan expenditure pegged at Rs 5.75 lakh crore and non-Plan at Rs 12.19 lakh crore.

Contours of GST to be finalised this fiscal; Govt to look into DTC proposal.

A project on the river Ganga called ‘Jal Marg Vikas’ for inland waterways between Allahabad and Haldia; Rs 4,200 crore set aside for the purpose.

Rs 4,000 cr set aside to increase flow of cheaper credit for affordable housing to the urban poor/EWS/LIG segment.
