
Sarah Sanderson, left, and Esther Farnell, the new vice-president and president of the student association of Queen Elizabeth Sixth Form College, in Darlington.

STUDENTS at Queen Elizabeth Sixth Form College, in Darlington, have held elections for a president and vice-president of their student association.

This year’s election saw five candidates competing for the position of student association president, with more than 1,400 students exercising their right to vote.

All candidates created their own promotional campaigns and presented their views in speeches in a packed-out student common room.

They also produced short videos to highlight their ideas.

All the candidates proposed changes and policies to enhance college life.

Former Hummersknott Academy student Esther Farnell was elected president of the student association.

She is studying AS Levels in maths, biology, chemistry and physics and her ambition is to go to university to read engineering.

She said: "Running for the student association presidency was a great experience, one that really pushed me out of my comfort zone.

"However, knowing that I have gained the support of students has given me confidence.

"I look forward to working alongside other student association members to make positive changes next year."

Sarah Sanderson was elected vice-president.

She is taking AS Levels in law, biology, chemistry and English language, and is hoping to study dentistry at university, following a gap year.

She described running for the presidency as one of the most nerve-wracking things she has ever done, adding: "I'm looking forward to working alongside Esther and can't wait to get started."

The president and vice-president of the student association become governors of the college, meeting regularly with the principal and senior staff.

Among their duties will be to organise social and charity fundraising events throughout the year.

Beccy Stannard, student services co-ordinator at the college, added: "Next year promises to be really exciting.

"Esther and Sarah are really passionate students who are dynamic and determined to make a difference. I’m looking forward to working with them."

We want you to enjoy your visit to our website. That's why we use cookies to enhance your experience.  By staying on our website you agree to our use of cookies. Find out more about the cookies we use .
