
Guam - Michael S.N. Santos has been sentenced to 1 year 6 months in   jail after pleading guilty to calling in three fake bomb threats affecting the   Dededo Mall where the Northern Court Satellite is located.

The bomb threats were called into the  the Guam Emergency 911 Center on September 26, October 10  and October  29 last year.

According to a release from the U.S. Attorney's Office, during the   last phone threat, Santos was recorded as saying “There is a  bomb   going down in Dededo Mall right now. It is going to be going off.  Get   those people out of the building. In Dededo Mall right now."

Santos told investigators that he called in the   bomb  threats on  those days to avoid attending a small claims court   hearing at the  Northern   Court  Satellite.

FBI Agents arrested Santos on  the morning of October 29th after he made the third bomb threat call.  According to the release, the Agents were visually tracking Santos  that morning and saw him buy a  prepaid cellular phone in the Mobil gas  station on Route  16 near the Rev & Tax Office. Then he drove to a  park across  the street from the Dededo Mall where he made the bomb  threat call.

ALICIA A.G. LIMTIACO, United States Attorney for Guam and the Northern Mariana Islands, announced that MICHAEL SAN NICOLAS SANTOS, aged 54, was sentenced today in the District Court of Guam, to serve 18 months in federal prison followed by three years of supervised release for transmitting bomb threats in interstate commerce. Defendant was also ordered to pay a $100 special assessment fee and total restitution of $2,389.48 for distribution in part to Pho Saigon Restaurant, the Judiciary of Guam and the Guam Police Department.

On the morning of each of the calls, the defendant purchased a new prepaid cellular phone and/or SIM card in the Mobil gas stations in Ysengsong Road, Dededo, and Route 16. The defendant made the September 26, 2013 and October 10, 2013 bomb threats from a park across the street from the Dededo Mall.

On the morning of October 29, 2013, federal law enforcement agents surveilled the defendant when he left his Yigo residence. He was observed buying a prepaid cellular phone in the Mobil gas station in Route 16 in the vicinity of the Guam Revenue & Taxation building, driving around the park directly across the street from the Dededo Mall, and driving up Carnation Road and Villagomez Road where he made the third bomb threat. Special Agents from the Federal Bureau of Investigation (“FBI”) arrested the defendant later that morning when he returned to the Dededo Mall.

The defendant told them, among other things, that he called in the bomb threats on those days to avoid attending a small claims court hearing in the Small Claims Division, Superior Court of Guam, Northern Court Satellite which is located in the Dededo Mall.

The Dededo Mall also accommodates one restaurant, several food concession stands and retail businesses.

The investigation was conducted by the FBI Joint Terrorism Task Force-Pacific (comprised of the FBI, Guam Police Department, U.S. Coast Guard Investigative Service), Guam Police Department, Guam Fire Department, Judiciary Courts of Guam Marshals Office, Guam Homeland Security/Office of Civil Defense, U.S. Navy Explosive Ordnance Disposal Mobile Unit 5, Detachment Marianas and the Department of Defense Joint Region Marianas. The case was handled by Assistant U.S. Attorney Marivic David.
