
Brandon Vigil was charged with vandalism for writing on a bathroom wall in fifth grade, a childhood mistake he said will haunt him as he plans for college and prepares for a career as a police officer.

Vigil, a sophomore in high school, urged U.S. Education Secretary Arne Duncan this month to continue pressuring educators in states like Colorado to abandon strict discipline policies that disproportionately impact minority students.

"I know universities don't want kids with a criminal record or who have had charges pressed against them," Vigil said in an interview with The Denver Post. "It just worries me that if it's me and another student, that they're going to pick the other student because of something I did in fifth grade."

A Denver Post analysis of school discipline data found that Colorado has failed to make significant progress in reversing a trend that has left minority students bearing the brunt of strict discipline policies.

Despite lower numbers of students enrolled in public schools, minority children make up higher percentages of those receiving severe punishments. And the gaps between enrollment and the percentage  of severe incidents doled out to minority students have generally remained stagnant.

About 32 percent of children enrolled in Colorado public schools last year were Latino, but those students made up 43 percent of all out-of-school suspensions and 38 percent of expulsions in the state. Black students, who are 5 percent of the state's public school population, counted toward 13 percent of all out-of-school suspensions and 13 percent of expulsions.

The numbers show a stark difference from white children, who formed 56 percent of students across the state but made up 39 percent of out-of-school suspensions and 42 percent of expulsions in the 2012-13 school year.

Newell sponsored legislation passed in 2012 restricting mandatory expulsions to certain firearms violations and directing districts to limit out-of-school suspensions to behavior that poses a serious threat to safety.

Harsher penalties Two decades ago, Congress passed legislation that required states to expel students caught with guns at school. Over the years, states and school districts adopted policies that doled out suspensions and expulsions for minor infractions. Such policies could lead to suspensions, expulsions and criminal records for students caught smoking, cutting class or tampering with school property.

Earlier this year, the Obama administration released new federal guidelines urging districts to scale back strict zero-tolerance policies that it said push students out of schools and put them on a path to prison.

"Consistently and overwhelmingly, young boys of color are disproportionately impacted," Duncan said, adding that Vigil's story offers an example of a punishment that was too severe. "Do you want to build a criminal record for a 10-year-old or do you want to help him become the law enforcement official that he wants to be? That's it in a nutshell right there. That's the choice."

According to the latest data available from the federal government, black students represent 16 percent of public school children but 32 percent to 42 percent of students suspended or expelled. Latinos are about 24 percent of the population but represent 21 percent to 23 percent of all suspensions and expulsions. In comparison, white children make up more than half of the student population across the country but 31 percent to 40 percent of suspensions and expulsions.

"When you're kicking a lot of kids out of school for all sorts of reasons, you're putting them out on the street where they are unsupervised," said Dan Losen, director of the Center for Civil Rights Remedies at the University of California, Los Angeles. "They're not coming back as better behaving or safer kids. You're actually increasing their likelihood of gang involvement."

But districts' handling of discipline for students varies.

"There really hasn't been a lot of movement across the state to change conditions," said Ricardo Martinez, co-director of Padres & Jóvenes Unidos, a youth and parent advocacy group which seeks to keep kids in school rather than see them suspended, expelled or arrested for relatively minor incidents.

"What we are seeing a lot is that there is a bias in how discipline is enforced, and that's going to require more than just a state law. That really requires a change in mind-set and practices, and that's going to be a longer haul."

When Colorado lawmakers passed legislation requiring the collection of suspension and expulsion rates by race, they left some key components out.

Public's "right to know" The state collects data that show punishments by race, but does not ask schools to report student offenses. That means that schools report how many black, Latino and white  students were suspended but don't explain why, making it difficult to tell if minorities are receiving severe punishments for the same offenses as white children. Colorado also does not report data on  punishments for students with disabilities.

"The public has the right to know this information," Losen said. "We are pushing hard for the federal government to collect this data from every school district so that we can see the reasons for suspensions. There are states like California or Texas, for that matter, where they do keep track of all this data."

Student discipline reports in those states point to more severe punishments for minority children who commit the same offenses as white students.

"In California, there are 24 school code violations," Losen said. "Willful defiance and disruptions is a catch-all category, but 48 percent of all the suspensions meted out are in that category, and that's where the largest racial disparities are."

Tackling the disparities requires administrators to change their approaches to school discipline, state and federal leaders said. That means training employees on restorative justice practices, which could offer a student counseling or mediation in place of more punitive measures.

During a visit to Colorado this month, Duncan cited Denver Public Schools as an example of a school district that is working hard to scale back strict discipline policies.

Through the program, the district has reduced the numbers of Latino and black students who receive severe punishments.  But despite the reduction, black students are two times as likely to be suspended or expelled from school, while Latino and white students in the district are suspended or expelled at a rate that matches their student population.

District officials said they are working  with the University of Denver to delve further into whether students are being unfairly punished because of their race.   Researchers said they have found that black and Latino students are punished more harshly for the same offense at the district, a disparity that has increased over the past four years.

"We have to have clear, consistent and fair standards. It means having stronger culturally responsive education and cultural understanding by our teachers and support personnel," Superintendent Tom Boasberg said. "It's an area where we are doing a considerable amount of work, but it's an area where we also have more work to do, not just as Denver Public Schools but as a society."

Victim gets suspended Margarita Atencio said she was in the seventh grade at DPS five years ago when  two girls assaulted her outside  the school. They slapped her, kicked her and pulled her by the hair as she lay on the ground.

Atencio said she reported the assault to school administrators, who interviewed a handful of students about the incident. She said the students, who were friends of the girls who beat her up, pointed a finger at her and she was suspended because she did not have any witnesses to defend her side of the story.

"It really affected me, my grades and the people I hung out with," Atencio said. "I was scared to let anyone get close to me. My performance in school didn't really get better because I thought all the teachers thought that I wasn't a good student."

Alicia Lara Hernandez, a seventh-grader at Skinner Middle School, had a different experience this month when she was spared an automatic out-of-school suspension after she fought with another student at the campus. Hernandez and the other girl were required to participate in mediation at the school and were given a one-day in-school suspension.

Hernandez said she and the other girl were best friends but began arguing about another classmate. The arguments led to name-calling,  andthis month the girls got into a fight. When they were caught, they were given the option to participate in restorative measures.

"It used to be at Skinner that as soon as you got in a fight you were suspended," Hernandez said. "I'm happy instead of suspending us immediately they talked to us first and helped us talk about why we were mad at each other. We cleared it up and now we're friends again."

Duncan said President Barack Obama identifies with children who make mistakes in school and does not believe they should have to take on severe punishments for minor offenses. Duncan said Obama faced his own challenges — his dad wasn't around, he was on welfare at different points in his life and  his family moved a lot.

"He had lots of anger, hopelessness, incidents in high school that were pretty self-destructive," Duncan said. "He used drugs and was able to make it through, in part, because he grew up in Hawaii.

"Hawaii is a little bit more forgiving," Duncan said. "You can make some mistakes. If you grew up in inner city Chicago or maybe Denver. you don't have so many second chances or third chances."

This is Day Two of a two-part multimedia series looking at shortcomings in the state's system for reporting school safety information to the public.

Television: Monday on 7News at 10 p.m., Call7 investigator Keli  Rabon continues this joint investigation on how incidents are  categorized and why the system may need to change.

We reserve the right to remove any comment we feel is spammy, NSFW, defamatory, rude, or reckless to the community.

We expect everyone to be respectful of other commenters. It's fine to have differences of opinion, but there's no need to act like a jerk.

Use your own words (don't copy and paste from elsewhere), be honest and don't pretend to be someone (or something) you're not.
