
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

There's no one question that provides a scientific, testable answer as to whether Alabama is a wonderful place to live. But there are dozens, hundreds – thousands? – of data sets that offer hints.

Perhaps you know Nate Silver, who accurately predicted in 2012 that Barack Obama would defeat Mitt Romney in the U.S. presidential election. (Most who cite this feat point out that Silver got 50 of 50 states right; the arguably greater accomplishment was his holding that Obama would win big, while others thought Romney might've closed the gap.) Silver now runs FiveThirtyEight.com , ESPN's foray into data-driven reporting and blogging.

Or you might recognize Ezra Klein, who left the Washington Post this year after new Post owner Jeff Bezos declined his request for several million dollars to pay for a new explanatory journalism venture. Klein and others now operate Vox , which does its best to demystify complicated items currently in the news. The New York Times has a new data journalism venture, too, called The Upshot , led by David Leonhardt.

AL.com, too, has committed to data journalism in a way that puts Alabama residents squarely at the center of the analysis. We're calling it Data Mine .

But I have been keeping pretty close tabs on Alabama data for a while now. I moved to Birmingham two years ago, and began working for AL.com as the organization's jobs and economy reporter. Since then, I've expanded my view to look at the incomes of Alabama households, the financial and physical strain being felt by our state's prison systems, the locations of the tornadoes of April 2014, and most recently, trends in migration to and from the state of Alabama.

Broadly, we'll try to answer three questions about Alabama: how do we live, how do we work, and what do we do for fun? (I can't afford a $30,000 bottle of scotch, but maybe you can.) You'll see lots of maps, interactive graphics, and searchable databases that you can use to help us answer these questions. I'm biased (data buzzword!), but with so many of this year's data journalism start-ups focused on nationwide data, I think we at AL.com have an opportunity to be leaders in state-specific analysis.

I hope you'll dig into the Data Mine – online at AL.com/datamine – often. And if you see any big piles of data lying around anywhere, or think of any questions we ought to explore, let us know.

© 2014 Alabama Media Group All rights reserved ( About Us ).

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
