
An Egyptian court on Monday acquitted 169 backers of the Muslim Brotherhood charged in connection with unrest that followed the overthrow of the Islamist president Mohamed Morsi last year, judicial sources said, according to AFP.

The army-installed government has rounded up thousands of Morsi's supporters and put them on trial in mass hearings since his ouster by the military in July last year.

The often speedy mass trials have jailed hundreds for lengthy terms and even handed down death sentences, triggering international outrage.

The 169 defendants were accused of taking part in "riots" during a violent protest in Cairo on August 14, when police killed hundreds of Morsi supporters at two sit-ins in the capital.

A relentless crackdown on Morsi's mostly Islamist backers since his ouster has killed more than 1,400 people, and seen 15,000 others jailed.

An Egyptian court on Sunday sentenced 126 supporters of ousted Islamist president Mohamed Morsi to 10 years in prison each over protest violence, judicial sources said.

They were found guilty of taking part in riots, attacking security forces and participating in violent clashes on August 16, two days after police killed hundreds of Morsi supporters in Cairo.

They were also charged of membership in a banned group, a reference to Morsi's Muslim Brotherhood, AFP reports.

The army-installed government has rounded up thousands of Morsi supporters and put them on mass trials since his ouster in July last year.

The court in the Kafr El-Sheikh governorate north of Cairo also sentenced six other people to one year in prison each, although the charges against them were not immediately available.

But judicial sources said that the 132 people standing in Sunday's trial were also fined 1,000 Egyptian pounds (about $143 and 111 euros) each.

A relentless crackdown on Morsi's supporters have killed more than 1,400 people, while hundreds have also been sentenced to death after speedy trials.

Egypt's prosecutor general Saturday referred to trial 200 alleged members of the Al-Qaeda-inspired Ansar Beit al-Maqdis, accusing them of "terrorism" for launching deadly attacks against security forces, judicial sources said. It would be the first mass trial of jihadists in Egypt since the military deposed Islamist president Mohamed Morsi in July last year.

The Sinai-based Ansar Beit al-Maqdis, or the Partisans of Jerusalem, has claimed responsibility for some of the bloodiest attacks against Egypt's security forces since Morsi's overthrow.

The date for the trial has yet to be fixed, but of the 200 accused, 102 are in custody and the rest are on the run, the sources said, AFP reports.

Those who face trial are accused of "belonging to a terrorist group, espionage on behalf of (the Palestinian movement) Hamas, criminal attacks, and terrorism," including deadly bombings targeting police headquarters in Cairo, Mansoura in the Nile Delta and South Sinai.

They are also accused of killing three high-ranking police officials, among them an aide to interior minister Mohamed Ibrahim who himself was targeted by a suicide car bomb in September last year.

The attacks allegedly carried out by the accused, who include some operational leaders, resulted in the deaths of 40 policemen and 14 civilians, the sources said, adding another 348 were wounded.

According to the charges, investigators also found the accused had been in touch with Morsi during his presidency, the sources said.

The military-installed authorities have previously accused Morsi's Muslim Brotherhood of having links to Ansar Beit al-Maqdis.

Egypt has been rocked by a wave of militant attacks since Morsi's overthrow, with Ansar Beit al-Maqdis carrying out bombings and shootings in the Sinai Peninsula, Cairo and the Nile Delta.

The group had also claimed the killing of five soldiers when it shot down a military helicopter in the restive Sinai on January 24, a day before the third anniversary of the revolt against long-time autocrat Hosni Mubarak.

All rights reserved.
