
China continued an emergency evacuation of its nationals from Vietnam on Sunday after two Chinese were killed and more than 100 others injured in anti-China violence protests.

The violent protests exploded after China aggressively repelled Vietnamese ships as the two countries fight over the Chinese oil rig operating in disputed waters in the South China Sea.

The Vietnamese government's failure or inaction to prevent the results of the riots can only tarnish its image as a favorable destination for international investment and tourism, which could bring about severe consequences for its own economy, said Chinese authorities.

The deadly attacks and social unrest disrupted the normal operations of foreign-invested companies and undermined the confidence of not only Chinese investors, but outside investors too.

Among the Chinese nationals evacuated, many are from China 19th Metallurgical Corporation, a contractor of an iron and steel complex badly hit by the violence.

The steel plant in Vietnam's central Ha Tinh province, owned by the Formosa Plastics Group of Taiwan, is expected to be Southeast Asia's largest steel-making facility when completed in 2017, but it is now doubtful whether the deadline will be met.

Besides Chinese companies, a large number of South Korean, Japanese and Singaporean plants also fell prey to Vietnamese mobs, with their factories forced to shut down.

Such a tough situation will prompt foreign investors to have second thoughts about or recalculate the risks of doing business in Vietnam — a country whose fast-growing economy is thirsty for foreign capital.

China has so far exercised restraint and held back from any retaliation, but it did advise its nationals against travelling to Vietnam due to safety concerns. Official figures showed Chinese tourists paid 1.8 million visits to Vietnam last year, giving a significant boost to the Vietnamese economy. Now, despite Vietnamese tourism authority's pledge to ensure the safety of foreign guests, Chinese tourists are canceling planned trips.

Hanoi's handling of the protests will largely determine the future its once stable relations with Beijing. Beijing has advised the Vietnamese government to avoid siding with nationalistic fervor and stop the violence and further provocations.
