
Mayor Tells Bullying Victims To 'Grow A Pair & Stick Up For Them Damn Selves'

The mayor of a town in California's Central Valley has sparked outrage by suggesting that bullying victims need to "grow a pair" and stand up to their tormenters on their own.

As Fresno-based ABC affiliate KFSN reported last week, Porterville Mayor Cameron Hamilton made the controversial remarks while discussing a proposal to create a safe zone for bullied students.

"I'm against bullying, but I'm getting damn tired of it being used as a mantra for everything and the ills of the world," Hamilton said during a recent city council meeting. "All most people have to do is grow a pair and stick up for them damn selves."

"It is hard to stand up and 'grow a pair' when you're maybe a 10-year-old little girl," city councilwoman Virginia Gurrola, a supporter of the safe zone effort, countered .

"Then maybe the other 10-year olds that think they want to stop bullying will stand up for her instead of a safe zone wtih a placard," Hamilton replied.

The safe zone project, which had been proposed by students at Porterville's Burton Middle School, has since been withdrawn .

Hamilton defended his remarks Friday, telling the Associated Press that he is not anti-gay, and that he opposes the safe zone because of what he sees as potential legal risks.

"The message is, together we can all fight this thing," Hamilton said of the bullying problem.

The small town garnered national attention last year when then-mayor Gurrola was ousted after issuing a proclamation declaring June as LGBT Pride Month -- a proposal that Hamilton says he supported .

"There was a lot of emotions that arose from this, but the end result is that people are talking about the LGBT community in the city of Porterville, and they are getting a better understanding of it," Gurrola told The Huffington Post last year.

In 2008, Porterville was the only city in California to formally support Proposition 8, the state's ban on gay marriage. Prop 8 was struck down by the Supreme Court last June.

While running for president in 2007, former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani told a reporter at a Montgomery, Ala., supermarket that he estimates "a gallon of milk is probably about a $1.50, a loaf of bread about a $1.25, $1.30, last time I bought one." It must have been a few election cycles since his last trip: The grocery store's website listed milk for $3.38 and bread up to $3.49.

During George H.W. Bush's reelection campaign in 1992, Vice President Dan Quayle scoffed at the "Murphy Brown situation," referring to a television character who had a child out of wedlock. Quayle called the Brown story "totally unreal," adding, "A highly paid professional woman [with a baby] ... give me a break."

In a display of aloofness that many political observers say led to her defeat by Republican Scott Brown, Democratic Senate candidate and Massachusetts Attorney General Martha Coakley erred in brushing off the idea of ramping up her campaigning. When asked whether she was being too apathetic, she referenced one of Brown's ads and fired back, "As opposed to standing outside Fenway Park? In the cold? Shaking hands?"

Republican vice presidential candidate Spiro Agnew, branded as Richard Nixon's go-to guy on cities, vowed in 1968 to avoid poor neighborhoods. "If you've seen one slum, you've seen them all," Agnew said.

While visiting the Alamo in 1976, President Gerald Ford bit into a tamale through the husk, a faux pas later deemed the "Great Tamales Incident."

President George H.W. Bush caught flak for appearing awed by a supermarket check-out scanner while touring a grocers convention in 1992. It turned out the president was being shown a new bar code technology, and the convention worker who was alongside Bush later said it's "foolish to think the president doesn't know anything about grocery stores. He knew exactly what I was talking about."

In 2008, President George W. Bush said he had not heard predictions that gas prices could soon hit $4 a gallon. At the time, the national average was $3.29 a gallon.

In 2003, Democratic presidential contender John Kerry ordered Swiss cheese on a cheese steak while campaigning in South Philadelphia, straying from the traditional favorite topping, Cheez Whiz.

Democratic presidential contender Michael Dukakis tried to one-up Republican opponent George H.W. Bush on national defense by striking a pose in an M1 Abrams tank.

Mitt Romney has had his fair share of seemingly out-of-touch statements this election cycle, admitting he likes to "fire people" and expressing amazement at the touchscreen ordering system at convenience store Wawa.

President Barack Obama is not exempt from the "gotcha" moment. In June, he described the private sector economy as "doing fine." The gaffe immediately elicited comparisons with his 2008 Republican opponent, John McCain, who said that the "fundamentals of the economy are strong" in the midst of a crippling financial crisis.

Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day..

Use this form to alert a HuffPost editor about a factual or typographical error in this story.

Thank you!
