
Nigeria has remained at a crossroad since the activities of Boko Haram persist in the North-eastern part of the country. The people and government are rather perplexed. Efforts to bring the situation under control have failed to yield. Government once proposed amnesty which was rebuffed by the insurgent. It applied force of the military and the situation has not fared better either, except now that help seems to be coming from the international community.

But last year, precisely May 14, the federal government resolved that it was inevitable to impose a state of emergency in the three states of Adamawa, Borno and Yobe where the activities of the group are prevalent. And since May 15, 2013, the affected states have been under emergency rule.

Note that a state of emergency is a governmental declaration which suspends or changes some functions of the executive, the legislative and or the judiciary. It is a process that alerts citizens to change their normal behaviour and orders government agencies to implement emergency plans.

Governments across the globe often declare a state of emergency during natural or man-made disaster; during a period of civil unrest, or following a declaration of war or situation of international and or internal armed conflict as it has been in the case of Boko Haram. It is therefore a rationale for suspending the rights and freedoms, even if those rights and freedoms are guaranteed under the constitution. And they are often substituted by a martial law.

The 2013 proclamation of a state of emergency in Adamawa, Borno and Yobe States was approved by the National Assembly by virtue of the provisions of Section 305(6) (c) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 as amended. The proclamation is in line with the protocol of the ICCPR, which agrees that rights and freedoms may be suspended during a state of emergency.

For instance, a government can detain citizens and hold them without trial. Some of the rights that can be eroded are contained in the International Covenant for Civil and Political Rights. Really, not all rights can be tampered with. But emergency law mostly tramples on non-derogatory rights when in operation.

The United States’ Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights and Labour in its Country Reports on Human Rights Practices for 2013, listed the Joint Military Task Force in states where a state of emergency had been declared among human rights violators in Nigeria.

Part of the report reads: “During the year (2013) JTF, composed of elements of the military, police, and other security services, conducted raids on militant groups and criminal suspects in the states of Adamawa, Bauchi, Borno, Gombe, Kano, Kaduna, Kogi, Plateau, Sokoto, Taraba, Katsina, Jigawa, and Yobe.

The US department said there are reliable reports to show that military personnel and paramilitary mobile police carried out summary executions, assaults, torture, and other abuses throughout Borno, Kano, and Yobe States.

In another appraisal of the killings by Boko Haram and extra-judicial executions by Nigerian security forces, the Amnesty International noted that as a result of an increase in attacks by Boko Haram, Nigeria’s security forces have launched reprisal attacks that had led to an increase in the death toll in North-east Nigeria to at least 1,500 people, most of whom are civilians. The figure is just for the first three months of 2014.

The Research and Advocacy Director for Africa at Amnesty International, Netsanet Belay, felt that all the parties are violating international humanitarian law and urged the international community to ensure prompt and independent investigations into acts that may constitute war crimes and crimes against humanity.

These and other political reasons have been the underlying factors why many kick against the president’s call for an extension of the state of emergency.

For instance, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) chairman, Prof. Attahiru Jega, told a stakeholders’ forum on the preparation and challenges ahead of the 2015 general elections, organised by the Senate Committee on INEC that it would not conduct the 2015 general election in states under the state of emergency rule whereas, the three affected states are some of the strong holds of the opposition All Progressives Congress (APC). He said the decision by the commission was to avoid contravening the law.

Hence, the APC described the call for an extension of a state of emergency in the three states as lacking in original thinking, and therefore asked the National Assembly to reject it.

“With the three states militarised, there can neither be electioneering nor voting there. We had warned earlier that as 2015 approaches, the Jonathan administration will increasingly take measures that will make it impossible to hold election in many states.

“The over militarisation of some states in the North, the plan to destabilise the South-west using slush funds from the so-called oil pipeline protection contract and the infantile threats from some Niger Delta militants seem to be part of this plan,” Mohammed said.

Northern senators did not want it either. The senators, under the aegis of the Northern Senators' Forum (NSF) rejected the extension of the emergency rule in the states. They openly vowed to oppose the proposal on the floor of the Senate.

It was a situation that was evolving into what would have made the APC burrow another hole into the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the National Assembly because it would again go into alignments with some Northern states, to stampede the proposal.

But while the House of Representatives had approved the request with some safe mechanisms, the Senate suspended decision on it until it has been fully briefed by the service chiefs. This regardless, some believe that the Senate’s decision to suspend action on the proposal was a face saving move because the proposal was bound to fail, considering the gang up that was awaiting it.

The issue has however continued to generate various shades of opinions. The Northern Elders Forum (NEF) seems favourably disposed to the extension if it was the only way to end insurgency in the North-east.

The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), which has lost a considerably high number of its members to attacks by the Islamic sect, has through its president, Pastor Ayo Oritsejafor, been calling for an end to the carnage and would want a solution, even if it warrants an emergency rule.

But the dissenting voices against the call are more. It is captured in the positions of the pan-Hausa socio-cultural group, the Arewa Youths, and an NGO, Coalition for Democratic Reforms (CODER) where both condemned the idea.

The Arewa Youths described the move as punitive and a serious setback to democracy. Most Northern leaders are of the views that the previous emergency situation did not produce any meaningful result.

CODER Convener, Chief Ayo Opadokun condemned the declaration, which he called ''another sad development'', and contended that “any re-adoption of the use of force to whip the people into shape is tenuous and indicative of a ruler of a state that has not the capacity to govern.''

In a commentary, the executive director, Centre for Rights and Grassroots Initiative (CRGI), Lagos, Mr. Nelson Ekujumi was of the view that “By the declaration of a state of emergency in some Northern states, President Jonathan has unwittingly indicted his administration as the chief perpetrator of the insecurity bedeviling the country.

“Why do I say so? The President is the commander-in-chief of the armed forces; he controls all the agencies of state that are constitutionally charged with security matters and so, if there is security breaches anywhere, we must hold no other person responsible but the President.

But as proponents and opponents take their varying positions, it is instructive to pay attention to the observation by Stratfor Vice President of Africa Analysis, Mark Schroeder, who said without necessary peaceful atmosphere between the people and the military, little or no result should be expected even with a state of emergency.

Please leave your comment below. Your name will appear next to your comment. We'll also keep you updated by email whenever someone else comments on this page. Your comment will appear on this page once it has been approved by a moderator.

Please enter some keywords that you'd like to search for. Your results will be displayed below.

THISDAYLIVE cares about you, help us to report better!
