
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .

If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .

Moscow: President  Vladimir Putin says he is withdrawing Russian troops from the border  with Ukraine, the second time he has said this in less than two weeks.  He also praised the government in Kiev, which he had previously called  an illegal, fascist junta, for its willingness to negotiate structural  changes.

But  the intended audience for these conciliatory remarks on Monday may not  have been the United States and Europe, who would distrust them in any  event. Mr Putin's gaze was more likely fixed on China, where he arrived  on Tuesday by all accounts determined to show that he, too, wants to  pivot to Asia.

While  Mr Putin has been casting an eye eastwards practically since he  returned to the presidency in 2012, the crisis in relations with the  West over Ukraine has made ties to Asia, and particularly relations with  its economic engine, China, a key strategic priority. With Europe  trying to wean itself off Russian gas, and the possibility of far more  serious Western sanctions looming should the crisis deepen, Moscow needs  an alternative.

Mr  Putin has stressed repeatedly in recent weeks that Russia sees its  economic future with China, noting that its Asian neighbour was on track  to surpass the US as the leading global economic power. A tilt to the  East is also in keeping with Mr Putin's recent turn to a conservative  nationalist ideology, emphasising religion, family values and patriotism  in contrast to what he sees as the increasingly godless, relativist and  decadent West.

"Today,  Russia firmly places China at the top of its foreign trade partners,"  Mr Putin said in an interview with Chinese journalists on the eve of his  visit, according to a transcript released on Monday by the Kremlin. "In  the context of turbulent global economy, the strengthening of mutually  beneficial trade and economic ties, as well as the increase of  investment flows between Russia and China, are of paramount importance."

Mr  Putin's announcement of a pullback of Russian forces from the Ukrainian  border was likely to help calm the situation there before presidential  elections scheduled for Sunday. But it could also be seen as a gesture  to Chinese sensitivities about separatism, given Beijing's continuing  troubles with Tibet, the Uighurs and scores of lesser-known ethnic and  religious minorities.

It  was also the third time Mr Putin had announced a pullback without any  evidence of troops actually departing, the NATO secretary general,  Anders Fogh Rasmussen, noted on Monday at a news conference in Brussels.

The  centrepiece of Mr Putin's two-day visit to China could well be a  long-stalled deal with Russia to ship natural gas from new Siberian  fields to China, starting around 2019. The two have been haggling over  the deal for a decade, but could not agree on a price for the gas.

Experts  anticipate that Russia is finally prepared to come to terms, if only to  let Washington and Western Europe know that it has other markets for  its gas and important friends in the world.

"Because  of this current disaster in our relations with the West, they have no  alternative," said Vasily Kashin, a China expert at the Centre for  Analysis of Strategies and Technologies, a Moscow policy organisation.  "They need to go to Asia to make any deals possible as quickly as  possible."

Mr  Putin is due in Normandy on June 6 for the 70th anniversary of the  D-Day invasion. He will likely meet with US President Barack Obama and  German Chancellor Angela Merkel to discuss the Ukraine crisis.  Brandishing a new gas deal with China would strengthen Mr Putin's hand,  helping deflate the threat of Western sanctions.

In  the interview with Chinese journalists, Mr Putin noted that bilateral  trade with China last year was close to $US90 billion. Although Russian  trade with the European Union as a bloc is far larger, amounting to some  $US370 billion in 2012, trade with China is on par with leading  individual partners like Germany. Trade with the US was only $US26  billion in 2012.

Russia  needs new markets because it is hugely dependent on commodity exports,  earning some 67 per cent of its export income from oil and gas alone.  Financing from China would also help offset reluctance by Western banks  to extend new loans, given the threat of sanctions.

"There  will be a natural gas agreement, which is very important not for the  agreement itself, but because it will open the road for further, much  bigger agreements in natural gas and other raw materials," Dr Kashin  said.

Mr Putin said Russia would try to increase trade volume with China to $US100 billion next year and double that by 2020.

Daredevil wingsuiters take on 'epic challenge'

Onlookers cheer as two Dutch wingsuiters jump from a helicopter and soar around the Euromast building in Rotterdam.
