
A little boy who had been battling against a rare virus as he waited for a heart transplant has lost his fight.

Kaylee Hickman holding her son Ryan Brookhouse with her partner Gary Brookhouse and their eldest son, three-year-old Harley.

Seven-month-old Ryan Brookhouse died on Saturday after his condition deteriorated, his devastated family said.

He had contracted Enterovirus, which left the left side of his heart unable to pump and the right side pumping fiercely to compensate, when he was four-months-old.

Doctors had been trying different medicines in an attempt to get his heart to function but to no avail.

In recent months, he had also been receiving treatment at Freeman Hospital, in Newcastle.

His family, who come from Wolverhampton,had hoped he could have a heart transplant.

They updated a Facebook page, where well-wishers had left messages of support while he had been receiving treatment, with the news he had died on Saturday after doctors were unable to do anything else to help him.

His mother Kaylee Hickman wrote: "We are devastated and heartbroken but have been told the only option now is to let him go."

She later said: "Our beautiful baby ryan passed peacefully in mommy's arms at 2pm. Felt my nan around, she came to take him. No longer in pain and suffering. Heartbroken going to miss you baby. Mommy loves you so much and always will. Sleep tight my angel."

His father Gary Brookhouse, of Leasowes Drive, said: "Today I am a proud daddy to hold my baby for the last time, but this isn't goodbye because I will see you again darlin! You are with your great grandparents now and they will all look after you baby. Rest in piece my beautiful baby boy love mommy daddy and big brother Harley!

Among those who had given their support to little Ryan, who was born at New Cross Hospital in Wolverhampton on September 30 last year, was Wolves.

Yesterday the club tweeted: "Thoughts and sincere condolences remain with the family of baby Ryan Brookhouse, who sadly passed away yesterday. Rest in peace little man."

Ryan's family had been raising money for a charity called Children Heart Unit Fund which supports the clinical and emotional well-being of the child patients and their loved ones as well as the new Home from Home house, being built at the Freeman hospital so families can stay close to their sick children.

Comments for: "Wolverhampton boy loses battle against rare virus"

What a tragic story, condolences to the parents, RIP little man.

So So Sorry- Sincerest Condolences to baby Ryans' family.
