
Tata Motors owned JLR roped in British adventurer Bear Grylls as Brand Ambassador of Land Rover.

SummaryCongress party was preparing to rally around the Nehru-Gandhi dynasty on Monday to snuff out possible dissent after it suffered its most humiliating defeat in an election.

Congress party was preparing to rally around the Nehru-Gandhi dynasty on Monday to snuff out possible dissent after it suffered its most humiliating defeat in an election.

Both party chief Sonia Gandhi and her son and heir apparent, Rahul, have accepted responsibility for the loss. Ahead of a top-level meeting, party sources said there was no question of either resigning their posts.

The dynasty has been the mainstay of the Congress party since Jawaharlal Nehru led India to independence in 1947 and stayed on as prime minister until he died in 1964. Nehru's daughter, Indira Gandhi, and her son, Rajiv Gandhi, both served as prime ministers and were assassinated, seven years apart.

Sonia Gandhi is Rajiv's widow and Rahul their son.

The few Congress party members who have previously raised the banner of revolt against the family have been hounded out. Some others who left the party have quietly returned.

On Monday, the Congress Working Committee (CWC), the party's highest decision-making body, was meeting to consider the election rout amid some media reports that Sonia and Rahul, who led the campaign, may offer to resign.

"Nobody knows what they will do, there is speculation in the media (about offering to quit). But even if, hypothetically, they submit their resignations, each and every member of the CWC will reject their resignations outright - including me," party general secretary Shakeel Ahmad told Reuters.

Congress, which has been in power for the past decade, won only 44 seats in the 545-member lower house of parliament - less than the one-tenth required to be recognised as the main opposition group. Both Sonia and her son won their seats in the northern state of Uttar Pradesh; Rahul with a vastly reduced majority.

The Congress rout, worse than opinion polls predicted, has deepened doubts about the leadership of Rahul, who is seen to have run a lacklustre campaign that failed to connect with voters, especially the young, where opposition leader and prime minister-to-be Narendra Modi succeeded.

Rahul has seemed remote and cut off from the party rank and file, choosing to operate through a clique of mostly unelected advisers who are under attack now following the election defeat.

A video doing the rounds showed him on the campaign trail in western Maharashtra state unable to name the party candidates in the area. During the election, Modi challenged Rahul to name 10 villages in his home constituency of Amethi.

Malaysia announces probe into crash of Malaysia Airlines MH17 plane in Ukraine Prime Minister Najib Razak today announced an immediate probe into the crash of a Malaysia Airlines aircraft, which was reportedly shot down over Ukraine today.
