
Cambodia’s Prime Minister Samdech Akka Moha Sena Padei Techo Hun Sen met with Chinese President H.E. Xi Jinping in Shanghai, China on Sunday, according to Chinese News Agency Xinhua.

During the meeting, H.E. Xi Jinping hailed the China-Cambodia friendship, calling on the two countries to boost their partnership despite changes in international situation.

China is ready to maintain high-level exchanges with Cambodia, enhance contacts between the two ruling parties and share governance experience, H.E. Xi Jinping said.

China supports the Cambodian people to stick to the development path in accordance with Cambodia’s national conditions, he added.

H.E. Xi Jinping vowed to back Cambodia’s efforts to safeguard national security and stability, and continue assistance for the country’s economic and social development.

The Chinese president called for more bilateral cooperation in such areas as agriculture and tourism, and the implementation of projects concerning hydropower, coal and the Special Economic Zone in Cambodia.

The Chinese president also vowed to facilitate the construction of a Silk Road economic belt and a 21st-century maritime Silk Road, in a bid to promote the interconnectivity of infrastructure.

Both countries should expand cultural cooperation and youth exchanges as well, according to H.E. Xi Jinping.

For his part, Samdech Techo Hun Sen said that the important consensus he reached with H.E. Xi Jinping during the meeting of the Boao Forum for Asia in April last year had been implemented by both sides, citing smooth progress in bilateral cooperation in various fields.

The Cambodian government and people appreciate China’s long-term support, and cherish this friendship, he said.

Cambodia is willing to strengthen its partnership with China, he said, vowing to facilitate bilateral projects regarding the economy and people’s livelihood as well as cooperation in security and law enforcement.

The Cambodian prime minister reiterated that Cambodia will continue to play a constructive role in boosting ties between China and the Association of Southeast Asian Nations.

Cambodia is ready to work with China to make the Conference on Interaction and Confidence Building Measures in Asia (CICA) Shanghai Summit a full success, he said.
