
Seventeen British men have been arrested as part of a global crackdown led by the FBI on a malicious computer program.

The BlackShades 'malware' allows a hacker to remotely take control of computers and webcams and view documents.

The illegal product was being sold online for less than £100 and is said to have infected more than 500,000 computers since 2010.

The programme was last year used to capture naked photographs of Miss Teen USA from her computer in a so-called "sextortion" plot.

The UK's National Crime Agency said 15 arrests took place in England while two men were held in Scotland.

80 others were held in 15 countries including America, France and Germany, in a two-day operation.

Investigators said the enquiry focused on the developers and "prolific users" of BlackShades.

They said it was believed about 200,000 usernames and passwords of victims across the world may have been taken by UK users of the software.

Hackers use the programme to infect their victim's computer when users click on fake links in emails and on social networking sites.

Once installed, criminals can capture highly personal information, or take photographs of computer users using their webcam, which have then been used for blackmail.

BlackShades also allows users to take control of a computer secretly and encrypt its data, which is only unscrambled when a ransom is paid.

The worldwide police operation is reported to have been sparked after the FBI arrested two BlackShades developers and obtained a list of the malware's customers.

The Association of Chief Police Officers' lead on e-crime, Deputy Chief Constable Peter Goodman, said the operation "sends out a clear message to cyber criminals that we have the technology, capability and expertise to track them down".

In total more than 300 properties were searched across the world and 1,000 data storage devices seized.

The arrests in the UK took place in Halesowen, Birmingham, Wolverhampton, Brixham, Manchester, Newcastle-under-Lyme, Andover, Ashford, Liverpool, Warrington; London, Derbyshire, Leeds, Glasgow and St Andrews.Further arrests abroad took place in Moldova, Holland, Belgium, Finland, Denmark, Switzerland, Austria, Estonia, Canada,Croatia, Italy and Chile.

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).
