
In signs and speeches, hundreds of protesters took on publishing giant Pearson, New York’s political leaders, teacher evaluations, and the Common Core standards at a rally near City Hall on Saturday.

But organizers and speakers said they all agreed on one thing: state and federal leaders’ efforts to improve education haven’t actually been good for public schools. Their messages included opposition to the rollout of the Common Core standards, New York’s teacher evaluation law, and state testing policies—an array that organizers said was a byproduct of the inclusion of dozens of local and regional education groups.

“People see a lot of things going on in education as an attack on public education,” said Brian Jones, a former New York City teacher who is running for lieutenant governor in this year’s gubernatorial election on the  Green Party line .

The event had some clear political overtones, starting with Jones’ presence. Many people at the rally said they were registered Democrats, but sought an alternative to Gov. Andrew Cuomo in November. They cited Cuomo’s recent  embrace of privately-managed charter schools  as one example of the threats facing public education.

A speaker’s view of Saturday’s rally. On the dais is parent Dao Tran, and holding a sign for her is Brian Jones.

They also seem to be about a fifth as tall.

Vote NO!

Most  of  the  people  in  yellow  had  their  children’s school  closed  down   for  the  day and  were  bused  up  to  Albany  all  expenses   paid by  Eva  Moskowitz..  They  were  even  given  T-shirts.

The  people  in  the  city  on  Saturday  were  there  on  their  own  volition,  on  a beautiful Saturday  afternoon  when  they  could  have  been  doing  many  other  things.

Not to mention that by all outward appearances, one prominent no-excuses charter network is happy to leave parents and guardians with the impression that student and caregiver attendance at these types of rallies is mandatory.

haven’t seen so many white folks since my last Jimmy Buffett concert.

Rosalie Friend, Ph.D.

all children learn.

Rosalie Friend, Ph.D.
