
Almost  1,000 Chinese citizens were evacuated yesterday from riot-hit Vietnam  by sea, with another three ships following, as Hanoi stifled fresh  protests over a territorial dispute and foreign investors counted the  cost.

The passenger ship Wuzhishan left the central Vietnamese port  of Vung Ang with 989 evacuees on board, China’s official news agency  Xinhua reported.

It was the first of four Chinese ships, each with a  capacity of about 1,000 people, sent to Vietnam, Xinhua said, with  another two on standby.

Relations between the communist neighbours  have plummeted following Beijing’s move earlier this month to send a  deep-water drilling rig into contested waters in the South China Sea.

Two  Chinese nationals were killed and about 140 injured when enraged mobs  torched or otherwise damaged hundreds of foreign-owned businesses in  Vietnam last week. More than 3,000 Chinese have already returned home  from Vietnam by sea and air, reports said at the weekend.

Authorities  deployed hundreds of security personnel on Sunday to quell the violence  and more than 300 suspected perpetrators are being prosecuted,  Vietnamese officials said.

There were no reports of any further  disturbances in Vietnam yesterday and Hanoi was calm, with authorities  scaling back the heavy security presence that had blocked access to the  Chinese embassy and other key points in the city.

The state-run  China Daily newspaper in an editorial yesterday raised the prospect of  long-term economic damage to Vietnam due to the protests.

“If  investors are not confident a government can guarantee a secure  investment environment, they will understandably hesitate over making  the decision to invest,” it wrote.

China’s  foreign ministry has appealed to citizens to avoid travelling to  Vietnam. Several major Chinese travel agencies have suspended their  Vietnam tours, Xinhua reported.

In 2012 Japanese  nationals, businesses and diplomatic missions were targeted in violent  protests that erupted in several major Chinese cities after Tokyo  nationalised disputed islands in the East China Sea.

At the time  Beijing was criticised for allowing the protests, which the Japanese  government estimated caused damage worth more than $100mn.

I agree to receive newsletters from Gulf Times.
