
Frank Wood went to his eternal home on Nov. 28, 2013 in Albuquerque, New Mexico. He was born March 12, 1938 in Bonne Terre, Missouri, to Herbert Vincent and Gladys Ann (McCauley) Wood.

He was an air recon pilot in the U.S. Navy for 21 years and served during the Vietnam War. After retiring from the Navy he worked for New Haven Home in Vista, California, Diversified Sciences Corporation in Palmdale, California and Lockheed Martin in Albuquerque, New Mexico. He was a member of the Knights of Columbus and the Catholic War Veterans. He was active in ACTS Retreat Ministry.

Frank is survived by his wife of 49 years, Carol Lowney Wood; his son, Michael and wife Kimba; his daughter Sarah and Jim and grandson, Bryce Barrett. He is also survived by six brothers and four sisters.

Mass of Christian burial will be celebrated Friday, May 23, 2014, in St. Patrick’s Catholic Church at 11 a.m. followed by interment of ashes in Holy Cross Cemetery.

Express condolences at www.mtstandard.com/obits.

Copyright 2014 Montana Standard. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

You called someone an idiot, a racist, a dope, a moron, etc. Please, no name-calling or profanity (or veiled profanity -- #$%^&*).

You rambled, failed to stay on topic or exhibited troll-like behavior intended to hijack the discussion at hand.

YOU SHOUTED YOUR COMMENT IN ALL CAPS. This is hard to read and annoys readers.

You have issues with a business. Have a bad meal? Feel you were overcharged at the store? New car is a lemon? Contact the business directly with your customer service concerns.

You included an e-mail address or phone number, pretended to be someone you aren't or offered a comment that makes no sense.

You accused someone of a crime or assigned guilt or punishment to someone suspected of a crime.

Your comment is in really poor taste.

I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site consitutes agreement to it's user agreement & privacy policy.

Visit us today!

Contact us today!

Username & Password Required!
