
Login or Signup now to share stories and leave comments.

Login or Signup now to share stories and leave comments.

China slammed the U.S. Monday for indicting five Chinese Army officials on hacking charges, saying Washington’s move was “ungrounded and absurd” and that Beijing is responding by halting participation in joint cyber talks pursued by officials from both sides over the past year.

“Given the lack of sincerity on the part of the US to solve issues related to cyber security through dialogue and cooperation, China has decided to suspend activities of the China-US Cyber Working Group,” Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Qin Gang said following the U.S. Justice Department’s announcement of charges.

“ China will react further to the US ‘indictment’ as the situation evolves,” she said in a statement posted on the ministry’s website.

The Justice Department announced on Monday morning that U.S. authorities had charged five individuals in the Chinese Army with hacking into U.S. company computers in an attempt to steal trade secrets and gain a competitive advantage. The indictment marks the first time in U.S. history that criminal charges have been filed against another country for computer espionage.

The alleged hacking directly led to job losses in the U.S., an industrial plant closing in Texas, stolen design information for a nuclear power plant, as well as cost and pricing information from a solar panel firm, U.S. law-enforcement officials said.

The sting should serve as a “wake-up call” to the seriousness of the ongoing threat of cyber crimes and how the U.S. plans on dealing with them, said Mr. Holder . He added that the U.S. doesn’t collect intelligence to help U.S. companies – unlike what the Chinese were attempting to do. He hopes China will cooperate with the indictment and allow the five accused to stand trial in the United States, although the prospect of that is slim, given the U.S. has no extradition powers in China .

In what perhaps is an effort to shame the suspects, U.S. authorities released photos of the suspects, including one man in military uniform. Monday’s announcement was long-planned, dating back at least a year as the Obama administration was searching for more punitive measures to take against Chinese hackers. The most serious charge of economic espionage includes a maximum 15 year prison sentence.

The gesture is largely symbolic and draws a much needed line in the sand by the U.S. government to foreign entities trying to steal commercial secrets, said Shawn Henry, former executive assistant director of the FBI’s Criminal, Cyber, Response and Services Branch, where he oversaw all of the bureau’s criminal and cyber programs and investigations worldwide.

“It’s a good first step,” said Mr. Henry, who is now the president of CrowdStrike Services, a cybersecurity detection and prevention firm.

He has long advocated that because the U.S. government’s primary responsibility is the protection, safety and security of its citizens it should actively be defending cyberspace with the same red-lines, diplomatic gestures, military moves, and legal ramifications, it does when lines or borders are crossed in the physical world.

The Chinese attempted to steal secrets from six entities in the steel and energy segments: U.S. Steel, Alcoa, Allegheny Technologies Inc., or ATI, a specialty steelmaker, Westinghouse, the U.S. Steelworkers’ Union, and SolarWorld AG, a german . These companies were were all targeted in the scheme that allegedly began in 2006.

The indictment names five individuals, named Wang Dong, Sun Kailiang, Wen Xinyu, Huang Zhenyu and Gu Chunhui, with conspiracy to commit computer fraud and abuse. The indictment was handed up by a grand jury in Pittsburgh, a city close to many of the U.S. firms targeted.

U.S. government officials have long said that China is aggressive in pursuing cyber-espionage – trying to gather trade secrets and intellectual property knowledge from U.S. companies. China has denied this charge, saying it’s not based in fact.
