
Sun Hung Kai Properties' billionaire brothers Thomas and Raymond Kwok, and Hong Kong's former number two official Rafael Hui arrive in court for graft trial.

Thomas and Raymond Kwok, the billionaire co-chairmen of Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd, Asia's largest developer, arrived in court on Monday for another day of Hong Kong's biggest graft trial.

The case involves a series of payments and loans totaling more than HK$35 million ($4.5 million) allegedly paid to Rafael Hui, who had headed Hong Kong's civil service from 2005 to 2007.

The three men, friends since childhood through family connections, confirmed last week earlier pleas of not guilty to all charges. The Kwoks face seven charges, including conspiracy to offer an advantage to a public servant, and Hui faces eight.

Hui, 66, faces three misconduct charges, including that of accepting rent-free use of two flats while head of Hong Kong's retirement authority and two unsecured loans.

Thomas Chan, a board member in charge of land purchases at Sun Hung Kai Properties, and Francis Kwan, a former Hong Kong Stock Exchange official, have also been charged in the case and pleaded not guilty.

All five defendants appeared in court, where about dozens of photographers and cameramen jostled to get shots of the men at the entrance.

The prosecution and defendants have hired high-profile lawyers, with media reporting the Kwok brothers could spend more than HK$100 million in legal fees, the most ever paid in the city.

The Hong Kong's Court of First Instance will summon more than 80 witnesses during the trial, which began on May 8 and is scheduled to run for 70 days, local media reported.

The jury selection, that had been scheduled on Monday, has been postponed until next Monday.

The case has thrown a spotlight on the close relationship between the city's powerful developers and government in the former British colony, which returned to Chinese rule in 1997 and has a separate legal system from the mainland.

The Independent Commission Against Corruption (ICAC) arrested the tycoons in March 2012 in the agency's biggest investigation since it was set up in 1974 to root out widespread corruption in the then-British colonial government and police.
