
SCOTTSBORO, Ala., May 19, 2014 /PRNewswire-iReach/ -- The month of May is Military Appreciation Month, and as a show of appreciation for the area's many active, reserve and retired military men and women, a large number of auto manufacturers are offering discounted pricing to those who have served in the Armed Forces. One Alabama auto dealer, however, is offering an additional discount, on top of what is already being offered by Chevrolet. Harbin Automotive , located in Scottsboro, Ala., is offering those who qualify for the General Motors Military Discount an additional $750 discount on select new Chevy vehicles, available now through May 31.

The additional $750 discount from Harbin Automotive is offered to active, reserve or retired military personnel or their spouse, and also to all discharged veterans within one year of their discharge date. To qualify, those eligible must first visit the General Motors Military Discount webpage or call 1-866-902-1902, where they will receive a discount authorization number. Once those eligible have received this number, they may then bring their drivers license and Military ID to Harbin Automotive in Scottsboro, where their enrollment will take place.

The discount received by those who are approved is substantial: from GM, they will receive supplier's pricing on a large number of Chevy vehicles, including the popular Tahoe , Camaro or Cruze . Then, Harbin Automotive will subtract an additional $750 from the total price, offering the area's much-respected servicemen and women a terrific opportunity to find a new Chevrolet.

The dealer encourages those interested in taking advantage of the Chevrolet Military Discount to visit their Scottsboro-based dealership, and reminds eligible shoppers that although the supplier pricing is available through the month of June, the additional $750 discount is available only through May 31. The dealership also may be contacted at www.harbinautomotive.com , or called directly at 866-559-8384 for further details.
