
Chinese President Xi Jinping and U.S. President Barack Obama.

A U.S. grand jury has indicted Chinese government officials with stealing American trade secrets through cyber espionage, U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder said Monday.

The charges were handed down on five people who allegedly worked for the People's Liberation Army. They allegedly spied on U.S. companies in the nuclear power, metals, and solar products industries.

The charges mark the first time the U.S. has brought cyber-espionage charges against a state actor.

Six American companies and one labor union were victims of the Chinese hacking attacks, Holder said. The companies targeted include the United States Steel Corp., Alcoa Inc., Westinghouse Electric, Allegheny Technologies Inc., and SolarWorld AG.

The defendants named in the case were Wang Dong, Sun Kailiang, Wen Xinyu, Huang Zhenyu, and Gu Chunhui, who were officers in Unit 61398 of the Third Department of the Chinese People’s Liberation Army.

"For too long, the Chinese government has blatantly sought to use cyber espionage to obtain economic advantage for its state-owned industries,” FBI Director James B. Comey said.

"The indictment announced today is an important step," Comey said. "But there are many more victims, and there is much more to be done. With our unique criminal and national security authorities, we will continue to use all legal tools at our disposal to counter cyber espionage from all sources."

The indictment carries 31 total counts. All defendants are charged in all counts. Charges include conspiring to commit computer fraud and abuse; accessing (or attempting to access) a protected computer without authorization to obtain information for the purpose of commercial advantage and private financial gain; transmitting a program, information, code, or command with the intent to cause damage to protected computers; aggravated identity theft; economic espionage; and trade secret theft.

"Chinese actors are the world's most active and persistent perpetrators of economic espionage," the Office of the National Counterintelligence Executive, a U.S. government agency, in a 2011 report  (PDF) titled "Foreign Spies Stealing U.S. Economic Secrets in Cyberspace."

"U.S. private sector firms and cybersecurity specialists have reported an onslaught of computer network intrusions that have originated in China," the report said.

President Barack Obama and Chinese President Xi Jinping have held meetings twice in the past year — last spring in Sunnylands, California, and last September at the G-20 summit in St. Petersburg, Russia — that focused on cybersecurity issues.

The two countries agreed to hold semiregular talks on cybersecurity and espionage last year.

"The President underscored that we view this not simply through a security prism, but what we're focused on is concerns about the potential theft of trade secrets emanating from China," Ben Rhodes, the deputy national security adviser for strategic communications, told reporters last September while reading out the Obama-Xi meeting.

This post was originally published at 8:08 a.m. ET on Monday, May 19, 2014.

Welcome, !

* Copyright © 2014 Business Insider Inc. All rights reserved. Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy .
