
Check showtimes to see when Amanpour is on CNN where you are. Or watch online.

Check showtimes to see when Amanpour is on CNN where you are. Or watch online .

To some, Narendra Modi is a technocrat with a record of economic reform; to others, he is a nationalist who stood by as Muslims were slaughtered in his home state of Gujarat.

No matter the truth, Modi will become India’s next prime minister after claiming victory in a landslide election last week.

“He has the ability to completely remake the country,” writer and historian William Dalrymple told CNN’s Christiane Amanpour on Monday.

So great is Modi’s majority, Dalrymple said, that he is just 30 votes from having a majority that could alter the constitution.

The concern, Dalrymple said, stems not just from the Gujarat riots a decade ago, in which more than 1,000 people – mostly Muslims – were killed under Modi’s watch as chief minister.

Click above to watch Amanpour’s full conversation with Dalrymple, and hear about Modi’s alleged role in that fateful violence in Gujarat.

Mr Modi's colossal victory in the largest secular democracy on earth by the largest number of votes in human history can not be ignored any longer by his critics and detractors. This would also include us here in the United States.

President Obama needs to urgently repair the Bush era debacle of denying visas to Mr Modi as soon as possible. This is because Mr Modi was cleared by the courts in India for any wrong doing and was not held responsible for actions taken by others in a communal riot situation resulting in both Hindu and Muslim deaths, any more than President Obama is personally responsible for the Benghazi incident.

We have no right convicting a man in court of public opinion when he was clearly found not guilty of any crime by the legal courts. It is that simple. President Obama and CNN need to embrace Mr. Modi, a duly elected leader of the largest secular republic on earth to set a good example for others to follow by quashing racial discrimination, bigotry and Hinduphobia.

Yes Abdul ! He does not support terrorist's . He is also planning to bring a law in which it states " Any religions originated within the Indian subcontinent ,feeling persecuted can always come back to India ,they shall be protected " This includes Hindu's ,Jain.Sikh,parsi,buddhist etc etc Jews are also considered in certain cases . This is because the 30 % hindu population in bangladesh has declined to 2% within 3 decades ,same story with the Pakistani Sikh and hindu community. Buddhism and Hinduism in  Thailand also undergoing similar situation , Now MODI is taking a collective initiative ,Thats all . Hope terrorist will understand this . ,He might bring Government control over Madrassas and its activity , A ban on maintaining multiple wives , The worst thing he is going to do is to fund and bring schemes for educating " Muslim women " . For your information Modi's close Aid and staff and one of the chief campaigner is a Beautiful looking Muslim Lady called Asifa (just google Asifa of BJP ), She is also a Member of Parliament ,democratically elected .

Why do you believe that all Muslims think and do the same thing. People like you are responsible for stereotyping of Muslims from inside the community. I have many Muslim friends who believe in Modi's Vision, who has canvased on Social Media for him.

FYI – BJP (Modi) didnt get the largest number of votes, they got just 30+% which is the lowest for the winning party in Indian History and it is funny though they got the largest number of seats, the reason being too many parties fighting the election and the votes got split.

You are right that BJP got 38% of the Votes but that is clearly the largest share and that is what happens in Multiparty democracy. You seem to have hard time accepting the reality and trying to find faults. Well, wake up.

This is exactly 36% of total voters, which is equal to more than 350 million voters.

More than double the population of your little countries.

I was just going through one highly inaccurate assessment of Amanpour where she interviewed some American Historian claiming to be an expert in Indian history.

The fact is victory of Mr. Modi in India has put west especially America in a frenzy as Indian Economy is expected to grow faster and projected to get double in the next 5 years.

Amanpour's opinion can be best viewed under the lenses of American chauvenism where she would support and praise a corrupt regime in India as Indian corruption means prosperity for the western countries as money is sucked out of India by all bad means and poured/stashed in western banks.

Now Modi is in power and definitely all outflow of black money out of India (earned by Indian's hardwork) will stop flowing towards west; Much to Amanpour's dismay. The distorted projection of Modi as a fundamentalist is highly wrong and deplorable.

Modi is a growth oriented, pro-liberalism and industry-friendly person. Not only Indian economy but world economy is also going to witness a sea change in the years to come.

Better is American media projects correct account of events and personnel.

I  used to trust Amanpour.  No  longer listen to her.  Discovered her lack of integrity after the Serbian conflict was over. I hadn't noticed at the time that there were reasons that led to that conflict since CNN Amanpour never spoke about them.

A few years down the road, to my horror, I'm receiving videos and photos about the  truth.  Muslim persecution of the Serbs.  Who would have thought this?  Afterwards, more biased stories from Amanpour on other subjects.

I love Modi and I hope he rids the country of Islamic elements.  The only people to be worried are those who are not innocent.

She must also be on the side of terrorist and corrupt criminals that modi is going after.

The only concern I see is from the West which is afraid that now India has a leader who will not dance to their tune.  Stop peddling this trashy lies CNN.  Nobody in India is scared.  We have a leader who is our own so back off and go back to doing what you know best...reporting on banal and trivial news.

not worth the time. Very bad knowledge on contemporary India.

Narendra Modi draws inspiration from legends like Swami Vivekananda. He is a able leader and administrator from whom other leaders should learn a lesson or two.

looks like most comments do not agree with the reporter. the real proof will be in the ACTIONS of mr Modi. Controlling radicals to me seems an  acceptable response to an increasing attack by them on society.

And, you are, let me guess, "paid congress stooge"? Shame on you that your hatred doesn't let you acknowledge one of the biggest mandates ever given to a political leader in independent India. Cease and desist.

Congress got less than even that in 2004, 2009. Never heard anyone whine back then!

you see how the Vote share jumped for BJP from previous elections. Indians are very intelligent to select their representative. mere aggressive Campaign will not win the elections.  we got a Leader who is very familiar with the common mans problem, who has a vision and clear road map for making India Super Power. This decisive mandate will strengthen India.

this whole 30% vote is such a miscommunication. BJP fought with allies and a large chunk of the seats were contested by the allies and BJP didnt have a candidate. Together they got around 40% votes which is in line wiht the number of seats .. again the reason why parties win only 40% and win more than 50% seats is that India is not a 2 party system and hence there is going to be a split in votes .. a vote 'for' a party is exactly that .. and not 'against' others .. In case of a 2 party system, it would have been a different story .. but let's save the hypothesis for another day.

Then yes 'WE' are radicals.

Pl stop this non-sense, if you can't digest the truth that India is on a path to high growth.

Why to be in such hurry to judge Modi ? He will be prime minister in a day. One can see the realities about him. He is popular leader trusted by large mass of people. People may make mistake but at the same time they learn from it. Anyone who does not learn from mistake cannot be a leader for long time. The pre judgements based on some of his past record are likely not to come true as human brain constantly adapts , adaption being the basic necessity for survival.

First you have no right to challenge any democratic process ,Which is accepted to be the best form of Governance.  Second  you are too ignorant to call a nation full of people "Not wise " , When your country have more than 55% undergraduates running the corporates also compare average IQ ,SQ,EQ  of Indians to the people of your country . 3rdly Indian Democratic structure is considered to be more Democratic than US .I just put the stat's here just because you have crapped out utter nonsense here .

The past record which you are talking about is based on inaccurate and false media-hype and inflated by then westerns'-puppy congress government.

America is in a frenzy as India is going to grow in fastest possible manner.

Dont try to take cover by making fake stories and then justifying how such a wonderful man was denied your visa.

The supreme court of India and 3 other independent investigation agencies have found nothing against this man, even though the other party being in power. I think you need to believe in Indian democracy and law enforcements.

This article shows that the author has little idea about the current India, Indian people and its vibrant democracy! Please think before judging people and comparing 2 unrelated personalities.

I believe time and his actions will speak for itself!

Nothing wrong in just one case out of many. The same Supreme Court call him "Modern day Nero" for turning around and allowing mobs to commit voilence. He is also guilty of administrative failure.

Well said... Andy... sometimes I am totally surprised at the ignorance of the people in USA (remember, George W. Bush's ignorance of geography?) Anyway news channel like the CNN should,not publish the view of just one man as if it is the truth and the only truth..

Modi, a Putin style nationalist?! That's presisely what India needs at this defining moment of her modern history. India needs a leader who'd say no to any attempt by anybody to "democratize" it the Western way. India needs a leader who wouldn't allow its markets and purcahsing power to be used by others for their benefit. India needs a leader who'd augment and consolidate its potentials to become a major world power.

Please do not under value Modi by comparing him to Putin. He is better than Putin, he is a HITLER, in the name of development, he will also push the ideology he belongs to and eradicate moderate, secular ideas.

Putin is here to balance American hegemony. Actually the world needs many Putins who are not from the banana republics to guarantee world peace. This Putinphobia that you harbour Christian has lowered your journalistic standing because you are no longer objective. You have to change course. Russia is whether you like or not the only country in the world that can reduce the USA to a heap of radioactive nuclear waste within minutes, so avoid becoming part of that waste. Stop hating Putin he means well.

Modi is not here to impress the world....world is in India. India is a microcosm of what this whole world. It has been plural, inclusive and compassionate to every religious group that sought protection from persecution elsewhere. And, people of India understand who Modi is. That's precisely why India has kicked out the corrupt leader of Italian origin. Modi knows he only needs to take care of 1.2 billion Indians and I don't think he will lose sleep over what rest of the world thinks about him. People like you are fear-mongerers and Indians have seen plenty of your kind. One of your kind–Teesta Setlvad–will be soon behind bars for all the frauds she committed. So, stop peddling falsehoods.

Well, Teesta is more like what they call an ambulance chaser in America (really a funny phenomenon to us Indians if you hear about it). She is a classic representative of the high-caste, English-educated Socialist elite, who has traditionally fed-off the bloated state. I guess kind of India's equivalent of the Ba'ath party. They don't hate Modi for religious extremism. They know that the actual rightwing organization, RSS, actually opposed Modi tooth and nail in Gujarat. He is Hindutva's Deng Xiaoping. He is no more a Hindutva right-winger than Deng was a Communist. He has to say he is, but he has systematically removed all actual rightwingers from positions of influence in the BJP (for example Advani). He also forced the manifesto to be rewritten to push all the rightwing goals to the last page.

The High-caste Socialist elite in India hates him for two reasons: One, that he is low-caste and has legitimately gained power through mass-appeal. Look at all the digs against his background – his mother used to clean dishes for a living and he himself sold tea on trains. Two, that he actually creates prosperity. They despise this because it moves poor people (over whom they feel they have custodianship) into the middle classes. Zafar Sareshwala nailed it in his appearance on Aap ki Adalat.

Note that Teesta is under trial because she actually acquired property from the riot victims telling them that she would create a museum there and is accused by the victims of then selling it and pocketing the money. Under Congress, she would use her connections to get out of this. Now, she is trapped. On top of that, she is directly accused of tutoring witnesses in every single case that she is involved in. If you want to know why the Indian economy has been in rags for 50 years, just look at her.

CNN's negative report is only because America is in a frenzy and fretting fast growing Indian economy in the next 5 years now.

Trying to justify their visa-refusal to such a marvellous man.

The visa denial was explained in an excellent segment by Fareed Zakaria with John Oliver. Back after 9-11, some American Christian conservative legislators had formed a Freedom of Religion committee. They immediately came under fire for being anti-Muslim. The Gujarat riots had just happened and the Left in India was mounting a campaign against him. Ironically, 5000 Muslims were killed in Gujarat before that under the Congress without a single arrest. Modi had called out the police and asked for the army almost immediately (the Centre denied it because they were deployed on the border after the terrorist attack on parliament). Anyway, the American legislators found a convenient person accused of committing crime against Muslims that they had never heard of and didn't care for. So, they listed him. They never listed anyone else.

Osama bin Laden, the Taliban, Nouri al-Maliki (who operates brigades to kill Sunnis in Iraq) – all have been eligible for visas. Modi is the only person in history ever on that program. What has happened since then is that FOIL (Federation of Indian Leftists – very active in America, even though they actually despise America while living there) has systematically moved to prevent the change from happening. Of course, any US administration will see right through this. This is why Nawaz Sharif (PM, Pakistan) and Obama, etc have all reached out to him.

the western media and their stooges are flogging a dead horse. We indians know modi better than you, we voted him in and we will keep him in power so long as he has the best interest of the nation in his mind. We will replace modi should he prove to be incompetent.

Finally India has a leader of its own. The country has needed for a long time a stronger leader with an overwhelming mandate for it to be able to reign on corruption and politically motivated and foreign operated NGO's. She also needs to devise and efficiently implement policies that will provide education, health and food to the millions of poor who will in the end become the power base of India's future in the world – be it for manufacturing, technology or finance – it's them that India's new PM needs to pay attention to – the millions of poor people. Let us not put to much hope on Mr Modi, but there was not any alternative.

As for him being a Hindu nationalist, India is the cradle of more than 4 religions and has 80-85% Hindus, who have been marginalized in the name of 'secularism'. The west's politics is such that there can be 50+ Islamic countries, similar number of Christian countries, but there cannot be a Hindu country in the land of Hindus, a 10's of thousand years old religion and probably the mother of all religions. It's not only for Hindus to be open-minded in the world, is it? Colonial British carved out Pakistan from India and they allowed it to declare an Islamic state whereas India with 90% Hindus at the time (you can see the persecution of Hindus and promotion of other religions in the name of secularism) could not be declared a Hindu state.

It does not mean that Narendra Modi should declare India a Hindu Nation, but certainly he needs to address the imbalance since her independence. Maybe India should not be secular but fair to all religions. Think over!

India indeed a Hindu state in its nature though it declares itself as so called "Moderate state". All States in the world do not allow other religions (minority) to perform their religion freely (Even do not declare national holiday in important days of each religion) except Bangladesh where all people of every religion get national holiday irrespective of any religious program of any specific religion. Though Bangladesh declares itself as "Muslim Country" but i am proud to see that it is the only country where every people get equal opportunity of any matters irrespective of religion.

India do have official holidays for Hindus, Sikhs, Christians, Muslims, Buddhists, Jains. Get your facts right.

Oh really! India's Muslim population is the world's SECOND largest after that of Indonesia.

I don't agree with this article as it gives a wrong image of Mr modi . He is accused of being involved in the riots but not found guilty . He is a revolutionary leader  who changed the face of Gujarat stAte and will change of India too. India is a secular and an undeclared Hindu state too. Comparing Mr modi with Putin is wrong and this article gives a wrong projection . The ground reality is different and it's not only the Hindus but also the Muslims voted the bjp and there is nothing wrong in it as long as Mr modi takes the country ahead .

It would have been better if the host interviewed an Iindian rather than someone alien(Dalrymple )..

It is for the well being of the world that India remains a Hindu majority country. With Europe getting Islamized and Islam is on rise, India and Israel will act as a bulwark in the east against the expansionist and predatory nature of Islam.

This is my very first comment on any news website & I must voice myself to write this that the content of this article is completely baseless and propagated, I myself belong to Gujarat state of India & reading such an article which is completely baseless, The supreme court of India have given Mr. Narendra Modi a clean chit then how they claim that many of them were slaughtered under his watch. Does CNN news reported claim to be above the law or they just write whatever comes to their mind. Get a life CNN.

I was just going through one highly inaccurate assessment of Amanpour where she interviewed some American Historian claiming to be an expert in Indian history.

The fact is victory of Mr. Modi in India has put west especially America in a frenzy as Indian Economy is expected to grow faster and projected to get double in the next 5 years.

Amanpour's opinion can be best viewed under the lenses of American chauvenism where she would support and praise a corrupt regime in India as Indian corruption means prosperity for the western countries as money is sucked out of India by all bad means and poured/stashed in western banks.

Now Modi is in power and definitely all outflow of black money out of India (earned by Indian's hardwork) will stop flowing towards west; Much to Amanpour's dismay. The distorted projection of Modi as a fundamentalist is highly wrong and deplorable.

Modi is a growth oriented, pro-liberalism and industry-friendly person. Not only Indian economy but world economy is also going to witness a sea change in the years to come.

Better is American media projects correct account of events and personnel.

I wouldn't call Modi a wise choice. Perhaps one of desperation.

Time will show. I visited India – that's a great country with nice people (poor – it's a sad fact) and huge potential. I want to believe that Modi will be able to develop this potential.

I happened to see the program yesterday. It's a complete lie to hold Modi irresponsible for the massacre that took place. What needs to be noted that many Hindus were also killed during the riots. The precursor of the riots was the train carnage Hind men, women and children were burn alive in a train by a Muslim mob. I noticed how Dalrymple avoided the use of the word 'Hindus' burned in the train boggies. He just called them sevaks.

Isn't the plights of everyone equally important including Hindus.

A lot of Gujrat riot data was fudged by NGO's (the likes of Teesta Setalvad who extracted false witness reports through money) working for the opposition in India.  Moreover, Modi has been given a clean chit  by the Supreme Court of India.

This program/article is an insult to Indians who offered their overwhelming support to the leader of Indian democracy, Narendra Modi.

Biased journalism at its best.

Gujrat Riots are the only being singled out. Many people don't know or pretend to be unaware that many such riots have taken place over the years  (even in the very recent past in other Indian states). None of their leaders were asked to resign.

If that is the case, what about the 1984 anti-Sikh massacre in India caused by  the ruling Congress at that time, did any of their leaders resign even though those leaders were actually responsible for the killiings of Sikhs as against Modi who isn't.

Read reports about fudged data and how false testimonials were created by NGOs in India (Teesta Setalvad etc).

So first of all, United States Presidents are responsible for killing thousands and thousands of Muslims in Iraq and Afghanistan, so lets not talk about Modi killing a few of them which actually he did not, it was a riot between two religions started when one train was torched for no rhyme or reason.

Secondly Modi has won with a very large majority, which could not have happened if both Muslims and Hindus hadn't voted for him together, democracy has spoken overwhelmingly, Amanpour is not an Indian voter so I forgive her for her ignorant views.

Thirdly somewhere is America is scared of Putin, China & India, they know if India gets a strong leader, these 3 countries will be the major economic powerhouses far away from the American subcontinent, hence they do not want a strong leader  to ever come to power in India.

Lastly it is the Media-domestic & international, Britisheers andIndian political parties such as Congress, Samajwadi party that are playing or have played the divide and rule politics, Modi rose above these issues and spoke of development, hence we was elected, it goes against the views of the Media, they want news they want ruckus, they want substance to write about which they are clearly running out of.

I was just going through one highly inaccurate assessment of Amanpour where she interviewed some American Historian claiming to be an expert in Indian history.

The fact is victory of Mr. Modi in India has put west especially America in a frenzy as Indian Economy is expected to grow faster and projected to get double in the next 5 years.

Amanpour's opinion can be best viewed under the lenses of American chauvenism where she would support and praise a corrupt regime in India as Indian corruption means prosperity for the western countries as money is sucked out of India by all bad means and poured/stashed in western banks.

Now Modi is in power and definitely all outflow of black money out of India (earned by Indian's hardwork) will stop flowing towards west; Much to Amanpour's dismay. The distorted projection of Modi as a fundamentalist is highly wrong and deplorable.

Modi is a growth oriented, pro-liberalism and industry-friendly person. Not only Indian economy but world economy is also going to witness a sea change in the years to come.

Better is American media projects correct account of events and personnel.

Yes Modi is resembles Putin in many ways. It is good for country like India to have strong decisive leader like Modi.

I hope people reading this article also read the comments. If I was CNN and wanted to do Information Manipulation, I would be some wisdom to do it in a more subtle way. This is so openly stupid.

America gets jittery every time India or china become stronger.  They (through CNN) start gossip coloums and try their best to put them down any which way they can.  Pathetic!

Well, He is a strong leader or not.. time will tell. Point no. 2, he let people kill many muslims in GJ during the riots, this is wrong , and even if it did , what the heck, muslims have been killing people all around the world, cant we return them a favour. jokes aside, lets see what he can do for india, as of now no improvements other than congress party not being in power anymore.

All the best guys.

Why the hell these people are so worried about INDIA and MODI. Why they are putting there finger in our countries democracies.We INDIANS trusted muslims and they started ruling INDIA by killing Hindus and making there mosques.Again we feel pity to british and they did the same ruled India and finally divided INDIA into two.Friends again there attempt of divide the country in the name of religion.Hate for writer and historian William Dalrymple. William.William we understand very well the you are neither writer nor historian but you are assigned by US cheap pimp to write these kind of news and confuse people.If you are so worried about whole world muslims then call them in your country and let them settle down.Disgusting.

I am not justifying the same however, the background behind those riots must be debated / studied and discussed.

Burning ALIVE children/women and man in a train with well planned conspiracy BY MUSLIMS triggered this mad violence.

Nobody talks about this in media.

And, even India's Supreme Court's Special Investigation Team cleared Modi / Government's role in this riots.

In fact, government did whatever the best it could.

And the fact that NO RIOTS have been occurred in Gujarat post 2002 violence.

And, still media cannot project this +ve.

India had been invaded and damaged by immoral Britain. Modi should unite Asian justice powers to demand an apology and compensation (US$ 155 trillion) from immoral Britain for India's infrastructure and educational fees of children.

India is going to be best country in this world even American President request for Indian Visa in future. These cheap reporter beg for Indian citizenship. Jai Hind.

Modi is not Corruptive his mother still travels in a Auto Rickshaw though he is the Chief Minister for Gujurat. I don't know if you can compare with Putin in that respect. I think what some in west might fear is, Modi will also give sleepless nights to WEST like how Putin can give. I hope Modi will play a Positive role in world politics and will focus on domestic needs of Indians.

s on your valuable page. Without judging or studying any person you are making such fatal mistake. This way I feel you are not Fair in publishing News but have biased ideas in favor of someone pays your editors for such stories. If people of India accepted Narendra Modi as Prime Minister who are you to defame or criticized without study his performance ? I am totally disagree and condemn your this point or story.

Each country has certain and specific dynamics, challenges and need a rightful mind that can acknowledge and execute what is right.

Nevertheless, we don’t need visionary.

We need someone who can address the issues fast. It’s no rocket science to focus on Infrastructure, trade and for a change not talk about fiscal deficit etc. If Modi has turned the table upside down and pulled in the unthinkable for which there is no rule book, then I’m sure he can fix the issues which are well identified. Indeed time for change.

Also no comparison with Putin. Both are great leaders in there respective capacity.

Egypt is fully mummified.In India, only Tamil Nadu is mummi(amma)fied.But all the other places are already Modified!

I regret that I ever considered Christine as one of the best journalists. Poor research and very opinionated at least on this one. Now, this is an area that I'm very familiar with, I can clearly see that she did not do justice to her journalistic oaths. People like me, always depend on expert journalists to form their view of the world issues. I regret that I'm having to view her articles with some grain of salt.

Why do you ask someone like Darlymle? Ask an Indian!

CNN trying to put crack in INDIA. As USA govt mouth piece, they have got the order to do so. So they can make another Syria or Iraq or Ukraine in INDIA. SO Please stop fighting.

Amanpour- you are so disappointing! This kind of superficial reporting/analysis paints a very poor picture of the Americans. Please try to understand India. It would do good to you, CNN & America in general if you avoid silly expressions comprising indoctrinated lexicon of Indian TV anchors/commentators and debaters, whose minds are conditioned by their self interests! Good Luck next time, Dear Lady.

Amanpour is the staunchest defender of Islamic Jihadi Terrorism all over the world. She does this sitting in the safety offered by secular western democrcy. She would like to condemn non-muslims all over the world to Islamic terrorism and Islamofascist tyrany.

this whole 30% vote is such a miscommunication. BJP fought with allies and a large chunk of the seats were contested by the allies and BJP didnt have a candidate. Together they got around 40% votes which is in line wiht the number of seats .. again the reason why parties win only 40% and win more than 50% seats is that India is not a 2 party system and hence there is going to be a split in votes .. a vote 'for' a party is exactly that .. and not 'against' others .. In case of a 2 party system, it would have been a different story .. but let's save the hypothesis for another day.

1. Gujarat state government with Modi at the helm won more than 285 awards since 2004. 7 Prime Minister's awards, 82 by various central governmet schemes (which were under their arch enemy and now sore losers – Congress!), 172 from various national and international agencies.

2. In the national elections, his state Gujarat gave him 100% score – BJP won *ALL* 25 seats from where he was until now the Chief Minister!

Also, a lot of Narendra Modi's publicity was done by expatriates from other states who worked in Gujarat and told folks back home about all the good work he did there.

A little research will reveal that the educated middle-class has mostly sided with the BJP. The Congress' vote bank was always the uneducated poor people whom they kept fooling by throwing freebies(alms) instead of empowering them to stand on their own feet and educate them. It is also evident from all the election campaigning, which focused almost exclusively on the uneducated poor, and muslims (who mostly are a subset of the former). But invariably given the hopelessness of the central so-called 'leadership' and the state of the nation, and the huge contrast in Gujarat created a situation where it was almost like the people of India asked Modi to become the Prime MInister. Note the all time records of peoples' participation in the election this time. Note that the numbers beat the estimates of almost all exit polls.

So people are not taking a risk (barring an exception or two). They are happy, excited and confident that, "Acche Din Ayenge".

Fact – A muslim mob burned hindus returing from Ayodhya. They set fire to the bogey and burned real people to a slow torturous death. Most of them being women and children. Numbers from wikipedia- Total 59, women 25, children 15.

Fact – In almost spontaneous riots within a few hours, and which lasted 3 days.

Fact – Modi was questioned and grilled by special investigators. Factor in the fact that his arch enemy Congress was in rule at the center so obviously they must have tried every trick to book him. He was set scott free by the investigation team!

Fact about Ayodhya – A very old mosque was destroyed by RSS volunteers who had actually gathered for prayers there.

Fact – The courts had ruled that the mosque was actually built on the site of a temple. They muslim rulers then had actually used the pieces of the destroyed temple to build the mosque – basically rub it in.

And it was also heartening to see some backing for Modi from muslims in the comments above. Makes me all the more hopefull of a positive, united, progressive future with Modi's common-sense policies, decisions and actions.

The news anchor in the video says there is a lot of bigotry against Muslims in India. So there is no bigotry against Muslims in the US? USA is one of most Islamo-phobic countries.

First get your house in order and then you can talk about Muslim rights elsewhere in the world.

Real concern is not about the authoritarian tendencies in Mr Modi, but the backing of RSS to the present regime, which would try to implement its communal agenda through the central government policies, that would be detrimental to the social and economic interests of both political minorities(Dalits and Tribals) as well as religious minorities.

Modi will never be India's Putin. He cried like a wimp during the oath taking ceremony. Putin's the man.

1.You have to give a break to the man about gujrat riots. Supreme court of india has given him a clean chit in that matter.

2.He has to get 2/3 majority in Rajya sabha also. Bjp has 282 seats and it needs 362 seats to get 2/3 majority in lok sabha only, which is likely impossible.

Don't spreat panic in indians as they have finally got some hope.

The recently concluded election in India shows the maturity of Indian electorate in bringing the best candidate win despite our extraordinary size and consequent diversity based on every conceivable criteria. It is therefore important to understand about the individual who happened to bring this landslide victory by communicating to the electorates in the most effective and credible terms across the diverse section of communities across India. In this context, Larry's comment was insulting to the majority mandate of India.

I wish and hope Modi becomes India's PUTIN. This great country needs a dictator not another politician or a bureaucrat.

I'm 15 and unable to vote due to my age. I'm American born and moved to India later due to my parent's choice. If I were 18, Modi would have been my choice. He is a man that is promising growth; something I feel my origin country needs. We go on roads that are potholed, we see terrible malnutrition and child mortality and the Congress government has really not shown progress in such areas. Basic necessities in our modern world such as food, electricity and water is needed.

Modi's Gujarat has all this. They have great roads, great electricity and water supplies. He seems to be good for the country. I don't want to point fingers here but I am not very sure about Pakistan's treatment of Hindus. Moreover, accusing Modi of the Gujrat riots is unacceptable. There is no evidence so why do some thick people want to push the point? Blaming Modi is probably as bad as Clause 231 in the ToV. Sure, the comparison is outreached but is true; if you haven't done anything and are blamed for it, it isn't a very good action by the accuser.

I believe Modi can pull the country out of the situation it is in and put it back on the rails to becoming a respectable nation.

For the record, Amanpour is a muslim journalist from Iran and, sadly, like most non-indian muslims, would GUESS that Modi is to blame for Guj riots. They do not have any ground reality and always go by what other like minded English media reported of the event and conveniently ignore the FACT that Muslim mob FIRST attacked Hindu pilgrimages in a train in INDIA.

Dealing with Modi no gain whatsoever will Nawaz get. Modi has a track record of bad deeds, he has bad thoughts and also bad wordings in speech. All these traits make a person vulnar able to course of destiny which shows disaster for him and for his country and for his people. Dealing with such a person will lead Nawaz Sharif to the course of his destiny of disaster. This is a law of Nature sometimes we call MAKAFATeAmmal.

What every one who does not like a strong India wants, is a weak leader, who does not have any authority nor guts to say to his handlers!

So, yes, a dumb, paralysed Manmohan Singh is the benchmark!

What every one who does not like a strong India wants, is a weak leader, who does not have any authority nor guts to say boo to his handlers!

So, yes, a dumb, paralysed Manmohan Singh is the benchmark!

What every one who does not like a strong India wants, is a weak leader, who does not have any authority nor guts to say b00 to his handlers!

So, yes, a dumb, paralysed Manmohan Singh is the benchmark!

Someone should help CNN attain some of the more brighter profile pictures of Prime Minister Modi. The only ones they seem to get their hands on are the shadowed types (nice try at image manipulation CNN). Also, interesting how the US, a country that has killed the most number of Muslim women and children, either via occupation, drone attacks or turning a blind eye to their partners doing the butchering in the last 10 years or so, are using Modi and India as a scapegoat to paint to the world that the Americans actually do care about Muslims. Hilariously hypocritical.

And by the way, I wonder who are these "many Indians" that CNN has spoken to who are "worried" about Modi. As far as I know, it's the "many Indians" who voted and provided him with a landslide victory in the first place. And enough with the lazy cut and paste journalism already – have the decency to provide accurate news info to your reader base please. The sequence of events are as follows – 1) A peaceful train carriage filled with returning Hindu pilgrims was set alight by Muslims in a premeditated move to commit murder. 2) As a result of the killing of these innocent Hindu pilgrims, a riot broke out. 3) Of the 1,000 killed, about 300 were Hindus. 4) Modi played no part whatsoever in these riots, and was exonerated by the fiercely independent Indian courts.

Have the decency to at least provide news accurately CNN. Otherwise you're nothing more than a gutter tabloid news organization.

Nice try Saleem.  You are several others like you want Modi to fail, but it is unlikely to happen.

It is high time the West, US in particular, learnt to embrace democracy.  Not democracy they way it suits them.

Well Saleem,

1. You have thousands of butchers in the Muslim countries all over the world. You guys are worst of humanity. You stay in western countries and will applaud all Muslim terrorist attacks on western targets, even in your neighborhoods. Your faith blinds you to the atrocities committed by your fellow Muslims.

2. As for Sharon, at least he fought for his country and Israel stands. What did you and fellow Muslims did for the Palestinians? Arab dictators always use the Palestinian plight for domestic propaganda purposes when internal fissures arise.

typical minority talk...all nonsense without using even one grey cell! Get a life!

Who cares – time's running out for traitors like Saleem, with Modi as PM it's time to either shape up or ship out.

at the first i tell my harm solution and congratulation to swit men and ladies .

i be very gleeful for indian success election . afghanistan and india are two brothers which is never separate .

Larry, did you get to smell Mr. Modi ? Could you kindly elaborate.

Hello the gentleman or lady or both behind the name 'Larry'! Yes, you! Don't hide behind 'Larry'!

Well, I understand your frustration! But there is an easy way out of this. Please do not get your nose down and deeper. Get up man, see them eye-to-eye and you'll be alright! There is the saying that a Labrador thinks the master stinks and pees on his leg. Wise up man.

Dear Larry, Looks like some Indian around, took away your job. Wait and watch, we do next. We will rule the world, Matter of time, A by the way, Microsoft top guy, Coke Top Lady, Google, HP and many more are from our clan and we are growing.........Get ready to stand in Queue for a Visa to work in India Dude.....We are growing at 8 % and above....... for last 10 years plus.........More on the way....watch out.

Larry, You are nothing bur a racist. I don't you go around and smell people where you live. Wise up.

Well, on the other hand, it looks likek your progenitors smelled like whisky and bad pot that unfortunate night when – high and drunk – they accidentally conceived such a racist nazi.

Larry, Modi is the person who will take india to next level .

Before making any comment on publicly, you should have full knowledge about that topic .

But, Modi is the answer for all that .

I request you Larry to follow Indian politics closely and see the change that India will get transformed after 5 years.

Modi will revive India's economic and spiritual growth, which for many centuries  were looted by Mughals, Britishers and then some of our own leaders , who introduced caste and religion based politics rather than the development .

Modi has won  India's election because he gave the people the hope of transforming India .

Firstly stop looking at people through the eyes of religions. All human beings have 23 pair of chromosomes and one from one part of the planet can give blood and save a live on the other part of this planet. Look into India. People of same race but many religions. In ancient days, they could be all in the same religion but what has made them to embrace another religion especially those religions from Middle East? Before pointing fingers at others to blame them, ask yourself what have you done that drove them to go the other way.

Yes, we all Indians know the truth. Congress has been barking this editor for years and see where they are. Now it's turn of West, they know what Congress have told them. Grow up CNN, go to the route, face the truth.

But one thing is clear, for some reason the US is afraid of Modi for god knows what reasons.

Ignorance is bliss. People with scant knowledge of Indian culture make such remarks.

Modi and his party have referred to Hindutva and not Hinduism (though the concept of one Jealous God is alien to Hinduism itself).

Hindutva is  the way of life of the Indian people and the Indian culture or ethos as decided by the highest judicial body of India – the Supreme court.

People need to understand this fundamental difference before they call Modi a Hindu fascist.

All Indians have trusted him and shown faith in him. Indians will not rely on reports from US or any other foreign country to decide its leader.

I was only alluding to people who share Larry's mindset.

India's Muslim population is still the world's SECOND largest after that of Indonesia.

Very true. After reading all paragraphs, i just felt that the author or his country do feel jealous of Modi's victory in election. I just want to answer Larry in single word replacement. Replace "Putin" with "Lincon".

Only time will tell. But I'm sure he will be a strong leader. And if anything, America should look at itself before trying to cast doubt on Modi.

CNN welcomes a lively and courteous discussion as long as you follow the Rules of Conduct set forth in our Terms of Service . Comments are not pre-screened before they post. You agree that anything you post may be used, along with your name and profile picture, in accordance with our Privacy Policy and the license you have granted pursuant to our Terms of Service .
