
FORT WAINWRIGHT, Alaska - Soothing songs followed by a rainbow of colors swirled and swayed to the beat as performers displayed their talents at the Fort Wainwright Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month Observance hosted by the 2nd Engineer Brigade at the main post physical fitness center, May 9, 2014.

Soldiers enjoyed special performances from the local Chinese community and Mabuhay dance group and were invited to join in a dance that turned out to be a little more difficult than appeared to those who volunteered.

Following the performances, guest speaker, Lt. Col. Dennis Sarmiento, chief of behavioral health, spoke about obstacles he encountered and overcame while growing up and how it related to the “I am beyond” theme in this month’s observance.

“I was a minority in a predominantly Irish and Italian high school. Prior to that, I was one of four Asians in a predominantly African American and Hispanic middle school,” said Sarmiento. “My level of comfort was grounded in finding things in common with others, but this was not always easy.

“But with courage, I found a way to step beyond through personal initiative,” he added.

As he grew, he said his task and focus changed to that of service.

Sarmiento attended the United States Military Academy and became an Army officer where his task and focus to serve was fulfilled.

According to presidential proclamation, Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders have helped build, defend, and strengthen our Nation as farm workers and railroad laborers, as entrepreneurs and scientists, as artists, activists, and leaders of government. They have gone beyond, embodying the soaring aspirations of the American spirit.

Sarmiento talked about how he met and overcame his personal obstacles and asked those in attendance to reflect on their own personal difficulties and those that may be endured by those closest to them.

“I urge you to take the time to think about your limitations and ask yourself ‘How can I overcome these barriers and take that step beyond?’” said Sarmiento.

The ceremony concluded with gifts of appreciation for the participants and time for everyone to meet and talk with the performers.

America is comprised of a multitude of nationalities and though it may be impossible to recognize everyone’s contributions, hopefully, these observances allow people to feel a certain appreciation for all cultures.

This work, Fort Wainwright celebrates Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month observance, by SSG Patricia McMurphy , identified by DVIDS , is free of known copyright restrictions under U.S. copyright law.
