
SPY ON CHURCHES CALL: With teachers like Ridhuan Tee, Malays risk becoming a RACE OF RUFFIANS!

KUALA  LUMPUR — Controversial columnist Ridhuan Tee Abdullah today  suggested for Muslims to infiltrate churches in Malaysia to witness what  he alleged to be Christian condemnation against them.

Writing in support today of a seminar at a Shah Alam university that  questioned the divinity of Jesus Christ and the authenticity of the  Christian Gospels, Tee also claimed this was held as a response to the  alleged spread of Christianity in Malaysia.

He then urged Muslims to visit churches undercover to witness for  themselves the conde Save mnation he alleged was being aimed at them.

“I hope there are Muslims who can go enter churches in disguise to hear what is discussed,” Tee wrote in his Sinar Harian column today.

Earlier in his opinion piece, the senior lecturer with the National  Defence University defended a May 6 event held at the Universiti  Teknologi Mara (UiTM) that has antagonised Christian and other faith  groups with the claims made by speakers, arguing that it was academic in  nature.

Tee claimed that the criticism against the seminar was disproportionate  to that which followed his allegation of a priest’s alleged attack  against Islam in a church, which he claimed was made months prior.

“Unfortunately Muslims do not go to churches to see how they condemn  Muslims. We are accused of oppression and cruelty towards Christians,  with examples from ‘Malay cruelty in the ethnic cleansing of the Chinese  during the Japanese Occupation of 1942-1945’. The fact is far from the  point,” he wrote.

Multiple reports were lodged against the organisers of a closed-door  seminar on the use of the word “Allah” and Christology at Universiti  Teknologi Mara (UiTM) on May 6.

At the day-long seminar in its Shah Alam campus last week, UiTM had  invited several Indonesian Muslims, academics and converts, to lecture  on the use of the Arabic word for God, “Allah”, in the Malay archipelago  and their interpretation on the life of Jesus Christ, whom Christians  revere as God manifest on earth.

A speaker told the thousand-strong audience — which included former  prime minister Tun Abdullah Ahmad Badawi — that the New Testament  gospels, which recount the life of Jesus, were hearsay and falsehoods as  the prophet was only “a human slave to Allah” and not a divine being.

Another said that Christians should convert to Islam as they would be “betraying Jesus” and his principles otherwise.

The seminar also takes place against the backdrop of strained ties  between Muslims and Christians over the use of the Arabic word “Allah”.

Last year, the Court of Appeal overturned a lower court’s decision to  allow a Catholic newspaper to use the word. The appellate court ruled  that “Allah” was not an integral part of Christianity.

Komentar yang diutarakan melalui laman sosial ini adalah milik peribadi dan tanggungjawab pemilik akaun laman sosial ini. Malaysia Chronicle tidak bertanggungjawab diatas segala komentar yang disiarkan dibawah. Para komentar dinasihatkan bertanggungjawab dalam menulis dan elakkan komentar berbaur perkauman, seksis, serangan peribadi, lucah ataupun menghina.

Komentar yang berbentuk "drama bersiri", yakni salin & tampal artikel pihak ketiga secara bersiri ataupun komentar yang keluar tajuk juga ditegah dan akan dianggap sebagai penyalahgunaan kemudahan komentar ini.

Harap maklum bahawa anda perlu log-masuk melalui Facebook, Yahoo, MSN atau akaun sosial media yang disediakan untuk meninggalkan komentar. Juga maklum bahawa terpulang kepada jalur-lebar di kawasan-kawasan tertentu, komentar anda mungkin tidak akan disiarkan dengan serta-merta.
