
Beijing: Embroiled in territorial disputes with its neighbours and faced with internal conflicts in Xinjiang and Tibet, China today said finding political solutions is a better way to resolve the world's hotspot issues than flexing military might.

"Seeking political solutions is the right path to address the world's hotspot issues," Chinese President Xi Jinping said during a meeting with visiting UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon.

Ban is in China to attend the fourth summit of the Conference on Interaction and Confidence Building Measures in Asia (CICA) in Shanghai.

"Display of power and pressure and the use of external force are not acceptable," Xi said apparently referring to policy pursued by US and Western countries.

China also firmly opposes any interference in Tibet and Xinjiang where it is fighting separatist movements with their political leadership ensconced outside the country.

China is locked in a intractable territorial disputes with host of countries in the neighbourhood.

While it is locked in maritime dispute with Japan over East China Sea, its claims of sovereignty over South China Sea is strongly opposed by Vietnam, the Philippines, Malaysia and Brunei.

China also has a border dispute with India.

The Chinese president said the international community should adhere to political solutions in all conflicts, adding that the UN should "uphold the banner" in this regard.

Xi urged adherence to the goal of common development, calling on the UN to play its political and coordinating role.

The UN should formulate its post-2015 Development Agenda with poverty eradication as its core to achieve sustainable growth, he said.

"The UN should play a leading role in international affairs. Regarding the fight against terrorism, the UN should play a bigger role by promoting clear-cut criteria of right and wrong so as to advance the international community in battling terrorism," he said.

Xi also raised the issue of cyber security during the meeting.

"The UN should advocate rules, sovereignty and transparency in this regard and respect the concerns of different countries over information safety," he said, adding that China will firmly support the work of the UN in cyber security.

Ban said he appreciates China's firm commitment to multilateralism and the country's active participation in UN affairs. He said that facts had proved that China has been a strong partner with the UN.

The CICA summit, which will give a vigorous boost to the mutual trust and coordination among Asian countries, will effectively address security threats and challenges, the UN chief said.
