
The Indian director behind a contentious movie about missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 has defended his project against criticism, insisting the families of passengers will be unaffected and promising his storyline will not be exploitative.

Rupesh Paul said his film, Vanishing Act, which is currently being touted to investors at Cannes film festival , would work as a standalone thriller no matter how real-life events play out. The film-maker, whose previous movies include The Secret Diaries of Monalisa (2011) and The Temptation Between My Legs (2008), denied suggestions that the new film might take advantage of the story of flight MH370.

"Our movie is a thriller," Paul told the Hollywood Reporter. "It will not be based on stupid things. There will not be a [gun] and there will not be any aliens. The controversy [of the missing plane] will help indirectly, but we are not cashing in on the flight." The director, who is also pitching his film Kamasutra 3D, a stereoscopic take on the manual of erotica, at Cannes, said no one had complained about Vanishing Act.

"People do not want a documentary, they want a thriller," he added. "Why should I make a movie … that does not attract people?"

According to Paul's RPPL production company , the film is "the story of five young people, their plans on revenge and the resulting havoc they infuse on the world". It is described as being "inspired from events in real life".

Paul told the Hollywood Reporter his film had interest from companies in both Malaysia and China. Flight MH370 disappeared on 8 March en route from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing. There were 239 passengers and crew on board.

In March, the Australian disaster film Deep Water, about a plane that crashes in a remote part of the ocean en route to China was shelved following the disappearance of MH370. It was due to follow a group of passengers who survive after their plane from Australia to Beijing crashes. Producers said they were putting pre-production of the film on hold after the Malaysian Airlines went missing.

Our editors' picks for the day's top news and commentary delivered to your inbox each morning.
