
Share This Story!

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Press materials are displayed on a table of the Justice Department in Washington on  Monday before Attorney General Eric Holder was to speak at a news conference. Holder was announcing that a U.S. grand jury has charged five Chinese hackers with economic espionage and trade secret theft, the first-of-its-kind criminal charges against Chinese military officials in an international cyber-espionage case.

When he died in 2008, voice actor Don LaFontaine was celebrated among his peers as the uncontested "King of Movie Trailers."

With some 5,000 trailer voice-overs to his credit, he was renowned for his identification with the phrase "In a world …," delivered with a mellifluous, godlike and spooky authority that riveted theater audiences to coming attractions for one screen thriller after another.

Listen now. Can't you hear the King's voice — like rolling thunder — as he introduces not the newest Hollywood epic, but, of all things, the latest U.S. government salvo against global cyber espionage and intellectual property theft.

"In a world . . . without cyberdiplomacy, the earnest men and women of the United States Department of Justice are filing charges against five Chinese military officers for hacking into the computers of Westinghouse, U.S. Steel, SolarWorld, Allegheny Technologies, Alcoa and the United Steel Workers Union." Mellifluous, godlike, spooky.

On Feb. 19, 2013, computer-security company Mandiant released a bombshell report detailing how a group of Shanghai-based hackers known as the "Comment Crew," dating back to at least 2006, stole many terabytes of data from some 141 blue chip firms and organizations worldwide, 115 U.S. targets among them.

These thefts occurred in at least 20 industries, including those "that match industries China has identified as strategic to [its] growth." The federal charges,announced today are clearly related to this Comment Crew group, officially Unit 61398 of the Third Department of the Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA). The five specifically named defendants ("among others known and unknown to the grand jury") are all commissioned PLA officers in this unit. Thirty-one counts are charged against them, including conspiring to commit computer fraud and abuse, accessing a protected computer without authorization to obtain information for the purpose of commercial advantage and private financial gain, "transmitting a program … with the intent to cause damage to protected computers," aggravated identity theft, economic espionage, and trade secret theft. Together, the counts carry a maximum penalty of 207 years in prison.

The DoJ press release accurately touts the indictment as the "First Time Criminal Charges Are Filed Against Known State Actors for Hacking." Historic? Without doubt. Futile? Almost certainly. Feckless? Quite possibly.

Brought in a federal civilian criminal context against soldiers of the official state military of a recognized foreign power, the case is not likely to gain standing in an international court, and there is little that can be done by a federal court to compel extradition of the defendants as individuals or to force PLA commanders to reveal what orders they gave or did not give to those defendants.

About the kindest word we can use to describe this approach to curbing international cyber espionage and cybercrime is "quaint."  It is the same word well suited to most of our attempts to apply analog law to a digital world, as when (for example) cops and courts struggle with how the Fourth Amendment provision against "unreasonable searches and seizures," written at a time when everything of probative value was physical, applies in cyberspace, the very antithesis of the physical world.

Nevertheless, the federal charges against five Chinese military officers have value. It does not, however, lie in the revelation that the Chinese government is spying on American private industry and, presumably working hand-in-glove with Chinese companies, is stealing intellectual property created by American industry.

We already knew that. Nor does the value of the federal charges depend on the reaction the charges will provoke from China, which (we already know) will consist of denials coupled with counter-charges that the National Security Agency is spying on China. Of course, we already know that the denials are false and the counter-charges are true.

No. The real value of the DOJ case against the Chinese soldiers is the vivid picture it promises to paint of life and commerce and coexistence "in a world without cyberdiplomacy."

Cyber espionage, cybercrime, and cyberwar transcend boundaries of every kind, physical and national. These areas cannot, therefore, be dealt with meaningfully, let alone effectively, through domestic law alone. They are not simple transgressions individuals commit against other individuals or against corporations or even against governments.

They are ultimately geopolitical acts, and they are rooted in the relations between governments. In short, cyber espionage, cybercrime, and cyberwar properly occupy the domain of diplomacy — or, rather, diplomacy that is intelligently and realistically modernized for effectiveness in a world that now lives as much in cyberspace as it does in physical space. Such diplomacy is cyberdiplomacy, a concept and a discipline urgently needed now-but that is only just now emerging, barely.

But let's not giggle at the DOJ.

Instead, let's hope this case against "Wang Dong, Sun Kailiang, Wen Xinyu, Huang Zhenyu, and Gu Chunhui, who were officers in Unit 61398 of the Third Department of the Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA)," is only the first of many — each of which will inevitably demonstrate both the urgent necessity of dealing with high-value international activity in cyberspace and the urgent absurdity of trying to deal with it using diplomatic concepts, legal theories, and laws based on realities far more relevant to the age of Confucius than to the age of the Internet.

Cybersecurity expert Siobhan MacDermott is co-author of Wide Open Privacy: Strategies For The Digital Life.
