
HUMAN rights outrages in distant countries are not always ignored, as the impassioned response to the kidnap of Nigerian schoolgirls and the threatened execution of a young mother demonstrates.

The story of Meriam Yehya Ibrahim and her 20-month-old son Martin astonished people around the world. Politicians, campaigners and a small army of men and women are determined she will not become a victim of state-sanctioned murder.

Wrexham MP and Shadow Minister for Africa Ian Lucas contacted his opposite number in the Foreign Office, Baroness Warsi, when he heard the reports this Sudanese mother had been sentenced to hanging for “apostasy” and 100 lashes for adultery.

Meriam was given three days to abandon Christianity or face death. Mr Lucas’ own description of the court’s ruling reveals the monstrous twisting of any concept of justice or compassion in this case.

Twenty-seven-year-old Meriam was charged with adultery because her husband is Christian and – as her father is Muslim – she is counted as Muslim and such a marriage is deemed to constitute adultery.

Many Muslims across Wales and the world will be holding their head in their hands in dismay as extremists dishonour their faith. Meriam’s plight has come to light at the same time that Boko Haram – whose name translates as “Western education is a sin” – are holding scores of Nigerian schoolgirls hostage.

Rightly, Welsh politicians have taken to social media to call for the girls to go home. It may seem a tiny gesture but it is a recognition of our common humanity – a concept terrorists do not understand.

A particularly horrifying aspect of Meriam’s case is that on this occasion a country’s judiciary has become a tool of intolerance and cruelty. According to Amnesty International, there are no reports of anyone being killed under the 1991 criminal code because people have “had their charges dropped or convictions overturned after renouncing alternative religions and following Islam”.

Meriam has refused to buckle under the threat of execution. She will not want to join the ranks of her faith’s martyrs but for people of all creeds she is already an icon of liberty. This story does not have to end in tragedy. This is the time for Sudan to swerve away from barbarism.

Such persecution threatens to uproot ancient faith communities and eradicate the religious pluralism that has long defined much of North Africa and the Middle East. Nominally Christian and Muslim mobs have slaughtered one another in the Central African Republic, and the breakaway of majority Christian South Sudan appears to have fed religious antagonism.

It is ironic that Iraq and Afghanistan, two countries that the West invaded with the partial aim of boosting human rights, are fourth and fifth respectively in a ranking of states with the most severe persecution of Christians compiled by the charity Open Doors.

At the start of the 1990s there were an estimated 1.2 million Christians in Iraq compared with approxi-mately 330,000 today. Similarly, in Syria that share of the population has plummeted from around 30% of the population to around 10%.

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

Join us on social media.

For the latest local news straight to your Twitter, Facebook feed, e-mail inbox or tablet .

WalesOnline.co.uk conforms to the newspaper industry's voluntary Code of Practice, administered by the Press Complaints Commission.

If you feel we have made an error in a report, or have fallen below our usual high standards, please write in the first instance to: Ceri Gould, Online Editor, WalesOnline.co.uk, Media Wales, Six Park Street, Cardiff CF10 1XR. Tel: 029 2024 3672.

We reach over 1,384,563* unique users a month with dedicated coverage of all things Welsh.

WalesOnline is part of Media Wales, publisher of the Western Mail, South Wales Echo, Wales on Sunday and the seven Celtic weekly titles, offering you unique access to our audience across Wales online and in print.

Ceri has been editor of WalesOnline since April 2012. She was previously executive editor of Media Wales and deputy editor of the Western Mail. She started her career on the Glamorgan Gazette.
