
Sergei Porter / VedomostiPresident Vladimir Putin during a working visit to Beijing in 2009.

Amid a bitter crisis in relations with the West over Ukraine, Russia's President Vladimir Putin is moving to bolster ties with China.

Russia sees relations with China as a top priority and their ties now are the best ever, Putin said in an interview with the Chinese media released by the Kremlin Monday, a day before his trip to Shanghai.

He said that a deal on Russian natural gas exports to China is close to be signed, adding that it would allow Russia to diversify its export routes and let China meet its growing demand for energy.

Russia, which sends the bulk of its gas exports to Europe, has sought to develop an alternative export link to China, but the two nations have been locked for years in difficult talks over price.

Moscow sped up work on the contract amid the Ukrainian crisis, as the U.S. and the European Union have slapped travel bans and asset freezes on members of Putin's entourage over Russia's annexation of Crimea and threatened to impose even harsher sanctions that would target entire sectors of the Russian economy.

"In the context of the turbulent global economy, the strengthening of mutually beneficial trade and economic ties, as well as the increase of investment flows between Russia and China, are of paramount importance," Putin said.

The two countries developed what they dub a "strategic partnership" after the 1991 Soviet collapse, including close political, economic and military ties in a shared aspiration to counter U.S. domination.

Russia has supplied sophisticated weapons to China, and the neighbors have conducted joint military drills. But many in Russia have felt increasingly uneasy about their powerful neighbor, fearing that Russia's population decline and a relative weakness of its conventional forces compared to China's military could one day tempt Beijing to grab land.

But seeking to offset Western pressure, Putin signaled Russia's intention to expand ties in the areas it had been wary to develop in the past.

He said that Russia would welcome more Chinese investments, in particular in a free trade zone currently being established in the far eastern port of Vladivostok.

"Obviously, we are interested in Chinese businessmen making use of these opportunities and become one of the leaders here, since both Russia and China will benefit from an accelerated development of the Russian Far East," he said.

Any comment deemed non-constructive, personal attacks, spam and abuse will not be tolerated and will lead to you being banned from our website.

Russia's Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said Monday Russia had told Ukraine it intends to send another humanitarian aid convoy.

Chechen leader Ramzan Kadyrov has been inducted into Russia's biggest black-leather clad biker gang, the 'Night Wolves.'

Russian diplomats say they have been excluded from an upcoming summit of NATO member countries in Wales, Kommersant reported Monday, citing an unidentified diplomatic source.

Russia's space agency, Roscosmos, has launched an independent investigation into the cause of Friday's botched launch of two brand-new European navigation satellites aboard a Soyuz rocket.

A fiscal rule that prevents Russia from raising government spending reflects "old realities" and should be relaxed, Russian Economic Development Minister Alexei Ulyukayev said in an article published Monday.

Tsars, revolutions, two World Wars and the Soviet Union — if you're interested in Russia's rich history, these are the websites to explore.

Residents of Moscow's Taganka district woke up Wednesday morning to find a Ukrainian flag attached to the Soviet star on the spire of one of the area's iconic Stalin buildings.

Hollywood star Vin Diesel has challenged Russian President Vladimir Putin to pour a bucket of ice cubes over his head, as part of a global action to raise awareness for a degenerative motor neuron disease.

Two brides wed in Moscow earlier this month, with teeth-grinding authorities unable to prevent it despite a ban on same-sex marriage — because one of the brides was a man.

A children's fashion show in Moscow triggered outrage among bloggers after the show, titled "Children of the World Against War," depicted a child dressed up as Ukraine holding a gun to her head.
