
China’s real estate market is in a catch-22 predicament.  When the market is too hot, as it has been for over seven years now, the Chinese government is forced to throw buckets of cold water on it through various policy measures available to it. Then developers feel the pinch. And the economy slows because lower demand for new property means less demand for copper and cement. Investors get bearish. But when the real estate market is too strong, investors get nervous because in a post-2008 world, no one likes a housing bubble.

So it is no surprise that on Monday Chinese stocks underperformed the MSCI Emerging Markets Index with the iShares FTSE China (FXI) exchange traded fund down 0.64% and the benchmark index up 0.05%.  China even underperformed Russia, a market mired in controversy because of Ukraine.

Hangzhou, the provincial capital of East China’s Zhejiang province, saw the biggest price drop of 0.7 of a percent from the previous month.

Speaking to China Daily on Monday, Huang Jinlao, vice-president of Huaxia Bank, said the current decline is market-driven rather than policy-led. In addition to a boost in the government’s subsidized housing and the oversupply in some smaller cities, banks have been pressured by Beijing to reduce the number of new mortgages to home buyers.

The latest Chinese macro data for April indicate a further economic deceleration in the second quarter. And the country could see the slowest annual rate of growth since 1990, according to Fitch Ratings.

The real estate market in China has been a mixed bag.  Developer stocks have not tracked each other at all, with billionaire Li Ka-Shing’s Cheung Kong real estate (HKG:0001) holding company up 9.1% so far this year.  Ka-Shing’s other real estate investment asset, Hutchison Whampoa Ltd (HKG:0013), which also invests in the energy, infrastructure and telecom business, is down 1.24% year-to-date.  Meanwhile, Hong Kong based Hopson Development (HKG:0754) is down over 24%.

China’s real estate has investors at odds with themselves. A hot real estate market might not be as good for China’s broad stock market index as one might think. Then again, a weaker real estate market is proving not to be either.
