
New Zealand’s Catholic Church plans to use a new documentary to encourage Catholic gays and lesbians to not act on their feelings, telling them to love God instead.

New Zealand Bishops Conference secretary Bishop Patrick Dunn told the Catholic News Agency that he planned to use The Third Way documentary to minister to Catholics who are attracted to people of the same-sex.

‘The initial response has been overwhelmingly positive, especially for such a controversial topic,’ Dunn said.

Dunn has said that he intends to consult with gay Catholics before rolling the documentary out.

The 38 minute film features Catholics with same-sex attraction alongside commentary from Catholic speakers including Sister Helena Burns and Chris Stefanick.

Father John Hollowell, a priest of the Archdiocese of Indianapolis, was the film’s executive producer and it was directed by Catholic filmmaker John-Andrew O’Rourke.

The film tries to counter the message that the Catholic Church is anti-gay, claiming it holds them to the same standard as unmarried heterosexuals in asking them to remain celibate.

The film features interviews with a range of gay Catholics who renounced having physical relationships to reconcile their faith and their sexual orientation.

ADA, Mich., Aug. 17 /PRNewswire/ ARTISTRY skin care and cosmetics, an Amway Worldwide energy brand, announced right now the launch of a web-based contest with all the Miss America Organization known as "Shop New York City with ARTISTRY and Miss America." ARTISTRY, the official skin care and cosmetics provider on the Miss America Pageant, is supplying the likelihood to win a shopping spree in New York City with Miss America 2010 Caressa Cameron, too as other weekly prizes.

The grand prize is really a 3 day, two night New York City purchasing spree with Miss America on September 30. consists of round trip plane tickets to New York City for the winner and a single friend, in conjunction with the following: $100 gift cards to DSW as well as a private after hours buying practical experience with Miss America in the Union Square DSW retailer $500 Visa present cards to become employed throughout the buying spree$250 gift cards for foodGift bags from ARTISTRY with product valued at greater than $200 Weekly drawings to get a $50 present card to DSW or possibly a gift bag from ARTISTRY valued at more than $100 will also be awarded.

On the net entry forms are obtainable Hairpin in the ARTISTRY Skin Care and Cosmetics Facebook web page between now and September 1. Entrants can "like" the ARTISTRY Facebook page and full the online entry types to get a chance to win. Participants have to be 18 years or older to register. Only one particular entry is allowed per Facebook account.

ARTISTRY is often a international leader in prestige beauty, providing unprecedented skin care options backed by dermatologist testing, by far the most advanced science, unparalleled proof of functionality, and personalized service unmatched by any beauty counter on the planet. ARTISTRY generates more than $1 billion in annual international sales and has been one of the world's top 5 very best promoting prestige beauty brands for greater than ten years.

Primarily based in Ada, Mich., Amway Worldwide is component in the Alticor group of corporations, founded by the DeVos and Van Andel households. Alticor will be the parent enterprise of Amway butterfly watch Corporation, Access Organization Group LLC and Alticor Corporate Enterprises. The business gives customer goods and organization opportunities, also as item improvement, manufacturing and logistics services in more than 80 nations and territories worldwide. The organization reported annual sales of $8.four billion for the year ending December 31, 2009.

"The film tries to counter the message that the Catholic Church is anti-gay, claiming it holds them to the same standard as unmarried heterosexuals in asking them to remain celibate."

This claim is a false one.  Most unmarried heterosexuals would have the option of marrying in the Catholic Church.  LGBTI people do not have this option, despite the fact that same-sex marriages are now recognized by New Zealand law.  This is, therefore, not the same standard for all.  It is, therefore, not equality.

Anytime that I love my partner and my friend, I AM loving the ever-living Christ.

This is the heart of Christ's message:  Jesus said, when you love the ex-felon among you, you love me.

If you miss this message, then you missed the Christ.

Gay Star News Ltd is a company registered in England and Wales (7719609).

Registered office: Unit 2 Cedar Court, 1 Royal Oak Yard, London, SE1 3GA, UK. See full contact details.
