
DUBLIN, May 19, 2014 ( LifeSiteNews.com ) – Pro-life advocates in Ireland have denounced a statement for voters by the Irish Catholic Bishops’ Conference as “insipid” and out of touch with reality for omitting any mention of the country’s pressing moral issues on the family and human life.

This omission is all the more shocking since the passage of Ireland’s recent bill legalizing direct abortion for the first time in the country’s history, and the increasing pressure to redefine marriage.

“Like the rest of Europe, there is an ongoing struggle in Ireland surrounding each of these non-negotiable issues. There is no recognition that abortion in the Republic was legalized last year and that marriage and the family are under continual attack,” he said.

“It doesn’t seem to matter how bad things get, the penny just doesn’t seem to drop,” he added.

Listed among the primary concerns for voters are “the pressing issues of youth employment and unemployment, social protection, income and working conditions,” which “have a major impact on family life.” The document said that the EU’s social and economic policy “needs to ensure that growth is balanced with environmental sustainability to ensure fair distribution of the earth’s resources,” as well as “fairness, equality, and social justice” in the EU’s dealings with developing nations.

“The plight of those migrants who have lost their lives in recent months while attempting perilous journeys to Europe by sea is a stark reminder of the extremes of inequality we continue to tolerate in our world,” it says.

“Indeed, the Christian vision of the dignity of the human person is one in which the European Union finds its values reflected and supported,” it states.

SPUC’s Dublin representative, Pat Buckley, told LifeSiteNews that the anonymous voters guide stands in stark contrast with a letter by the Bishop of Down and Connor in Northern Ireland, Noel Treanor, who strongly highlighted the priority of opposing abortion and other direct attacks on human lives.

“With other issues, however, such as the right to life of every innocent person from conception to natural death, the values at stake are so fundamental that they can never be undermined,” he said.

“Hopefully, voters in the Republic will get the opportunity to hear what he said on the right to life and the defense of the family based upon authentic marriage,” Gibson said.

Truth. Delivered daily.

Free the Children employee Michael Lorsch begins a striptease at a Boylesque event.

A manager at the popular Canadian charity Free the Children who helped run the organization’s We Day events, spoke frequently at schools, and led youth trips overseas has resigned after LifeSiteNews reported he was moonlighting as a gay stripper.

"A series of half-truths, falsehoods, and misleading statements were published on one specific web site about my activist work with Boylesque T.O."

“I am resigning for the betterment of the work the organization does and the youth our organization might reach,” he writes.

“A series of half-truths, falsehoods, and misleading statements were published on one specific web site about my activist work with Boylesque T.O, and the educational activities I have done with the focus of inclusion and equity. The activities of this web site were clearly intended to damage my reputation and undermine my character,” he continues.

“I am proud of my accomplishments at Free the Children. I believe that the continued coverage of my work with Boylesque T.O would be a distraction and undermine the work Free the Children does,” the letter concludes.

LifeSiteNews asked Lorsch to explain what he meant in referring to "half-truths, falsehoods, and misleading statements" in LifeSiteNews’ original report , but he did not respond.

In the managerial position, Mr. Lorsch directed Free the Children’s programs aimed at forming children into future social justice leaders. The job put him in direct contact with thousands of school-aged children across Canada. He helped run formation camps and led children on trips to overseas destinations.

“It’s a good thing that this X-rated sex show performer won’t be going into our schools anymore and having contact with impressionable children. A lot of parents will breathe a sigh of relief,” Jack Fonseca of Campaign Life Coalition told LifeSiteNews.

Free the Children, founded in 1995 by Catholic brothers Marc and Craig Kielburger, aims at activating young people to fight poverty and injustice in developing nations. Their initiatives include the popular “We Day” that rallies thousands of teens from both Catholic and public schools across Canada at emotionally-charged events with world-leading speakers.

The Kielburgers have been criticized over the years for their waffling views on abortion, for providing contraceptives in overseas health clinics, and for championing “family planning.” So far, however, none of Ontario’s Catholic school boards have dropped their partnerships with the controversial charity.

“What is behind this organization that they were so reluctant to let go this questionable employee? What this indicates is that the whole organization is flawed,” she told LifeSiteNews.

Fonseca agrees with Landolt. “Mr. Lorsch resigned of his own accord rather than being shown the door by Free the Children. One is left to wonder if the charity would have allowed Mickey D Liscious to continue as their representative? This scenario would mean that Free the Children doesn’t see anything wrong with sending sex show performers into schools to work with children. Parents still need to be worried about the judgement of those who lead this charity,” he told LifeSiteNews.

Andy Pocrnic, who heads Concerned Catholic Parents of Ottawa, said, "Although it's welcome news that Mr. Lorsch has resigned, Free the Children is still on record saying that being a stripper in one's private life doesn't disqualify one from positions that put them in contact with children. If that's still the case, and we have no reason to believe it isn't, the incompatibility of this charity partnering with any Catholic school board becomes very clear to anyone interested in the well-being of our children."

Fonseca said that the average parent would not be happy to learn their child in school was spending time with a performer of a “lewd” sex show. “It’s not the sort of influence parents want around their kids,” he said, adding that the charity’s defense of their employee should give Catholic schools across Canada plenty of reason to stop sending students to “Me to We” events.

It is with sadness that I am resigning from the Free the Children team. The work I have been able to do with the organization is very close to my heart. And it is hard for me to imagine that it is coming to an end. With that being said, I am resigning for the betterment of the work the organization does and the youth our organization might reach.

For over two years I was a dedicated member of the Free the Children team. The organization and I both believe in the power young people have to change the world. It is because of that belief, as well as my care and concern for schools, educators, and the youth they serve that I have decided to move on at this time.

A series of half-truths, falsehoods, and misleading statements were published on one specific web site about my activist work with Boylesque T.O, and the educational activities I have done with the focus of inclusion and equity. The activities of this web site were clearly intended to damage my reputation and undermine my character.

I am proud of my accomplishments at Free the Children. I believe that the continued coverage of my work with Boylesque T.O would be a distraction and undermine the work Free the Children does.

Louisiana HB 388 , the Unsafe Abortion Protection Act, requires that abortionists maintain admitting privileges at local hospitals in order to ensure continuity of care in the event of major complications.

All three clinics are suing to block enforcement of the law, claiming that if they – along with the other two facilities in the state, Women’s Health Care Center in New Orleans and Delta Clinic in Baton Rouge – are forced to shut down, abortion will be unavailable in Louisiana, forcing women to travel out of state for the procedure.  That, the abortionists argue, would present an “unconstitutional” obstacle to Louisiana women’s “right” to have abortions.

The three abortion centers suing to block the new law have previously displayed appalling disregard for client safety.  Hope Medical Group for Women has been cited 13 times since 2004 for health and safety violations, including failure to give women physical exams prior to abortions, improper administration of anesthesia, and failure to monitor their clients’ vital signs.  The facility was even temporarily shut down in 2010 after investigators declared it “an immediate threat” to public health.

The two clinics not participating in the lawsuit have similarly spotty safety records.  Delta Clinic in Baton Rouge is particularly infamous for its history of botched abortions and its strong ties to the “House of Horrors” abortion facility in West Philadelphia where late-term abortionist Kermit Gosnell brutally slaughtered nearly full-term babies born alive after botched procedures. Meanwhile, Women’s Health Care Center of New Orleans has been cited a dozen times in the past ten years for health and safety violations, including failing to report abortions as required by law, failure to provide informed consent, shoddy record-keeping, and failure to inspect equipment annually.

Additionally, both the Causeway and Delta facilities were cited in 2011 for failing to report sexual abuse of children.

Given the track record of all five facilities, it is perhaps unsurprising that hospitals have been reluctant to extend admitting privileges to their abortionists.  But the lawsuit claims that the abortionists simply weren’t given enough time to gain admitting privileges – an excuse the law’s supporters aren’t buying.

“[T]he writing was clearly on the wall throughout May that the law would pass and be signed into law by Gov. [Bobby] Jindal,” Clapper said.  He also noted that the amount of time between the bill’s signing and its implementation was similar to the amount of time involved when neighboring Texas passed and enacted a similar law.

Texas’ law was challenged on similar grounds to the current lawsuit against HB 388, but in March, a three-judge panel of the 5th Circuit Court of Appeals unanimously upheld its constitutionality.  However, in July, a different 5th Circuit panel ruled against a similar law in Mississippi in a split decision.  Both cases are possible contenders for an ultimate judgment by the U.S. Supreme Court.

Meanwhile, in Louisiana, Clapper said he was optimistic that the abortionists’ challenge to the new safety regulations there would ultimately be unsuccessful.

He is known as “The Father of the Sexual Revolution,” and if you’ve ever taken a university course on 20th century history, you’ll have heard his name: Alfred Kinsey.

Kinsey was not only the “father” of the Sexual Revolution, he set the stage for the massive social and cultural upheaval of the ‘60s, ‘70s and ‘80s with his 1948 Sexual Behavior in the Human Male and his 1953 Sexual Behavior in the Human Female.

These books revealed to a shocked and somewhat titillated population things they had never known about themselves: That between 30-45% of men had affairs, 85% of men had had sex prior to marriage, that a staggering 70% of men had slept with prostitutes, and that between 10 and 37% of men had engaged in homosexual behavior.

Much less talked about were his other disturbing “findings”—an in-depth study on the “sexual behavior” of children, as well as claims that nearly 10% of men had performed sex acts with animals (as well as 3.6% of women), and that this number rose to between 40-50% based on proximity to farms.

Kinsey’s research portrayed people as amoral and sex-driven, and is credited as fundamentally changing the way our culture views sex.

To begin with, the integrity of much of his work has long since been called into question: among his questionable practices, Kinsey encouraged those he was working with to engage in all types of sexual activity as a form of research, misrepresented single people as married, and hugely over represented incarcerated sex criminals and prostitutes in his data.

But beyond this is the simple fact that Kinsey himself was a pervert and a sex criminal.

Kinsey solicited and encouraged pedophiles, at home and abroad, to sexually violate from 317 to 2,035 infants and children for his alleged data on normal “child sexuality.” Many of the crimes against children (oral and anal sodomy, genital intercourse and manual abuse) committed for Kinsey’s research are quantified in his own graphs and charts.

For example, “Table 34” on page 180 of Kinsey’s “Sexual Behavior in the Human Male” claims to be a “scientific” record of “multiple orgasm in pre-adolescent males.” Here, infants as young as five months were timed with a stopwatch for “orgasm” by Kinsey’s “technically trained” aides, with one four-year-old tested 24 consecutive hours for an alleged 26 “orgasms.” Sex educators, pedophiles and their advocates commonly quote these child “data” to prove children’s need for homosexual, heterosexual and bisexual satisfaction via “safe-sex” education. These data are also regularly used to “prove” children are sexual from birth.

The man heralded with enthusiasm by mainstream publications such as Time and Life Magazine was nothing less than a monstrous facilitator of child-rape. In fact, he even went so far as to record children shrieking and thrashing in pain, passing out and convulsing as the result of the hellish abuse he was putting them through, as evidence of “orgasm”—especially for children who could not yet speak.

Got that? The Father of the Sexual Revolution was a sado-masochistic bi-sexual sex criminal who facilitated the sexual torture of infants and children. His goal was not just to engage in scientific research in order to see where the data took him, but rather, as one of his prominent biographers Michael Jones notes, to launch a crusade to undermine traditional sexual morality. He did so to wild success—Kinsey’s influence on sex education and law in the Western world is absolutely staggering.

It is crucially important that people become aware of the truth behind the Kinsey Reports.

Today’s pornified sex educators, legal experts, academics, and more disturbingly, pedophile groups such as NAMBLA pushing “inter-generational intimacy,” all use Kinsey’s work to justify their agendas and lend their causes scientific credibility.

Most people have no idea who Alfred Kinsey really was and how his so-called research was actually performed. I myself first heard of Alfred Kinsey in the first year of my history degree at university, where my professor announced that there “was no Sexual Revolution at all”—because the Kinsey Reports proved that people had been engaging in all sorts of bizarre and criminal sexual behaviors all along.
