
Workers hold banners during a protest in an industrial zone in Binh Duong province, Vietnam. China has now sent five ships to rescue their nationals as the Vietnamese authorities are clamping down on the protests. ― Reuters pic BEIJING, May 19 ― China is sending five ships to Vietnam to evacuate its citizens as Vietnamese authorities thwarted anti-China protests after violent demonstrations resulted in two deaths and damage at factories.

More than 3,000 Chinese nationals had been brought home as of May 17, the Foreign Ministry said yesterday, with more than 290 flown to Chengdu.

Security forces in Vietnam’s major cities deterred people from protesting the placement of an oil rig in disputed waters off Vietnam’s coast after the government allowed unprecedented rallies that drew several thousand people on May 11. The anti- China attacks on foreign-owned factories last week also left about 140 injured, halting production lines and causing Taiwanese and other workers to flee the country.

Vietnam authorities, worried that uncontrolled demonstrations could lead to instability and harm the economy, prevented planned protests over the weekend as China sought to shift the spotlight to Vietnam’s lack of order, said Le Hong Hiep, a lecturer at Vietnam National University in Ho Chi Minh City.

Some Chinese travel agencies have suspended Vietnam tour services after the protests, the official Xinhua News Agency reported, with Ctrip.com advising customers against Vietnam trips and refunding customers who have already booked tours.

Taiwan’s foreign minister is urging Vietnam to compensate companies that were attacked. China called on Vietnam to protect the lives and property of Chinese nationals and organizations in the country.

A total of 224 Taiwanese companies were damaged in the protests, with 18 set on fire, according to Taiwan’s Ministry of Economic Affairs. Airlines arranged 1,682 seats to fly passengers out of Vietnam today, with a further 1,823 tomorrow, Taiwan’s Civil Aeronautics Administration said yesterday in a statement.

Three hundred protesters will soon be prosecuted, Vietnamese authorities said May 18. Protesters damaged the foreign-owned factories during violent demonstrations in the southern province of Binh Duong and in central Vietnam.

Riot police are patrolling the Vietnam Singapore Industrial Park in Binh Duong province, where protesters attacked factories. Hundreds of security forces barricaded and guarded areas around China’s embassy in Hanoi and consulate in Ho Chi Minh City yesterday. As many as 100 people were surrounded by security after attempting to protest in Ho Chi Minh City, said Truong Thi Nguyen Thao, 23. The group’s leaders were taken away, said Thao, who witnessed the aborted demonstration.

The Binh Duong government will exempt protest-damaged companies from land rental charges, Vietnam’s official state television reported yesterday, citing Le Thanh Cung, chairman of the provincial People’s Committee.

The resumption of operations by companies including Formosa Chemicals & Fibre Corp. and China Steel Corp. have eased some fears that the riots would crimp global supply chains and hurt the Southeast Asian nation’s economic growth.

The country’s benchmark VN Index slipped 0.5 per cent as of 9:34 am local time today. The index has dropped about 13 per cent from this year’s peak on March 24.

“The concern about Chinese nationals is quite localized,” said Ben Reichel, executive director of Australian-listed Donaco International Ltd., when asked about evacuations of Chinese from Vietnam.

Donaco operates a hotel and casino in the Vietnamese town of Lao Cai, on the border with China, and yesterday announced a soft opening for an expansion. Almost all of the casino’s clients are Chinese, according to Reichel.

The standoff in the South China Sea near the oil rig continues, with Chinese and Vietnamese boats in the area and Vietnam demanding that China withdraw the rig.
