
BEIJING--China has used diplomatic channels to warn North Korea against conducting a fourth nuclear test, multiple China-based diplomatic sources told Reuters, after the reclusive state renewed its threat of "counter-measures" against perceived U.S. hostility.

North Korea, which regularly threatens South Korea and the United States with destruction, is already under heavy sanctions imposed by several U.N. resolutions beginning in 2006 but has defied pressure to abandon its missile and nuclear programs.

It last conducted a nuclear test in February 2013.

"China has told North Korea that there is no justification for a new nuclear test and that they should not do it," said a Western diplomat who was briefed by Chinese officials.

The sources said China had used diplomatic channels in Beijing and Pyongyang to convey its anxiety about the possibility of a fourth test to North Korea.

China is North Korea's most important diplomatic and economic ally, though three nuclear tests and several rounds of saber rattling have tested Beijing's support.

But China had not threatened North Korea with explicit consequences, the sources said, and its message to Pyongyang had remained consistent.

"They are against another nuclear test--but it is a mistake to believe that China is getting more severe," said a second diplomatic source, adding that China had raised the issue with a special envoy appointed by North Korean leader Kim Jong Un.

The United States has said it hopes China will use its influence to coax North Korea to abandon its banned nuclear weapons program. In recent public statements, Chinese foreign ministry officials have repeatedly called on all parties to "exercise restraint" on the Korean Peninsula, without pointing the finger at North Korea alone.

China signed on to tougher U.N. sanctions last year after the third nuclear test, but has come under criticism from Western countries and independent experts for failing to properly implement them.

China's stability-obsessed government fears the continuing development of North Korea's nuclear program will unsettle the region. Foreign Minister Wang Yi said in March that denuclearization on the peninsula was the only road to peace, and that China would not permit war or instability on its doorstep.

North Korea's official Rodong Sinmun newspaper said this month the country was justified in using all available means at its disposal to counter aggressive challenges by the United States and South Korea aimed at stifling its sovereignty.

Zhang Liangui, a North Korea expert at China's Central Party School, said it was likely China would support another round of sanctions on North Korea if it went ahead with another test.

"It's very possible that China would support even tougher sanctions on North Korea," he said. "I think China should also think about adjusting the aid it provides.

BEIJING--Chinese fighter jets that flew within a whisker of Self-Defense Forces aircraft in the East China Sea in May and June obstructed an Air SDF aircraft in a highly dangerous maneuver, which could lead to a fatal crash, Japanese and Chinese sources said.

ULAN BATOR--Chinese President Xi Jinping arrived in Mongolia on Aug. 21 for a two-day visit designed to deepen economic ties between the neighbors, with Mongolia desperate to kick-start its struggling economy with fresh investment.

BEIJING--China announced Aug. 20 it will fine 12 Japanese auto parts suppliers a total of $202 million for colluding to raise prices in an unfolding anti-monopoly probe of the country's auto industry.

BEIJING--Chinese Vice President Li Yuanchao says that both Tokyo and Beijing should cast aside minor differences to pursue common interests.

TAIPEI--China has academics in a snit over an attempt to prevent the distribution of an international conference program that featured ads championing Taiwan’s longtime support for Chinese studies.
