
A murder accused said “things got out of hand” before he killed his neighbour 72-year-old Rose Doughty.

Christian Darko, 41, told a psychiatrist he needed to buy electricity and asked Rose Doughty, who lived in the flat above his, for money.

She said she was unable to help him but offered him sugar and a flask of hot water on the night of November 22 last year.

He made further visits to her flat the following morning, Teesside Crown Court heard .

Consultant psychiatrist Dr Pablo Vandenabeele, giving evidence today, said: “He told me he had taken a knife with him as he had planned to scare her.

“He asked her once again for money.

“He told me she refused to give any money to him, and he said things got out of hand.

“He then took the knife out of his pocket in order to scare her.

“He said that Mrs Doughty started screaming and tried to grab him in order to get hold of the knife.

Darko told the psychiatrist he stabbed or tried to stab Mrs Doughty and put his hands around her neck, then went back to his flat and cleaned the knife.

Dr Vandenabeele, who treats mentally disordered offenders, said: “It is my view that he was suffering from a mental disorder at the time of the alleged offence.

“My main concern was around the fact that in my opinion Mr Darko was suffering from mild learning disabilities.

The court had heard how Darko’s IQ was assessed as 65, extremely low intelligence, in the bottom 1% of the population.

Dr Vandenabeele believed he had an “abnormality of mental functioning” which “substantially impaired his ability to exercise self-control” and to form rational judgments.

He referred to a history of aggressive and destructive behaviour, acting without understanding the impact or consequences.

The witness added: “It is my belief that he acts in such a way because he doesn’t have the skills to deal with it in any other way.

“He’s clearly not operating rationally."

Darko admits manslaughter but denies murder on the basis of diminished responsibility.

Dr Vandenabeele said there was evidence Darko was socially and emotionally immature, badgering his neighbours for money without realising he was annoying them.

He said twice-married Darko had poor budgeting skills, in arrears for his electricity while spending money on the lottery.

Dr Vandenabeele said: “He was buying all these lottery tickets, not because he was psychotic but because he genuinely believed that was a sensible investment.

“He believed that was a sensible way of getting him out of his misery, living where he didn’t like living.

He said Darko had a difficult birth in Ghana followed by convulsions and a delay in his speech development, and he was sent to the UK aged seven for a good education at a private school in London.

He had behavioural difficulties, attracted “bad friends”, struggled academically and moved to a “special school”.

He did not think Darko was suffering suicidal or self-harm ideas, delusional beliefs or hallucinations, though Darko told him he had once tried to set himself on fire.

He said Darko denied hearing voices in his head on the day of the killing, though he had about three weeks earlier.

Darko told him he was attacked in prison, put on a form of “suicide watch”, seen by the mental health team and prescribed Prozac.

He believed Darko left the dock during the trial because he was “overwhelmed with the levels of anxiety”.

Defence barrister Andrew Robertson QC said it would be for the jury to decide whether Darko’s mental “abnormality” explained what he did.

He told the court: “There is no doubt that he was responsible for the homicide of Mrs Doughty.

The court heard Darko had no previous convictions, cautions or reprimands.

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

Join us on social media.

For the latest local news straight to your Twitter, Facebook feed or e-mail inbox.

Tell us about it and, if possible, send us a picture.

The Evening Gazette is read by more adults than any other newspaper on sale in the Teesside area, with 95,949 average readership and 36,986 copies purchased each day, providing extensive coverage across the region.

206,000 adults would turn to the Evening Gazette when looking for a job.

205,000 adults would turn to the Evening Gazette when looking for articles for sale in the classified section.

187,000 adults would turn to the Evening Gazette when looking to rent or buy a house or flat.

146,000 adults would turn to the Evening Gazette when planning entertainment and leisure activities.

146,000 adults would turn to the Evening Gazette when looking to buy a new/used car.

To advertise with the Evening Gazette please contact us .

Audience figures from Omniture, monthly average (Jan 12 - Jun 12).

More than 31% of GazetteLive users have clicked through to an online advertisement, demonstrating their receptiveness to effective online advertising.

GazetteLive reaches an internet-savvy audience, with 82% of users having purchased products or services online in the past 12 months.

Chris was appointed editor of the Evening Gazette in January 2012. He is also a former Gazette news editor. Chris has more than 20 years experience as a journalist and has previously worked in senior positions in Newcastle, Exeter and Nottingham.
