
The office of Attorney General Alan Wilson has filed a notice of appeal and a motion to expedite that appeal with the South Carolina Supreme Court.

Exactly one week prior, Circuit Judge Casey Manning stunned observers by ordering Wilson to end a state grand jury investigation into complaints of public corruption by powerful House Speaker Bobby Harrell.

In so doing, Manning appears to have granted legislators immunity from prosecution by the attorney general.

Wilson responded to the ruling with the promise of an appeal and vowed to continue the investigation, saying only the state Supreme Court has the authority to shut down a state grand jury.

Wilson’s spokesman Mark Powell confirmed the filings Monday afternoon.

The grand jury was looking into whether Harrell, a Charleston Republican, had abused his authority for personal gain and diverted campaign funds for his personal use.

Tony’s is open for breakfast every day from 7:30-10:30! Conveniently located on Washington St. right off Main. Stop in for something filling and delicious before work! Follow us for updates on specials.

Make Your Own Beer and Wine!

Come get started on your “liquid hobby” and help us celebrate our 46th year in the Columbia area. Bet Mar Liquid Hobby Shop : 736 St. Andrews Road.

Magnum Ink is offering 1/2 off all tattoos for students over 18 as well as 2 for $60 on letters or numbers for state employees. 1405 Rushmore Road, Suite B, right off of Broad River.

Join COR for an evening of networking for music and business leaders on September 3rd, featuring performances by Josh Roberts and the Hinges, Death of Paris, Fat Rat Da Czar, and Lazy A and the Green Thang. Free admission for musicians and members! Register here .

Accepting Applications for Shakespeare’s Kidz!

Company seeking carpenters, plumbers, masons work is year around with a 40 year old company. Starting pay is $10.00 but experienced individuals will be compensated accordingly. Must have a clean driving record and must bring a copy of your driving record to the interview. Please call 803-865-1200.
