
Mr. Berry will celebrate the launch of his new novel, The Lincoln Myth (Ballantine Books , $27.00), with a reception and book signing at Hyatt House in Shelton presented by The Friends of the Shelton Libraries this evening.  (See event details below.)  He is the New York Times and #1 internationally bestselling author of the Cotton Malone adventures; his books have been translated into 40 languages with more than 17,000,000 copies in 51 countries.  Mr. Berry Steve Berry was born and raised in Georgia, graduating from the Walter F. George School of Law at Mercer University. He was a trial lawyer for 30 years and held elective office for 14 of those years. He is a founding member of International Thriller Writers—a group of more than 2,600 thriller writers from around the world—and served three years as its co-president.

New York Times bestselling author Steve Berry returns with his latest thriller, a Cotton Malone adventure involving a flaw in the United States Constitution, a mystery about Abraham Lincoln, and a political issue that’s as explosive as it is timely—not only in Malone’s world, but in ours.

The present: In Utah, the fabled remains of Mormon pioneers whose nineteenth-century expedition across the desert met with a murderous end have been uncovered. In Washington, D.C., the official investigation of an international entrepreneur, an elder in the Mormon church, has sparked a political battle between the White House and a powerful United States senator. In Denmark, a Justice Department agent, missing in action, has fallen into the hands of a dangerous zealot—a man driven by divine visions to make a prophet’s words reality. And in a matter of a few short hours, Cotton Malone has gone from quietly selling books at his shop in Denmark to dodging bullets in a high-speed boat chase.

All it takes is a phone call from his former boss in Washington, and suddenly the ex-agent is racing to rescue an informant carrying critical intelligence. It’s just the kind of perilous business that Malone has been trying to leave behind, ever since he retired from the Justice Department. But once he draws enemy blood, Malone is plunged into a deadly conflict—a constitutional war secretly set in motion more than two hundred years ago by America’s Founding Fathers.

From the streets of Copenhagen to the catacombs of Salzburg to the rugged mountains of Utah, the grim specter of the Civil War looms as a dangerous conspiracy gathers power. Malone risks life, liberty, and his greatest love in a race for the truth about Abraham Lincoln—while the fate of the United States of America hangs in the balance.

Loud and proud.  Reading was always encouraged for me, both in school and at home.

Hardy Boys were my childhood treats.

A whole bunch of non-fiction for my 2016 novel.  Unfortunately, I can’t tell you the subject matter.  I read between 300 - 400 books for each novel.

I can’t imagine.  I read a wide variety of material on many, many subjects.  Nothing overtly shocking.

Sharon Kaye Penman.  It was quite an experience meeting her.  Nobody does historical fiction today better than her.  I was definitely weak kneed.

Bouchercon 2005, after my third novel.  I was there among a slew of thriller writers and suddenly realized I was now one of them.  It was a definite ahha moment.

To keep doing it.

Interesting.

With thanks to Steve Berry for his generosity of time and thought and to Deb Zipf, Senior Publicist at Meryl L. Moss Media Relations, Inc., for facilitating this interview.

Location: 830 Bridgeport Ave. in Shelton.
