
Russia and China are expected to sign a 30-year gas contract during President Vladimir Putin's two-day visit to Shanghai beginning Tuesday. The deal, along with recent reports that Russia is pushing aggressively for "de-dollarized" trade with China, is the first major signal of an accelerating push for the emergence of a new Eurasian geopolitical axis .

The push is a backlash against the recent trend in which the US relies on economic sanctions as a tool to promote its geopolitical agenda.

The nascent challenge to US global economic interests brings about the recommendation of a shift from foreign policy to libertarian-style domestic policy centeredness. Such shift is a proactive way of adapting to the challenges of emergence of what has been termed a "post-Western multipolar world" with China as an alternative economic superpower to the US.

The recommended shift does not imply a radical disengagement from world affairs but a reorientation of policy that borrows insight from the Chinese strategy: In contrast to the neoconservative ideology-driven obsession with geopolitics at the expense of national economy, China has maintained a prudent policy of prioritizing its economic interests and avoiding conflicting geopolitical entanglements even as its burgeoning economy consolidates its position as the world's largest economy.

30-year- deal to 'reshape the politics of oil'

The Crimean crisis is poised to reshape the politics of oil by accelerating Russia’s drive to send more barrels to China, leaving Europe with pricier imports and boosting US dependence on fuel from the Middle East.

Russia's Deputy Energy Minister Anatoly Yanovsky's announcement of expected signing of the 30-year gas deal marks a milestone in Russia's aggressive push for comprehensive bilateral ties with China, part of a broader policy offensive Russian diplomats describe as Moscow's "Asia pivot."

The "pivot" was galvanized by Western sanctions against Russia following its annexation of Crimea.

According to Russia Today , Gazprom, Russia's largest natural gas producer and China National Petroleum Corporation (CNPC) are set to sign a gas deal that will send 38 billion cubic meters of natural gas a year to China starting in 2018.

Business Week quotes China's state-run Xinhua news agency saying that Zhang Xin, a spokesperson for the state-controlled CNPC, said in Beijing on May 14 that the deal was in its "final phase" and that the two sides were still negotiating details of price.

According to Putin , "The arrangements... have nearly been finalized. Their implementation will help Russia to diversify pipeline routes for natural gas supply."

Reuters notes that 38 billion cubic meters of natural gas to China represents about a quarter of China's current consumption, but only about one-tenth of China's projected requirement by 2020. China is pushing to reduce its reliance on coal and adopt more environmentally friendly natural gas.

Although Russia's Deputy Energy Minister said the deal is only 98 percent complete, it is expected it will be signed because Russia is under pressure to diversify its international customers and reduce its dependence on the European market. Russia's move is part of a geostrategic trade shift towards Asia in the wake of tensions with the Western powers over the crisis in Ukraine.

The crisis in Ukraine and the standoff with the West placed Russia under greater pressure to hasten its drive to diversity its oil and gas supply destinations away from Europe which presently account for about 80 percent of the revenue of Russia's state-owned oil and gas giant Gazprom.

Experts that spoke to Bloomberg noted that before the Ukrainian crisis, Russia had pursued its interest in increased gas supply to China with less urgency, but the recent tensions with the West has infused its Eurasian policy with greater urgency.

The two sides are expect to agree at between $350-400 per thousand cubic meters , Russia Today reports.

Russia and China have been negotiating the deal more than a decade, unable to come to an agreement on prices.

The Chinese are taking advantage of the fact that Russia is under pressure to diversity its gas destinations to drive a hard bargain with Russia. Russia in turn would console itself with the geopolitical gain accruing from its ability to diversify its supply.

The hastening of the emergence of a Eurasian geopolitical axis should be a matter of concern to Washington because of its mid to long-term consequences.

Europe currently receives about 30 percent of its natural gas supply from Russia, about 160 billion cubic meters in 2013, according to Russia Today . The pivoting of Russia, the world's largest oil producer, towards China presents Europe with problems because it presently has few alternative sources of energy.

The impact of the deal, according to Bloomberg , would likely be higher gas prices for Europe, while increasing the need for the US to increase reliance on the Middle East sources, a geopolitically suboptimal solution.

Already, agreements reached in March 2013 allowing China to double oil imports from Russia has placed China in a position to surpass Germany as the biggest buyer of Russian crude oil. The deal was reached in exchange for prospecting concessions to China in three offshore Arctic areas, according to Bloomberg.

Some analysts have pooh-poohed proposals that North America could make up the shortfall in gas supply to Europe, citing major cost barriers, not to mention the environmental consequences of Europe relying more heavily on Canada's "dirty oil."

Russia’s move underscores the risks that the US government has taken by trading long term economic interests for short term political gains through the use of economic sanctions as tool for political coercion.

The recent trend of increasing reliance on economic sanctions as means for political coercion is a double-edged sword because while it hurts targeted economies it forces the major political opponents of the West to begin seriously considering exiting the US dollar-denominated trading system.

This is not in the long term interest of the US economy and stability of the US dollar.

Allvoices is an exclusive community where great writers can connect, share their original content, gain exposure and earn money.

Our team of professional editors curates all content to make sure our readers have fresh, interesting reads everyday.

BrandSpace is a venue for our best sponsored content to be featured on Allvoices.com . PulsePoint is a leader in the content marketing space, and our stable of great content creators helps our partners reach and connect to their desired audience. BrandSpace is where that content lives.

We want to give our buyer and seller clients priority access to smarter impressions across the web so they have better targeting, better insights, and better ROI. We do this through impression-level transparency on proprietary audience, content and engagement data segments.

Our writers come from all walks of life, from full-time freelancers looking to build a larger following to desk jockeys who want to keep the creative juices flowing. Allvoices’ writers are passionate and insightful, and they have unique perspectives about a variety of subjects.
