
Former Prime Minister Tun Dr Mahathir Mohamad will be appointed chairman of Proton Holdings Bhd, effectively taking over the helm of the national carmaker.

Proton is expected to make an announcement within days in what is seen as DRB-Hicom Bhd’s boldest move to date in its effort to transform Proton’s sliding fortunes since it took the company private in 2012, sources familiar with the company said.

Dr Mahathir’s appointment will also see the withdrawal of Proton’s current executive chairman Tan Sri Mohd Khamil Jamil from his post.

Dr Mahathir, who was instrumental in the setting up of Proton in the 1980s to spearhead Malaysia’s drive towards industrialisation, will also be appointed chairman of Proton’s wholly-owned subsidiary Lotus plc.

“The papers have been signed and as a formality, it will be tabled for approval by the board at its next meeting.

We expect the announcement to be made within the week,” a source told The Malaysian Reserve.

Dr Mahathir, currently an advisor to the country’s pioneer carmaker since retiring as prime minister in 2003, is understood to have accepted both appointments.

On April 30, Proton announced the appointment of Datuk Abdul Harith Abdullah as CEO to fill the leadership vacuum left by the resignation of Datuk Lukman Ibrahim who vacated the deputy CEO post earlier this year.

Dr Mahathir’s direct inclusion into Proton’s management is the culmination of his long association with the car manufacturer, having been involved since its conception and establishment in 1983.

“This is an advantage to Proton. Dr Mahathir is actually taking the bull by its horns so to speak. He wants to see Proton succeed at all costs and if it requires micro-managing it, then he is prepared to do so.

the source.

Known then as Perusahaan Otomobil Nasional Bhd, the state-owned carmaker was established by the Mahathir administration as a catalyst to spur the country’s shift into industrialisation. Alongside other entities like Heavy Industries Corp of Malaysia (Hicom) and later on Perusahaan Otomobil Kedua Sdn Bhd, Motosikal dan Enjin Nasional Sdn Bhd and Hicom- Honda, Proton represented Malaysia’s policy to make privatisation the driving force to propel the economy from agriculture into manufacturing.

At its peak, Proton, which has produced more that 3.5 million vehicles from plants in Shah Alam and Tanjung Malim up to 2013, held up to 85% share of the domestic car market.

However, a combination of factors including liberalisation of the domestic market with influx of cheap foreign imports, competition from Perodua and the revised National Automotive Policy, among others, contributed towards Proton’s slide.

Currently, Proton’s domestic market share stands at about 22% while export is relatively negligible.

It is a widely accepted perception that since Dr Mahathir, considered as the father of Proton, left the Prime Minister’s Office, subsequent administrations have shown little effort to continue preserving the carmaker as a strategic national industry.

At one point, the Tun Abdullah Ahmad Badawi administration was also reportedly keen to dispose the carmaker, something that was ultimately realised when state-investment arm Khazanah Nasional Bhd divested its 42.74% stake for RM1.29 billion to DRB-Hicom in January 2012.

Since being taken private, DRB-Hicom has been trying to address its slide by focusing on radical transformation measures of Proton’s management and the appointment of Dr Mahathir is seen as a coup, given the former prime minister’s deep knowledge of the industry and government, and his influence over both.

“DRB-Hicom faces a monumental task. Previous managements had failed to address product renewal, engine development, quality management among others and DRB-Hicom is saddled with these inherited issues. The whole product lineup has either expired or nearing shelf-life expiration.

“The Perdana needs replacement and not just rebadging work…the Exora and Saga is more than six years old and require total model change. The Preve is due for a facelift to prolong its shelf life,” said another source.

“Then there’s the issue of declining exports which were not seriously addressed prior to this simply because there were no new products to offer, or the existing products just did not meet export standards, including emission standards,” he added.

However, he said the current management is working hard to address these issues despite the declining conditions.

New and improved engines are being engineered to replace the current Campro and efforts to introduce new as well as replacement models are being concurrently carried out. This includes the planned introduction of the P2-30A or Global Small Car to the domestic market in the last quarter of this year. Proton is also expected to leverage on Dr Mahathir’s overseas links as it seeks to resurrect its export numbers to among others, China and Iran.

For Dr Mahathir, the appointment marked his first foray into the corporate world since retiring although he is involved in several private business ventures, notably The Loaf, a bakery and restaurant concern.

Please enter the following characters you see into the textbox below.
