
China's foreign ministry denounced cyber espionage charges leveled by the U.S. government against Chinese People's Liberation Army officers.

BEIJING, May 19 (UPI) -- China's foreign ministry responded Monday to charges leveled by the U.S. government that five named Chinese People's Liberation Army officers had engaged in cyber espionage.

Foreign ministry spokesman Qin Gang was quoted by the state-run Xinhua news agency as saying the accused "never engaged or participated" in cyber espionage and that the charges are "purely ungrounded and with ulterior purpose."

Qin appealed to the U.S. "to make a clear explanation of what it has done and immediately stop such kind of activities."

In response to the allegations, the Chinese government also announced it had decided to suspend the China-U.S. Cyber Working Group "Given the lack of sincerity on the part of the U.S. to solve issues related to cyber security through dialogue and cooperation."

U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder made public the grand jury charges against the Chinese nationals on Monday, commenting that the charges were the first filed against "known state actors for infiltrating U.S. commercial targets by cyber means."

Wang Dong, Sun Kailiang, Wen Xinyu, Huang Zhenyu, and Gu Chunhui were named in the indictment as the alleged conspirators. They were all identified as officers in Unit 61398 of the Chinese People's Liberation Army.

According to the indictment, the accused were charged with hacking Westinghouse Electric, U.S. Steel, Alcoa Inc., Allegheny Technologies, SolarWorld, and the U.S. Steelworkers Union "to advantage state-owned companies and other interests in China, at the expense of businesses here in the United States."

UPI licenses content directly to print outlets, online media and institutions of all types. In addition, UPI's distribution partners provide our content to thousands of businesses, policy groups and academic institutions worldwide. Our audience consists of millions of decision-makers who depend on UPI's insightful and analytical stories to make better business or policy decisions.

In the year of our 107th anniversary, our company strives to continue being a leading and trusted source for news, analysis and insight for readers around the world.

© 2014 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

UPI.com is your trusted source for world news, top news, science news, health news and current events.

We thank you for visiting us and we hope that we will be your daily stop for news updates.
