
Share This Story!

The death toll keeps rising from the devastating flooding in Bosnia, Herzegovina and Serbia.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

The death toll keeps rising from the devastating flooding in Bosnia, Herzegovina and Serbia. A local woman is trying to raise money to help.

JACKSONVILLE, Fla.- The death toll keeps rising from the devastating flooding in the Balkans.

The flooding is of an intensity not seen in more than a century and it is having a painful impact on Bosnian families here on the First Coast.

"It's painful, depressing," said Anita Rekic.

Rekic was born in Bosnia, came to the United States in 1998 because of the Bosnian war.

She is watching from a world away as tens of thousands are forced out of their homes from torrential rains in the Balkans. Primarily  Bosnia, Herzegovina, and Serbia. An area Rekic said is recovering from the affects of the Bosnian war.

"And now this hit us. It's terrible," Rekic said  "Everybody's without shelter, food and everything."

Rekic has family in Doboj, Bosnia, which is one of the towns hardest hit. At least 9 people have died there and dozens more elsewhere.

Rekic said her grandmother, and cousins were forced out of their homes. Her mother is there visiting and Rekic said they spoke Sunday.

She said hasn't yet reached other members of her family.

"I'm hoping for the best, but as of right now, we don't know," she said.

Support pours out from social media. While Rekic and others hold onto hope, she said she's trying to do something to help.

She told FCN she has raised $1,500 so far. She's trying to raise more, anything to help the people in need.

Rekic said she wants to send money to the American Red Cross to go directly to Bosnia.

"The money is going to provide shelter, food, water," Rekic said. "Anybody over there. I don't care if it's my family, if it's neighbors. Just anybody down there."

FCN talked with Christian Smith, Director of Public Support for the Jacksonville, Florida chapter of the American Red Cross. Smith tells FCN the American Red Cross in our area hasn't been notified by the Red Cross about sending aide to Bosnia. If/when they are, Smith said our area Red Cross will snap into action with what's needed.

By the way, to learn more about anita's mission,
