
The United Nations Secretary General Ban Ki-moon met with Chinese President Xi Jinping and Minister of Foreign Affairs Wang Yi before outlining key global challenges at Shanghai's premiere institute for international politics , economy and security strategy, according to a statement issued Monday.

"This is a time of enormous challenge," Ban told an audience at the Shanghai Institute of International Studies (SIIS). "I look to China to provide global leadership, and I look to all of you to provide ideas and encouragement."

The UN chief, who arrived in China Sunday, highlighted the conflicts in Syria, Central African Republic, South Sudan and Ukraine, as well as the maritime tensions in Asia.

"We must never forget that all tensions are best resolved through dialogue and in accordance with the principles enshrined in the UN Charter," Ban urged. He noted some long-term risks and trends, among them growing inequality, the rise of intolerance and prevalent injustice, all of which contribute to aggravating insecurity.

"The impacts of climate change are being felt already and will affect generations to come," he said, noting that key resources are in progressively shorter supply.

To overcome these and other challenges, the UN "must rise to the moment," he said, stressing that a series of efforts will be crucial over the next 18 months, the deadline to reach the anti-poverty targets known as the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs).

"One of the goals was to cut poverty and hunger by half by the year 2015," he said. "Thanks in large measure to China; the world has met that ambition years in advance."

The international community is now shaping a post-2015 development agenda which "will allow us to focus on sustainable development as a model for the global economy," said the top UN official.

China's role in sustainable development was also discussed during an earlier bilateral meeting between Ban and President Xi. A UN spokesperson said Ban also expressed gratitude for China's "strong support and contribution" to the UN's work to promote peace and security, and human rights.

Among the specific issues covered, the two leaders discussed issues related to the Korean Peninsula, and the situation in Myanmar.

In an earlier meeting, Ban and Foreign Minister Yi agreed that there was a need to work together on issues related to human rights and the "Every Woman, Every Child" initiative to improve the health of women and children around the world, as well as climate change.
