
Sacred Heart Cathedral Preparatory in San Francisco released a humbling public apology to Jessica Urbina and her family Monday which they stated was in 'no way meant to excuse our actions.'

A Catholic prep school has apologized after intentionally omitting a senior's photo from their year book because she wore a tuxedo.

Sacred Heart Cathedral Preparatory in San Francisco released a humbling public apology to Jessica Urbina and her family Monday which they stated was in "no way meant to excuse our actions."

The apology, which vows to be more open toward gay and lesbian students, came on the heels of a firestorm online and in the classroom over their decision to leave out the 18-year-old's photo.

KNTV/KNTV San Francisco's Sacred Heart Cathedral Preparatory has issued a public apology to student Jessica Urbina, pictured, after leaving out her senior photo from the yearbook because she wore a tuxedo.

In it, Urbina endearingly smiles in a black and white tux, which, as the school explained, violated dress code. Students wanting to support Urbina consequently wore ties to school.

"As in past school years, any senior who sat for senior portraits but did not conform to the dress code did not have a portrait included in the portrait pages of the yearbook," the school stated.

KNTV/KNTV Principal Gary Cannon explained that the school's decision to omit Urbina's photo was because it violated dress code. In the school's apology Monday they vowed to reexamine their current rules.

"Given the nature of this specific case, however, we believe that decision, while conforming with our policy, was wrong. Moreover, the lack of communication with the family led to even greater anguish as it proved unexpected to the student and family as it came at the very end of the school year."

In order to right their wrongs, the school stated that they offered to reprint the yearbook to include her photo.

KNTV/KNTV Outrage over the school's decision to omit Jessica Urbina's photo led to protests online and in the classrooms. Students, like this one, came to school last week wearing ties in rebellion.

Because Urbina and her family stressed not wanting her classmates' books delayed, they are going to seek an alternative solution.

What that may be was not clear.

The school also vowed to amend their current dress code policy. Urbina's choice of dress code for graduation and end-of-the-year ceremonies will also be supported.

"While there are those who want to make this situation an example of problems with Catholicism," the school stated with their apology, "we want to be clear that this letter, our apology, and our decisions moving forward come not in spite of our Catholicism, but precisely because of it."

© Copyright 2014 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.
