
Christopher Tavernier, is the Youngest Concert Pianist in North Carolina. He made his debut at the age of thirteen performing with the Tar River Philharmonic Orchestra in Rocky Mount, North Carolina. This Sunday as the guest soloist, he is performing with the Charlotte Symphony Youth Orchestra at the prestigious Dale F. Halton Theater at Central Piedmont Community College . He will be performing Rachmaninoff’s famous, Rhapsody on a Theme of Paganini, Opus 43 for piano and orchestra.

Christopher will also be performing locally in Hendersonville, Sunday June 1, as the guest performing pianist with the Rutherford Chamber Consort. He will be performing J.S. Bach’s, Triple Concerto in A Minor for harpsichord, violin, and flute, BWV 1044. This concert will be free and open to the public at the First United Methodist Church First, 204 Sixth Avenue West, 4:00pm, 828-693-4275. This will also be a live broadcast by WTZQ 1600 AM radio.

Additionally, Christopher will be making a bid to compete for one of the top 24 spots in the first Van Cliburn International Junior Competition and Festival in Fort Worth Texas. He will be competing against other 13 to 17-year-old pianists from around the world.

“I have always dreamed about competing in the Van Cliburn International Competition and now they have a junior division. I have already started working on my new repertoire for this international competition, I am excited,” said Christopher.

Christopher is fourteen years old and in the seventh grade at Hendersonville Middle School in Hendersonville, NC.  He loves the arts, reading, writing, and playing chess and has two brothers and one sister. Christopher’s first love is the piano, and he is now realizing his dream to be a great concert pianist.  Christopher is a member of the “National Junior Beta Club,” honoring his outstanding character and academic achievement.  In addition to being an honors student and a part of the AIG (Academically and Intellectually Gifted) program in Mathematics and Reading, he was selected for the Duke University Talent Identification Program, placing above the 95th percentile nationally.  Additionally, Christopher was nominated to attend the National Young Scholars Program (NYSP).

Christopher began his piano studies at the age of six.  His favorite composer is Franz Liszt, of whom he is proud to be a direct musical descendant.  Christopher’s repertoire contains many works by Franz Liszt.  His teacher Dr. John Cobb, a semifinalist in the Third International Van Cliburn Piano Competition, is an international performer and recording artist.  Dr. Cobb studied with Claudio Arrau, whose teacher was a pupil of Franz Liszt.  Throughout his career, Claudio Arrau was renowned throughout the world as one of the supreme keyboard masters of the century.  Franz Liszt was a student of Czerny, who in turn was a pupil of Ludwig van Beethoven.  Hence the musical lineage actually extends from Beethoven to Christopher Tavernier.

Christopher is a Perzina Artist for Freeburg Studios and a member of the Asheville Area Piano Forum, where he enjoys performing on a regular basis.  Christopher continues to perform in many other venues and competitions.  He has won many honors and awards and looks forward to the day when he can play with the New York Philharmonic.
