
Recently I recounted how I traveled a month ago to Rwanda at the invitation of  President Paul Kagame to speak at Amohoro National Stadium for the 20th  commemoration of the genocide. A survivor took the microphone and, in a slow  voice, recounted episodes from the slaughter of the country’s minority Tutsi  population.

The stadium was filled with the sounds of women quaking, men  thundering, children shrieking. The trauma of those who were reliving the  horrors as they were recounted.

The secretary general of the UN, Ban Ki  moon, got up and said that “Never Again” must mean just that. But even as he  said it, children continued to be gassed in Syria. Women were being  machine-gunned to death in South Sudan. Christians were being slaughtered in the  Central African Republic. And why? Because the world has yet to embrace Jewish  values.

Let  my Christian brothers speak of loving one’s enemies.

Because Churchill hated Hitler he inspired a nation to  fight the beast. The French, who did not hate Hitler, collaborated with him  instead.

Loving victims might generate compassion for their suffering.  But hating the perpetrators generates action to stop their orgy of murder. While  innocence should evoke compassion, evil should evoke only contempt.

Our  organization, This World: The Values Network, whose gala dinner was on Sunday,  Lag Ba’omer, is dedicated to the spread of universal Jewish values and in so  doing we seek to bring healing and justice to a world that seemingly cannot be  healed.

Where the Greeks spoke of fate, the Jews spoke of destiny. We  Jews reject the disempowering belief that our future is scripted in the stars,  that what we will become has already been decided from the moment of birth. We  do not accept that life must be tragic. That we are doomed to live out a future  over which we have no control. To the contrary. The Jews gave the world the idea  of choice, of setting moral goals that are within our reach.

We Jews reject the evolutionary model of men as inseminators  who will always gravitate to many women and we teach instead that every man must  honor one woman. Who would have believed at our higher academies of learning  today we would have an epidemic of one of five women facing sexual  assault.

This is a disgrace and there is no excuse.

My Judaism  taught me that whether or not I stayed married had nothing to do with parental  history or biology and everything to do with personal choice.

Would I  take my wife for granted or show appreciation for a soul mate. Would I criticize  or would I compliment.

Would I be selfish or selfless. The future lay  entirely in my hands and in my choice. And there is no more empowering idea in  the world than the Jewish emphasis on personal accountability and  choice.

My Palestinian brothers and sisters condemn Israel and blame it  for the spread of Hamas violence. If you stopped humiliating us with checkpoints  we would stop blowing up buses. Yet the Jews of Germany, as Alan Dershowitz  argues, were subjected to the most inhuman cruelties but never took it out on  German schoolchildren.

Victor Frankl spent three years in Nazi death  camps.

In his 20th century classic, Man’s Search for Meaning, he says the  Germans took away everything from him. The pleasure of love, by gassing his  wife. The joy of hope, by exterminating his family. The exultation of freedom,  by incarcerating him behind barbed wire. His very humanity, by branding him with  a cattle iron.

And his very human dignity by forcing him to defecate in a  bucket. But there was one thing they could never take from him: His choice of  how to react to what they were doing to him. They wanted him to claw like an  animal, but he could still choose to share his last morsels of bread with those  who were even hungrier than he. They wanted him to surrender all to despair but  he could still choose to live with faith and belief.

I have watched how  the media has already picked apart our dinner. It is a motley collection of  opposites, they say. Sheldon Adelson, they said, believes in the Republican  Party. Sean Penn is a socialist. Chris Christie said something objectionable  about Israel. Rick Perry said one thing in a debate that should overshadow any  other achievements.

To all of them I respond not with Christian, but with  Jewish values. I could care less what people believe. I don’t much care how they  vote. And I don’t much care if they make verbal gaffes. What do I care about is  what they do.

Judaism is a celebration of righteous action. In Judaism  it’s not belief in a savior that will get you into heaven. It’s rather the good  deeds you do – the mitzvot you perform – that will create heaven on  earth.

And if we believe it, it will be so.

The author has just  published Kosher Lust: Love is Not the Answer. Follow him on Twitter  @rabbishmuley.

Your comment must be approved by a moderator before being published on JPost.com. Disqus users can post comments automatically.

Comments must adhere to our Talkback policy . If you believe that a comment has breached the Talkback policy, please press the flag icon to bring it to the attention of our moderation team.
