
The United States has brought cyber espionage charges against five Chinese military officials, accusing them of hacking into American companies’ systems to gain trade secrets.

US attorney general Eric Holder said the officials hacked into six nuclear power, metals and solar products firms.

The charges are the first of their kind and the move is part of a long-held Obama administration goal to prosecute in cases of state-sponsored cyber threats. Mr Holder said the US would not tolerate foreign government efforts to sabotage American companies.

US officials have accused China’s army and China-based hackers of launching attacks on American industrial and military targets, often to steal secrets or intellectual property.

China has said it faces a major threat from hackers, and the country’s military is believed to be among the biggest targets of the US National Security Agency (NSA) and US Cyber Command.

Sceptics noted that US authorities would not be able to arrest those indicted, as Beijing is unlikely to hand them over. But the move would prevent the individuals concerned from travelling to the US or other countries that have an extradition agreement with it.

“It won’t slow China down,” said Eric Johnson, dean of the business school at Vanderbilt University in Tennessee, and an expert on cyber security issues.

But Stewart Baker, a former NSA lawyer, said the hackers named in the indictments might have trouble getting jobs in China’s private sector when they move on from employment with the People’s Liberation Army.

Last September, US president Barack Obama discussed cyber security issues with his Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping on the sidelines of a summit in St ­Petersburg.

White House spokesman Ben Rhodes said at the time that Mr Obama had addressed concerns about cyber threats emanating from China.

He said the president told Mr Xi that the US saw the issue not in terms of security but theft of trade secrets.

In late March, US defence secretary Chuck Hagel revealed that the Pentagon planned to more than triple its cyber security staff in the next few years to defend against internet attacks.

“Our nation’s reliance on cyberspace outpaces our cyber security,” Mr Hagel said at the time.

Mr Holder said yesterday that the companies affected by the latest alleged hacking were Alcoa World Alumina, Westinghouse Electric, Allegheny Technologies, US Steel, United Steelworkers Union and SolarWorld.

In a statement, China’s foreign ministry said the US charges were based on “fabricated facts” and that they jeopardised China-US “co-operation and mutual trust”.

The statement added: “China is steadfast in upholding cyber security. The Chinese government, the Chinese military and their relevant personnel have never engaged or participated in cyber theft of trade secrets.

© 2014 Johnston Publishing Ltd.

This website and its associated newspaper adheres to the Press Complaints Commission’s Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion, then contact the Editor by clicking here .

If you remain dissatisfied with the response provided then you can contact the PCC by clicking here .

The Scotsman provides news, events and sport features from the Edinburgh area. For the best up to date information relating to Edinburgh and the surrounding areas visit us at The Scotsman regularly or bookmark this page.

For you to enjoy all the features of this website The Scotsman requires permission to use cookies.

Cookies are small data files which are sent to your browser (Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome etc) from a website you visit. They are stored on your electronic device.

This is a type of cookie which is collected by Adobe Flash media player (it is also called a Local Shared Object) - a piece of software you may already have on your electronic device to help you watch online videos and listen to podcasts.

Yes there are a number of options available, you can set your browser either to reject all cookies, to allow only "trusted" sites to set them, or to only accept them from the site you are currently on.

However, please note - if you block/delete all cookies, some features of our websites, such as remembering your login details, or the site branding for your local newspaper may not function as a result.

A tool used by some of our advertisers to target adverts to you based on pages you have visited in the past. To opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

Our sites contain advertising from Google; these use cookies to ensure you get adverts relevant to you. You can tailor the type of ads you receive by visiting here or to opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

This is used to help us identify unique visitors to our websites. This data is anonymous and we cannot use this to uniquely identify individuals and their usage of the sites.

This comes from our ad serving technology and is used to track how many times you have seen a particular ad on our sites, so that you don't just see one advert but an even spread. This information is not used by us for any other type of audience recording or monitoring.

ComScore monitor and externally verify our site traffic data for use within the advertising industry. Any data collected is anonymous statistical data and cannot be traced back to an individual.

Our Classified websites (Photos, Motors, Jobs and Property Today) use cookies to ensure you get the correct local newspaper branding and content when you visit them. These cookies store no personally identifiable information.

We use Grapeshot as a contextual targeting technology, allowing us to create custom groups of stories outside out of our usual site navigation. Grapeshot stores the categories of story you have been exposed to. Their privacy policy and opt out option can be accessed here.

Our partner for Newspaper subscriptions online stores data from the forms you complete in these to increase the usability of the site and enhance user experience.

Add This provides the social networking widget found in many of our pages. This widget gives you the tools to bookmark our websites, blog, share, tweet and email our content to a friend.

We use Advertising agencies to provide us with some of the advertising on our websites. These include (but are not limited to) Specific Media, The Rubicon Project, AdJug, AdConion, Context Web. Please click on the provider name to visit their opt-out page.
