
(CNSNews.com) – The sentencing to death of a pregnant Sudanese  Christian mother convicted of “apostasy” has drawn sharp condemnation  from a number of Western countries – but no word from the Organization  of Islamic Cooperation (OIC), a number of whose member-states have  apostasy laws on their books.

At least 21 OIC members have laws at a national or state level  penalizing apostasy, or leaving Islam. Eleven are Arab states, including  Sudan and Saudi  Arabia, while the rest are in Asia (Iran, Pakistan,  Afghanistan, Malaysia, Maldives, Brunei) and Africa (Mauritania,  Nigeria, Somalia, Comoros).

Last Thursday a Sudanese court sentenced 27 year-old Meriam Yahia Ibrahim Ishag to death by hanging after  refusing to recant her Christian faith in the prescribed three days  since her conviction for apostasy.

Ibrahim, who is eight months pregnant and is incarcerated together  with her 20 month-old son, was also sentenced to 100 lashes for  “adultery.” The Sudan Tribune explained that since under Sudan’s shari’a law her marriage to a non-Muslim was considered invalid, the relationship was therefore deemed to be adulterous.

The governments of the United  States, Canada, Britain, France and  the Netherlands are among those that have publicly condemned the  conviction and sentence.

“International attention to this case is critical to holding the  Sudanese government accountable for its constitutional provisions and  international commitments to protect and respect freedom of religion or  belief not only for Mrs. Ibrahim, but all Sudanese, regardless of  faith,” he said.

The OIC, the 57-member Islamic bloc whose Saudi-based secretariat  regularly issues statements on matters of concern relating to the Muslim  world, has been silent on the case so far.

Five years ago the OIC’s International Islamic Fiqh Academy, which  issues global religious edicts on the OIC’s behalf, met to discuss  contentious issues including that of apostasy, but scholars at the  conference disagreed over ruling out the death penalty for offenders.

The meeting issued a fatwa that affirmed support for the traditional  view of apostasy while at the same time invoking conditional religious  freedom.

The fatwa did not spell out the punishment for an unrepentant apostate.

Several Islamic states impose the death penalty for apostasy.

Article 146 of Sudan’s criminal code says that a Muslim who renounces  Islam must be put to death unless he or she recants within three days.

Mauritania’s criminal code also provides for a three-day period of  reflection and repentance for any Muslim found guilty of apostasy. “If  he does not repent within this time limit, he is to be condemned to  death as an apostate and his property will be confiscated by the  Treasury,” it says.

Saudi   Arabia placed apostasy on a par with rape, murder and drug trafficking as offenses punishable by death.

Iran’s treatment of apostates drew international attention with the  case of Youcef Nadarkhani, a pastor sentenced to death for apostasy more  than a decade after his conversion. After a lengthy legal battle he was eventually acquitted in September 2012.

In Afghanistan, a Christian convert named Abdul Rahman was sentenced  to death in 2006 for apostasy, but after the U.S. and other Western  members of the coalition forces there brought pressure to bear on the  Karzai administration, he was freed and allowed to seek asylum abroad.

Five years later another Afghan convert to Christianity, Said Musa , found himself in a similar plight. Again, international condemnation saw him freed and able to leave the country.

Just last month Brunei, a small sultanate in Southeast Asia, became the latest OIC state to introduce the death penalty for apostasy, among other shari’a-based punishments including stoning for adultery and limb amputation for theft.

As has happened on past occasions when an apostasy case has gained  international attention some Islamic advocacy groups sought to distance  the latest incident in Sudan from Islam.

That view still carries significant support in some Muslims countries, opinion surveys indicate.

A Pew Research poll in 2010 found large majorities in Jordan (86 percent), Egypt (84  percent) and Pakistan (76 percent) voiced support for the death penalty  for apostates from Islam.

Three years later, Pew found majority support for that view in Afghanistan, Egypt, Pakistan, Jordan, Malaysia and the Palestinian territories.

Support was far lower in other Muslim countries, including Tunisia  (29 percent), Indonesia (18 percent), Turkey (17 percent) and Kazakhstan  (4 percent).
