
THE US has charged five members of a shadowy Chinese military unit for allegedly hacking US companies for trade secrets, infuriating Beijing which suspended cooperation on cyber issues.

Hacking has long been a major sticking point in relations between the world’s two largest economies — a report last year said Chinese hacking cost the American economy $US300 billion a  year - but Washington’s move marks a major escalation in the dispute.

In the first-ever prosecution of state actors over cyber-espionage, a federal grand jury overnight indicted the five on charges they broke into US computers to benefit Chinese state-owned companies, leading to job losses in the United States in steel, solar and other industries.

Attorney General Eric Holder called on China to hand over the five men for trial in the steel city of Pittsburgh and said the United States would use “all the means that are available to us” should Beijing refuse.

President Barack Obama’s administration “will not tolerate actions by any nation that seek to illegally sabotage American companies and undermine the integrity of fair competition,” Holder told reporters.

“This case should serve as a wake-up call to the seriousness of the ongoing cyber threat,” Holder told reporters.

The grand jury indicted each of the five — Wang Dong, Sun Kailiang, Wen Xinyu, Huang Zhenyu and Gu Chunhui — on 31 counts, which each carry penalties of up to 15 years in prison.

Prosecutors said that the five officers belonged to Unit 61398 of the People’s Liberation Army.

A report last year by security firm Mandiant said that the unit had thousands of workers operating out of a nondescript, 12-story building on the outskirts of Shanghai where they pilfer intellectual property and government secrets.

“Given the lack of sincerity on the part of the US to solve issues related to cyber security through dialogue and cooperation, China has decided to suspend activities of the China-US Cyber Working Group,” foreign ministry spokesman Qin Gang said in a statement.

The working group was set up last year during a visit to Beijing by US Secretary of State John Kerry as a way to talk through rising tensions on cybersecurity.

The United States voiced regret over China’s move and said it expected a wideranging annual dialogue in July, for which Kerry is expected to visit Beijing, to go ahead as scheduled.

“We remain committed to developing a constructive and productive relationship with China and are ready to work with China to prevent this activity from continuing,” White House press secretary Jay Carney said.

Obama has directly raised hacking concerns with Chinese President Xi Jinping, making it a major priority despite the wide range of issues confronting the two powers, from North Korea to climate change to Beijing’s tensions with its neighbours.

China has in the past accused the United States of hypocrisy as Washington conducts sweeping surveillance around the world.

Leaks by former government contractor Edward Snowden have alleged widespread US snooping in China including into telecom giant Huawei — whose own attempts to penetrate the US market have been blocked by lawmakers’ concerns on national security.

US officials said they investigated the unit for several years and believed that the hacking had contributed to “substantial” job and profit losses in the United States.

Hackers stole secret designs from Westinghouse, the US nuclear plant giant owned by Japan’s Toshiba, just as it was negotiating with a Chinese state-owned company, said John Carlin, the assistant attorney general for national security.

He said that hackers also stole pricing information from the computers of company SolarWorld to help Chinese competitors in the solar energy sector, in which China has invested heavily.

The indictment said that victims also included industry titans Alcoa and US Steel as well as the United Steelworkers labour union.

Officials declined to put a financial cost on the hacking. A report led by former US officials estimated last year that cyber espionage — overwhelmingly by China — was costing the American economy more than $US300 billion each year, equivalent to what the United States sells each year to Asia.

News.com.au's Privacy Policy includes important information about our collection, use and disclosure of your personal information (including to provide you with targeted content and advertising based on your online activities). It explains that if you do not provide us with information we have requested from you, we may not be able to provide you with the goods and services you require. It also explains how you can access or seek correction of your personal information, how you can complain about a breach of the Australian Privacy Principles and how we will deal with a complaint of that nature.
