
Russia is about to hitch its wagon to the fastest growing economy and largest market in the world, Business New Europe editor Ben Aris told RT, adding that the West will ultimately be playing catch-up after its efforts to isolate Russia with sanctions.

Ben Aris: Well, it’s going to be part of   Russia’s turn towards the East, reorientation if you like, as a   function of the worsening relationships with Western Europe. I   think to begin with, it won’t make that much difference in so   much as Russia is a commodity provider, oil and gas being the   main commodities, and Russia is tied to Europe through its gas   pipelines, so that will continue.

What we’re talking about is where Russia’s going to go in the   future and I think all of the intention, all of the energy is   going to be thrown into building up Russia’s trade and energy   exports to the East and those that existed in the West are going   to sort of remain and not develop any further.

This could play against Europe in the long run; if all the growth   is coming out of Asia and China and the BRICS countries, then it   could be that the EU sort of gets left behind while Russia enjoys   the ride on the wave of those growing economies.

BA: I think we’re seeing - or about to see,   assuming that these deals go well tomorrow - a massive change in   the set-up, the balance, the geopolitical balance. In so much as   the West has been confronting Russia over the Ukraine problem.   But Putin said from the beginning that his goal in foreign policy   is to create a multipolar world. Now he’s been kind of on his own   doing that, as opposed to the unipolar world which is dominated   by America. But Russia and China have never been natural friends.   However, China has come out very strongly in support of Russia as   they’ve showed down with the States.

And I think that’s because Chia is as worried about this unipolar   set up as Russia is. So the irony is this whole fracas has been   to push Russia and China together and to get them to get over   their natural mistrust of each other and to become deep and   strategic partners. So this is a new political alliance we’re   seeing, a new political configuration. It’s got enormous   consequences going forward.

BA: No indeed. But Russia and China have been   described as the best synergy on the planet. China has the   people, the massive consumer market, it’s got the cash. Whereas   Russia has all the raw materials and that’s what China is   missing. That’s what Russia offers China, and China doesn’t   function without those inputs to its factories. What the Western   countries are offering are high technology and finished goods.   But Russia has the raw materials to make the Chinese economy   work, without which it won’t be able to function and compete.

The statements, views and opinions expressed in this column are solely those of the author and do not necessarily represent those of RT.

GDP consists of a lot of 'churning' -- transfer of money without anything productive happening, or rebuilding of infrastructure. Debt is also a false measure as it is done now because of where that money is going -- and not going. The critical thing is the real economy. That debt is not investment in real production and growth, but bubbles and financial speculation games.

email before you can log in.

successfully!
