
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

WASHINGTON, D.C. - The Justice Department has filed criminal charges against five Chinese military hackers, accusing them of stealing American trade secrets through cyber-espionage.

Attorney General Eric Holder said the Chinese military officials hacked into six U.S. nuclear power, metals and solar products industries, including Alcoa World Alumina, Westinghouse Electric, Allegheny Technologies, U.S. Steel Corp., United Steelworkers Union and SolarWorld.

"This is a case alleging economic espionage by members of the Chinese military and represents the first-ever charges against a state actor for this type of hacking," Holder said at a press conference Monday. "Enough is enough."

The hackers are accused of stealing trade secrets and economic espionage, according to the Associated Press . The charges have been described as unprecedented and dramatize a longtime Obama administration goal to prosecute state-sponsored cyber threats.

Holder said the U.S. will not tolerate foreign government efforts to sabotage American companies.

U.S. officials have accused China's army and China-based hackers of launching attacks on American industrial and military targets, often to steal secrets or intellectual property. China has said it faces a major threat from hackers, and the country's military is believed to be among the biggest targets of the National Security Agency and U.S. Cyber Command.

FBI Director James Comey told NBC News , "For too long, the Chinese government has blatantly sought to use cyber-espionage to obtain economic advantage for its state-owned industries."

The FBI tracked the computer attacks to Unit 61398 of the Third Department of the People's Liberation Army, headquartered in a building in Shanghai, officials said.

Authorities said the hacking benefited the Chinese competitors of the U.S. victims, including state-run enterprises, and led to the loss of American jobs. In one example, the hackers allegedly stole cost, pricing and strategy information from SolarWorld at the very time the company was losing market share to Chinese rivals, officials said.

"These victims are tired of being raided," Assistant Attorney General John Carlin said to NBC News, adding in the past, when the U.S. has complained about the hacking to China, "they responded by publicly challenging us to provide hard evidence of their hacking that could stand up in court.

"Well, today we are," Carlin said.

The Associated Press reported last September, President Barack Obama discussed cyber-security issues on the sidelines of a summit in St. Petersburg, Russia, with Chinese President Xi Jinping.

White House spokesman Ben Rhodes said at the time Obama had addressed concerns about cyber threats emanating from China. He said Obama told Xi the U.S. sees it not through the prism of security but out of concern over theft of trade secrets.

In late March, Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel revealed the Pentagon planned to more than triple its cybersecurity staff in the next few years to defend against Internet attacks that threaten national security.

Hagel's comments at the National Security Agency headquarters in suburban Washington came as he prepared to visit China.

"Our nation's reliance on cyberspace outpaces our cybersecurity," Hagel said at the time. "Our nation confronts the proliferation of destructive malware and a new reality of steady, ongoing and aggressive efforts to probe, access or disrupt public and private networks, and the industrial control systems that manage our water, and our energy and our food supplies."

The NSA has been scrutinized for trying to pressure China to restrict its cyber-espionage operations while attempting to set international standards for cyberconflict, the National Journal reported . Leaks from Edward Snowden, which have revealed U.S. spying on Chinese companies, have prompted international outrage, as many nations say the U.S. government is pushing a double-standard on cyberspying.

"We do not use foreign-intelligence capabilities to steal the trade secrets of foreign companies on behalf of--or give intelligence we collect to--U.S. companies to enhance their international competitiveness or increase their bottom line," NSA spokeswoman Vanee Vines told National Journal last month.

Commercial cyberspying is a growing drain on the U.S. economy, estimated to cost $24 billion to $120 billion annually.

cleveland.com is powered by Plain Dealer Publishing Co. and Northeast Ohio Media Group. All rights reserved ( About Us ).

The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Northeast Ohio Media Group LLC.

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
