
Establishment Clause jurisprudence is a mess. It has been a mess for a long time and it will likely remain a mess for some time to come. The Supreme Court’s recent decision in Town of Greece v. Galloway did nothing to clean up the mess, but gave some indication as to which rubble strewn path the current court has chosen to pick its way through.

The court considered the prayer offered before each city council meeting in Greece, New York, a small town outside of Rochester. The town had for years recruited pastors of local congregations to offer the opening prayer. The process included neither a formal attempt to recruit clergy representing diverse faiths, nor did it require the prayers to be ecumenical. For the first several years the prayers were delivered exclusively by Christian clergy. Then, in response to complaints, the council permitted representatives from non-Christian faiths to lead opening prayers as well.

The plaintiffs alleged that because the prayers invoked contained explicitly Christian theology, they amounted to a government endorsement of Christianity over other faiths, thus violating the Establishment Clause. Justice Anthony Kennedy, writing for a 5-4 majority, held the prayer policy to be constitutional.

Justice Kennedy’s opinion stymies attempts to glean an easily applied standard. He clearly wrote the policy with an eye toward limiting future litigation.  For example, throughout the opinion he emphasizes that a successful challenge must be based on an impermissible pattern, not a single prayer.

As to what constitutes constitutionally impermissible prayer, Justice Kennedy salts the opinion with a number of considerations, but does not summarize them into a coherent whole. He apparently abandons the previous test that government speech cannot endorse one sectarian faith over another. Instead he declares that ceremonial prayer is permissible as long as citizens are not coerced to participate.  But what exactly constitutes coercion is not clear.

He also justifies the fact that for the first several years of the prayer policy the Greece city council heard prayers from exclusively Christian pastors by observing that most, if not all, of the churches in Greece are Christian.

Sometimes subsequent years are unkind to Supreme Court decisions. In this case, the subsequent week has undermined Justice Kennedy’s sunny description.  In response to the court’s decision, Al Bedrosian, a member of the Roanoke (Virginia) County Board of Supervisors, proposed a new board policy regarding opening prayers under which each supervisor would rotate selecting clergy from his or her district.

A series of Google searches reveals that Roanoke is home to at least two synagogues, an Islamic center, a Hindu temple, a Buddhist center and a Unitarian Universalist church – all non-Christian faiths that Bedrosian would apparently exclude from contributing opening prayers.

Bedrosian’s declared intent to discriminate raises two concerns. First, he proves the reasonable suspicion that there exist in local government officials who do not want “a ceremonial prayer” to “acknowledge religious leaders and the institutions they represent” but instead wish to leverage the machinery of government to actively promote one religious viewpoint.

Second, it calls into question the ability of courts to effectively police local governments under Town of Greece. While Bedroasian’s brazen call for Christian exclusivity would make it easy for the court to find that a policy like the one he proposed was being applied to discriminate, it will be much harder to make such a ruling if an official knows better to keep his mouth shut.
