
AFP reported that China has evacuated more than 3,000 of its nationals from Vietnam after a wave of anti China unrest following Beijing’s deployment of an oil rig in contested waters.

The announcement came after Vietnamese civil society groups called for fresh demonstrations against China following riots earlier in the week which left two Chinese workers dead and more than 100 injured. But Vietnamese authorities, which have occasionally allowed protests to vent anger at the country’s giant neighbor, warned they would resolutely prevent any further outbursts.

China’s Foreign Ministry said that more than 3,000 Chinese nationals had been evacuated from Vietnam as of Saturday afternoon. They returned to China with the assistance of (the) Chinese Embassy to Vietnam.

The Chinese government is also arranging for a chartered plane and vessel to evacuate the staff of China 19th Metallurgical Corporation, a contractor of one of the plants badly hit by the recent violence.

Earlier Saturday, Beijing advised its nationals against travelling to Vietnam, which has over the past week seen its worst anti-China unrest in decades. Beijing’s positioning of an oil rig in waters also claimed by Vietnam in the South China Sea has ignited long simmering enmity between the two communist neighbors, which have fought territorial skirmishes in past decades.

According to the Vietnamese government, worker demonstrations spread to 22 of Vietnam’s 63 provinces in the last week with enraged mobs torching foreign owned factories.

China’s Foreign Ministry said that recently, there was an explosion of violence in South Vietnam targeting foreign companies, provoking injuries and death of Chinese citizens and damaging companies’ properties.

The Foreign Ministry advises Chinese nationals temporarily not to travel to Vietnam. (It also advises) Chinese citizens and structures in Vietnam to increase their risk awareness, to strengthen their security prevention measures, and to avoid leaving (their premises).
