
North Korea, which regularly threatens the South and the United States with destruction, is already under heavy sanctions imposed by several UN resolutions beginning in 2006 but has defied pressure to abandon its missile and nuclear programs.

It last conducted a nuclear test in February 2013.

"China has told North Korea that there is no justification for a new nuclear test and that they should not do it," said a Western diplomat who was briefed by Chinese officials.

The sources said China had used diplomatic channels in Beijing and Pyongyang to convey its anxiety about the possibility of a fourth test to the North.

China is North Korea's most important diplomatic and economic ally, though three nuclear tests and several rounds of sabre rattling have tested Beijing's support.

The United States has said it hopes China will use its influence to coax the North to abandon its banned nuclear weapons program. In recent public statements, Chinese foreign ministry officials have repeatedly called on all parties to "exercise restraint" on the Korean peninsula, without pointing the finger at North Korea alone.

China signed on to tougher UN sanctions last year after the third nuclear test, but has come under criticism from western countries and independent experts for failing to properly implement them.

North Korea's official Rodong Sinmun newspaper said this month the country was justified in using all available means at its disposal to counter aggressive challenges by the United States and South Korea aimed at stifling its sovereignty.

North Korea has warned it’s set to carry out its nuclear and missile tests year on year as a measure of self-defense, amid South Korea’s fears the fourth nuclear test will come shortly in the neighboring state.

South Korean Defense Minister Kim Kwan-jin said Thursday that North Korea has made all necessary preparations for it is waiting for the right time to put its plan into action. Many believed it would become reality ahead of Obama’s trip to Seoul in late April. Interestingly, Kim made the point citing satellite imagery showing increased activities at North Korea’s main test site in Punggye-ri.

"The missile launches and nuclear tests in the interest of self-defense will become annual," Ri Tong-il, the North Korean deputy ambassador to the United Nations told the UN Security Council on Wednesday, before his microphone was cut off, after he exceeded the four-minute time limit for speeches from non-permanent Security Council members.

Ri Tong-il accused the United States of "increasing nuclear blackmail" and reiterated that the primary target for North Korea is the United States. With that, South Korean Defense Minister stressed that their northern neighbors have perfectly mastered the means of psychological pressure in politics and one has to take what they announce or comment with a pinch of salt. "North Korea is very good at psychological manipulation," Kim said. "Thus, we cannot rule out the possibility that the North could intentionally delay (the nuclear test) or employ a deceptive tactic simultaneously." The reason he gives is Kim Jong Un’s striving for a decent political gain.

At the UNSC session, however, the debate proved much more heated, when South Korean Foreign Affairs Minister Yun Byung-se urged the UNSC members to threaten Pyongyang with "the most serious consequences" if it goes ahead with its nuclear program, apparently taking North Korea’s threats for real.

"We must clearly warn North Korea that if it challenges the international community with another nuclear test it will be met with the most serious consequences," the minister said.

Three nuclear tests have already been conducted on North Korea’s soil, namely in October 2006, May 2009, and February 2013, despite the burden of international sanctions imposed on the communist country. Kim said he believes the impoverished nation has made considerable progress in the atomic race and North Korean leader Kim Jong-un will not give in to the outer world’s demands. The question still arises, however, whether or not North Korea employed plutonium, harshly slammed in the international community, in its previous tests.

North Korea has developed advanced nuclear weapons and ballistic missile forces, former Pentagon strategic analyst Mark Schneider suggests. The study called "The North Korean Nuclear Threat to the United States," published in Comparative Strategy, says that Pyongyang could theoretically strike Hawaii, Alaska and parts of the West Coast.

The Defense Intelligence Agency in a separate assessment in 2013 claimed that the "North [Korean government] currently has nuclear weapons capable of delivery by ballistic missiles," according to Schneider’s 16-page report, some though doubting if the warhead worked out by North Korean engineers would fit long-range missiles.

All rights reserved.
