
Aside from the Augustinian Recollect restoration/renovation project, Fr. Boccard has contributed to the preservation and maintenance of a number of churches and seminaries in the Diocese of Dumaguete and beyond.

Through the charitable effort and benevolence of Fr. Boccard, the St. Joseph Seminary College in Dumaguete City was able to improve its building structure, particularly the water system, the roof of the entire building, and the quarters of the seminarians.

As an acknowledgement of his valuable contribution, the College Seminary has bestowed on Fr. Boccard an Award of Recognition expressing its sincere gratitude to all of his charitable deeds, humanitarian concern, benevolent service, faithful dedication and deep commitment for the welfare of the community of the People of God who are less privileged and fortunate.

In the Diocese of Dumaguete, he was instrumental in the establishment of the Diocesan Home for the Aged, the renovation of the Capernaum House of Prayer, and a benefactor of the Friendship Home Orphanage. Fr. Boccard has likewise been extending the same valuable support to the Archdiocese of Capiz, the Archdiocese of Zamboanga, and the other neighboring Dioceses of Dumaguete.

Fr. Boccard’s concern for the Seminary was not confined to renovating and maintaining structures but encompassed the seminarians’ spiritual and educational formation. He expressed his love for teaching and taught at the St. Joseph Seminary, notably the course on Social Doctrines for the Church.

Fr. Boccard likewise helped upgrade the formation of seminarians by initiating and funding a five-year (2001 to 2005) music studies program at the Saint Joseph Seminary College in collaboration with the Silliman University School of Music and the Performing Arts.

Fr. Boccard  has also supported the studies of several Seminarians in and out of the Diocese of Dumaguete, both in College and Theology Seminaries. Through the Fr. Jacques de Boccard Foundation, seminarians studying at various Theology Colleges were provided scholarship grants.

While not all these Seminarians realized their dreams of serving the Lord’s Church as Priests, others have become successful in their careers as lawyers and teachers, and nonetheless contributed positively to the improvement of their lives and their respective communities.
