
Thanks to agreements of Nursultan Nazarbayev, the volume of Chinese investments in Kazakhstan in less than one year exceeded the amount of investments attracted from China over the past 20 years. This is about $ 43 billion. Key documents on cooperation in the energy, chemical, agricultural and financial sectors were signed during the state visit of the President of Kazakhstan to China on Monday. By mutual agreement, companies from China will be engaged in the reconstruction of the Shymkent refinery. In addition, they will construct a plant to produce oil and gas pipes in the Almaty region. Partnership in the oil, gas and mining sectors will approach a new level, as the Development Bank of Kazakhstan will receive funds in the amount of half a billion dollars for financing of non-extractive industries.

- During our meeting in The Hague in March, we discussed the various opportunities to increase our turnover in order to bring it up to $ 40 billion by 2016. We have already achieved great results in the energy sector, the Chinese company produces almost one third of the oil produced in Kazakhstan. Given this, I would like once again to make a proposal to further improve our trade relations.

Also in the eve President of Kazakhstan has launched the construction of a Kazakh marine terminal in the Chinese port of Lianyungang. And this is a whole new level and direct access to the vast Pacific market. Efforts of Nursultan Nazarbayev in the development of trade relations between Kazakhstan and China have been appreciated. President of Kazakhstan was awarded by the Peace Prize ‘Silk Road’. The award was established in 2010 and is awarded for outstanding contribution to strengthening international peace, mutual trust, friendship and building of harmonious inter-ethnic relations.

- The basis of our cooperation, of China and Kazakhstan is economic cooperation. You made a very important and historic speech on the establishment of economic zones of the Silk Road in Nazarbayev University September 2013. Kazakhstan is ready to actively participate in the implementation of this ambitious project, which will cover areas such as economy, trade, transport, investment, finance and culture.
