
Recently High Commissioner for Pakistan in Sri Lanka, General  Qasim Qureshi, at a press conference convened by the National Chamber of  Commerce of Sri Lanka, answering questions from the press conceded that Pakistan  was not a major buyer of Ceylon Tea. He further said this would be corrected in  the short run to increase tea purchases from Sri Lanka.

He also made the point that Ceylon Tea was not affordable by the  Pakistan end user, but the existing trade deficit corresponding to Ceylon Tea  imports would be narrowed.

Despite his assurance that Lankan tea imports to his country  would increase, the Asia Siyaka weekly tea market report dated May 12 indicated  that there were no tea exports to Pakistan from Lanka, January to March, this  year.

Although the report further said Pakistan’s tea imports  indicated a sharp fall of some 22.25 %, quoting ‘The Business Recorder’, the Sri  Lankan tea context did not witness any indicators that Pakistan would enter the  market to record its presence.

Kenya continues to be Pakistan’s major supplier of tea  registering an increase of 60 . 95 %, compared to the same period last year  which recorded a 60 . 41 % increase.

Additionally, India, Rwanda, Indonesia and China, account for  about 80 % tea imports to Pakistan.

Considering details as recorded in the Asia Siyaka report, the  question is, would the Pakistan High Commission honour its commitment to  purchase Ceylon Tea. Government to government bilateral trade has been currently  established at the highest level. At that identified press conference Pakistan  was apprehensive of importing Sri Lankan products, subject to quality  consistency and standards. They were assured by the press that, that question  did not come into the equation because Ceylon Tea was a world class product. The  High Commissioner said this was correct.

Meanwhile, the John Keels PLC, weekly tea market report said  there was excellent demand at last week’s auction. Iran, Syria, and Turkey,  accounted for the bulk of demand. Additionally,Dubai Jordon and other Middle  Eastern countries too lent useful support.

Todate averages recorded were that Ceylon Tea is currently on an  ascendant spiral. Brokers were optimistic this trend would continue.

However, there was no comment that these prices would translate to a healthy bottom line in the formal tea sector.

The tea smallholders and the tea factory owners were at  profitable levels.

All Rights Reserved.

Solution by Lankacom .
