
Share This Story!

Out of the loop today? We've got the top stories right here.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

U.S. and Chinese national flags are hung outside a hotel during the U.S. Presidential election event, organized by the U.S. embassy in Beijing.

Tensions between two world powers intensified over hacking on Monday. In a case Attorney General Eric Holder has called "economic espionage," the U.S. is accusing China of hacking into U.S. companies to steal vital trade secrets for competitive advantage. The indictment charges five military officers in the Chinese People's Liberation Army with directing a conspiracy to steal information from six American companies in critical industries, including nuclear power, solar power and metals. It's the first time the U.S. has charged a state actor in a criminal cyberespionage case.

Whatever you do, don't order that burger anything less than well done. Food regulators said Detroit-based Wolverine Packing Company shipped 1.8 million pounds of ground beef products  for restaurant use in Massachusetts, Michigan, Missouri and Ohio that are being recalled due to possible E. coli contamination . The best way to reduce their risk is to avoid ordering undercooked burgers. Don't be shy -- tell your server you want your burger cooked to 160 degrees.

Ground beef products are being recalled after an E. coli outbreak affecting 11 people.

Everyone can breathe easy. California Chrome will be allowed to wear a nasal strip at the Belmont Stakes on June 7, keeping alive his chance to become the first Triple Crown winner in 36 years. Three stewards at Belmont Park on Monday unanimously approved the nasal strips for all horses running at racetracks of the New York Racing Association. A day earlier, California Chrome trainer Art Sherman said that if the horse wasn't allowed to run with a nasal strip – designed to enhance airflow in the nasal passages -- his owners might not want to run him at all at the Belmont.

California Chrome in shown Baltimore soon after he got the official clearance Monday from New York racing officials to wear a nasal strip in the Belmont Stakes.

The New Hampshire police commissioner who called President Obama the n-word while sitting in a local restaurant has resigned, but Robert Copeland, 82, stirred up more controversy when he refused to apologize. "I believe I did use the 'n' word in reference to the current occupant of the White House," Copeland wrote to his fellow commissioners. "For this, I do not apologize — he meets and exceeds my criteria for such."

The deadline was Friday for people to submit comments to the FCC about lifting a 1991 ban on airborne cellular service, created to avoid jamming ground stations. Opposition was nearly unanimous , with messages ranging from hand-scrawled diatribes to multipage rants. "This is the worst idea ever," wrote John Simpson of San Francisco. "It is already bad enough with people talking on their phones everywhere, but most of the time one can move away from the idiot; on a plane you are stuck." No schedule is set for taking action.

A plane passenger checks her cell phone before a flight in Boston in October 2013. The Federal Communications Commission is considering lifting a 1991 on cellular service aboard planes. The public comment period ended Friday.

The White House announced on Monday that Marine Lance Cpl. William "Kyle" Carpente,  24, will be awarded the Medal of Honor, the nation's highest award for bravery, for intentionally placing himself between a grenade and a fellow Marine, shielding him from a blast and saving his life.The ceremony is scheduled for June 19.

Medically retired Marine Lance Cpl. Kyle Carpenter speaks to media at the Pentagon.

U.S. authorities charged Credit Suisse with criminal conspiracy Monday, alleging the Swiss banking giant helped wealthy American clients evade U.S. taxes. A person familiar with the matter said the bank is expected to enter a guilty plea to the criminal charge and pay roughly $2.5 billion to $2.6 billion in penalties.

Credit Suisse CEO Brady Dougan testifies before the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee on Feb. 26 in Washington, D.C.

Day in Pictures: A striking image from today's gallery .

A person looks at a damaged road after a mortar shell exploded May 19 near Andriyivka, Ukraine.

Have you seen this video? Gay penguins hatch adopted egg.

This is wild: Wyoming cloud wows weatherwatchers .

This is a compilation of stories from across USA TODAY.
