
Secretary of State John F. Kerry’s speech to Yale’s graduating seniors featured pop culture references, a little self-deprecating humor, and his hopes for how the class will set about making contributions to the world.

WASHINGTON — Secretary of State John F. Kerry on Sunday tapped into what he characterized as a growing sense of global unease while urging Yale University graduates to remain optimistic that government gridlock can be broken.

“People around the world seem to have grown used to systems or institutions failing to respond,” Kerry said. “And the result is an obvious deepening frustration if not exasperation with institutional governance.

“The sum total of all of this inaction is stealing the future from all of us,” he added, before calling the graduating class to action.

Kerry was addressing the Yale graduating class in New Haven almost exactly 48 years after he was chosen to deliver a speech when he was a senior. In that case, he threw away mundane text and decided instead to deliver a speech raising doubts about the foreign policy doctrines that were escalating the Vietnam War in which he was about to fight.

Returning to campus nearly a half-century later has caused the nation’s top diplomat to review his words and reconsider his views of the US role in the world. In 1966, he warned that “an excess of isolation has led to an excess of interventionism,” but on Sunday he warned the exact opposite.

The former Massachusetts senator and 2004 Democratic presidential candidate also delivered a bit of a stand-up routine, which included some self-depreciating humor and a knock on Los Angeles Clippers owner Donald Sterling, who has been criticized for making racist remarks.

Kerry also joked about his  long-windedness (“I promise I won’t go a minute over four hours”) and his generation’s drug use.

After delivering the commencement address at Yale, Kerry planned to return to Boston, where on Monday he will deliver the commencement address for undergraduates at Boston College.

It is another homecoming of sorts for Kerry, who graduated from Boston College Law School in 1976. “I became far more disciplined as a student, and far more — really trained — in how to think,” Kerry said in an interview with the Globe.

Kerry, the first Catholic to serve as secretary of state since Edmund Muskie, said he was excited to return.

Kerry attended law school after returning from the Vietnam War, and after having lost his first bid in politics, a race for a congressional seat in Lowell. He started days after his first child, Alexandra, was born, and while attending classes he moonlighted part time as a radio talk show host on WBZ-AM.

After graduating from law school, Kerry became a prosecutor in the Middlesex district attorney’s office, where he worked until becoming lieutenant governor in 1983 and US senator in 1985.

In the speech at Boston College, Kerry plans to reflect on teachings of his own Catholic faith. He plans to highlight the words of Boston College theologian David Hollenbach, who spoke of human dignity coming to the forefront of Catholic social teaching.

“When men and women have access to clean water and clear power, they can live in dignity,” Kerry plans to say, according to excerpts provided to the Globe. “When citizens can make their full contribution, no matter their ethnicity, no matter who they love or what name they give to God, they can live in dignity.

“The demand for dignity of men and women across the world matters deeply to our own prosperity — it matters to our security — and diplomats and development professionals cannot respond to these demands on their own,” he adds.

You can now read 10 free articles.

Read it all, now.

Don't miss any of your favorite stories again. Read the stories that matter to you as much as you want, whenever you want when you subscribe to BostonGlobe.com.

The login information you entered does not match an account in our records.

To activate FREE access as a home delivery subscriber start here.

If you don't have a subscription, you can view our digital offers here.

Please check your e-mail for a message from BostonGlobe.com with the subject line "BostonGlobe.com password request." Click the link in the e-mail to choose a new password for BostonGlobe.com, and note that your new password will also be used for your Boston.com membership.

Enter your e-mail address below. We’ll send you an e-mail with a link to reset your password.

Continue reading by subscribing to BostonGlobe.com for just 99¢ .

Continue reading by subscribing to BostonGlobe.com for just 99¢ .

Stay informed with unlimited access to Boston’s trusted news source.
