
WANTED: Unprecedented indictments from the US claim Chinese hackers targeted the US nuclear power, metals and solar industries to steal trade secrets from companies including Alcoa and Westinghouse.

The United States Justice Department has accused five members of the Chinese military of conducting economic cyber-espionage against American companies, marking the first time that the US has leveled such criminal charges against a foreign country.

Industries targeted by the alleged cyberspying ranged from nuclear to steel to solar energy, officials said. The hacking by a military unit in Shanghai, they said, was conducted for no other reason than to give a competitive advantage to Chinese companies, including state-owned enterprises.

In a statement he read at a news conference, Attorney General Eric Holder said: "The range of trade secrets and other sensitive business information stolen in this case is significant and demands an aggressive response. . . . Success in the international marketplace should be based solely on a company's ability to innovate and compete, not on a sponsor government's ability to spy and steal business secrets."

Holder said the Obama administration "will not tolerate actions by any nation that seeks to illegally sabotage American companies and undermine the integrity of fair competition in the operation of the free market."

In response, China's Foreign Ministry charged Monday that the US government "fabricated facts" in the indictment, which it said "seriously violates basic norms of international relations and damages Sino-US cooperation and mutual trust." It said China lodged a "protest" with the United States, urging it to "correct the error immediately and withdraw its so-called prosecution."

Foreign Ministry Spokesman Qin Gang denied in a statement that Chinese government, military and "associated personnel" have ever engaged in "the theft of trade secrets through cyber means." Qin called the US accusations "purely fictitious, extremely absurd."

Contrary to US claims, "China is the victim of US theft and cyber-surveillance," Qin said.

In retaliation, the statement said, "China has decided to suspend the activities of Sino-US Cyber Working Group." It left open the prospect of "further reaction" in the case.

The indictment against members of the People's Liberation Army follows vows by senior administration officials to hold other nations to account for computer theft of intellectual property from American industry.

China is widely seen as the nation that has been most aggressive in waging cyber-espionage against the United States.

Victimized by the cyberspying were Westinghouse Electric Co., Alcoa, Allegheny Technologies Inc., United States Steel, the United Steel Workers Union and SolarWorld, officials said. Alcoa is the largest aluminum company in the United States, and US Steel is the nation's largest steel company.

The indictment alleges that in some cases the hackers stole trade secrets that would have been particularly beneficial to Chinese companies. For example, it alleges that an Oregon producer of solar panel technology, SolarWorld, was rapidly losing market share to Chinese competitors who were systematically pricing exports well below production costs. At the same time, defendant Wen stole thousands of files containing cost and pricing information from the company, the indictment says.

It also alleges that while Westinghouse Electric, a Pennsylvania nuclear power plant manufacturer, was negotiating with a Chinese company over the construction of four power plants in China, defendant Sun stole confidential design specifications for pipes, pipe supports and pipe routing for those plants - information that would enable any competitor looking to build a similar plant to save on research and development costs.

Each of the defendants was charged with 31 counts for alleged offenses between 2006 and 2014. If convicted, they would face decades in prison. However, they are at large in China, US officials acknowledged, and there is virtually no chance that the Chinese government would turn them over to US authorities.

The five were indicted on May 1, and the indictment was unsealed Sunday and docketed Monday morning, officials said.

In addition to Holder, officials participating in a news conference to announce the charges included John Carlin, assistant attorney general for national security; David Hickton, the US attorney for the Western District of Pennsylvania, based in Pittsburgh; and Robert Anderson, executive associate director of the FBI.

The charges are being brought in western Pennsylvania, where several companies that were allegedly victimized are located.

"This case should serve as a wakeup call" on the seriousness of the ongoing cyber threat, Holder said.

Carlin said that in the past, Chinese government officials have challenged the United States to produce charges that could stand up in a court of law.

"Well, today we are," he said.

"To be clear, this conduct is criminal," Carlin said.

"This 21st century burglary has to stop," Hickton said. "Hacking, spying and cyberthreats for commercial advantage can and will be prosecuted criminally even when the defendants are state actors."

In response to a question, Hickton said, "This cyber hacking leads directly to the loss of jobs here in the United States."

In 2012, the Justice Department's National Security Division began training hundreds of prosecutors to combat and prosecute cyber-espionage that poses a threat to national security. Later that year, Carlin, then principal deputy assistant attorney general, told Defense News that "you'll see a case brought."

Even if a prosecution never materialises, the indictment will send a powerful message that such acts will not be tolerated, officials said.

Estimates of the economic costs to the United States of commercial cyber-espionage range from $24 billion to $120 billion annually. China is by far the country that engages in the most such activity against the United States, according to a US national intelligence estimate.

Senior US officials have repeatedly warned China that its continued pilfering of intellectual property to benefit its industries will harm the two countries' bilateral relationship.

In February 2013, the US security firm Mandiant reported that it had linked a specific unit of the People's Liberation Army to cyber-intrusions of more than 140 US and foreign companies and entities.

The United States and China agreed last year to begin holding regular, high-level talks on cybersecurity and commercial espionage. But whenever US officials raise the issue of economic spying, the Chinese are not receptive, administration officials said. Though Washington takes pains to distinguish between foreign intelligence gathering and spying to help a country's own industries gain an economic advantage, officials say that is a distinction without a difference to the Chinese.

The leaks from former National Security Agency contractor Edward Snowden beginning last June have only complicated the talks. Beijing has pointed to disclosures by Snowden of vast NSA surveillance activities - including spying on Chinese companies - to assert that the United States is the greater aggressor in the area.

The US charges are likely to be seen in China as a major action, said Jin Canrong, vice director of international studies at Beijing's Renmin University. "In the past, the US talked about it but never took any real actions. If the US freezes some Chinese military assets as a result of this, China will respond with counteractions accordingly."

How negatively it affects US-China relations depends on what further actions the White House takes beyond the criminal charges, Jin said. But in China, he noted, there is a feeling of hypocrisy whenever the United States brings up such charges, especially in light of the recent NSA leaks. "The US has been doing the same thing," he said.

"This case has been under preparation for a year," said Bonnie Glaser, a senior Asia expert at the Washington-based Center for Strategic and International Studies who meets frequently with military-related and state-sponsored academics in China. The United States is now resorting to such charges because nothing else has worked diplomatically, she said. President Barack Obama has raised the issue repeatedly with Chinese President Xi Jinping in meetings.

"The Chinese have ignored US requests to stop stealing US companies' intellectual property. The US believes it is necessary to impose consequences for China's actions," she said.

"Since Snowden's revelations, the Chinese have ridiculed US charges that it is stealing [intellectual property]. I expect they will call this US action hypocritical and dismiss it out of hand," she added.

"The difference between stealing intelligence and company secrets is lost on the Chinese," she said. "Both are considered fair game and an essential means to accelerate China's reemergence as a great power."

At the same time, China has used recent disclosures on NSA surveillance for maximum diplomatic effect to push back against US accusations of cyberattacks. Among the most damaging revelations was a report in March that the NSA infiltrated Chinese telecommunications giant Huawei Technologies to see whether it was spying for Beijing and to turn its equipment against other countries, such as Iran.

In recent years, US officials have made the distinction between cyberspying for national security and cyber-intrusions into private companies for economic theft, which the United States says it does not do but which it accuses China of doing all the time. The Huawei case, while not a theft for economic advantage, showed the US government infiltrating a private Chinese company.

"China has lodged complaints to the United States about this many times. We urge the US side to make a clear explanation and stop this kind of acts," Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei said in March.
