
Islamabad ,President Mamnoon Hussain has called for closer cooperation among Asian countries to resolve the regional problems.

He made the call in interview with Radio China ahead of his visit to Shanghai to attend two-day Summit of the Conference on Interaction and Confidence Building (CICA) in Asia, beginning on Tuesday. The CICA will be attended by eleven head of Asian states and governments.

The President said Asian leaders should discuss ways to promote common issues confronting their respective countries. He said all member countries should cooperate in addresdsing the problems.

Mamnoon Hussain said CICA is the biggest forum for solution of problems of ninety percent population of the region. He hoped that the forum will get importance day by day as its decisions would have far reaching effects on the world’s politics, economy and other matters.

The CICA which was established in 1992 as a forum for dialogue and consultations, now has 24 countries as full members and 13 observers.

President Mamnoon Hussain left for Shanghai, China on Monday to attend Conference on Interaction and Confidence-Building Measures in Asia.

CICA is a multi-national forum for enhancing cooperation towards promoting peace, security and stability in Asia.

The President will highlight Pakistani efforts to overcome terrorism and promote peace and stability in the region.

During his three-day stay in Shanghai, Mamnoon Hussain will also hold meeting with his Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping on the sidelines of conference.

He will discuss bilateral cooperation and review progress on the proposed mega projects for economic development of Pakistan to be launched with the cooperation of China.

The President is also expected to hold bilateral meetings with other Asian leaders attending the conference and will discuss ways to further strengthen ties with these countries.

He will also attend a ceremony in Shanghai today (Tuesday) to launch Urdu Chinese Dictionary.

Get Social with Us!

© Onepakistan.com 2012. All rights reserved.
