
The head of the Pontifical Council for the Family spoke at the headquarters of the United Nations on the International Day of Families.

NEW YORK — The family has a “unique character” that makes it a “patrimony for all humanity,” Archbishop Vincenzo Paglia, the head of the Pontifical Council for the Family, told the United Nations.

He called for a “renewal of family models” that foster a family that is more understanding of itself, more attentive to its internal relationships and more able to live in harmony with other families with respect for its surroundings.

Archbishop Paglia, a native of Italy, spoke at the United Nations' headquarters in New York City on May 15, the International Day of Families. The event marks the 20th anniversary of the International Year of the Family, established by the U.N.'s General Assembly to raise awareness about the importance of families and to respond to the challenges they face.

The family is also a place for “strong relationships” that deeply affect its members “for good or ill.” It lacks the instability of other relationships and requires its members to interact with people different than themselves.

Countries that do not make men's responsibility for their children a “structural element” face poorer social development, especially regarding women and children, he noted.

Archbishop Paglia warned of two dangers: “familyism,” in which the good of family is preferred to the good of the individual or the good of society as a whole, and “radical individualism” that destroys the family.

The archbishop said that the family is in “crisis” in recent decades, evidenced by increased divorce, increased out-of-wedlock births and single-parent families and a decline in the number of marriages. This crisis causes problems in demographics, failures in education, the abandonment of the elderly and the spread of social disturbances.

Archbishop Paglia addressed the U.N. after visiting Philadelphia, which will host the Catholic Church’s World Meeting of Families in 2015. The meeting aims to support and strengthen families around the world. The meeting’s organizers are encouraging Pope Francis to attend the event.

I would like to see a picture or video of the address to get some idea of the size of the audience. I just don’t see the U.N. being all that interested in the family.

Dear Fr. Paglia,

We all know what families should be but few will ever attain. In depth surveys have shown that more than 90% of families suffer from various degrees of dysfunction. The ill’s that affect and harm these families is probably no different than those found among the hierarchy or leaders of the Roman Catholic Church.  However, the latter have shown a total inability to deal effectively with the sexual abuse crisis. These facts cannot be ignored.  There remains the open wound of total silence to this very day on the endemic and systemic issues that brought this painful crisis to a head.  Until these issues are actually addressed the matter remains unresolved especially for its victims and their families.  Until such time the credibility and sustainability of the institution remains in doubt.  As a result many will question the ability of an all male celibate hierarchy to understand the modern day pressures on a typical family (assuming there is such a thing).  Any advice for families that comes with dire warnings but is completely devoid of the simple word ‘love’ must be considered suspect.

Tom,

A few dishonest ideologues . . . ?????  Have you any idea how these dishonest ideologues have affected Catholic families?  If anyone was ‘viciously, illegitimately attacked’ it most certainly has to be the victims of sexual abuse by clergy.

“Tens of thousands of children throughout the world have been sexually abused by priests who have mostly been secretly dealt with by an ecclesiastical law that provides no real punishment and gives them ample opportunity to re-offend.  Astoundingly, this has not been recognized as a human rights horror.

  We may think the abuse was not a crime.  We may think that the problem has gone away.  We may think that apologies to the victims is enough.  But thinking so doesn’t mean that the church has dealt with the systemic and endemic issues behind this scandal.

Rather than chanting emotionalistic slogans, study the actual stats. If you are going to generalize, at the very least have the intellectual honesty to know what statistical UNIVERSE you’re generalizing about.

Tom,

Ten is too many especially if it was your child or other family matter. But that was not the purpose of my posting nor was it about stat’s.  The real crime was to hide the offenders for so long, allowing to repeat their acts, again and again to protect the image of the church.

When we fail to address our failures we are bound to repeat them again.

Tom,

In the future or NOW please note that the discussion guidelines above.

I assure you, if not for the commenting guidelines, I would respond to your vicious calumnies as they truly deserve.

We encourage a lively and honest discussion of our content. We ask that charity guide your words.           By submitting this form, you are agreeing to our discussion guidelines .           Comments are published at our discretion. We won’t publish comments that lack charity, are off topic, or are more than 400 words.           Thank you for keeping this forum thoughtful and respectful.

Comments are no longer being accepted on this article.

Reproduction of material from this website without written permission is strictly prohibited.

Enter your e-mail address below to receive the latest news and blog posts in your inbox each day.

As part of this free service you will receive occasional free offers from us. We won’t share your information, and you can unsubscribe at anytime.
