
A federal grand jury filed criminal charges against five Chinese military officials accused of hacking into private-sector U.S. companies, including U.S. Steel, to gain trade secrets, according to an indictment unsealed Monday.

The indictment accused members of the People's Liberation Army, the military of the People's Republic of China, of participating in cyber-espionage on behalf of a foreign government, according to the 48-page indictment.

Wang Dong, Sun Kailiang, Wen Xinyu, Huang Zhenyu and Gu Chunhui are accessed of hacking into private-sector companies, including Western Pennsylvania companies U.S. Steel, Alcoa and Westinghouse Electric, to gain trade secrets and steal information.

"To our knowledge, no material information was compromised during this  incident which occurred several years ago. Safeguarding our data is a  top priority for Alcoa and we continue to invest resources to protect  our systems," said Monica Orbe, a spokesperson for Alcoa.

U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder, U.S. Attorney David Hickton, Assistant Attorney General John Carlin and FBI Executive Associate Director Robert Anderson were scheduled to speak at a press conference in Washington, D.C., at 10 a.m.

Carlin, recently installed as head of the Justice's National Security Division, this year cited prosecution of state-sponsored cyber-threats as a key goal for the Obama administration.

U.S. officials have accused China's army and China-based hackers of launching attacks on American industrial and military targets, often to steal secrets or intellectual property. China has said that it faces a major threat from hackers, and the country's military is believed to be among the biggest targets of the NSA and U.S. Cyber Command.

Beijing has in the past repeatedly denied allegations that its hackers have targeted foreign websites but says China is a major victim of cyberattacks and is opposed to any form of cyber hacking.

It says it wants to see global cooperation in fighting cybercrimes instead of allegations.

Earlier this year, China set up an Internet security group led by President Xi Jinping. State media have described the Internet as a battleground, where cyber safety is essential to state security.

Last September, President Barack Obama discussed cybersecurity issues on the sidelines of a summit in St. Petersburg, Russia, with Chinese President Xi Jinping.

White House spokesman Ben Rhodes said at the time that Obama had addressed concerns about cyber threats emanating from China. He said Obama told Xi the U.S. sees it not through the prism of security but out of concern over theft of trade secrets.

In late March, Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel revealed that the Pentagon planned to more than triple its cybersecurity staff in the next few years to defend against Internet attacks that threaten national security.

Hagel's comments at the National Security Agency headquarters in suburban Washington came as he prepared to visit China.

Thank you for registering!

We have sent you a confirmation email. Please check your email and click on the link to activate your account.

Thank you for registering!

We look forward to seeing you frequently. Visit us and sign in to update your profile, receive the latest news and keep up to date with mobile alerts.

Don't worry, it happens. We'll send you a link to create a new password.

We have sent you an email with a link to change your password.

We've sent an email with instructions to create a new password. Your existing password has not been changed.

To sign in you must verify your email address. Fill out the form below and we'll send you an email to verify.

Check your email for a link to verify your email address.
