
One of your articles has caused quite a stir! 250 comments have been made about it so far!

Atheitis is blunt. He is abrasive. He has no patience with religion of any kind, and says so. Frequently. Loudly. He does not mince his words. And that is his right. I might not agree with him, I might not care much for the way he gets his message across, but I will defend his right to say what he thinks – however he chooses to say it. We do not need News 24 Nannies to block our little shell-like ears for us in case we hear something we do not like. We are adults – time for everyone to grow up and start behaving like adults. And that, sadly for some, means accepting that people have the right to not only think what they like, but to express those thoughts (with the obvious exceptions like hate speech etc).

Have we not learned that the only way to understanding each other is through communication? How can we communicate with a person if News 24 decides to ban them? I wonder – if a poll were taken of votes for and against the banning of Atheitis, what would the outcome be? I suspect that the outcome would be a resounding “NO, do NOT ban him”.

And I can be bothered even less now.

Get Published!

Disclaimer: All articles and letters published on MyNews24 have been independently written by members of News24's community. The views of users published on News24 are therefore their own and do not necessarily represent the views of News24. News24 editors also reserve the right to edit or delete any and all comments received.

Get Published!

Travel - Look, Book, Go!

SMS Alerts Get breaking news stories via SMS.

Blogs Your opinion on you, me and everyone.

Calais Website keywords automated by OpenCalais.

© 2014 24.com. All rights reserved.

Creating your profile will enable you to submit photos and stories to get published on News24.

This username must be unique, cannot be edited and will be used in the URL to your profile page across the entire 24.com network.

* The image you selected could not be uploaded.

Hi News addict,

Join the News24 Community to be involved in breaking the news.
