
It’s no secret that the Chinese military represents a real threat to online security here in the U.S. Over the last several years, state-sponsored Chinese hackers have broken into hundreds of American targets–both inside the U.S. government and across the private sector. But when the Department of Justice announced criminal charges against five hackers working for China’s military this morning, it came at an awkward time. After a year of revelations from ex-NSA contractor Edward Snowden, it’s clearer than ever before that America’s own government hackers have been running rampant through the world’s networks.

U.S. intelligence officials should think twice before planning any summer vacations in the People’s Republic.

On Monday, the Justice Department indicted five hackers associated with China’s People’s Liberation Army, accusing them of stealing information from six American companies across the energy, metals, and manufacturing industries . The charges represent a new elevation of America’s cyberspy-versus-cyberspy conflict with China, transforming a diplomatic situation into a criminal issue. But cybersecurity policy-watchers say that the arrival of the indictments in the wake of Snowden’s serial revelations could both lessen the charges’ impact and leave American officials open to parallel criminal allegations from Chinese authorities.

Last September, a story based on information from Snowden said that the NSA recently hacked into the Brazilian oil firm Petrobras. Just two months ago, another Snowden leak revealed the NSA had hacked Chinese networking company Huawei to steal source code. And those are just two of a slew of reports over the last year that the NSA and its allies have hacked foreign governments and occasionally private sector targets to gather intelligence. The attacks may have happened as many as 231 times in 2011 alone .

To be fair, the five Chinese hackers named in Monday’s indictment are accused specifically of stealing trade secrets to give Chinese companies an advantage in industry negotiations and competition. That’s a kind of spying that US officials have repeatedly denied the NSA engages in. But it’s not clear how much that point helps to legally or diplomatically distinguish Chinese hacking activities from cyberespionage by America and its allies. And Snowden has also alluded to forthcoming revelations  that may show the NSA isn’t above industrial espionage, either.

1Correction 6:14 EST 05/19/14: This story has been updated to properly identify Eric King.
