
One unnamed military  source told NBC that  those accused "used military and intelligence facilities to commit cyber espionage against U.S. companies." U.S. officials have long pointed to China as the source of cyber attacks on American firms,  per NBC , but never made such concrete charges before.

"Chinese actors are the world's most active and persistent perpetrators of economic espionage," said the Office of the National Counterintelligence Executive, a U.S. government agency, in a 2011 report. A year ago, several U.S. newspapers, including TheNew York Times and The Wall Street Journal, said hackers traced to China attacked their newsroom computer systems.

Tensions over U.S. cyber operations intensified again last weekend after a report that the NSA had penetrated the networks of a Chinese telecommunications giant, Huawei Technologies, in search of evidence that it was involved in espionage operations for Beijing and to use its equipment to spy on adversaries such as Iran. After the disclosure, first reported by the New York Times and Der Spiegel, China demanded a halt to any such activity and called for an explanation.

Attorney General Eric Holder is set to announce more details of the criminal charges later today. The  Wall Street Journal reports  that the individuals charged apparently work for Unit 61398 of the People's Liberation Army in Shanghai, and stole proprietary information from yet-unnamed firms — including nuclear power plant designs, and information about solar panel cost and pricing.

Holder and the DOJ and FBI representatives said that the indictment outlines specific incidences where Chinese hacking has made it impossible for these companies to compete on a global scale. The loss of intellectual property, they say, has led to layoffs and other economic setbacks at home.

The malware sells for as little as $40. It can be used to hijack computers remotely and turn on webcams, access hard drives and capture keystrokes to steal passwords without the victim's knowledge. Criminals have used it for everything from extortion to bank fraud, the FBI says.

By using this service you agree not to post material that is obscene, harassing, defamatory, or       otherwise objectionable. Although Nextgov does not monitor comments posted to this site (and has       no obligation to), it reserves the right to delete, edit, or move any material that it deems to       be in violation of this rule.
