
As the most recent report notes, it has never lacked for material. Persecutions of people of faith are rising across the globe.

Among the most worrying trends, according to the State Department, are "authoritarian governments that restrict their citizens’ ability to practice their religion."

In typically bland bureaucratic language, the State Department calls these "countries of particular concern." But the designation can come with some teeth.

Sudan, for example, where a Christian woman was sentenced to death this week for leaving Islam, is ineligible for some types of foreign aid.

In addition to Sudan, here are the State Department's  "countries of particular concern ." You might call them "The Worst Places in the World to Be Religious."

Burma: The Burmese government puts a stranglehold on every religion except Theravada Buddhism, says the State Department.

Some government officials even enticed non-Buddhists to convert, and Muslims in the state of Rakhine, particularly Rohingya Muslims, are subject to discrimination and lethal violence, according to the State Department.

China: "The government harassed, detained, arrested, or sentenced to prison a number of religious adherents for activities reportedly related to their religious beliefs and practice," the State Department says.

That includes jailing Uyghur Muslims, one of whom was sentenced to 10 years for "selling illegal religious material," and Catholic clergy who were arrested for not belonging to the state-run Catholic Patriotic Association.

Eritrea: Just four religious groups are officially allowed to openly practice their faith in this African nation; the rest are subject to jailing or worse.

So if you're not an Eritrean Orthodox Christian, a Sunni Muslim, a Roman Catholic or an Evangelical Lutheran, life could be tough for you here. Harsh detentions for religious dissenters are the norm, according to the State Department.

Iran:  This Muslim-majority country's respect for religious rights has declined in recent years, according to the State Department.

"There were increased reports that the government charged religious and ethnic minorities with moharebeh (enmity against God), 'anti-Islamic propaganda,' or vague national security crimes for their religious activities," says the department's report.

The government has imprisoned numerous members of the Baha'i faith and Saeed Abedini, an Iranian-American pastor who has been physically and psychologically abused, according to the State Department.

The authoritarian nation has jailed as many as 200,000 political prisoners, according to the State Department, many on religious grounds. The country discourages any religious activity not sanctioned by officially recognized groups.

Saudi Arabia: The oil-rich monarchy doesn't even pretend to respect religious rights for any faith other than Islam.

Sunni Islam is the official religion, and the country's constitution is based on the Quran and the teachings of the Prophet Mohammed.

The public practice of any other religion is prohibited, according to the State Department, and Arabian authorities beheaded a man in 2012 for engaging in "sorcery."

Sudan: This country has been on the State Department's naughty list since its inception in 1999.

Sudan penalizes blasphemy and conversion from Islam, sentencing a Christian woman whom judges say converted from Islam to death this week.

The country has also arrested and deported Western Christians suspected of spreading their faith, according to the State Department.

The country's "morality police" require strict obedience to its interpretation of Islamic law, beating and stoning women accused of acting "indecently."

Uzbekistan: Technically, this country's laws respect religious rights.

But in practice, the Central Asian nation maintains strict control of its majority-Muslim population, according to the State Department.

People jailed on charges of "religious extremism" have been beaten, tortured and even killed, according to the State Department.

Any Christian could just as easily be any other religion. It all depends on location. Why do some people not get sucked in to the Bible nonsense? They were born with common sense and rejected the obvious absurdity of religion.

a.  Nope.

b.  Nope.

c. Nope.

Jesus gives reasons why we should and shouldn't follow him.

They don't really line up with the OP's claim.

You mean Jesus ALLEGEDLY gave rerasons, since nothing attributed to Jesus can be confirmed he said it. Likely just more of the writers embellishment.

Good job Dalahast!

The answer for Dala is likey #1 but he won't accept that is why he is a Christian because he believes even though he was born into a community or family that pushed Christianity he thinks he is one of the few who actually studied it impartially and came to believe it based on his own research. Sure he was biased as it was already the default religion in his neighborhood, but he wants to feel more superior than the rest of those "fake" Christians you mentioned with your OP.

He claimed he could explain them.  But never did.

Perhaps my memory is faulty but have you stated that you were a screw up before you found jesus and his presence has enhanced your life and moral outlook.  That would plainly put you in category b, would it not?  BTW don't retort with your usual, "you don't know what I believe BS", you have worn that deflection out by now.  Of course no one knows what you believe, because you are a slippery fellow that slithers around on a daily basis.  The people that I talk with (another one or your favorites) truly believe that your comments are from a loser, see how that works.

I have never stated I was a screw up before I found Jesus.  Nor have I said anything about a moral outlook.

Do you think it is ok to suggest there are only 3 reasons why one believe what they believe?  It seems far too simplistic to be sufficient.  It seems like the OP just hates Christians and was looking for reasons to put them down.

That is what bigots do.  I don't mind standing up to a bigot.  I'm still waiting for him to explain it.

Dala knows that in general the OP is absolutely right, but he hates that fact and wants to try and dilute it with anecdotal personal stories of why he doesn't fit those generalities.

How many times have you stated that you don't give a good god damn what fellow posters think of you?  Are you going to deny that too?  Why don't you just come out and say why you are a Christian rather than play your silly word games?  BTW yes all my christian friends think that you are a loser.

How many times have you stated that you don't give a good god damn what fellow posters think of you? Are you going to deny that too? Why don't you just come out and say why you are a Christian rather than play your silly word games? BTW yes all my christian friends think that you are a loser.

What are you talking about?  Of course I'm a Christian.  But that doesn't mean I'm the stereotyped version of a Christian that the OP was talking about.

I care what others think about me.   But I don't let them dictate to me their opinion as a fact.  Tell your 'Christian friends' I said hi!

Dala, You have previously posted that you were born into a christian family, wandered away, and came back. So I think a) does apply to you. My reason being that you returned to what you knew. I've never seen a christian explain why given a choice of many religions they chose christianity; actually one did say they prefer their gods with only two arms but I've never really seen any compelling comparison given that there is no more evidence for any given god than for any other god.

My Dad used to drop me and my sister off at Sunday School and he would drive home and read the paper.  That lasted until I was in the 2nd grade.

It is not why I choose to follow Jesus.  And what Jesus is recorded as saying in the Gospels:  that is not a good reason to follow Him.

d.  Mentally unbalanced.

I know of a lot of Jesus cuddlers who spend time on a couch each week talking to a guy with a degree or who are actually locked up.

But, your broader point is well taken.  To be a Jesus nut, you are either born into it or mentally or socially deficient.  How else do you explain the nonsense they have to believe to be Christians.

What Colin imagines, is not what they believe.

It is just what he imagines.

And there are plenty of atheist people just like Colin and the OP who are mentally unbalanced.   Look at the evidence.

Dal....actually, he is among the most eloquent and intelligent posters here.  Your delusions continue, as you are unable to see even that.

He uses derogatory terms to put down groups of people he doesn't like.  He is prone to fits of rage.  He give packaged answers for replies.  He dodges questions.  Instead of discussing, he insists he is right.

That is what I've observed.  And he has a lot of free time on his hands.

Dala, Where is the evidence for "... there are plenty of atheist people ... who are mentally unbalanced. "

I think all people have some shortcomings in mental soundness.  Atheists are not exempt from that.

ragansteve1,

Sadder still are the HYPOCRITES who use their religion to make other people's lives worse.

Confident that they might…live again "

Atheism is not.

Do not confuse the passion or even zealotry for ideas that some possess with belief. Atheism is not a religion.

What I hear you saying is that you prefer "hope" whether true or false, than reality. Now that is sad.

"philosophy" is simply another religion." No it is not. You need to learn the definition of religion.

" But it's a religion without hope". Not a religion, and why do you think there is no hope? Baseless ignorant nonsense.

"That takes a lot of faith to believe and it is probably the saddest religion in the world."

What "faith" is required for you to NOT believe Santa is real? It requires NO FAITH to NOT believe in baseless supernatural claims.

Get an education, and have an adult teach you about the big words.

What is truly sad is you belive this garbage.

ragansteve1: "The really sad part about the secular Humanist or perhaps atheist posts on this thread is that those posting don't realize that their "philosophy" is simply another religion."

ragansteve1: "But it's a religion without hope. Dawkins perhaps said it best in an interview when he responded to questions about man's future and purpose on earth. There is no future after death in his world view. There is no purpose beyond himself. That takes a lot of faith to believe and it is probably the saddest religion in the world."

Nonsense.  Although atheists most likely do not have a world view that includes a grand intelligent supernatural being involved in their lives, they most certainly have hopes for their lives and the lives of future generations.  One could also argue that since the atheist does not rely on the alleged certainty of an afterlife, that this life for both himself and for future generations are more important to him than the theist:  non-dismissible.  We seem to hear often on this blog from certain theists that the horrors for some in the present life are inconsequential in light of the alleged upcoming afterlife – an excuse that I find quite pathetic.

"But it's a religion without hope."

-> I won't descend into the pointless argument of whether atheism is a religion, but hope is not evidence of truth. Most other religions have hope of existence after death and you probably don't regard them as truth. Atheists have the same hopes and dreams of other people save 1, they don't have hope in an afterlife.

There is no future after death in his world view.

There is no purpose beyond himself.

-> I am an atheist and I recognize purpose beyond myself. I love freedom, community, family, and have devoted my life to protecting it.

That takes a lot of faith to believe and it is probably the saddest religion in the world.

-> I don't think you understand faith at all if you say that. Faith is belief without objective evidence, atheists believe in things that are supported by objective evidence. Since no God is supported by objective evidence, they lack belief in God.

ragansteve1: You speak from a position of ignorance, making the same arguments that have been debunked time and again on these boards. You believe you are somehow more enlightened than non-believers, yet you are the one who needs something other than this reality to feel purpose and hope, who needs an unsubstantiated supernatural reward in order for you to simply do the right thing. There is no virtue in that.

Being a mortal, finite human is good enough for me. This world is enough for me. It's sad that it's not good enough for you.

There are really only 2 reason to try and label atheism a religion.

You are either trying to bring religion up to the same level as non-belief....or your are trying to drag non-belief down to religions level.

Neither option is very complimentary for your position.

Excellent point. The 'Atheism is a religion' assertion is the same as 'you are no better than I am'. That is an argument from an inferior position. It reveals that the person making the argument feels inferior.

I get tired of people conflating all atheists as anti-theists.

I have a theory that there are many believers who cannot comprehend disbelief. They believe in *something*, therefore others must also believe in *something*. This is not disbelief.

Atheism is just disbelief or lack of belief in the existence of God or gods.

But some atheists start saying "we atheists do this..." or "we atheists believe that"... and they start doing something more with their disbelief or lack of belief in the existence of Gods or gods.  Some start churches.  Some actually do start religions.

So, yea, some atheists definitely treat their atheism like a religion.

dala: "So, yea, some atheists definitely treat their atheism like a religion."

i see nothing wrong with like minded people coming together into a communal setting.

however calling it a "religion" would be like saying people that come together to play "magic the gathering" are treating it as a religion.

nah most of us are probably just bored at our jobs being paid way too much to sit at a computer and run files. or what not; me i just enjoy poking at people and seeing their reactions.

i'm an observer of human nature. i love seeing what makes humans truly tick and love the hot button topics, along with online interactions between people having different guidelines as opposed to face to face interactions i enjoy studying the differences.

i highly doubt you would be so "high on your horse" if any of those on here met you in person.

I don't do that either.

-We don't tell people they were born sinners, that there is a god who hates that, but gave it to them in the first place, so you could work it off by worshipping it.

I don't do that either.

THere are atheists that start religions.  They have churches.  THey try to step on the toes of their fellow human beings.  They are flawed just like everyone else.

Most atheists are not like that.

Militant anti-theists are what falls into the umbrella of "extreme atheist". Many do in fact preach.

"Do you stretch things much?"

Personally I like to stretch things a whole lot. It is often at the edge and corner cases that we see how precious tenets break down.

Pressurize, evacuate, sigh. That is the only way to satisfaction for the inelastic diesel chicken.

And remember, never pass up an opportunity to watch an elephant paint mozart.

What is sad raggedsteve1,  is that the christian faith is a religion of death, and one of pessimism; a religion that teaches those of faith are nothing, a loser from the day they were conceived, born with sin, losers all; worthless in yhier god's eyes. A religion that people of faith have to kow-tow to an petulant god, please him through worship, and ask for guidance through prayer (which is nothing more than talking to yourself). Through the tangles of worship,etc, they hope to appease the christian god enough to get to heaven, hoping against hope that there is one, but to afarid not to believe as this has been pounded into their heads since childhood, and they are afraid to look past that. It could be that christians need a crutch, to make them feel good, after they got hooked on drugs, alcohol or it's possoble some did some bad deeds that they need penance for, while trying to escapes true justice from the law. It could be one big social club as well, after all, we all like to be with those who think, talk and act like we do, all in the name of some long dead guy, whom no one really knows existed..

It is not the atheist who will get the surprise, but those of faith, believing that they will get eternal life after their life of worship. If the atheist does get a surprise, after death, it may be that he finds him/herself in heaven with the likes of you. That would be hell indeed.

Pretty much the complete opposite.  Thank God.

Dally answer the question. You are a bit on the pathetic side. By all means thank your god, it doesn't really give a rat's a$$ about you, but you sure love it. That's sad, living your life by proxy. What happened to you "free will?"

Relax? arrorant much, boyo? I asked you for the commonality. Reread my post and tell me what we have in common.

I think you got your posts mixed up.

The only thing you asked me in this thread was "What happened to your free will?", but that was after saying I didn't answer your question.

ragan: a few reasons you fail.

1) atheism is simply no belief in gods, that's it nothing more. we just don't buy into super-power heroes coming to save us.

2) our values and reasons to help our fellow man come from our hearts, not some instructions in a bronze age fairytale.

4) all of atheists have dealt with religion in onr form or another, seeing most were raised, such as myself, religious. i sat down and read the bible cover to cover as a child/teen; i tried to find a reason my siblings and i were being tortured as children, seeing we were "the age of innocence" and suppose to be under god's protection. what i found in the bible terrified me to no end. if christians truly followed their "bibical laws".............well i wouldn't be alive today.

5) dawkins was correct; we have no purpose on earth. a lion or deer doesn't have a purpose either, they exist and survive according to how well they fight to live. if all the lions just stopped hunting, they would stop existing.

humans are the same, the moment humans collectively stop functioning and fighting to the best of our abilities to survive.........we go extinct. there isn't some great plan or inventor behind humans, we exist because we can, not because we were suppose to. humans as we are aren't the final product; we have too many things that serve no purpose and require others adaptations to increase those abilities we are born with.

so humans in another millions of years will not look anything as the humans of today. evolution is fact, we as a species will adapt and over come or we will go extinct.

The end.

we just don't buy into super-power heroes coming to save us. – that is not atheism.

Not all "atheists' agree with those things.  Nor should you say "we" believe this or that.

atheism is simply no belief in gods, that's it nothing more.

our values and reasons to help our fellow man come from our hearts, not some instructions in a bronze age fairytale. – that is not atheism.

atheism is simply no belief in gods, that's it nothing more.

You are describing something like secular humanism – which is a religion.

Agreed.

People who are secular humanists identify as such and form congregations. This is a requirement to label secular humanism as a religion.

Since when is secular humanism a religion? It, by definition rejects the religious dogma.

I'm not sure why you can't seem to understand what the definition of religion is. Look it up. Have an adult explain it to you.

Also , this does not describe secular humanism...although some atheists might be secular humanists. They were telling you that atheism end with NON-belief. What the individual atheist might believe may fit into some pigeon hole, but that is not universal to atheists, so you have once again failed.

When secular humanists do all the other things that the religious do, (defining common values, regularly attending 'services', establishing ritual forms etc) it becomes indistinguishable.

I agree in that it differs in that there is no sacred text.

Some will say that there are atheists that are religious.

I think something like 10% of all US atheists claim to be religious.

Where did you get that statistic? By every defintion of religion I have ever seen, there needs to be some supernatural element...oh wait...is this yet another case of christians redefining a word to fit what they think the definition means...ah of course it is. so by all means, what is the definition of religion you are going from. To think that people who do not believe in god are religious is complete nonsense, by definition, impossible.

3% of atheists considering themselves to be religious is much more plausible.

3% of about 2.3% (also Pew data) is a very small number of people.

So you quote from an article where the writer does not know the difference between and agnostic and an atheist. I see.

By definition, atheists do not believe in god ( by any known definition of god), so cannot by definition be religious. An agnostic can believe in some undefined energy in the universe, but since there is no religious dogma to follow, are also not religious.

You are clearly ( and so is the writer of the article) confued by the ACTUAL definitions, so is mis defining their results. If this article had been submitted to me, I would grade it very low, because they clearly do not understand the terms they are using.

Nice try but by definition, atheists are not religious.

By definition they are not religious.  YES!  I've never said differently.

By definition, there is nothing that prevents an atheist from being religious.  NOTHING.

By definition an agnostic can be agnostic about anything.  I'm agnostic on universal health care.

That's a bit intentionally misleading don't you think. You understand the distinction much better than to make this assertion.

I know you are making a pun on usage like "he religiously attended Green Bay Packer home games wearing his cheese head hat" but this usage is misleading here. Frequency is orthogonal to religiosity.

Some are very devoted to their atheism.  Seriously, suggesting they are religiously posting on here is quite accurate.

I looked at a lot of synonyms, and that seemed to be the best word.  And it is funny.

However, I could be wrong in spite of this. Show me enough measurable proof for any god, proof that forgoes any reasonable possibility that I'm just deluding myself, and I would have no choice but to believe.

I know plenty of believers that admit they could be wrong.  Who are agnostic on most matters.  Who aren't afraid to entertain the possibility that they could be wrong.

Just like I know non-believers that fail to live up to those ideals of yours.

I don't know of any atheist who isn't actually also agnostic. It's impossible to eliminate the possibility that some god may exist somewhere in the universe, but we don't have to be 100% certain to not believe claims of an actual god. Certain gods, like the one typically described by Christians, appear t be just too illogical to possibly be real, but (almost) stranger things in nature have ultimately proven to be nevertheless true. The time to actually believe in such things is after the evidence comes in to support such a belief IMHO.

I can't think of another regular apologist here who appears open to the possibility that they're wrong, can you? Sadly, you appear to be the vast exception to the rule.

I had an atheist tell me atheists can not be agnostics.  They are 2 different things.

I guess you can just cherry pick what definition works best for you.

No facts.

No proof.

No magic.

No gods.

Last century, L Ron Hubbard wrote a book, as foolish as it is, making all sorts of outrageous and outlandish claims, backed up by zero evidence, and he has millions of followers.

200 years ago, Joseph Smith wrote a book, as foolish as it is, making all sorts of outrageous and outlandish claims, backed up by zero evidence, and he has tens of millions of followers.

A few thousand years ago, unnamed desert dwelling goat herders wrote a book, making all sorts of outrageous and outlandish claims, backed up by zero evidence, and they have hundreds of millions of followers.

Do you see that the only thing that makes your christian religion more popular than any other of these obvious scams is the amount of time it has had for your deluded cult members to breed and indoctrinate their children.

So have a good think about how preposterous scientology and mormonism sound to you, and know that christianity is just the same thing with a bigger head start.

At least Hubbard was original.

The Book of Mormon is just a New Testament knockoff, which is in and of itself a Torah knockoff.

Good points.

myself i much prefer the anaolgy of orson wells first live broadcast of "war of the worlds".

people were so moved and convinced by his words they truly believed that we were under attack by aliens from mars.

many people made a run on the banks and food stores in thier panic.

now if these "modern" people had stopped and thought logically about what was being said, i'm certain they could have called the local directory and asked them to patch them through to any number in that area "that was under attack" and just asked them " hey what's up over there, are you being attacked right now?"

logic fails in the face of self-guilt (orginal sin, all deserve hell thing) and fear (which is a natural instinct they play on).

I'm a J.K. Rowling scholar, but I don't try to convince people it really happened.

But all those people watched Harry playing quidiche...so many witnesses, it MUST be true.

Virtually everyone at Hogwarts saw it. All those eye witnesses can't all be lying.

we should start putting Harry Potter DVDs in the drawers of hotel bedside tables.

I am a Tolkien scholar, but I don't try to convince people it really happened.

That's because Tolkein wrote his stories as fiction.

On the other hand, the unbroken chain of Biblical scholars goes all the way back to those men who wrote what they actually saw, and to them it was entrusted to pass on to the next generation that which they heard and saw.

The Bible wasn't written because it was easy to believe, the Bible was written because it was intended to be a written witness of the truth to all future generations.

This is the definition of Hearsay.

the bible was written as a tool to gain control and get wealth.

It was written down by people decades or centuries after the stories were originally imagined, with no way of even knowing they happened, much less confirming even 1% accuracy.

They were written down by men with everything to gain by making their god bigger and more potent than all the other people's gods.

the fact that you believe it as real is an indication of your gullibility, not of the stories' authenticity!

"men who wrote what they actually saw"

You do not know they actually saw anything, or what they wrote actually happened or if it was made up. To be correct, you should say ALLEGEDLY saw, since your "unbroken chain" has many broken , missing and obscure, unverifiable links.

If I wriite a story, and embellish it beyond reason, then convince people it is true, and for a thousand years people kept convincing people it is real, in a thousand years you will have an "unbroken chain" of people verifying that it is real, but it truly is not. That is the story of your bible. The wild supernatural claims are ridiculous writer embellishment..... one lies and YOU then swear to it.

And your complete lack of common sense is quite obvious to those who know what logic and reason are. You think that unverifiable claims are real because someone wrote it...someone who was extremely ignorant and superst!tious. There is no unbroken chain, there have been many scams, many of the books of the bible 's origins are quite dubiuos, and virtually NONE of the superbnatural claims have any evidence whatsoever to them.

Go ahead and attack me, but there is NO chain that shows any of the original stories to be based in reality, and in many cases, the books of the bible have been manipulated countless times...but you just keep on believing in obvious BS.

kermit4jc – "...study ancient Jewish culture...ancient Jewish languages..their idioms and such...."

kermit – "...there is no way to study them all..."

Agreed.  So if someone is going to spend time and other resources studying any of them at all, there has to be a compelling reason to bother with one religion over the others.

You seem to agree that all the other religions fail the tests of simple credibility, but where we disagree is that yours does, too.

kermit – "if one WANTS to understand the Bible better..one must study"

Fair enough.  But I've always found it to be a very first-world elitist exclusionary view when people say the Bible MUST be PROPERLY studied in order for Christianity to be understood CORRECTLY (translation:  understood their narrow way).

kermit – "why keep looking for truth if you found it"

To claim you know, shows you are delusional, since I know you have not been able to exclude ANY other possibility.

I think you're projecting your own problems here. I have studied these things too, but Theo appears to be pulling Jewish cultural "contexts" out of thin air. The actual context, language study and such do not support the traditional pious beliefs at all.

"goes all the way back to those men who wrote what they actually saw"

There are no facts to support the existence or activities of Jesus Christ. It is very simple. He probably did not exist but if he did, he, like all heroes, has been glorified to the point of absurdity. He is/was not a god. Just a man living his life like any other. Perhaps he was charismatic and had a talent for manipulating people, but that would be about it. The passage of time always changes and embellishes the facts and none more so than Jesus. This is all very obvious to your average skeptic, but to the Christian what I am saying will just be disregarded in favor of the god fantasy. Now add in Mohammed as a counterpoint to Jesus. Same nonsense, similar outcome. Do you believe Mohammed was something special? Lies and allegory. Same as Jesus. Christians, do your good deeds. Many of you are terrific people. But don’t look down on atheists for using common sense. We can’t help thinking straight any more than you can help being backwards.

"There are no facts to support the existence or activities of Jesus Christ. It is very simple. He probably didn't exist."

" But don't look down on atheists for using common sense. We can't help thinking straight..."

Can you even begin to appreciate the irony in your usage of those 2 thoughts in your statement ? Probably not.

The existence of Jesus Christ is  uncontested by virtually every biblical scholar on the planet, regardless of where they fall on the liberal/conservative continuum.

It is difficult to  understand how a person could waste their professional career as a "bible scholar". It is akin to being a unicorn scholar.

Oh Theo. Don't you feel embarrassed rolling out that little Christian escape clause? We all know how unicorns have been represented for thousands of years. A horse with a horn. Claiming now that it's a rhino is disingenuous or deluded.

An if your bible is THAT wrong on this description, how expansively wrong is it on all the other things?!?!

You taint and weaken your book every time you use the rhino answer.

That doesn't help your case for the miracle stories being true, now does it? Something very ordinary could have happened only to get twisted into something almost unrecognizable through the retelling.

Theo Phileo,

The name means one-horned. If you are going to pretend that a hippo is therefore the same as a unicorn, then you should pretend that all bipeds are the same.

Go figure that biblical scholars would support the main man of their book!  That's rather circular and thus fails.  Care to show other scholar's who are not biblical who support the existence.  Even if jesus existed, he would have been nothing more than a mere man...nothing special about him-no resurrection (only a fool believes that anyone comes back from the dead after 3 days); not born of a virgin; no miracles performed and considering nothing was written about him until 30-40 years after he supposedly died, the stories can't be held as being valid.

You're very biased in your views and do not use common sense or logic when debating...you use circular reasoning and anything you think will justify your belief.  Time to take the blinders off and actually start living the only life you will ever be guaranteed of, otherwise you're simply wasting valuable oxygen and time.

Especially, if they start off with the assumption that the Bible is 100% truthful. That would be like a JFK assassination conspiracy theorist trying to work as an actual historian on that president. Presumption should never be allowed to cloud the truth.

Well, it's safe to say I'm not dealing with rocket scientists here, so I'll go slow, and make it short and sweet.

BIG difference there chum.

Yet another absurd statement from you.  The study of fiction goes back to the earliest days when mankind first began to read and write.  The unbroken chain of (enter which ever religious tome you choose) scholars goes all the way back to (dubious) eye witnesses to the majesty and wonder of (insert whichever god at this point), and its (supposed) actions here on earth.

Time to tell us again why you know the only "truth" that applies to all of mankind you pompous ass, and why your god is the only one that exists?  Sheer arrogance.  Waiting for you to replicate a miracle or two to prove that the supernatural is possible, still unable to do so I assume.

Last century, L Ron Hubbard wrote a book, as foolish as it is, making all sorts of outrageous and outlandish claims, backed up by zero evidence, and he has millions of followers.

200 years ago, Joseph Smith wrote a book, as foolish as it is, making all sorts of outrageous and outlandish claims, backed up by zero evidence, and he has tens of millions of followers.

A few thousand years ago, unnamed desert dwelling goat herders wrote a book, making all sorts of outrageous and outlandish claims, backed up by zero evidence, and they have hundreds of millions of followers.

Do you see that the only thing that makes your christian religion more popular than any other of these obvious scams is the amount of time it has had for your deluded cult members to breed and indoctrinate their children.

So have a good think about how preposterous scientology and mormonism sound to you, and know that christianity is just the same thing with a bigger head start.

They are a deliberate homage to mythology with a scriptural tone and contain many archetypes of myth/scripture and naturally illustrate Tolkien's own beliefs, but they are not deliberately allegorical.

"The existence of Jesus Christ is uncontested by virtually every biblical scholar on the planet"

Actually, that's not exactly correct. Where the majority of scholars would agree that there most likely was a historical Jesus, few would argue that he was any kind of actual god, as the name "Christ" most commonly denotes. It may be difficult for most Christians to appreciate, but arguing for a historical Jesus does not automatically mean an argument for his divinity. One only needs to regard how history treats the Roman Emperors, some of whom were also regarded as gods by the people of their time.

This is pretty much on the same level as with the majority of historians who would agree that Davy Crockett was an actual politician, but only a few stary-eyed, fringe romantics would still argue that he was also "The King of the Wild Frontier", who killed bears as a child. Those stories began to be published when Crockett was still alive, so don't even try to argue that it takes a lot of time for legends to develop. People could have easily been exaggerating the deeds of a historical Jesus before he even died.

"The existence of Jesus Christ is uncontested by virtually every biblical scholar on the planet"

I can name 3, so it is not a virtual as you would imply.

viiiinny, biblical scholars have a dog in that fight. They think like you. They are mostly apologists, and have no real bone to chew on as what they have is  nothing more than myth. They try though. They really do, Still, it's all a myth. Fail.

It would be hard to give a synopsis here for the sake of brevity. Hey, some things just require study.

You can't trust the bible for obvious reasons. It is filled with magic which doesn't exist.

Blindly ignorant out of fear.

Blindly ignorant out of sheer arrogance.

Blindly declare they are right and all others are wrong by default without providing any logical evidence or proof to back up their assertions.

Now Theo with his Philioidiotism is way ahead of devin on the delusional tree but devin is catching up fast.

Robert Charles Sproul (born February 13, 1939) is an American Calvinist theologian, author, and pastor.

The existence of a "historical" Jesus is pretty well established.

In all likelihood, there was a radical rabbi who railed against the officious Jewish priesthoods and who sought to bring Abraham's God to the gentiles.

Just as there was most likely an ancient Babylonian king named Gilgamesh who built a great wall around the city of Uruk.

That doesn't mean that the supernatural aspects of their respective legends are historically accurate.

Neither were gods.  They didn't make any trips to the underworld.   Nobody died and came back.

It is just as likely that Jesus was and amalgam of rabbis following the same path.

Kermit – Neither Matthew nor John are eyewitness accounts.  They don't even purport to be.  Matthew was written in about 80 AD and John about 95 AD.  The disciples called Matthew and John would likely have been long dead.  More fundamentally, the gospels were written in Greek, whereas the disciples spoke Aramaic and were illiterate, unschooled men.  Neither gospel uses the expression "I "or "me" when referring to Matthew or John and, indeed, refer to them entirely in the third person.

No Kermit, to the extent you feel that the Gospels being written by disciples gives them any greater credibility concerning  Jesus' alleged supernatural acts, you will have to be disappointed.  Neither was an eyewitness (and nor were the authors of Luke or Mark, BTW).

@fred,

I did not bother to look any further.

@Fred,

I don't care to defend the specifics of that site, it was posted down this page by @reality, but don't forget there is a difference between attribution and authorship in most of these early writings.

There's nothing to say that "James" wasn't written later by someone who claimed to have heard the story directly from James.

My primary point is that dating the first writings is a very inexact process despite the immense volume of scholarship that has been applied.

kermsicle...now you have to provide evidence of these so-called students.

kermy!  Why do you need to complicate your life so?!

kermsy...remind yourself of the time that irenaeus was born and died.

Now, go find a kermy dictionary and discover what the term "first hand" means.

Then, try and pretzel your way into how these dudes could have produced "first hand" accounts from accounts of accounts of accounts.

I know what you wrote, silly...just making sure you understand that you don't understand what "first hand" means.

I, however, did.

And always remember, kermy...students and their opinions are poor sources of "evidence."

But when you come from a worldview that proudly claims: "God said, I believe it, and that settles it!" well, you can be forgiven for thinking that Irenaeus's opinion is fact.

Mornin' truth,

That's a great analogy of the 5 y.o.!  Made me laugh and it fits the kermsicle well.

I hate to admit it but I was just like him and the others on here when I was immersed in my relationship with Jesus.  For me, and I see the same in him, a little bit of apologetical knowledge helps to scare those monsters out from under the bed and thus he thinks he is safe from all evidence that dismisses his worldview.

Sadly for him, the monsters are in the closet and he dare not open it for his tenuous faith would most likely disintegrate.

So, in summary, no actual first hand accounts therefore anything attributed to some dead desert dweller called jesus is suspect.  My previous comment stands – an honest christian would preamble any claims about jesus with "allegedly."

Now let's see how many honest christians there are here.  My guess is zero.

Father Raymond Brown's epic book, An Introduction to the New Testament, has an excellent review of the authors of the New Testament.  Said book has the approval of the RCC.

Any intelligent person stays away from ad hominem arguments and fallacious positions...so that rules you out.

2.) Apply to your personal theology.

3.) Thank tallulah131 for her obvious wisdom.

4.) Thank cheese for trying to save you from your ignorance.

"Any intelligent person knows atheism is illogical."

Any intelligent person knows that much of the Bible is illogical from the science fiction of Noah's Ark to the claim that the moon and sun suddenly stopped in their orbit.

There is no obvious evidence.

And you miss the whole point as to the dishonesty of your God for refusing to be blatantly present...and using such obviously poor and pathetic examples of his handi-work in the daily lives lived by his followers.

(Note my use of obvious).

I have no narrative; I was commenting on your narrative.

As an atheist I do not "dismiss" God "as impossible". I simply ask for proof of any God or god or anything supernatural and so far not a single believer has been able to provide even the tiniest smidge of evidence.

Believers then had to invent a reason they couldn't find any examples of anything supernatural so they came up with some very poor reasoning about a God wanting its creations to have "free will" which apparently would be impossible if he came right out and told us we were his creations. Of course, by that logic then I guess Satan had no free will and is only doing exactly what his God demanded of him.

And, 33, tallulah13 is correct.

You are unusually academic tonight.

If you really want to enhance your vocabulary, read Annie Dillard's "Pilgrim at Tinker Creek."

Take a dictionary.

"If an atheist claims there is no evidence of intelligent design, what should I make of his comments."

You should be able to make out the truth. There is absolutely no evidence anywhere of any design at all. None. What should be made of your comment seemingly so shocked by the FACTS, is that you are likely one of the brainwashed religious people who see god in everything, where everything does not show any gods at all. Forgive us for not falling for a complete and total lack of any evidence at all, as evidence of some creating intelligent force.

"...a thing can produce only after its own kind. "

evolution is change and can produce new functionality. There is no need to invent other causes for what can be already be explained.

Arrogance is thinking you (and your kind) are the end pupose and reason for the universes existence.

He wasn't that great.

No one's greater than a myth, fred.

How cool it would it be to be Gandalf (a nod to tallutlah131).

Relative greatness is not the issue.  The impact of Jesus is global regardless of other faiths as the world remains dominated to this day by "Western World View" which is out of the teachings of Christ.  America led only by Presidents who are or pretend to be Christian with the vast majority of its citizens claiming Christianity remains the worlds Super Power.  A country founded with a prayer to the supreme Judge of the World with citizenry endowed by the creator is only now beginning to crumble under the weight of relativism of truth.

Yes, you are arrogant if you believe you are greater than Christ.  Believers are not arrogant or at least should not be as humility is virtue according to the one you have risen above.

Arrogance to mock the man and the words which if only followed would result in the most wonderful society ever known regardless if Christ rose on the 3rd day or not.

believerfred,

"endowed by the creator" apparently INTENTIONALLY did not mention "God". It was generic to respect that there are MANY beliefs that it might or might not apply to. Key great forefathers liked Thomas Jefferson were NOT CHRISTIANS.

Yes, and Obama claimed to be Christian in order to be elected.  In 200 years I wonder what Wiki will claim he really was.

The unanimous signatories of the Declaration needed unity and any attempt to define God would have been a failure.

That being the case your statement should have read..

"Arrogance is thinking you are greater than the BELIEF in Jesus."

And then you would be right....but I never said such...and your diatribe is a bit of a red-herring and off topic.

Jesus had first hand knowledge of the kingdom of God and came to show the way.  Would you not be arrogant to claim you knew a better way?  Belief in Jesus or the way (the way is the key as Christ has varied imagery) can be wrong many times and in many "believers" some of which you may indeed be closer to "the way" than they are.

When it comes to the non physical (stuff science can measure and falsify) there were many thinkers over the years but none like Jesus with the effect on the world as Jesus had.  That effect was a way of life which is our reality.

It is possible, given God is revealed through creation (man included), that we are the image of God as the Bible says yet in terms of the "God" (God of theology absent all anthropomorphic association) of Spinoza.  If we happen to express self much in the same manner as Jesus did that image would be the key to the kingdom as we would present the actions and attitudes necessary for the kingdom.  Either way we can see a difference between one who is opposite of what Jesus represented and one who is closer to that model.  A belief or the reality of behavior in that way does produce the ideal world now.  If it turns out the kingdom described is as stated then it is a win win situation.

I don’t claim knowledge that I can’t substantiate,  you do.

I don’t find Jesus to be as wonderful as you do. He is claimed to have said some decent things, but philosophically he imparted nothing that humanity had not already expressed. I expect more from the (claimed) creator.

No, it really doesn’t, but that is what you have to believe.

Pascal’s wager…not impressed.

"Yes, that is the claim, can you objectively substantiate that you are correct?"

=>So you are living proof that Jesus words are true.  If there was proof that satisfied you Jesus would be a liar.  Your very non belief is my evidence.

"I don’t claim knowledge that I can’t substantiate, you do."

=>really, you claim nothing exists that you cannot substantiate.

=>you have heard an eye for eye a tooth for tooth but I say love your enemy.  The watered down version is what we see with tolerance today.

=>When you feed the hungry, give water to the thirsty, cloth the naked, visit those in prison or hospitals, do this for the least of those among you.  Believers and non believers claim to excel at this today.

=>"if your earthly father knows you needs how much more then for you Father in Heaven.  Not a calamity passes where believers and non believers ask where was God.

=>seek first the kingdom of heaven and all else will be given to you.  Those who fully conduct lives in "the way" receive the gift.  They are born again.  To this I can give you my testimony and hundreds of million others.

=>who do you say I am?  All those who hear the name of Jesus are driven to answer that question to this very day.

"I expect more from the (claimed) creator."

"No, it really doesn’t (create ideal world) but that is what you have to believe.

"**If it turns out the kingdom described is as stated then it is a win win situation.**Pascal’s wager"

=>no, not Pascal's I say live life as Jesus prescribed and it will be well for you and your family.  Even if you live in IRAN live out the principles of Jesus, be in "the way".  By this I mean be intentional (Oprah ism) in goodness.  Even Paul mentioned this as there are no laws against loving your neighbor.

fred,

Manuscripts ARE the claim, they are not proof of the claim.

And no I am not stomping my feet, I don't believe the claim. Jesus is not that wonderful. And a god should be able to do better. It is rather pathetic actually.

Atheism is symptomatic of the inability to find ANY PROOF of spiritual realities.

fred,

If you claim to be a personal friend of the creator of the universe, a claim that you canin no way substantiate...I would and do call that arrogance.

Either way, no evidence for god.

Imagined is the key word there Freddie boy..

A personal relationship with God is not arrogance unless one does not understand God.  A relationship with God produces a humble heart that understands why without Christ we could not approach such burning holiness.  Adam and Eve did not realize what they were because they were in the presence of God (just as believers are "in Christ") and felt only what was pure and right.  Once they broke away they discovered they were stinky hairy beasts with bad breath.  They were not prepared for the physical reality of the human condition yet alone the spiritual condition without God.

Fred....Adam and Eve?  You've lost any credibility you may have had.

Not hardly, I am squat.  The Holy Spirit takes my prayer and other communications then puts it right before God.  I do not know the mind of God or the ways of God.  All I know is what has been revealed.  I am humble under even that which has been revealed yet alone God.  Even Moses was hidden behind a rock otherwise he would have been consumed by the glory of God.

You are one who thinks to little of God.  I fear God in a good way, I fear the burning holiness of God as exemplified by Isaiah. My relationship is personal only to the extent I can visualize it.  This is a problem with those experiencing a poor father image or poor image of God from others.

Where's the logic in believing in something for which there is no actual evidence to support the claim?  A logical person would remain skeptical until some evidence was provided.  Oops!  That would make you an atheist!

Jesus has never been wrong and remains to this day the most influential person known to mankind..............Jesus said this is your purpose.

You spend too much time reading your "How to Answer an Atheist" apology books and obviously never spent any time with a real atheist.  You'd learn alot instead of being such a spiritual racist.  They have plenty of "purpose" and "meaning" without the added nonsense of an immature "master."

"Jesus has never been wrong..." LoL!  That was a good one, fred.  Thanks.

"Jesus is the most influential person...." LoL again, fred!

Ummmm, you might want to poll those silly East and Central Asians.

Start from the day of Jesus' death.

Your arrogance (and all of Christendom's) seem to forget that there is half a world that doesn't think like you do.

fred – "...and remains to this day the most influential person known to mankind"

I would say that Paul's ideas, not Jesus's, are the ones most frequently referred to by Christians, who seem to have forgotten a lot of what Jesus had to say (and didn't have to say).

"obviously never spent any time with a real atheist."

=>That depends on how you define atheist.  Militant atheists are like fundamentalist Christians neither is real or can hear truth.  I don't know how real you are.

"You'd learn alot instead of being such a spiritual racist."

=>likewise you should be curious as to why you lack any sense of existence outside of what you see.

"They have plenty of "purpose" and "meaning" without the added nonsense of an immature "master.""

"Jesus has never been wrong..." LoL! That was a good one, fred. Thanks.

"Jesus is the most influential person...." LoL again, fred!

Ummmm, you might want to poll those silly East and Central Asians.

=>ok, they have heard and want to know more.

Start from the day of Jesus' death.

=>yes, two criminals on the cross next to Jesus and one gets to paradise with him.

Your arrogance (and all of Christendom's) seem to forget that there is half a world that doesn't think like you do.

=>You were not born in half the world and your argument is not with other gods but with God.  That should be self evident.

How can a thing unintelligent formed become a master of formed intelligence, since a thing can produce only after its own kind. Unless what we consider intelligence is only intelligence in our own minds. If we are only the product of chance and consequence, we are the most arrogant of creatures if we think any thing we think, say or write is of any consequence (including posts shown on this site). If a thing can produce only after its own kind and we are not the product of intelligence, then everything we produce is meaningless babble and inconsequential. This is what atheism proposes and I will have nothing to do with it!

Allen, one of the many errors you make is assuming that intelligence is a black or white characteristic–one either has it, or does not.  In reality, intelligence is a continuum, from organisms with a small bundle of nerves, to far more complex organisms, such as primates and cetaceans.  You have also shrouded intelligence with a mystique–turning it into a magical and mysterious object.  In truth, it is a characteristic which may fascinate us, since we have a lot of it, but it is one of many survival characteristics that organisms have more or less of–such as strength, powerful senses, venom, camouflage, fast reflexes and so on.  I cannot see the logic whereby you assume that by labeling one particular characteristic "intelligence"–we thereby bar any consideration of it becoming greater or lesser in various organisms over a great period of time.

Sorry ally, Atheism proposes nothing.  It is a word that simply means a disbelief in a god or gods, nothing more.

"it ( the argument from design) is the primary reason the majority of human beings on this planet are theists."

-They have no other explanation, so they say "god done it". That's "god of the gaps". It's also the argumentum ad populum.

"Arguments" prove nothing. The universe has been proven to be non-intuitive. Relativity, Uncertainty, the tensors of Dirac are not "logical". Evidence proves things to be true. There is none for any deity. So sad. Too bad. You lose.

@Robert Brown,

think it's bad to go to a religious country and tell them you practice a different religion?  try telling them you're an atheist.

The hypocrisy of atheists is extreme and their lying is Compulsive and pathological.

The moon is made of green cheese.

Solero is exactly the kind of religious nutjob non-believers should be cautious of.

It is not dissimilar to the saga of the three little pigs. You remember the story, the third little pig builds his house out of brick, and try as he may, the BIG BAD WOLF is unable to blow his house down.

Kant gave it the old college try, Dawkins simply regurgitates arguments from his predecessors, Hume, well he just about peed his pants in his boisterous attempt of refutation, but in the end, as with the BIG BAD WOLF, it was to no avail. The teleological argument is irrefutable. And for those still having difficulties comprehending a very simple premise, it ( the argument from design) is the primary reason the majority of human beings on this planet are theists.

You keep repeating the same sh!t so I must repeat too.

Most people are not atheists because they have been brainwashed, indoctrinated from birth, with society reinforcing childish beliefs.  They're not actually thinking about what they believe and probably are not even aware of  lofty (but bullsh!t) arguments such as what you are trying to push.

This would be Robert's strongest attempt at an insult.

There, there, Robert.  You used to be so nice, months ago on the blog.  Sad to see you so jaded.

All Christians believe in the Ancient Alien theory.

I think by any measure the angels, demons and Gods found in the bible would be considered "alien" to any human.

Even if the argument from design was irrefutable, it doesn't provide any evidence for Yahweh or Jesus.

You are absolutely correct. I have never made that claim, and in fact, I have clearly stated previously that it is only an argument for a creator, not a specific religious persuasion.

I'm happy that we agree on that.

You sound more like a modern day deist with that statement, I encourage you to visit the deist website and look up the definition of deism.  It may help you break free of the Christian delusion if you have been suckered into that belief.

sam: "You sound more like a modern day deist with that statement"

He may with that one, but anyone who talks about being alienated from his creator because of sin doesn't sound like much of any kind of deist to me.  I think dev just doesn't care to be the poster boy for the huge gap between a creative force of unknown characteristics  and his beloved self-deprecation drug prescribed by ancient charlatans.

You are correct. I am the furthest thing from a Deist.

No, absolutely not.

Don't equate my acknowledgement of the limited aspect of the teleological argument with that of an impersonal God. That is not my position.

Yes, that Deistic being you describe would "qualify".

I'm glad to hear that. We could have a heck of a conversation on this.

Etc., etc. for many questions before we get to the Abrahamic God.

"heck of conversation"

Yes we could. Doubly so in that my strange mind is prone to going there as it is.

"The teleological argument is irrefutable."

I don't know that it is irrefutable, but deistic ideas like Spinoza's God appealed to Einstein, who utterly rejected anthropomorphic Gods.

you're very simple premise is that the world was made by magic.  you have zero evidence to back you up on your fairy tale belief that the universe was made by a deity/deities.  you should apply Occam's razor to your god theory - he is an unnecessary part of the equation and should be cut out.

@ddeevviinn,

Every system is a design, and every design has a designer and a builder/creator.

An atom is a system, hence a design, hence, has a designer and a builder/creator.

A living cell is a system, hence a design, hence, has a designer and a builder/creator.

This universe—and everything in it—is a system, hence a design, hence, has a Designer and a Builder/Creator.

'An atom is a system, hence a design, hence, has a designer and a builder/creator.

A living cell is a system, hence a design, hence, has a designer and a builder/creator.

An organism is a system, hence a design, hence, has a designer and a builder/creator.

A creature is a system, hence a design, hence, has a designer and a builder/creator."

+++ exactly wrong.  a car has a designer.  you are asserting atoms have a design/designer, but show zero proof of that.  your assertions are opinions, not fact.

@Vic,

I. A plan conceived in the mind, and related senses.

They can refer to the same thing but they are not necessarily the same thing.

"This universe—and everything in it—is a system, hence a design, hence, has a Designer and a Builder/Creator."

What an amazingly false and poorly thought out argument.

What then, if you are correct, created the creator, for if he is as you believe, complex, sentient, then your deity would need a creator, and that creator would need a creator, and on and on.

Why is it that you cannot see the obvious flaw in your "logic"? Existance is NOT evidence of any "creator", though the history of man clearly shows men imagining and creating their "creator" gods...hundreds of them, actually millions of them becuase each person who imagines a god, imagines something different.

FYI, you left yourself wide open with that snarky comment.

"The teleological argument is irrefutable."

It has been refuted countless times. Repeating it over and over does not  make it true.

It is amazing that all these groups killing or oppressing people for believing in God in a way different than they do.

They can't even provide any objective evidence for any God at all, never mind the specific one they worship.

People even kill others that believe in the same God, just because they follow different rituals and interpretations of poetic scripture.

That is quite a state of affairs for humans. If these humans were created by a God that intended them to be in his image, either that God is as screwed up as us humans (or worse), or he is not omnipotent/omniscient as advertised.

Neither.  God is not screwed up or limited.  God loved man so much He gave us a free will, and the capacity to experience the consequences of it.

If you are saying that it is not fair that people who have never been exposed to the saving truth of the Gospel as revealed by God in Scripture will suffer the judgment of eternal separation from God, then you are falling into a common trap of misunderstanding the nature of man and man's relationship to Holy God.  Adam and Eve were our representatives, and if any of us were placed in the same situation in Eden, all of us would have eventually given in to the same temptation to disobey God and to make our own rules.  So all of us deserve hell, regardless of where and when we are born and live.  But God in His grace saves some, through faith in Christ alone, cleansing our free will from the deceptive desires of pride, and extinguishing sin forever.

God's providence has placed you in a situation where His truth is available to you, and your concern for those who do not have access to the Bible will not excuse you from the heavy indictment of God's perfect and righteous justice for your rejection of Him.  But your question reveals an underlying admission that you believe humans have eternal souls and are subject to divine judgment.  Perhaps God is preparing to open your eyes that are blinded by sin, for His later purpose of using your concern for the unreached people to motivate you to spread His truth to them.

@Made from dirt,

There are billions of these people alive today.

@I'm not a GOPer....  I did answer the question, as simply as I could, and then some, but I guess it was a strain to your attention span.  So here's the short version: All of us deserve hell.

MadeFromDirt,

It sounds like you are saying that God set us up for failure and created evil and hell. Then we are to be saved, not based on how good of persons we are, but rather if we believe in something that many people are NEVER told about.

Sounds brilliant.

Similar to a child who dies shortly after birth would not be consigned to hell.

Observer, you are looking at the situation from a fallen man-centered perspective.  God did not set man up for failure; to the total contrary, He set us up to enjoy Him forever free from the dangers of sin.  So an integral part of that enjoyment is knowing from what He has saved us.  So there had to be evil, and there has to be hell, or God's grace and Christ's sacrifice mean nothing.

Akira, yes Scripture tells of differences in accountability between children and adults.  And for adults, yes Scripture tells of degrees of punishment.  Again, as I suggested to Bostontola, instead of questioning God's righteous judgment of others, your responsibility is to understand your own situation before our perfect Creator.

MadeFromDirt – "So all of us deserve hell, regardless of where and when we are born and live."

I don't mean to be rude, but I find that to be the most  deplorable att.itude to be found among the various Christian ideas, some of which are admirable.  Very self-loathing and pathetic.

"God did not set man up for failure..."

Funny, then, that the very first man he created "failed".

what a sick ignorant twisted belief.

James XCIX and Fintronics, of course God's truth is offensive to you in your fallen state.  That's why you need it.  The Gospel is all about strength through weakness, and grace where it is not deserved.

Gulliblenomore, yes God's standards are perfection; He is perfection and cannot tolerate less.  That's why we need Christ.  And the "fun" you feel in sin is temporary and very short-lived.

Dirt....I'm only short lived, so I don't really care.  I plan on making the most of my 90 years.  And I don't plan on wasting one second of it bowing to some invisible, worthless deity.

What god's truth? All I see is a bunch of men that claim to speak for "god", but no where do I see any sign of any gods.

The bible...written entirely by men. The Torah, the Kuran, written by men. No where has anything ever been shown to be "god's word"...and THAT is the truth.

Sam, I think we have had this back-and-forth before, and the ways of God are foolishness to slaves of sin, so I don't expect to convince you here, absent God's grace.  But anyway, God exists outside of time, and He created cosmic time.  God created and placed us within cosmic time and our free will operates within time, so as an "outside observer" God sees all of our choices at any and all times.  Taking it deeper, God knew that we all would choose sin, so even before Creation He planned our way to redemption and the ultimate destruction of sin.

Chest expanding...buttons popping!

SSq41, so Sam can call my answer extolling the power of God incompatible and a nice try, but in your world my discussion that God is the source of all life and truth says I'm the one bursting with pride and claiming superiority.   Your snipes against God and believers on this board actually confirm Scripture's teachings about pride and self-righteousness,  and how they perpetuate darkness.  Do you read what you write?  Indeed, on full display in your posts is the logic of sin, from which God has rescued me. "Pride of dirt", hilarious.  But if it is prideful to try to wake someone asleep on the tracks, or if it is superior to explain the joy and comfort that faith in Christ brings, then I am guilty of that too.

Your use of terms that describe the world around you are without meaning to those who don't believe like you or believe at all.  You fail to translate them and instead "slaves of sin..." become nothing more than name-calling.

What you and your pals fail to remember is that, no matter how arrogant and demeaning you may feel an atheist or non-theist is to you here on this blog, you have to maintain a high moral standard and if you believe your God exists, then you are accountable to him for being such an arrogant ass yourself.

The terms pride and self-righteousness don't apply to me because I don't believe in your scriptural worldview.  However, you, in fact, are the one dripping with self-righteousness and pride in your posts when you address others and instead of making them think about their "sin" it only shows that you have no communication skills.  And all those drips by someone named "dirt" only creates a lot of mud.

You fail to remember that most of the atheists and non-theists here spent years of their lives in the belly of the Beast that is American Christianity.  We know what arrogant, self-righteouss SOBs occupy the pews and pulpits of America.

You and the other members of the Body of Christ are simply without integrity, simply without the capacity for compassion, simply without the capacity to care.  You are too immature to be out here "witnessing" or "waking someone" sleeping on the tracks.

But, you are in great company with kermy and dev and dahla and truthfollower01 and, sadly Robert Brown who used to be such a nice person.

Instead of trying to boost your ego here on the blog, why not try and comply with Matthew 25:31ff...remember, those verses are for you Christians...and Jesus will tell you "I never knew you, depart from me..." if you don't comply.

Ssq41, thank you for the further demonstration of double-standards and half-logic.  Among other things, it is always amusing when a denier tries to use the Bible in their arguments.  Your denial of the Bible means you don't understand it, or at least do not agree with it.  So if you don't accept the Bible, why do you base an argument on it?  Such is the logic employed by deniers.

You are also mistaken in your impression that I am somehow demeaned by your comments.  Rebuttals to you and other deniers are not motivated out of any personal hurt or desire to protect my ego or faith.  You are harmless to me, but a danger to yourself and others lost in the same darkness and confusion.  I used to be there too.

I agree with you on one thing:  American Christianity as it is seen and understood in our culture is filled with false teachers, hypocrites, dangerous deceptions, empty rituals, and fruitless faith.  But that is not because the Bible and God's Gospel is untrue; it is because the version that is most commonly projected by mainstream Christianity (among all denominations) is a misguided watered-down effort to make God's truth attractive and palatable to the persistent egos and depravity of human beings.  Such distortions for the purpose of pleasing men rather than glorifying God always produce bad results, and you are a living example of that, and so was I.

Muslims are significantly more dangerous as they follow the terror teachings of one degenerate Mohammed.

Muslims who do not follow the dictates of Mohammed are infidels.

■"The likely death toll is somewhere between 2 million and 80 million. The geometric mean of those two limits is 12.7 million. "

and  the 19 million killed in the Mideast Slave Trade 7C-19C  by Muslims.

5)  Bali-in 2002-killing 202 people, 164 of whom were foreign nationals, and 38 Indonesian citizens. A further 209 people were injured.

6) Bali in 2005- Twenty people were killed, and 129 people were injured by three bombers who killed themselves in the attacks.

7) Spain in 2004- killing 191 people and wounding 2,050.

8.  UK in 2005- The bombings killed 52 commuters and the four radical Islamic suicide bombers, injured 700.

9) The execution of an eloping couple in Afghanistan on 04/15/2009 by the Taliban.

11) The killing of 13 citizen soldiers at Ft.  Hood by a follower of the koran.

12)  38 Russian citizens killed on March 29, 2010 by Muslim women suicide bombers.

13)  The May 28, 2010 attack on a Islamic religious minority in Pakistan, which have left 98 dead,

14)  Lockerbie is known internationally as the site where, on 21 December 1988, the wreckage of Pan Am Flight 103 crashed as a result of a terrorist bomb. In the United Kingdom the event is referred to as the Lockerbie disaster, the Lockerbie bombing, or simply Lockerbie. Eleven townspeople were killed in Sherwood Crescent, where the plane's wings and fuel tanks plummeted in a fiery explosion, destroying several houses and leaving a huge crater, with debris causing damage to a number of buildings nearby. The 270 fatalities (259 on the plane, 11 in Lockerbie) were citizens of 21 nations.

15 The daily suicide and/or roadside and/or mosque bombings in the terror world of Islam.

16) Bombs sent from Yemen by followers of the koran which fortunately were discovered before the bombs were detonated.

17) The killing of 58 Christians in a Catholic church in one of the latest acts of horror and terror in Iraq.

18) Moscow airport suicide bombing: 35 dead, 130 injured. January 25, 2011.

21)  the kidnapping and apparent killing of a follower of Zoraster in the dark world of Islamic Pakistan.

22) Shariatpur, Bangladesh (CNN 3/30/2011) - Hena Akhter's last words to her mother proclaimed her innocence. But it was too late to save the 14-year-old girl.  Her fellow villagers in Bangladesh's Shariatpur district had already passed harsh judgment on her. Guilty, they said, of having an affair with a married man. The imam from the local mosque ordered the fatwa, or religious ruling, and the punishment: 101 lashes delivered swiftly, deliberately in public. Hena dropped after 70 and died a week later.

23) "October 4, 2011, 100 die as a truck loaded with drums of fuel exploded Tuesday at the gate of compound housing several government ministries on a busy Mogadishu street. It was the deadliest single bombing carried out by the al Qaeda-linked al-Shabab group in Somalia since their insurgency began. "

BAGHDAD (Reuters) – A suicide bomber detonated an explosive-packed car outside a Shi'ite Muslim office in central Baghdad on Monday, killing at least 26 people and wounding more than 190 in an attack bearing the hallmarks of Iraq's al Qaeda affiliate.

The bombing on a Shi'ite religious office comes at a sensitive time, with the country's fractious Shi'ite, Sunni and Kurdish blocs locked in a crisis that threatens to unravel their power-sharing deal and spill into sectarian tensions."

(Reuters) – A suicide bomber carried out an attack that killed seven people in a bus transporting Israeli tourists in Bulgaria, the interior minister said on Thursday, and Israel said Iranian-backed Hezbollah militants were to blame.

– Operation Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan: US troops 1,385 killed in action, 273 killed in non-combat situations as of 09/15/2011.  Over 40,000 Afghan civilians killed mostly due to the dark-age, koranic-driven Taliban acts of horror,

– Sa-dd-am, his sons and major he-nchmen have been deleted. Sa-dd-am's bravado about WMD was one of his major mistakes. Kuwait was saved.

– North Korea is still u-ncivil but is contained.

– Northern Ireland is finally at peace.

– – Fa-na–tical Islam has basically been contained to the Middle East but a wall between India and Pakistan would be a plus for world peace. Ditto for a wall between Afghanistan and Pakistan.

– Eric Ru-dolph is spending three life terms in pri-son with no par-ole.

– Jim Jones, David Koresh, Kaczynski, the "nuns" from Rwanda, and the KKK were all dealt with and either eliminated themselves or are being punished.

– Islamic Sudan, Dar-fur and So-malia are still terror hot spots.

– The terror and tor-ture of Muslims in Bosnia, Kosovo and Kuwait were ended by the proper application of the military forces of the USA and her freedom-loving friends. Ra-dovan Karadzic was finally captured on 7/23/08 and is charged with genocide, crimes against humanity and violations of the law of war – charges related to the 1992-1995 civil war that followed Bosnia-Herzegovina's secession from Yugoslavia.

The capture of Ratko Mladić: (Serbian Cyrillic: Ратко Младић, pronounced [râtkɔ mlǎːditɕ], born 12 March 1943[1][2]) is an accused war criminal and a former Bosnian Serb military leader. On May 31, 2011, Mladić was extradited to The Hague, where he was processed at the detention center that holds suspects for the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY).[3] His trial began on 3 June 2011.

– the bloody terror brought about  by the Ja-panese, Na-zis and Co-mmunists was with great difficulty eliminated by the good guys.

Timothy McVeigh had nothing to do with Islam. Neither does/did Kaczynski.

I do not know why you've included those two, but in this, you are flat out wrong.

As a matter of fact, Kaczynski is an atheist, so, as you are an avowed atheist yourself, inclusion seems a little odd.

Zealots are of every flavor...and even atheists are zealots. If bombings are terrorist, as you seem to imply, I would say that the US is every bit as terrorist; witness Hiroshima and Nagasaki.

@Akira,

we don't have to go as far back as Hiroshima or Nagasaki.

There's another 'death from the sky' announcement almost every week. Some of those UAV pilots are going to have some serious PTSD issues one day.

I know; I was using the most extreme example of a bombing I could think of.

You requested some history and current events in the general area of terror and horror.  Of course, said history is not restricted to Islam so other terrorists were added to give credence to the situation.   Islam is fairly unique in that its "holy" book and founder demand that terror and horror be carried out against anyone deemed to be infidels.   Said koranic passages have been well docu-mented on these pages.

Not to mention that McVeigh's and Kaczynski's motives has zero to do with religion...Islam or otherwise.

"You should really learn some history, and some current events too.

May 19, 2014 at 5:31 pm | Reply"

It's actually very simple. My faith reveals to me that I have been alienated from my creator because of my sin.  He has provided a way by which this alienation can be rectified : " Therefore, having been justified by faith we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ." Peace, reconciliation, justification, righteousness before God, that's what it's all about for me. It is something I want and desperately need in this present life. That eternal life is possible is simply icing, and it's a lot of icing, on the cake.

this was meant as a reply to your previous question/accusation.

Devin....you stated that is what you need and want.  That is why you believe it....because you need to.  I don't need it or want it really.  I have no intention of spending an eternal life praising anybody, even on the off-chance you are right.

To me, it just doesn't sound like the game plan of a wizened being.  It sounds like the half-baked notion of a nut.  Make the sick creature, then command him to be well.  That sounds nuts to me.

I have to agree.  Even Gandalf the Grey could have come up with something much better than that – even before he turned white.

But people do all kinds of nutty things when they want to exercise as much control as possible over others.

"I don't have it or want it really"

And I have no problem with that. It is your life, your decision. There has never been a point in my christian experience when I have, or wanted to, impose my beliefs on another human being. I present my opinion and argue my position, but your chosen path is not my business.

As I've stated previously, Jesus says " It is not those who are well who need a physician, but the sick. I have not come to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance.". I am in need of this physician.

Some desert dweller called jesus allegedly said. . .  There are no first hand accounts of anything jesus allegedly said.  An honest christian would include allegedly whenever claiming jesus said or did something.  If they don't, they are pretending to know things they do not, or lying.

I meant first hand to mean got the message directly from Jesus when he was alive.

First hand as in actually written by eye witnesses and/or actual colleagues of said dead dude, within a short period (hours, days?) of the events occurring, before the accuracy of the story degraded.

We don't know when their accounts were written but certainly it was more than 30 years before the official written accounts were accepted.

Why?  Even at a traffic accident you will get varied accounts.  If it was made up then you would expect perfect stories.

I couldn't have said it better than you. That's why the police don't believe any of the accident reporter's stories.

I said about 30 years.  Don't forget believers were beaten and killed during the first 30 years.  It was in 70AD that the Jews who chasing them down were finally killed off.  That is how most date the various gospels (i.e. did they mention the 70AD destruction of the Temple.

I noticed that after I wrote that comment to kermit, my apologies. My point was the same as yours, a report decades later is bound to have drifted. People who read the bibles as literal truth must stretch interpretations to the point of uselessness.

Take a little time and investigate the unreliability of eyewitness evidence, the longer after the fact the more unreliable.  Everyone with half a brain understands that people will embellish a story as time passes.  A simple example is a story presented verbally to one person then passed on to another, after 20 people the original story has changed considerably from the original.  All police forces and intelligence agency perform this type or exercise in order to point out that they should be wary of accepting eyewitness testimony as fact.  Your biblical nonsense suffers the same fate, even more so considering it was passed on by ignorant and perhaps biased sheep herders/fishermen.

Weird but, the original Scripture is inerrant while the thousands of translations or 30 major ones could have some error. However plenary-verbally inspired.

fred, everything I have read (on believer sites) says Mark and Luke were not eyewitnesses to anything the desert dweller called jesus did.

Yes and I would be skeptical and did not believe until after I had a personal experience where Jesus did exactly what the New Testament said he would do.  Not just once but several times after.  Even more strange is that many parts claim the Holy Spirit will reveal the truth once you accept Christ.  Guess what, suddenly in a flash it was all true to me and I could see a reality that included God in every aspect.

And here I thought that epiphanies had more to do with magic mushrooms and the yellow tabs were just bad acid, but after all it is your mind and your trip, I am good with that.  Can you please keep your beliefs to yourself and not try to influence a secular government, try, thanks.

Luke was a historian and as with Mark were traveling buds with Paul.  Paul encountered the 500 witnesses and Jesus after the resurrection.  Technically Jesus was very much alive when Paul met his resurrected self.

"Did Jesus reveal anything about evolution or the Big Bang to you?"

=>I do not get a response other than this world is part of the delusion set by the serpent at the tree of knowledge.  The Big Bang and evolution are man made explanations dependent upon the delusion that there is only the physical i.e. natural.  I do not understand the area where physical and spiritual kingdoms encounter each other.

With that last comment you rally are Topher like, so sad.

Based on the success of my recent voting I would say my effect on secular government is Zero.

your statement: "this world is part of the delusion set by the serpent at the tree of knowledge." is fascinating to me. This world is the delusion, the invisible, impossible to detect with objective detector world is not delusional. I think I finally get Lewis Carrol was getting at in Alice's Adventures in Wonderland.

Love your personal experience with jesus, better delusion than most.  You know of course that others have had delusions that didn't work out so well.  People can convince themselves that a leader can be holy enough like Charles Manson, Jim Jones, David Koresh, Marshal Herf and so many others that they will do anything to please their god figure.  Try and break away, only good can come from it.  There is no salvation, only death, deal with it.

The entire Bible is based upon and about the plan of God in creation.  I have yet to hear of a better explanation of why we exist, have you?  An accidental virtually impossible intelligence that came out of a rock (inorganic matter) is no less miraculous than a virgin birth pointing to something far greater than either of us could comprehend.

The natural explanation of the start of the universe may not be less miraculous, but it required no more miracles after initialization. Your religion has a series of miracles, some of which conflict with objective evidence. In that sense, the natural explanation is less miraculous and less in conflict with what we can measure.

The reality is that regardless if God is real or simply delusion the effect and affect of the history of mankind worshiping God has formed our reality.  God is causation of who we are regardless if God is real or delusion.  As to evidence for God Spinoza gave the best poof I have seen.  Anyone who rejects God cannot reject the God of Spinoza, not even Einstein would do that.  At that point even you are stuck with a wonder and awe that does indeed exist.

I couldn't agree more that the notion of God has been transformative to humanity (even at the genetic level).

Well I believe I am just a universe of particles, star stuff, that will return to the amazing variability of energy and matter when I die.  Will my conscience existence of this life or some eternal life happen, I do not really care or believe it will.  BTW I do not need to be "saved" by some delusion, grow up you people, religion has been scamming people since the first witchdoctor plied his trade.  The world will not be free until the last king is strangled by the entrails of the last priest.  Amen.

"it required no more miracles after initialization"

"I have a game plan for creation and based on what you stated you have no idea why you exist. Who sounds more logical?"

Wishful thinking does not necessarily give reality. Nor does pretending you have all the answers to questions without proof.

I do because man made up the gods to explain what he could not fathom, knowledge will kill off religion and the gods, as the Greek and Roman gods are now toast, yours will also be, just a matter of time.  Good nidht.

Let me see if I have this right.  Over the last 6,000 to 95,000 years man continues to believe in the supernatural (God, god and gods or that which is an idol for man) yet you think it is somehow logical that someday they will not.  That is unreasonable except to the unreasonable.  All evidence (yes evidence) points to a continued belief in the supernatural.

"Wishful thinking does not necessarily give reality. Nor does pretending you have all the answers to questions without proof."

=>I don't know where you get that. Believers are specifically told we cannot know the mind or way of God other that what God has revealed.  That is a lot of unknown.

=>There is no pretending.  The Bible sets out the plan of creation and not one person has shown a better one.  Absent any other plan it is foolishness to make up your own or believe there is no plan.

=>tell me your purpose for existence since you obviously have no plan.  God forbid your plan is better than Jesus who without doubt remains the most influential of all know men in the last 4 billion years or so.

Many things in science look miraculous until the science and math explain them.

fred, you are in denial.  The percentage of believers in the world is decreasing.  Believers are on the increase only in third world countries with high birth rates.

Science has explained babies from conception yet babies remain miraculous.  When they first grab your finger out of the womb science cannot explain awareness of life which is very different than an organic blob we can create that would also grab your little finger.

Consider that we have created robotics with organic components that have capacity to adjust software and hardware in response to external stimuli.  That creation can also reproduce itself.  It meets all the requirements of "life".  The problem is that when you see, touch or talk with one you know the difference between life and this creation.  It is that difference that is unique and it is that difference that can have a relationship with God.  We were created for relationship with God.  We were created to worship out of love and admiration all that God has done.  Not that God needs it but will find it miraculous.

Yes, babies are cute, but baby monkeys will grab your finger too.

"tell me your purpose for existence since you obviously have no plan"

Cough it up, kermy.

And up goes the nut-job flag.

Thanks for the numbers but overall not much has changed if you look at how they modified the questions.  But, the Bible does say a time is coming when believers will be subject to great persecution.

LMAO petty well sums it up !

Trusting God in her distress has made Naghmeh appreciate 2 Corinthians 12:10, Naghmeh said: "I could never understand until now, when you're at such a point of desperation, when you're clinging to God, and that's all you have."

"I want to ask you to continue to pray for our family, I struggle every day. Every day I have to wake up and give everything to God and just cling to Him"

Naghmeh, wife of  Pastor Abedini.

To Pastor Abedini and your family: We pray for you and countless others who are persecuted for their faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. We pray that God will continue to strengthen you and your family.

In times of desperation, maybe, but why would someone choose such a thing all throughout their lives? A man may eat a rat if he's hungry enough, but if he choose it over eating beef most people would think him pretty nuts, right? Surely, the average Christian isn't living "desperately" all the time.

The CNN Belief Blog covers the faith angles of the day's biggest stories, from breaking news to politics to entertainment, fostering a global conversation about the role of religion and belief in readers' lives. It's edited by CNN's Daniel Burke with contributions from Eric Marrapodi and CNN's worldwide news gathering team.
