
A meeting of Asia-Pacific trade ministers this weekend in Qingdao, China, looks likely to pack more drama than usual amid fraught relations in the region over territorial disputes.

Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation meetings can be slow-moving affairs. The grouping, formed in the 1980s to promote economic integration among 21 Pacific Rim nations, including the U.S. and China, has become something of a talk shop.

The meeting is meant to push ahead with efforts toward an Apec free trade agreement, which was launched eight years ago but has made little progress. The gathering is a precursor to a leaders’ summit in Beijing in November.

On the sidelines, though, politics could dominate discussions.

Chinese Commerce Minister Gao Hucheng will meet his Vietnamese counterpart, Vu Huy Hoang, on Friday ahead of the Apec meetings to discuss the situation.

The meeting will also mark the first time a Japanese cabinet member has travelled to China since Prime Minister Shinzo Abe angered Beijing in December by visiting Tokyo’s Yasukuni shrine.

China protested the visit to the shrine, which honors Japan’s war dead, including convicted war criminals, and said the nation would shun high level meetings with Mr. Abe.

Mr. Abe and Chinese President Xi Jinping have yet to hold official talks. Mr. Abe, who has traveled across Asia since becoming prime minister in December 2012, has yet to visit China.

But Japan’s premier is hoping to hold talks with Mr. Xi at the Apec summit in November in Beijing, according to Japanese officials  quoted in Japanese media.

As for the trade talks, there’s lots of progress to be made. Apec’s own plans for a free trade area have been eclipsed in recent years by a complicated spaghetti bowl of other trade deals under discussion.

These include the U.S.-led Trans-Pacific Partnership among 12 Asia-pacific countries. Talks there have gotten bogged down over disagreements between Japan and the U.S. over market liberalization.

We welcome thoughtful comments from readers. Please comply with our guidelines . Our blogs do not require the use of your real name.

Alright smile! But behind the screen is a very different story, that chinese will stab in the back any of Apec members any chance they got.

An error has occured and your email has not been sent.

• Seperate multiple addresses with Commas.

• Must enter an email address.

• You must enter the verification code below to send.

• Invalid entry: Please type the verification code again.
