
Now this is the kind of fighting spirit we like to see. Lu Guanqiu is a Chinese billionaire who has visited the White House alongside Chinese president Hu Jintao in 2011. He's worth an estimated $3.1 billion. And he wants to take on Tesla Motors and other EV makers with his newly purchased company, Fisker Automotive .

Lu is the chairman and founder of China's Wanxiang Group Corp., which bought Fisker for just under $150 million earlier this year . It also purchased battery supplier A123 Systems last year. Speaking to Bloomberg recently, Lu said that EV technology is at the top of his list of ways to go broke. "I'll put every cent that Wanxiang earns into making electric vehicles. I'll burn as much cash as it takes to succeed, or until Wanxiang goes bust," he said. Ahhh, inspiring.

Exactly how and when new Fisker vehicles come to market - or if they'll even be Fiskers when they do – has been the subject of some debate. As part of the Fisker bankruptcy auction, Lu and Wanxiang now own an old, empty General Motors plant in Wilmington, DE. Lu told Bloomberg that Wanxiang has plans to first start building EVs, including the Karma plug-in hybrid, in the US (which suggests that restarting Karma production at Valmet is not going to happen) and to later build them in China. Right now, Lu's company only makes one type of electric vehicle: buses. Lu told Bloomberg he knows it will take a while to get his electric cars to market: "The road is still very long. We want to concentrate for now on manufacturing in the US. If I don't succeed, my son will continue with it. If he doesn't make it, my grandson will."

Currently, emails sent to the "New Fisker" website are met with an automated response that promises a more personal touch later. It also says that the company is "very well funded and have a great plan to create a world class automotive company." That the new owner is ready to go broke doing so is not mentioned.

You can read the New Fisker email and see a Bloomberg video on Lu below .

Dear Fisker enthusiast,

We at 'The New Fisker' would like to sincerely thank you for the email you sent via the website and greatly appreciate the time you have taken to reach out to the new company. The details of your correspondence are being reviewed by members of our devoted team, who are truly passionate about responding to you individually and personally. We understand the email you submitted is important to you, and we assure you, it is also important to us. We are aware some emails were submitted over 30 days ago and greatly appreciate your patience. As you may know, 'The New Fisker' is just over 45 days old, computer systems are coming back on line, people are being hired and hired back, and we are now emerging from the remnants of the old company.

The good news is; we are very well funded and have a great plan to create a world class automotive company. However, we are bound by the rules of the Bankruptcy Court and limited in what we can do relative to the old company and any unsecured claims. Please also note; in purchasing the assets from the estate for a significant cash figure, the estate is responsible for settling all past due claims to the best of its ability.

Once again, we appreciate your patience while we have been working on a response specific to your submission, and look forward to providing you with additional detailed information. Although not every response will be favorable, each will be honest and delivered with integrity.

Thank you,

Good luck, Mr. Lu! I hope that your company is able to bring Fiskar back to life and give us the EVs that we were promised. Please do try to avoid the mistakes that the previous company committed, such as lavish parties and vendor summits that wasted millions of dollars.

They should make their next product hydrogen fuel cell, so all the Fisker fans who didn't buy one before can make new excuses why they can't buy the new one (and that unfortunate man will be broke sooner, so he can recover sooner.) . Good luck Mr. L.G.

He's all talk.

Chinese don't like to lose money and once he dives in and it's costing him, he will cut his losses.

Only a real gutsy player like Steve Jobs is willing to throw money into R&D, then throw more money in, then throw more in. Other folks are just talkers. Never walkers.

Plus, he has the added benefit of all the EV research data the Chinese Military will steal from his Japanese and American competitors. So he's got that going for him, which is nice.

Remove all the electronics, batteries, etc., lighten the overbuilt structure another 2000 (two thousand!) or so pounds then put a small diesel in it.

Damn .. . this guy is winning me over .. .

"I'll put every cent that Wanxiang earns into making electric vehicles. I'll burn as much cash as it takes to succeed, or until Wanxiang goes bust," he said.

If he is so into EVs, hopefully he'll make a pure electric version of the Karma vehicles in addition to the plug-in hybrid version.

This guy started as a dirt poor IRONSMITH. He defied all odds and created an empire out of nothing. If anyone, I think he coudl really turn around Fisker. With good conections to PRC bosses, he will have an easier time than Tesla to sell his cars.

Best of luck to both Elon Musk and Lu Guanqiu.

I hope they go the BEV route. EREV is too complex for a baby company to do it well. Let GM do that. Tesla has proved that there is a large enough market for BEVs. Sure it's not for everyone yet but there are plenty of customers for a long range BEV to compete with the Tesla S. Get a licensing deal with Tesla to utilize their supercharger network.

The Karma had some major problems right from the start. If he wants to make this vehicle successful, he will have to resolve these problems.

1. The car is VERY heavy. Over 5000 lbs.

2. The electric motor is grossly underpowered for its weight. 0-60 in around 8 seconds.

3. The ICE is noisy and added extra weight and complexity. Not to mention engine fires.

4. The cabin space is tiny for such a large car. The battery intruded significantly in the cabin.

If they can fix up the user interface, solve the fire issues, and few other fixes, they can start making the current Karma but it won't sell big.

They should make a pure electric version of it.

And the Atlantic is where things get interesting.

Karma used a lousy GM engine.
