
The funeral for a Catholic priest shot during a series of incidents in St. Paul on May 9 was held Monday.

Father Gilbert Dasna died as a result of gunshot wounds, an autopsy concluded Thursday.

Police believe that John Carlos Quadros was responsible for the death.

Quadros was also believed to be behind a series of events that lead to a shootout with police that night.

A spokesperson for the church said that about 500 people were expected to come to the service at the Cathedral, which was held at 2 p.m. Monday.

“People remember him for his trust in God,” Pierre Lamoureux said.

A school gymnasium in the community was made available to the church in case the Cathedral became too crowded.

“The community has come together really to grieve and to heal from the death of our friend.

Lamoureux also acknowledged the family of Quadros was grieving as well.

The Alberta Serious Incident Response Team has been handling the investigation into Quadros death and police action that night.

UPDATE (23/05/14): The ASIRT investigation determined the gunman, identified as John Quadros, took his own life during the incident.

The community of St. Paul said goodbye to Father Dasna, who police believe was shot during a series of events on May 9, 2014.

The funeral procession from Racette school to St. Paul cathedral as the community says goodbye to Father Dasna, who police believe was shot during a series of events on May 9, 2014.

The Catholic Archdiocese of Edmonton has confirmed that Father Gilbert Dasna died a "violent" death in St. Paul May 9, 2014.

Type in the characters you see in the picture below. If you have trouble reading the characters in the picture, click it to see a new one.

Comments are moderated and will not appear on site until they have been reviewed.

Comments are not open on some news articles; Bell Media reserves the right to choose commenting availability.

Stay on topic and be concise.

Stimulate debate.

We will not publish comments that are profane, libelous, racist, or engage in personal attacks.

We screen for comments that seek to spread information that is false or misleading.

We will not publish: Comments written that are poorly spelled; or are written in caps; or which use strange formatting to get noticed.

If you're using an alias, make sure it's unique.

We will not publish comments that link to outside websites.

Thank you for following these guidelines and contributing your thoughts. You are contributing to debate and discussion, and helping to make this website a more open place.
