
Published: May 18, 2014 Updated: May 19, 2014  3:31 p.m.

Public schools are using new academic standards, piloting new state tests and planning budgets differently.

The changes are reasons Riverside County schools chief Kenneth Young says voters should send him back to the superintendent’s office in the June 3 election.

Scott also said the county should encourage more charter schools to spur innovation, inspire teachers and give parents options.

Young said his leadership and experience as Riverside County Superintendent of Schools and as deputy superintendent and chief business official in the Lake Elsinore Unified School District are more important than ever to help schools and districts meet the new requirements.

Scott points out that Riverside County has 27 charter schools, compared to 335 in Los Angeles County. He was director of the Corona-based California Hope Charter Academy, which opened in 2000. Scott resigned just before the Corona-Norco school board revoked the school’s charter in 2001 after district administrators cited a list of alleged violations of the charter, as well as state and federal laws.

Charter schools are usually based on a vision of what they want to accomplish and how, such as focusing on music to motivate and inspire students in other academic subjects, Scott said.

“If you have a vision of what you’re doing, that’s a whole step ahead of a teacher who has a job,” he said.

Scott, who has been a teacher for 25 years, mostly in the Corona-Norco and San Bernardino City unified school districts, created a teaching method called Teach Understand. It features a strategy in which students tutor each other and sees previously low-achieving students develop critical-thinking skills.

Scott has traveled to China four times to train teachers in the method and said he wants to spread the method across the county, starting with new teachers.

Scott said Young has not taught in public school classrooms and therefore doesn’t understand education.

However, Young said he has taught in private education in the 1990s, and in public alternative and adult schools in Lake Elsinore in the 2000s. He has a California vocational education credential, which he said authorizes him to teach business administration at the middle-or high-school level or in adult schools and had to teach three years in public schools to finish his credential.

Scott said that under his leadership, the Riverside County Office of Education would offer more training for teachers to improve in the classroom instead of what he called a focus on administration.

The county education office, which the superintendent heads, has staff that oversees areas of personnel, special education, finance, technology and academics, he said.

Young has advocated for higher graduation rates and encouraged school districts to set higher educational goals to prepare students for college without remedial classes when they get there or careers in a changing workforce, which he said increasingly require the same level of math and English as college freshmen.

Keep it civil and stay on topic. No profanity, vulgarity, racial slurs or personal attacks. People who harass others or joke about tragedies will be blocked. By posting your comment, you agree to allow Freedom Communications, Inc. the right to republish your name and comment in additional Freedom publications without any notification or payment.
