
A collection of WAAY 31’s weather pictures from around the Tennessee Valley. A collection of WAAY 31’s weather pictures from around the Tennessee Valley.

HUNTSVILLE, Ala. (WAAY)-- It's been 5 years since the end of the great recession, yet many states haven't fully recovered, including Alabama.

NICE WEATHER AHEAD: Northeasterly winds will sweep over the Tennessee Valley due to higher pressure building in from the North, bringing a flow of cool, drier air from Tuesday until Thursday. High temperatures will only reach into the mid to upper 80's with lower humidity levels. It'll be nice to have lunch outside or take a walk without breaking a sweat!

COOL DOWN TO START THE WEEK: A weak cold front moving through northern Georgia and into the Tennessee Valley will bring us cooler temps to start off the work week. We will drop as low as the upper 80's for our highs by Tuesday. Additionally, this cold front will bring us some lower dewpoints which will help reduce the heat index to a more tolerable level.

HOT WEEKEND:  For Sunday, we will continue to see temperatures remaining well above average with dewpoints remaining in the 70's.  Our heat index will remain in the triple digits to close out the weekend.  The good news is that an increased chance of rain on Sunday will mean some locations will get relief due to rain cooled air.  These showers will remained scattered in nature throughout the day.

HOT & HUMID END OF WORKWEEK: A ridge of higher pressure will build in from the West, causing a strong southerly flow of hot and humid air to dominate our forecast. Temperatures will boost into the mid to upper 90's with heat indices looking to climb into the triple digits. There is a chance of a stray thunderstorm, otherwise there is no relief in site. Stay hydrated and cool folks!

HOT & HUMID END OF WORKWEEK: A ridge of higher pressure will build in from the West, causing a strong southerly flow of hot and humid air to dominate our forecast. Temperatures will boost into the mid to upp er90's with heat indices looking to climb into the triple digits. There is a chance of a stray thunderstorm, otherwise there is no relief in site. Stay hydrated and cool folks!

One More Stormy Day: Isolated showers are looking to pop up during the afternoon time across the Tennessee Valley. Possibly a downpour could last for 20 to 30 minutes, otherwise nothing looks to turn severe. Temperatures will reach into the mid 90's with heat indices rising into the upper 90's.

A SHOWER OR STORM WEDNESDAY: Expect a few storms during the afternoon time on Wednesday as one last wave of energy moves over the region. Storms will be isolated. I'm not expecting torrential flooding or any severe weather as mid levels of the atmosphere are funneling in dry air to the Tennessee Valley.  Temperatures will jump into the low to mid 90's.
