
Earlier this month, I had the privilege of joining over 2,700 Christians committed to vulnerable children around the world at the Christian Alliance for Orphans’ CAFO2014 Summit  held at Willow Creek Community Church. The gathering brought leading voices, ministry leaders, adoption advocates, and others from all over the United States and across the globe to explore a variety of topics crucial to the orphan care movement, including foster care, adoption, and family preservation.

It is truly remarkable and inspiring to witness the love and passion so many folks share for the world’s orphans. Both hearing about all the positive developments taking place here and abroad and sharing best practices in hopes of ensuring that every child has a forever family truly reaffirmed for me that, working together, we can make a tremendous difference in the lives of widows and orphans.

Since its inception 10 years ago, the Summit has had a substantial impact on awareness for the global orphan crisis and, as a result, how the Christian community reacts to this crisis. We cannot do this alone, however. It is going to take support from key influencers and other organizations, such as UNICEF , to stem the tide. To that end, among the most positive aspects of this year’s Summit were the participation of Senator Mary Landrieu and Congressman Trent Franks as they continue their push to make the Children in Families First  (CHIFF) legislation a reality and UNICEF’s willingness to meet with many of the country’s leading family preservation advocates, including Bethany Christian Services, to discuss how all of these agencies can work in tandem. Dialogue with leaders who have such large spheres of influence is crucial to strengthening the momentum we’ve achieved and accomplishing real change.

I strongly encourage readers of the Every Child blog to make a point of attending a CAFO Summit in the coming years. If you read this blog, I’m assuming you are greatly interested in the plight of the world’s widows and orphans. So why not join us in the future to find out how you can become an instrument of change? For those of you already doing what you can to positively impact the lives of vulnerable children, I urge you to attend next year’s Summit to learn what new tactics you can introduce at your church and in your community, all while making memorable connections with others committed to achieving the same objective.

As a board member with the Christian Alliance for Orphans, I’ve witnessed the mammoth effort necessary to produce an event the size and scope of the Summit. I’d like to thank Jedd Medefind of CAFO and his team for their tireless dedication in putting together an informative and inspirational event that has once again energized child welfare advocates everywhere to do all we can for vulnerable children.

Listen to Bethany Christian Services’ Every Child podcast  for more on issues relative to vulnerable children. From adoption and foster care to the introduction of sustainable social services in developing countries, Every Child features an informative discussion, led by Bethany’s President/CEO Bill Blacquiere, with leading voices from ministries and non-profit organizations, as well as Christian authors and artists.

Bill Blacquiere is president and CEO of Bethany Christian Services, a leading global family preservation and child welfare agency.
