
LAHORE: Guangdong SME Bureau Deputy Director General He Zuoxian on Monday offered Lahore Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) to set up 20 stalls free of cost at Chinese SME Fair scheduled for October 2014 in Guangzhou, Guangdong (China).

While, heading a five-member Chinese delegation, he was talking to the LCCI President Engineer Sohail Lashari here.

Zuoxian said, the Pakistani businessmen, who would take part in SME Fair, would be facilitated by arranging the B-2-B (business to business) meetings. He said, the SME sector could ensure an economic turnaround provided it was facilitated keeping in view its requirements. He said that they also had meetings with SMEDA so that a working plan could be evolved in collaboration with Pakistani SME sector.

The Chinese SME policy, he sasi, was due next month and it would be shared with Chambers of Commerce in Pakistan.

While, the LCCI President agreed to take part in the Chinese SME Fair and thanked the visiting delegation for their 20-free of cost stalls offer. He said that Japan, Korea, Malaysia, Thailand etc. which excelled on the basis of having well performing SME sector.

Now China has become the best example of emerging as an economic power largely relying on SME sector.

He sought the Chinese systematic approach and those policies, which played major role in transforming the SME sector, citing that SMEs provided low cost employment opportunities and help the economies in several ways as they boost exports, reduce poverty, create jobs and enhance rural development etc.

He said that approximately more than 3.2 million SMEs were functioning in Pakistan and the SME sector contributed almost 30 percent in GDP, employs more than 70 percent of the non-agricultural workforce and generates around 25 percent in export earnings.

Lashari said that due to energy crisis, SMEs in Pakistan were not keeping pace to remain viable and survive, while, other challenges included low access to finance, little know-how of best business practices, inadequate technologies, shortage of skilled labours etc.

The LCCI President said, it was high time that there must be some study tours arranged for the sake of knowledge sharing and closely examining the SME models of both the countries to bring some improvement in the existing setup of SME in Pakistan.

He said that because of its strategic location, Pakistan offered tremendous opportunities for foreign investment, adding, ample opportunities of foreign investment are available in energy sector that was top priority of the government keeping in view the revival of the economy.

Lashari said that grant of GSP Plus status to Pakistan by the EU had created new opportunities for local and foreign investors, therefore, it was high time for Chinese investors to set up joint ventures and make direct investment in areas of interest.

The LCCI President also informed the Chinese delegation that LCCI had established a Mediation Center on its premises with active collaboration of International Finance Corporation (IFC). There were more than 40 accredited mediators, who could help the local, national and international businessmen for out-of-the-court settlement of business disputes, he maintained.

The LCCI Executive Committee Members Mian Zahid Javed, Talha Tayyab Butt, Muhammad Aslam Chaudhry and Mian Muhammad Afzal also spoke on the occasion.
