
Mystery behind missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 continues to baffle the investigators. But author of the book about the aviation tragedy has some suggestions about what might have happened to the missing Boeing 777.  71 days after the disappearance of Malaysian aircraft, a book has been released about the missing plane. The book claims that MH370 was accidentally "shot down" by the U.S.-Thai strike fighters that were in the midst of military training that led to a detailed cover up.

According to Sydney Morning Herald , the book based on MH370 tragedy has been written by Nigel Cawthorne who is an Anglo-American journalist. Besides the bold "shot-down" claim, he suggests that it was an elaborate cover-up. He blames the airplane vanished due to the military training routines over the South China Sea. Later the search party was possibly sent in wrong direction to "cover up" the big blunder. In the introduction of the book titled "Flight MH370 The Mystery," the author says that "almost certainly" relatives of the 239 passengers will never get to know what actually happened to their family members.

According to the media outlet, the author supports an eyewitness account of a New Zealand based oil rig worker, Mike McKay. Mike works on an oil rig in the gulf of Thailand and he claimed to have seen the burning plane. The author reportedly suggests that the drill that was being performed over the South China Sea with personnel from China, Japan , Indonesia and other countries "was to involve mock warfare on land, in water and in the air."

"Say a participant accidentally shot down Flight MH370. Such things do happen. No one wants another Lockerbie [Pan Am flight 103 by terrorists in 1988 allegedly in retaliation for a US Navy strike on an Iranian commercial jet six months earlier], so those involved would have every reason to keep quiet about it," explains Cawthorne in his book.

Not only that, he goes on to claim that another black box could have been planted to distract the searchers. No wreckage has been traced so far in the south Indian Ocean. "This in itself is suspicious," author writes in his book.

The book that went on sale on Monday in Australia has instigated furore and criticism. Relatives of the passengers of missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 have protested against the release of the book.

She said absence of answers, is "devastating for the families." Even after ten weeks of search, there is "nothing."

Nigel Cawthorne is writer of fiction and non-fiction. He is known for his Prisoner of War series, sex lives series and Old England series.

Besides the book, a trailer for a movie based on missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 has been released, according to Nine MSN . The movie is titled "The Vanishing Act" and its trailer debuted at 67th Cannes Film Festival. Director Rupesh Paul, hopes to raise money and bring out the film as early as August, 2014.

We value your privacy. Your email address will not be shared.
