
Russia's president, Vladimir Putin, is set to put his problems with Europe behind him for a few days on a visit to Beijing.

Putin hopes to return to Moscow with a slew of energy deals, including a pipeline gas supply deal with China for 38 billion cubic meters/year on May 20.

The two countries' gas giants, Gazprom and China National Petroleum Corporation, have already said they are in agreement on all the terms of a deal except the price, with both sides only prepared to concede that, not surprisingly, it would not be based on the US Henry Hub.

International Gas Report is a biweekly report that intelligently analyzes what is happening in the natural gas industry, improving your vision and sharpening your competitive edge. Through its unrivalled network of global correspondents, it covers the whole gas chain, from the well-head to the burner tip, in Asia, Europe, the Middle East, Africa and the Americas, including gas transport, regulation and the ever-present problems posed by shifting geopolitical concerns.

China is said to be unwilling to pay more than it pays Turkmenistan, from where its imports are set to rise. It says Russia has no other market for the vast reserves in eastern Siberia.

Russia, for its part, wants to receive no less from China than it does from Europe, and points out that China's demand curve is rising sharply.

For Russia, the deal would be the key to opening up trapped reserves in eastern Siberia, with the giant Power of Siberia pipeline bringing gas from the Chayanda field to China and also to Vladivostok, where other fields can also be brought in to supply a proposed liquefied natural gas plant.

Other companies might also be allowed to access this pipeline.

It would also be the sharp end of a wedge between China and Russia's former central Asian republics, which have been making all the running in that part of the world. And China would be able to receive firm pipeline supplies on its doorstep, free from global disruptions and with some security of price.

The two sides have been trying to square the circle to their own advantage in regular meetings that have borne no fruit for perhaps two decades. But now, some analysts are more upbeat.

Renaissance Capital expects the two sides to agree an oil-linked formula with a base price of $350-400/1000 cubic meters, higher than spot prices in Europe but also lower than spot LNG cargoes in north Asia and which will be sufficient for Gazprom to break even.

But China knows that, thanks to events in Ukraine, Russia's position in Europe is not as strong as it has been.

The question of prepayment -- perhaps as much as $25 billion -- has also arisen, although China has preferred to take an active position upstream in its biggest supplier, Turkmenistan, where it can control costs and project development generally.

The visit comes at a time when, because of the crisis in Ukraine, Russia's most lucrative export market, the EU, is seriously asking itself how to reduce its need for Russian gas and how to undermine Russia's position in its market, including the wider use of reverse flow, and, Russia alleges, preferential treatment to alternative suppliers such as Azerbaijan.

Russia has initiated claims against the EU using the World Trade Organization process, alleging it is being discriminated against and its investments are at risk.
