
The next day, police said two officers and five security team members had to restrain King because he had, for unknown reasons, become combative. Police said at least one officer used a Taser on King.

"The person was breathing on his own when the officers left the hospital that day," said Deputy Police Commissioner Jerry Rodriguez during a news conference on Monday.

But King later fell into a coma and died days later.

Baltimore's chapter of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference protested King's death outside the hospital Monday night. King's supporters said the officers should have restrained him and not used a stun gun on him.

"I've interviewed some people who were there. He wasn't out of control at the time," said the family's attorney, Granville Templeton. "They didn't need to use a Taser that day, but they used it. They didn't use it once or twice. They used it five times. And what happened after that? Cardiac arrest."

While the results of the autopsy are not yet known, police described the incident in a different way.

"The individual was combative and resistant. There was a significant struggle," Rodriguez said.

Criminal and internal investigations are underway. The State's Attorney's Office will review those findings.

"This is inhumane," said the victim's mother, Georgette King, during the protest Monday.

She's demanding justice for the son she used to talk to all the time.

"Once that funeral's gone, everybody's like, 'OK. Alright.'  But when I go home, I live by myself. When I go home, (the phone is) not going to ring again," Georgette King said.

While the Police Department couldn't talk about the specifics of the case, officials said officers met with the hospital and the surrounding community to discuss it.

"Going out and talking to community members is a vital step in ensuring that this agency is being transparent," said police Lt. Eric Kowalczyk.

Neither police nor the family's attorney would talk about what led up to the incident at the hospital.

Templeton said he's preparing a lawsuit against city police.

"All of us at the Department of Human Resources are deeply saddened and concerned by the recent death of George V. King, a 19-year-old youth in foster care. Prior to his emergency hospitalization at Good Samaritan Hospital on May 6, King had been living in a Baltimore City residential child care facility. We have begun our review of the case but will await the investigation of police activities announced by the Baltimore Police Department prior to completing the evaluation."

WBALTV.com editor Saliqa Khan contributed to this article.

The views expressed are not those of this site, this station or its affiliated companies. By posting your comments you agree to accept our terms of use.

"Breaking Bad" is in blue heaven.
