
The United States is charging a group of Chinese military officials with corporate espionage for allegedly stealing secrets from American companies.

Beijing says the charges are trumped up, and the two countries relationship is under threat.

MICHAEL VINCENT: It was all pomp and ceremony as America's top general hosted his Chinese counterpart in Washington to promote closer ties just four days ago.

Now America's attorney-general Eric Holder has "categorically denounced" Chinese military officials for economic espionage.

ERIC HOLDER: Today we are announcing an indictment against five officers of the Chinese People's Liberation Army for serious cyber security breaches against six American victim companies.

MICHAEL VINCENT: Those corporations are based in Pennsylvania and include nuclear power company Westinghouse Electric, aluminium maker Alcoa, specialty metals company Allegheny Technologies Incorporated, United States Steel, the United Steelworkers Union and Solar World.

ERIC HOLDER: The indictment alleges that these PLA officers maintained unauthorised access to victim computers to steal information from these entities that would be useful to their competitors in China, including state-owned enterprises.

In some cases they stole trade secrets that would have been particularly beneficial to Chinese companies at the time that they were stolen.

MICHAEL VINCENT: Having had close contact with the affected companies, US attorney for western Pennsylvania, David Hickton, was more blunt.

DAVID HICKTON: This 21st century burglary has to stop. We would not stand idly by if someone pulled a tractor trailer up to a corporate headquarters, cracked the lock and loaded up sensitive information.

MICHAEL VINCENT: The United States says the companies got tired of being "raided" and called in US authorities to track the hackers.

JOHN CARLIN: Right about the time that Solar World was rapidly losing its market share to Chinese competitors that were pricing exports well below costs, these hackers were stealing cost, pricing and strategy information from Solar World's computers.

And while Westinghouse was negotiating with a Chinese state-owned enterprise over the construction of nuclear power plants the hackers stole trade secret designs for components of those plants.

MICHAEL VINCENT: Facing questions at the daily White House briefing that the Chinese military officers would never face a US court, spokesman Jay Carney defended the laying of the charges.

JAY CARNEY: The behaviour that's been identified by China has continued, and it's not acceptable. You know, government-sponsored cyber-enabled theft of trade secrets and other sensitive business information for commercial gain is not something we can tolerate.

MICHAEL VINCENT: A statement from the Chinese Foreign Ministry in Beijing declares the charges are "made up" and would "damage Sino-American cooperation and mutual trust", that China is a "staunch defender of network security" and "that Chinese government, military and associated personnel have never engaged in online theft of trade secrets".

The US State Department says a "discussion about the issues" is the best way forward.

Add the hashtag #raonair to add your tweets to the conversation.

Email us your thoughts on an issue. Messages may be used on air.
