
Adam Macy doesn't mind being the only guy in his graduating class.

Adam Macy doesn't mind being the only guy in his graduating class.

He's very close to Chelsey Underwood and Sarah Nevitt, the other two graduating seniors of the class of 2014 at Salina Christian Academy.

"All three of us have been in the same class since sixth grade," said Adam, who plans to take a year off after graduation and then join either the U.S. Marine Corps or the U.S. Army.

There's a distinct advantage of being part of such a small school, said Adam, who has been attending Salina Christian Academy since preschool. Other than installing Christian values in him, he said the one-on-one attention from the school's teachers has been invaluable.

"Teachers don't have to talk over 100 people at a time," he said.

Commencement ceremonies honoring Adam, Chelsey and Sarah were Sunday at Emmanuel Foursquare Church, 1325 E. Cloud.

Guest speaker was Matt Davis, owner and operator of Third Strategy, a Salina-based consulting firm that helps businesses increase their performance and profitability.

In his remarks, Davis reminded the seniors of the inspiring time he spent with them during the past year, and how far he believed each of them could go.

"I can't help but think each of you has been called," he said. "You're finishing a chapter and moving on. You have dreams, desires and hopes. But I ask you, what are you willing to ask God for?"

Citing the many people who loved and supported the seniors and helped them become young adults of character, Davis asked them if they were ready for their next test.

"We hope and desire that you use your gifts to lead," he said. "That you not be afraid to perform miracles. Don't be afraid to ask for amazing things. Be someone who moves people to do difficult things. God expects you to be a good example."

Chelsey, who has attended Salina Christian Academy since kindergarten, said she has enrolled at Hutchinson Community College in the fall. Because of her love for sports, Chelsey said she wants to be a physical therapy assistant.

Attending Salina Christian Academy was valuable, Chelsey said, because of their rigorous academic requirements.

"It's challenging, and you get a lot of attention," she said. "It helps us more than being in a big lecture hall would. Everyone is like family."

Sarah has been attending Salina Christian Academy since sixth grade. She's currently enrolled at Salina Area Technical College and pursuing an associate degree in welding. In her graduation remarks, Sarah said, "being the only girl in a male-dominated field is hard, but because of strong women in my life, I've learned not to let gender stereotypes take a toll on me."

Although she's excited to be finished with high school, Sarah said she'll miss her fellow seniors.

"I've been seeing them for six years," she said. "It'll be tough not seeing them everyday."
