
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .

If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .

Zoom in on this story. Explore all there is to know.

Video will begin in 5 seconds.

Washington: The US Department of Justice has charged five individuals in China's People's Liberation Army in connection with stealing trade secrets from some of the largest US companies, including Westinghouse, United States Steel and Alcoa.

The move marked a rare instance of the US charging foreign-government employees with economic espionage, and it increased the tensions between American and Chinese officials, who have accused each other in public and private of using military assets to initiate hacks and cyber attacks.

Wanted: Material displayed at the US Justice Department as unprecedented indictments were announced against five Chinese hackers.

The US ambassador to Beijing, Max Baucus, was summoned to the Chinese foreign ministry to receive its protest.

The authorities said the five men had worked at  a 12-storey white office tower  on a Chinese army base on the outskirts of Shanghai that was identified in a report last year as a source for many attacks on the US government and corporations.

According to the report, the attacks were coming from Chinese hacking groups, known to many of their victims in the US as the "Comment Crew" or "Shanghai Group", that were based in that building.

US Attorney-General Eric Holder announces a grand jury has charged five Chinese hackers.

At a news conference in Washington, the Justice Department said it was searching for Wang Dong, Sun Kailiang, Wen Xinyu, Huang Zhenyu and Gu Chunhui. Each of the defendants was  charged with 31 counts  for alleged offences between 2006 and 2014. If convicted, they would face decades in prison. However, they are at large in China, US officials acknowledged, and there is virtually no chance the Chinese government would turn them over.

John Carlin, an assistant attorney-general for national security, said the men "have targeted the US private sector for commercial advantage".

"We allege that members of Unit 61398 conspired to hack into computers of six US victims to steal information that would provide an economic advantage to the victims' competitors, including Chinese state-owned enterprises," Mr Carlin said.

In response to the charges, the Chinese Foreign Ministry said the US had made up the facts behind the charges and that its military had never been involved in stealing trade secrets.

"The US - fabricating facts and using so-called stealing network secrets as an excuse - announced indictments against five Chinese military officers," the ministry said in a statement. "This is a serious violation of basic norms of international relations and damages Sino-US co-operation and mutual trust."

China has "lodged a protest" with the US about this and "urges the US to immediately correct its error and revoke its so-called indictment".

According to the statement, China has also decided to suspend the Sino-US Internet Working Group's activities, "given the US lack of sincerity in resolving internet security issues through dialogue and co-operation".

China "will make further responses" based on developments, the statement said.

The Justice Department said the men were indicted on May 1 by a federal grand jury in Pennsylvania and charged with conspiring to commit computer fraud and accessing a computer without authorisation for the purpose of commercial advantage.

Mr Carlin gave examples of the damage done by the hackers. He said that while SolarWorld was rapidly losing its market share to Chinese competitors that were pricing exports well below costs, the hackers were stealing cost, pricing and strategy information from the company's computers. And while Westinghouse was negotiating with a Chinese state-owned enterprise over the construction of nuclear power plants, he said, the hackers stole trade-secret designs for components of those plants.

In 2013, amid reports that detailed the extent of Chinese hacking of companies and corporations, US officials tried to pressure the Chinese government to stop its military from compromising American systems.

In March, it was revealed the National Security Agency had created a back door into the computer networks of Huawei, a Chinese telecommunications giant that is considered a threat by the US.

The NSA has also tracked more than 20 Chinese hacking groups - including some from the Chinese army and navy - that have broken into US government networks and companies. The companies included Google, and drone and nuclear-weapon part makers.

In a separate case, the department was to announce charges against several people who used hacking software called Blackshades. The software allows hackers to remotely control a computer.

US Attorney-General Eric Holder said the two cases showed the US was stepping up cyber enforcement, regardless of the source of the attacks.

Secret US State Department cables obtained by WikiLeaks traced major systems breaches to China, it was reported in 2011. One 2009 cable pinpointed attacks to a specific unit of China's People's Liberation Army.

Sceptics noted that US authorities would not be able to arrest those indicted as Beijing would not hand them over. Still, the move would prevent the individuals from travelling to the US or other countries that have an extradition agreement with America.

"It won't slow China down," said Eric Johnson, dean of the business school at Vanderbilt University and an expert on cyber security issues.

Other experts said the indictments would have some impact on those accused of hacking US companies.

Former NSA lawyer Stewart Baker said the hackers named in the indictments might have trouble getting jobs in China's private sector when they move on from employment with the People's Liberation Army. "In the long run, it could even hurt your employability in China, because the government is going to look askance at Chinese firms that hire former cyber spies."

The US and China agreed last year to begin holding regular, high-level talks on cyber security and commercial espionage. But whenever US officials raise the issue of economic spying, the Chinese are not receptive, administration officials said. Though Washington takes pains to distinguish between foreign intelligence gathering and spying to help a country's own industries gain an economic advantage, officials say that is a distinction without a difference to the Chinese.

The leaks from former NSA contractor Edward Snowden, beginning last June, have only complicated the talks. Beijing has pointed to disclosures by Snowden of vast NSA surveillance activities - including spying on Chinese companies - to assert the US is the greater aggressor in the area.

The US charges are likely to be seen in China as a major action, said Jin Canrong, vice-director of international studies at Beijing's Renmin University. "In the past, the US talked about it but never took any real actions. If the US freezes some Chinese military assets as a result of this, China will respond with counteractions accordingly."

How negatively it affects US-China relations depends on what further actions the White House takes beyond the criminal charges, Mr Jin said. But in China, he noted, there is a feeling of hypocrisy whenever the US brings up such charges, especially in light of the recent NSA leaks. "The US has been doing the same thing."

Estimates of the economic costs to the US of commercial cyber espionage range from $US24 billion ($25.6 billion) to $US120 billion annually. China is by far the country that engages in the most such activity against the US, according to a  national intelligence estimate .
