
PRESIDENT Benigno Aquino III admitted on Monday that the Philippines cannot force China to exercise self-restraint in disputed waters despite a Declaration on the Conduct of Parties of the South China Sea that Beijing signed with the Association of Southeast Asian Nations.

The President said China’s move to reclaim land in Mabini Reef is a violation of the DOC that China signed with the 10 Asean member-states in Phnom Penh in 2002.

“In my view, this is seemingly in violation of what was agreed upon in the Declaration of Conduct. The problem is that the declaration is non-binding and not enforceable,” Aquino admitted.

“For this to be operational, we need the Code of Conduct. We have repeatedly called for parties to hasten the crafting of the CoC to end hostilities,” the President added.

Under the DoC, Aquino said China and the 10 Asean member-states agreed to “to exercise self-restraint in the conduct of activities that would complicate or escalate disputes and affect peace and stability” in disputer areas in the South China Sea.

But China has refused to sign a binding code of conduct in the South China Sea and insists on pushing for its so-called Nine Dash Line that effectively claims the entire South China despite conflicting claims with Asean nations, including the Philippines.

Chinese embassy spokesperson Zhang Hua on Friday stressed there is nothing illegal with Chinese construction activities on Mabini Reef, known as Chigua Reef in China.

“China has indisputable sovereignty over Nansha Islands (Spratly Islands) including Chigua Reef and the contiguous waters,” Zhang said.

“Whatever construction China carries out in the Chigua Reef is completely within China’s sovereignty,” Zhang added.

But Aquino disputed Beijing’s claim and said China’s move to reclaim land in Mabini Reef is a violation of the DOC that highlights the need to hasten the crafting of a binding Code of Conduct to govern territorial disputes in the region.

China is also locked in separate territorial disputes with Vietnam where the row has recently flared into deadly riots, and Japan.

On Monday, almost 1,000 Chinese citizens were evacuated from riot-hit Vietnam by sea, with another three ships following, as Hanoi stifled fresh protests over a territorial dispute and foreign investors counted the cost.

The passenger ship Wuzhishan left the central Vietnamese port of Vung Ang with 989 evacuees on board, China’s official news agency Xinhua reported.

It was the first of four Chinese ships, each with a capacity of about 1,000 people, sent to Vietnam, Xinhua said, with another two on standby.

Relations between the communist neighbours have plummeted following Beijing’s move earlier this month to send a deep-water drilling rig into contested waters in the South China Sea.

Two Chinese nationals were killed and about 140 injured when enraged mobs torched or otherwise damaged hundreds of foreign-owned businesses in Vietnam last week.

More than 3,000 Chinese have already returned home from Vietnam by sea and air, reports said at the weekend.

Authorities deployed hundreds of security personnel Sunday to quell the violence and more than 300 suspected perpetrators are being prosecuted, Vietnamese officials said.

There were no reports of any further disturbances in Vietnam on Monday and Hanoi was calm, with authorities scaling back the heavy security presence that had blocked access to the Chinese embassy and other key points in the city.

But in Japan, Tokyo announced its plan to establish new military outposts on remote islands, a report said Monday, as the country looks to bolster its defense amid its dispute with China.

Up to 350 troops each could be stationed on three islands in the far southwest, close to the Senkakus, which Beijing claims as its own under the name Diaoyus, the mass-selling Yomiuri Shimbun reported.

Tokyo is now planning to set up new outposts on three islands, including Amamioshima, some 150 kilometers (93 miles) south of the Senkakus, the Yomiuri said, citing unnamed senior defense ministry officials.

Deputy defence minister Ryota Takeda will visit Amamioshima this week to look at establishing a joint research project with the island, it said.
