
China has hit back at comments by the secretary-general of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations that Beijing's actions in the South China Sea have infringed Vietnam's territorial sovereignty.

Le Luong Minh also said China had violated the Declaration of Conduct of the Parties in the South China Sea.

Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei said Le's comments ran counter to the ASEAN consensus and would hurt China-ASEAN ties. Beijing also called on Le "not to say or do things that are not commensurate with his position".

Hong made the remarks after Le told The Wall Street Journal that the first thing to do was to get China out of "the territorial waters of Vietnam", a move that he said would be conducive to restoring confidence in negotiations aimed at resolving the issue.

Hong emphasized that the South China Sea issue is not a dispute between China and ASEAN, and urged the group to abide by its own rules to not interfere in any particular conflict, and to safeguard China-ASEAN ties with concrete action.

"Le's statement did not match his status as the bloc's secretary-general because he "ignored the facts, violated ASEAN's neutral stance and unilaterally sent out the wrong signals", Hong said.

According to Xu Liping, a researcher into Southeast Asian studies at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, "The current friction between China and Vietnam is the result of strong harassment by Vietnamese vessels which undermined China's sovereignty and ocean rights, and sabotaged the normal maritime order.

"Beijing did not resort to extreme measures because China wanted to provide a chance for the two sides to negotiate and resolve the situation," he added.

The government has warned Chinese citizens against traveling to Vietnam and ordered the suspension of a number of bilateral cooperative projects, Hong said on Monday.

Two Chinese nationals have been killed and more than 100 others have been injured in riots that started on May 13 and have resulted in offices and factories owned by Chinese companies being looted and burned.

Since an evacuation plan was launched on Saturday, China has dispatched chartered planes from China Southern Airlines to airlift the injured to safety, and has dispatched four ships to the Vietnamese port of Vung Ang to evacuate nearly 4,000 Chinese nationals. Some Chinese in Vietnam have chosen travel to Cambodia for safety reasons, according to the ministry.

Meanwhile, Chinese nationals who have fled Vietnam have been describing their experiences.

Jin Xiaomin headed home to Nanning in the Guangxi Zhuang autonomous region on Thursday.

The 24-year-old has worked as an assistant manager for China Hongyi Hardware Co in a key development zone at Binh Duong in southeastern Vietnam for three years. She said she's still shocked by the violence she witnessed, and has had nightmares about crowds of people using metal batons and chairs to smash windows, computers and desks in her office building.
