
ADDIS ABABA – The Ethiopian government on Saturday received nine new vessels worth over $300 million from China at a ceremony organized in Djibouti.

“The vessels are not only Ethiopian assets but they are also Djibouti’s properties,” Ethiopian Prime Minister Hailemariam Desalegn said at the ceremony.

“The vessels indicate the rapid development in Ethiopia,” he added.

Named after the capital cities of Ethiopia’s regional states, the vessels were built with loans from the Chinese government.

Most of Ethiopia’s exports and imports are transported through the Port of Djibouti, which is located 900km east of Ethiopian capital Addis Ababa.

“Djibouti benefits from Ethiopia’s rapid development and in turn Djibouti’s growth is an advantage to Ethiopia,” Djiboutian President Ismail Omar Guelleh told the ceremony.

“The relation between Ethiopia and Djibouti is not limited to a government-to-government level but it has been intensified in people-to-people ties,” he said.

The Djiboutian leader went on to say that relations between the two neighbors are boosting in different spheres, including the economic and social fields.

“Djibouti gives a port service to Ethiopia but it does not consider that it is giving the service to another country but regards it as it is doing it for itself,” he said.

“We believe that Ethiopia is Djibouti and Djibouti is Ethiopia, no difference at all,” he added, going on to reiterate that the new vessels will further help speed up the ongoing development endeavors in Ethiopia.

Ethiopia had used Eritrean ports until 1998 when the two countries engaged in a war of their border disputes.

Following the war, Ethiopian began to use Djibouti ports to export its products.

your post shows…….”my government…” exactly my point! we need OUR government. get a life man!

Now what minlk sold djibouti to french wayan will get djibouti back pcefuly .

Who will take the plane and the ships when oromia get free from Amhara and Tigray abissiniya leaders.

Zimblachu ladleful wanni inbekne inaseini .

These and the rest of the shipping vessels in service today will also be the property of Oromia when it goes independent. Every last penny used to pay for all government owned shipping vessels was earned by the resources of Oromia alone. We will take possession of all of them this year. Whatever left of Ethiopia will not need the service of the vessels since it will be more cost effective for Tigray, Amhara, Beni Shangul and the Southern nation have to turn to Kenya or Sudan to reroute their imports and exports. They all hate the name ‘Ethiopia’ anyway.

In less than 10 years after its independence, Oromia will be the first African nation to launch a rocket into space with an Oromo astronaut in command.

We will be very generous in granting a 2-year workers’ visas to our Amhara neighbors which will be strictly in place. They will go back after two years and they can not re-apply. You see how generous my Oromia will be to others? And she is drop-dead beauty too.

This is the latest about our independence drive. The Minnesota State Legislature has this week recognized Oromia as an independent nation. The rest of the 49 states will follow very soon. As I told you before 192 of the 193 member nations of the UN have signed a memorandum of understanding that they will recognize Oromia as an independent nation this year. They have seen it themselves that Oromia is already 99’9% liberated with the exception of Finfine. The rest is just a matter of paperwork. Oromia was scheduled to go independent on May 15, 2014 but the arrangement hit unexpected snag because many of its designated leaders were still wrapping their advance studies at various prestigious universities.

There is another development I want to keep you abreast with what is going on with the soon-to-be independent Oromia. The transitional executive committee has finalized a document wherein the new Republic of Oromia will submit to the United Nations. In the document the Republic of Oromia will ask the Nations of Amhara and Tigray to pay Oromia 250 billion US Dollars in reparation to the resources these two nations borrowed from Oromia during the last 200 years. The amount is without interest and will be negotiable and open for arbitration by mutually agreed third party. Oromia has expressed its preference to Eritrea, Egypt, Germany, Norway, Canada and Saudi Arabia as countries of arbitration.

Are you Day-Dreaming  Mr Ordofa. You are Mr Are_tera burning with jealousy!

We are united for ever and ever .

O kenaf it eye Malibfi independent I gafeteni.

Elme  sere.

Your regime in Eritrea collapse very soon the you will come and kiss the weyane feet soon .

Talk about your people die in desert thousend of them reped and humiliated talk some thing dissent make sense Ethiopia is in the right track .

Am from Oromo worriers  family who fought for Ethiopia in Eritrea war and Italian war I can not tale you how am proud Ethiopia.

My father he used to say a  belo yagerbechisa Eritrea maltu gedissa.

You rubbish.
