
The appearance offered Christie a second chance to impress deep-pocketed Jewish donors after stumbling in a recent speech to the Republican Jewish Coalition. Sunday’s event also featured Gov. Rick Perry of Texas, Sen. Cory Booker of New Jersey and major political donor Sheldon Adelson.

The gathering comes as donors — none bigger than Adelson — begin to size up the crowded field of potential Republican presidential candidates ahead of the 2016 contest. While billed as a nonpartisan affair, there were political references throughout the evening.

Christie did not talk about his own presidential prospects in a speech that offered aggressive rhetoric but few specifics. He didn’t mention Israel, but insisted that America’s leaders must send “clear and consistent signals” to those nations it supports and those it doesn’t while promoting America’s values.

Christie was seated at the same table as Adelson, who figures to play a prominent role in the selection of the next Republican presidential nominee. It was their second meeting over the last two months.

At a Las Vegas gathering of the Republican Jewish Coalition in late March, Adelson met with Christie and several other possible Republican contenders: Former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush, Ohio Gov. John Kasich and Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker.

At the time, Christie, a Catholic, said he was overwhelmed by displays of religious tolerance during a recent trip to Jerusalem.

“I took a helicopter ride from occupied territories across … and just felt, personally, how extraordinary that was to understand the military risk that Israel faces every day,” Christie said.

The comment about “occupied territories” drew sharp criticism from some in the audience. The Israeli government and by extension most of Israel’s supporters in the U.S. don’t consider the West Bank and East Jerusalem to be occupied territory.

After the speech, Christie met privately with Adelson to explain that he misspoke.

With a net worth estimated at nearly $40 billion, Adelson may be the Republican Party’s most influential donor. He is known for his devotion to Israel, in addition to an aggressive American foreign policy.

Adelson donated more than $90 million to Republican candidates and their allies in the 2012 election.

Spread the word!

Unfortunately, TheBlaze is not available on .

But you can help! Call at or press CONTINUE to email your provider and urge them to add TheBlaze to your channel lineup.

But you can help! Press CONTINUE to email your provider and urge them to add TheBlaze to your channel lineup.

I would like to receive news and information from TheBlaze.

Please try again later.

Give us a Scoop!

Please help us fight spam. Follow the instructions below to prove that you're a real person.
