
Seminars aimed at enlightening Muslims on the “untruths” of other religions are not extreme and in fact aligned with Islam, Isma said today in a rebuttal against former Perlis mufti Datuk Dr Mohd Asri Zainul Abidin (pic).

Responding to Asri’s comments on Universiti Teknologi Mara (UiTM)’s Christian-bashing seminar, Isma Ulama Council chairman Professor Dr Aznan Hasan said it was the responsibility of the country’s leaders to ensure the rakyat’s faith was in line with sharia.

Asri had told The Malaysian Insider that efforts by any religious community to spread its teaching were a natural phenomenon in all countries and it did not merit knee-jerk reactions from Muslims in Malaysia&lrm;.

The prominent scholar also reminded Muslims in Malaysia that they had no reason to be worried about the fate of their religion, as no attack had been launched against Islam.

But Aznan said this proved Asri acknowledged that a Christianisation movement existed in Malaysia.

“Should we allow (them to spread Christianity), simply because it is considered a normal phenomenon? Or should we defend the Constitution?” Aznan wrote in an article published on Isma’s website.

He said Asri was wrong to compare the Christianisation movement here with the efforts of Muslims abroad to spread Islam.

Aznan said that in Malaysia, Islam was the federal religion and proselytisation went against the Constitution.

“Isma is not involved in organising the programme, but I fully support it because it does not go against Islamic teachings, but adheres to the principle of maqsad hifz al-din (for the purpose of protecting the faith).

Aznan also advised Asri to look at Quranic verses holistically, after the latter had said the holy text mentioned the people who loved Muslims the most were Christians.

“I am not asking us to fight with Jews and Christians. No one will understand the call to champion Islamic teachings to mean that.

"In fact, in Malaysia, I believe that the duty of all citizens is to ensure that the peace we have achieved continues and prospers. This is how Isma understands it.

Several speakers had warned Muslims against the threat of Christianisation at the UiTM seminar and belittled the Bible as containing "tales&lrm;", while copies of a book titled "Exposing the Christian Agenda" were distributed among the students.

The Bishops Confederation of Indonesia told The Malaysian Insider that it had no record of Insan L.S. Mokoginta, a speaker who claimed he was a Catholic priest before converting to Islam in 1976.

Checks on another speaker, Irena Handono, who claimed she was a former Catholic nun, also showed that it was not true as she did not complete her "education".

Another "suspect" speaker at the seminar was Prof Dr Menehim Ali, listed as "Pakar Kristologi Universitas Bandung" in UiTM's souvenir programme.

A Google search found no such university. What comes up instead is a list of universities in Bandung city itself.

It is unclear, however, if Menehim goes by any other name, as in its report on the seminar, national news agency Bernama had identified him as Prof Dr Menachem Ali, an Islamic Philology and Semitic Studies academic at the Airlangga University, Surabaya, East Jawa.

The seminar had strained ties between the two biggest religious communities in Malaysia, which were already in conflict over the decades-long tussle over the use of the word “Allah”.

Christians make up 2.9 million of Malaysia's 30 million population, with two-thirds of the adherents living in Sabah and Sarawak.

Isma had fanned the flames of religious intolerance even further when it called Chinese migrants brought to Malaya as "trespassers", and warned of "foreign races" and Jewish Zionist evangelists who were intent on burying Islam.

The groups' remarks have triggered outcry among Malaysians&lrm;, but Putrajaya &lrm;has remained silent over Isma's statements. &ndash; May 19, 2014.
