
America has today accused five Chinese military officers of cyber-spying on six US companies and stealing trade secrets.

US officials say the hackers targeted companies in the nuclear power, metals and solar products industries to steal information useful to competitors in China.

The companies targeted include Alcoa Inc, United States Steel Corp, Allegheny Technologies Inc, Westinghouse Electric Co and U.S. subsidiaries of SolarWorld AG.

The hackers also allegedly targeted United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, Allied-Industrial and Service Workers International Union (USW).

The U.S. Justice Department said a grand jury has now indicted the five individuals and charged them with cyber espionage.

The move "indicates that DOJ has ’smoking keyboards’ and (is) willing to bring the evidence to a court of law and be more transparent," said Frank Cilluffo, head of the Homeland Security Policy Institute at the George Washington University.

American officials have long been concerned about hacking from abroad, especially China. Secret U.S. State Department cables obtained by WikiLeaks traced major systems breaches to China, Reuters reported in 2011.

One 2009 cable pinpointed attacks to a specific unit of China’s People’s Liberation Army.

Such charges, however, are symbolic but the move would prevent the individuals indicted from traveling to the United States or other countries that have an extradition agreement with the United States.

Several cyber security experts said today's action showed the United States was serious about tackling the hacking concerns.

"It sends a strong message to the Chinese," a senior fellow at the Center for Strategic and International studies James Lewis said.

Others some remained skeptical the move would deter online invasions.

"It won’t slow China down," said Eric Johnson, an information technology expert at Vanderbilt University and dean of its School of Management.

An FBI official last week told Reuters to expect multiple cyber security-related cases, including indictments and arrests, in the coming weeks.

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).
