
Refers to those who benefit from Common Core legislation as "these people."

ORLANDO, Fla., May 19 (UPI) -- A Republican state representative in Florida is criticizing changes his state is making to its standardized testing, saying they are an attempt to turn straight children homosexual.

Video of Florida State Rep. Charles Van Zant's anti-gay comments were leaked by watchdog group ThinkProgress Monday afternoon. The remarks were part of a speech Van Zant gave at the Operation Education Conference, an anti-Common Core gathering in Orlando.

"The [Christian] bible says a lot about being double-minded," Van Zant said in the video.

These people, that will now receive $220 million from the state of Florida unless this is stopped, will promote double-mindedness in state education and attract every one of your children to become as homosexual as they possibly can.

He then apologized for delivering "bad news," seemingly implying he was speaking to a crowd sympathetic to anti-gay views.

© 2014 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Any reproduction, republication, redistribution and/or modification of any UPI content is expressly prohibited without UPI's prior written consent.

UPI licenses content directly to print outlets, online media and institutions of all types. In addition, UPI's distribution partners provide our content to thousands of businesses, policy groups and academic institutions worldwide. Our audience consists of millions of decision-makers who depend on UPI's insightful and analytical stories to make better business or policy decisions.

In the year of our 107th anniversary, our company strives to continue being a leading and trusted source for news, analysis and insight for readers around the world.

© 2014 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

UPI.com is your trusted source for world news, top news, science news, health news and current events.

We thank you for visiting us and we hope that we will be your daily stop for news updates.
