
Research presented on Sunday by the Arizona State University shows that washer fluid spray can release "potentially dangerous numbers" of bacteria causing respiratory illnesses such as Legionnaires' Disease, a severe form of pneumonia.

Nearly 75% of the tested school buses, from one district of Arizona alone, tested positive for the bacteria known as Legionella.

Experiments started in 2012 with attempts at growing Legionella cultures in a variety of washer fluid preparations. The experiment showed that cultures increase over time and can maintain stable bacterial concentrations up to 14 months.

The second stage of the experiment involved testing school buses in central Arizona and found that three out of four buses contained the Legionella cultures.

Legionella is commonly contained in water and can be found in many common urban areas within cooling towers, hot tubs and large-scale air conditioners. The danger comes only when it is spread by mist or vapour containing the bacteria, such as the spray of windshield washer fluid.

The illness presents itself as fever, chills and a cough, with possible ensuing muscle pains, headache, fatigue, loss of appetite, coordination difficulties, diarrhea and vomiting. The disease affects renal functions with liver and electrolytes also becoming deranged. It typically affects mainly older people and smokers, and has a fatality rate of as high as 30%.

Though the research notes that most people won't become ill if exposed to the bacteria, in some cases it may develop into Legionnaires' Disease as well as Pontiac Fever, a flu-like illness.

Although windshield washer fluids are not traditionally associated with the spread of infectious diseases, the researchers of Arizona State began looking into it as a conduit for bacterial spread following prior research.

One such study in the United Kingdom attributed 20% of all cases of Legionnaires' Disease, not associated with outbreaks or hospitals, to windshield washer fluid. The spray is believed to act as an aerosol agent for the bacteria, which can then be inhaled potentially by the driver, nearby bystanders or even the passengers on their way to school.

Otto Schwake, a doctorate student of Arizona State presented the research at the annual meeting of American Society for Microbiology to draw attention to the matter. When interviewed, Schwake expressed concern over the "potential transmission of a deadly respiratory disease from a source as common as automobile windshield washing systems".
