
Budget cuts could ground the apache helicopters with the Texas National Guard. Soldiers who fly them continue to train and perfect their skills.

Set up on the sprawling grounds of Fort Hood is a large tent which serves as a tactical operations center for the 1-149th Attack-Reconnaissance Battalion with the Texas National Guard. Soldiers with the unit are conducting aerial gunnery training for two weeks with AH-64 apaches which is part of their yearly training.

More than 400 soldiers from across the state are assigned to the 1-149th ARB based out of Ellington Field in Houston. Most are part time but several are full time that maintain the aircraft and train during the week. The unit is attached to the 36th Infantry Division which is based at Camp Mabry.

"We've got missiles, rockets and a machine gun on the front," explained Lt. Justin Hagel who operates the triple threat in the sky known as the apache. When he's not working at a construction company he's likely training for his other job.

"We're mild mannered civilians but if war starts we pick up a gun or an apache and we come running," said Hagel. While on deployment during Hurricane Katrina he knew he wanted to fly the apache.

"This is my own opinion but I think every helicopter pilot wants to fly this thing. They may not say it but they think it," said Hagel.

It's a coordinated effort on the ground and in the air. Unmanned aerial vehicles, commonly referred to as drones, conduct surveillance putting eyes on a target without risking any lives.

"We team up with the apache helicopter and while they're far away they can receive our video," said Sgt. First Class Frank Konarik.

The decorated unit supports active duty soldiers and protects Texas. Deployments include Bosnia, Iraq and Afghanistan. On the home front soldiers have responded to hurricanes and the shuttle disaster.

"There's a real big sense of family and pride," said Lieutenant Colonel Derrek Hryhorchuck. Lt. Col. Hryhorchuck has served with the unit since 1999.

The future of the group could be in jeopardy. Proposed budget cuts would move the apaches from the National Guard to active duty units. That's something Major General William Smith who serves as the deputy adjunct general for the Texas National Guard isn't thrilled about.

"If they take the apaches away then there's no longer any reserve built into the apache fleet and we don't look like the army so that's not a good place to be," Smith said.

The cuts could mean Texas loses 16 apache helicopters and the 330 people who support them. Roughly a year from now those cuts could take shape in the FY 2016 budget.

"It was almost purely budget and not something for strategic defense," said General Smith who questions the reasons for the proposed move. He says it could lead to shuffling soldiers across the state to fill the void in the Houston area.

Pilots like Lt. Hagel wouldn't have an apache to fly. "If they take them away we're supposed to get Blackhawks so I could learn to fly that," he said. Hagel says he'd consider active duty if it means he could keep flying the apache.

All content © Copyright 2000 - 2014 Fox Television Stations, Inc. and Worldnow. All Rights   Reserved.
