
A Monroeville, PA Board Certified physician specializing in Urology, Dr. Frank J. Costa, is a Castle Connolly Top Doctor for 2014.

MONROEVILLE, Pa., May 19, 2014 /PRNewswire-USNewswire/ -- Castle Connolly Medical Ltd., America's trusted source for identifying Top Doctors, has selected Monroeville's Urology specialist Dr. Frank J. Costa for inclusion in its highly selective list of Regional Top Doctors this year.

Castle Connolly Medical Ltd. publishes its list of Castle Connolly Top Doctors® at www.castleconnolly.com , as well as in a wide variety of printed directories, partner publications and on partner/affiliate websites. All told, fewer than 36,000 physicians - less than 5% of the nation's licensed physicians - have been selected as Castle Connolly Top Doctors in their regions for their specialties.

Castle Connolly Top Doctors® are selected by Castle Connolly Medical Ltd. after being nominated by peer physicians in an online nomination process. Nominations are open to all board certified MDs and DOs and each year tens of thousands of doctors cast many tens of thousands of nominations. Honorees are selected from the nominees by the Castle Connolly physician-led research team based on criteria including their medical education, training, hospital appointments, disciplinary histories and more.

Dr. Frank J. Costa is a Clinical Associate Professor of urology at the University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine. He presented numerous papers and published articles and has received repeated "Top Doctor" awards. He is the Director of the Urology Institute of Pittsburgh and maintains a very busy clinical practice. He is an authority on Men's Health issues and lectures extensively both nationally and internationally.

For more information on this Castle Connolly Top Doctor, please visit Frank J. Costa 's profile on www.castleconnolly.com.

Castle Connolly Medical Ltd.'s President and CEO Dr. John Connolly has this to say about Dr. Costa's recognition: "Only a small percent of physicians are selected to be Castle Connolly Top Doctors. Our goal is to make it easier for an average person to find the right doctor for them in what can be an overwhelming process at a difficult time in a person's life. Dr. Costa was nominated by Board Certified peers and selected by our research team at Castle Connolly Medical Ltd. Selection is an impressive accomplishment worthy of recognition. My congratulations to Dr. Costa."

To find out more or to contact Dr. Frank J. Costa of Monroeville , PA, please call 412-373-2333. or visit .

This press release was written by American Registry, LLC and Castle Connolly Medical Ltd., with approval by and/or contributions from Frank J. Costa and was distributed by PR Newswire, a subsidiary of UBM plc.

Castle Connolly Medical Ltd. identifies top doctors in America and provides consumers with detailed information about their education, training and special expertise in printed guides and online directories. It is important to note that doctors do not and cannot pay to be included in any Castle Connolly guide or online directory. Learn more at www.castleconnolly.com .
