
NEW YORK, May 19, 2014 /PRNewswire/ -- Honest Buildings (HB), the leading connection engine for real estate projects, held its first annual Real Estate Innovations Summit in New York City on Thursday, May 15, featuring today's most innovative players in New York real estate.

Adam Neumann, CEO and co-founder of WeWork, was the first recipient of the HB Summit Innovation Award, an honor given to real estate professionals who are disrupting the industry with groundbreaking solutions.

Jared Kushner, President and CEO of Kushner Companies, shared how real estate is evolving: "We're in an industrial revolution where technology is changing everything."

Bill Rudin, CEO of Rudin Management, discussed the present and future of real estate: "Disruption and innovation pushes people to be better."

"We are honored we had the opportunity to bring together today's forward-thinking real estate thought leaders, who are truly the future of the industry," said Riggs Kubiak, CEO and co-founder of Honest Buildings. "Technology will continue to change how we do business and staying ahead of the curve is a necessity."

In addition to an array of lively panel discussions, pioneering real estate players also presented case studies on products and services that fall into the following categories: 1) New and Innovative 2) Currently In Use 3) Positive ROI 4) Repeatable.

The practical event was an engaging, open forum for owners, investors and developers who aim to fully understand – and capitalize upon – the exciting, innovative solutions that are available today.

Honest Buildings (HB) is the world's leading Connection Engine for Real Estate Projects. From architects to engineers, contractors to technology experts, HB helps you find and meet the perfect people for your real estate projects, fast. We enable the real estate community to make the smartest decisions, one project at a time. With an innovative suite of products and more than $150 million in deal flow to date, HB is changing the way real estate connections are forged. For more information, visit www.hbnetwork.com and see how it feels to Search. Connect. Decide.
