
The Board of Directors elections will be held Wednesday using 65 weathered machines.

Joe Marino/New York Daily News Voting machines, like these, will be dropped off at Co-op City for their upcoming Board of Directors elections.

Even Co-op City has a political machine.

Workers will descend on a Brooklyn warehouse at 3 a.m. Wednesday, where they’ll pick up 65 weathered voting machines and truck them up to the sprawling housing complex in the Bronx.

The trucks, monitored by the Co-op City Elections Committee, have been making the early morning run for two decades to pick up 1960s-era lever voting machines, which were largely taken out of rotation for citywide elections in 2009.

But in a complex of 35 buildings, 236 townhouses and 55,000 residents, the 800-pound machines still get some love each May during often contentious Board of Directors elections.

Joey Scarborough Three town halls are held in advance of the election, but only about 70 citizens show up to each, according to city officials.

“With the lever, you walk in, you pull the lever, your vote is in and it works,” said Dave Lazaar, 69, who moved to Co-op City in the early 1970s and says that either he or his wife has voted in every election since.

In a building complex that, were it to secede, would rank as the state’s 10th largest municipality, the four weeks leading up to the May 21 elections are every bit as crazed as a City Council race — if not more so, residents say.

Joey Scarborough Bob Christie, 56, said that although there is room for improvement from Co-op City leadership he will not be voting Wednesday.

Candidates debate during a series of three Town Hall-style meetings, write editorials in the Co-Op City Times, post handbills and even hire election lawyers — all in a tense bid to convince an average of 5,000 voters each year to cast a ballot.

The board, which this year has five open three-year terms, oversees Co-op City’s 1,000-person staff and everything from the complex’s own privately run police task force to Cablevision-endorsed surveillance cameras.

Joey Scarborough Every residential lobby in Co-op City will have voting machines for Wednesday's election.

The elections have run relatively smoothly for nearly two decades, but before the Board of Elections starting lugging the bulky machines into the lobbies of each building, the process was more tumultuous, longtime residents recalled.

In the 1990s, Co-Op City brass chose to ditch its contract with a private company that was still conducting elections with paper ballot, rather than wait for tension to rise.

Co-op City is made up of 35 buildings, 236 townhouses and 55,000 residents.

Still, even with a well-oiled system, voter apathy exists.

© Copyright 2014 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.
