
The Fairchild-Republic A-10 Thunderbolt II ground attack aircraft's appearance at this year's ILA event in Berlin has something of a 'last chance to see' feel about it, as the type is on the US Air Force's (USAF's) list to be axed.

Having already been retired from the European theatre in 2013 (the two aircraft on static display at ILA are transiting back to the United States from Afghanistan), the venerable A-10, colloquially known as the 'Warthog' for its unglamorous appearance, could now face its greatest threat in its almost 40-year career as the USAF proposes to retire the entire inventory of 343 aircraft to cut costs.

From a peak force of 140 aircraft in the mid- to late-1980s, the US Air Force in Europe (USAFE) withdrew the last of its A-10s from Germany when the 81st Fighter Squadron (FS) of the 52nd Fighter Wing (FW) based at Spangdahlem Air Base was stood down on 18 June 2013, after 19 years of operations with the type.

This withdrawal from Europe was a direct consequence of cutbacks announced in the USAF's fiscal year 2013 budget proposals. Under these proposals, one active-duty, one reserve, and three Air National Guard A-10 units were to be deactivated as part of a wider cut of six of the USAF's 60 tactical aircraft squadrons. In total, some 150 aircraft would go prematurely in an effort to help balance the USAF's budget.

However, in its 2015 budget request the USAF went all out and said it was to axe the entire A-10 fleet in a move intended to save more than USD4 billion (the Lockheed U-2 spy plane is also slated for retirement under these proposals).

The USAF justified the potential loss of the A-10 by saying that hard choices had to made in the current fiscal climate, and that the A-10 lacks the multirole utility of other aircraft types. Simply cutting some squadrons would not bring the desired savings, so the entire fleet had to go to safeguard the USAF's priority fleets, argued the force.

Even so, the proposal has been highly controversial and has polarised the political and military establishment in Washington, DC, to the extent that campaign groups have been founded to save the A-10, and senators and congressmen have lobbied for its survival.

In the face of such concerted opposition, the US House Armed Services Committee has said it will consider 'storing' the A-10s rather than retiring them. However, as this proposed storage is with the 309th Aerospace Maintenance and Regeneration Group (309 AMARG) at its 'Boneyard' facility at Davis-Monthan Air Force Base in Arizona, the difference is hard to spot.

ILA2014 might therefore be the last chance for fans of the 'Warthog' to see the aircraft in Europe, or anywhere on the public display circuit.
