
Hillary’s saying the same things lately, though, as will any Democrat who ends up in the race. Ostentatious concern about income inequality is a litmus-test issue for Democrats at this point, not something that sets Webb apart from the pack. As for Webb’s advantage with rural Democrats, Hillary’s married to the ultimate red-state Democrat, of course — and more importantly, I think liberals would be rightly suspicious that Webb would govern from the left as president. Remember, this is a guy who was appointed to be Secretary of the Navy by Ronald Reagan. Shortly after Bill Clinton left office, Webb wrote an op-ed noting how happy he was that Clinton was “finally being judged, even by his own party, for the ethical fraudulence that has characterized his entire political career.” Five years later, after Webb emerged as a surprise Democratic challenger to George Allen, the left — including Bill Clinton ! — embraced him in the interest of winning a seat in a purple state. He was a good soldier for the party in the Senate, but no one seriously believes that Webb’s a committed liberal in the Elizabeth Warren mode. If forced to triangulate between congressional Democrats and Republicans, there’s every chance he’d be more conservative as president than he was as a senator. And he’s a year older than Hillary. If her age is an issue, his is even more so.

Plus, which prominent Dems realistically would support Webb over Hillary? Who’s going to be the Claire McCaskill of 2016, legitimizing the upstart challenger with a big-name endorsement that instantly makes his candidacy credible? No one’s going to cross her this time. Doing so for a phenomenon like Obama, who was a historic candidate, was one thing. Doing so for an ex-senator, whose chances are dubious, is another. Webb’s better off running as an independent, where he’ll be more free to play up his red-state credentials and to take the sort of pox-on-both-houses attitude towards the Dems and GOP that’ll resonate with voters. Between that and his record of military service, if people can get past his age he’d get a serious look — maybe not enough to win, but enough to cause headaches for the two party nominees. (As a nominal Democrat, he should be more of a threat to steal votes from Hillary than from the GOP, although I’m not sure it’ll work out that way.) Like I said the other day , if we’re destined to have another Bush/Clinton election, it’s only right that there be a Perot in the race too.

Note from Hot Air management: This section is for comments from Hot Air's community of registered readers. Please don't assume that Hot Air management agrees with or otherwise endorses any particular comment just because we let it stand. A reminder: Anyone who fails to comply with our terms of use may lose their posting privilege.

Just starting.

He’s former military and worked for Reagan.  He wouldn’t stand a chance in a Dem primary.  The Dems are hard core Leftists now.

Feminists hate Webb.  He probably can’t win but he sure would draw a sizeable amount of votes.

I’m going to announce my own run for president at this time. The thought of the pressure that would be put on me if I were the only person not running in 2016 is just too scary.

We had Reagan Democrats.

They have Ford Republicans.

An old white guy is not getting the nomination.

They tried the black experiment, so now it’s time for a woman.

Jim Webb, big ole amnesty-for-illegal-aliens advocate.

I mean, its a cool thing to have on your resume.

They tried the black experiment, so now it’s time for a woman.

Wouldn’t it be sane and responsible, for a change, an actual change, to elect the most competent person to the TASKS involved in the job of President of the USA and NOT elect someone who is trendy?  Otherwise, just establish govt. as a big parent who hands out the same tshirts and pants and socks and shoes to everyone with a key to a group home and a welfare check — limited to be spendable on what we are told to eat and what we can’t — and let us all live in mud huts, because:trendy.

Feminists hate Webb. He probably can’t win but he sure would draw a sizeable amount of votes.

Non-feminists, too.

The Confederate Memorial has had a special place in my life for many years. During the bitter turbulence of the early and mid1970′s I used to come here quite often. I had recently left the Marine Corps and was struggling to come to grips with my service in Vietnam, and with the misperceptions that seemed rampant about the people with whom I had served and what, exactly we had attempted to accomplish. And there were many, many times that I found myself drawn to this deeply inspiring memorial, to contemplate the sacrifices of others, several of whom were my ancestors, whose enormous suffering and collective gallantry are to this day still misunderstood by most Americans.

NOT FOR FAME OR REWARD, NOT FOR PLACE OR FOR RANK, NOT LURED BY AMBITION OR GOADED BY NECESSITY, BUT IN SIMPLE OBEDIENCE TO DUTY AS THEY UNDERSTOOD IT, THESE MEN SUFFERED ALL, SACRIFICED ALL, DARED ALL, AND DIED — words written by a Confederate veteran who had later become a minister, and knew that this simple sentence spoke for all soldiers in all wars, men who must always trust their lives to the judgment of their leaders, and whose bond thus goes to individuals rather than to stark ideology, and who, at the end of the day that is their lives, desire more than anything to sleep with the satisfaction that when all the rhetoric was stripped away, they had fulfilled their duty — as they understood it. To their community. To their nation. To their individual consciences. To their family. And to their progeny, who in the end must not only judge their acts, but be judged as their inheritors.

And so I am here, with you today, to remember. And to honor an army that rose like a sudden wind out of the little towns and scattered farms of a yet unconquered wilderness. That drew 750,000 soldiers from a population base of only five million-less than the current population of Virginia alone. That fought with squirrel rifles and cold steel against a much larger and more modern force. That saw 60 percent of its soldiers become casualties, some 256,000 of them dead. That gave every ounce of courage and loyalty to a leadership it trusted and respected, and then laid down its arms in an instant when that leadership decided that enough was enough. That returned to a devastated land and a military occupation. That endured the bitter humiliation of Reconstruction and an economic alienation from the rest of this nation which continued for fully a century, affecting white and black alike.

Neither am I, and we both have the same chance of winning.

Feminists hate Webb. He probably can’t win but he sure would draw a sizeable amount of votes.

Maybe. Once a sizeable number of voters get past “Jim who?”.

Under the 22nd Amendment, Jimmy Carter can still run again. Just saying.

They tried the black experiment, so now it’s time for a woman.

Yup.

It’s as obvious as (no pun intended) the elephant in the room.

No one had heard of Carter or Clinton at this stage in their presidential campaigns.

A lot of people said Barack who and Jimmy who too.

Will he be historic also?  Our first president with a bad toupee?  Add Obama to your list of unknowns who should never have been president.

Did they erase the GM thread on semantics?  I can’t find it anywhere.

Unless he’s a transvestite or a flaming homosexual, the Dems will never run a white male again.

Don’t try to make me like him.

Under the 22nd Amendment, Jimmy Carter can still run again. Just saying.

Based on the universal truth, that once past 85, liberals get smarter.

Yup, my reaction too. Call it the Jon Huntsman effect.

Seems that way.

Like I said the other day, if we’re destined to have another Bush/Clinton election, it’s only right that there be a Perot in the race too.

Perot should resent that remark. He was an economic conservative more in tune with a Tea-Party small government philosphy. Jim Webb not so much.

You guys?  I’m not ruling out a run for president in 2016 either.

Let him run. He won’t win the Dem primary, but if Webb’s ego is big enough to run as an Independent, he could pull enough votes away from Hillary to help the Republican, which could enable a Tea Party Republican to win the Presidency with 45% or so. Call it the reverse-Perot effect. Perot helped Bill Clinton win the Presidency in 1992–Webb could cost Hillary Clinton the Presidency in 2016.

Yeah, but I’d vote for you.

Unless he’s a transvestite or a flaming homosexual, the Dems will never run a white male again.

Webb did write a novel about a man fondling his son’s genitals. That might count for something among Democrats.

…run baby…RUN!

Second stupidest thing George Allen decided to say.

Don’t try to make me like him.

The left blogosphere would go off the rails.

I want Jim Webb to run for democrat nominee. Then I will pray that God will do a miracle have him as the democrat nominee. The republican voters might be dumb and elect Bush. Jim Webb will not destroy this country as much as Hillary will. If Webb is the democrat nominee I will be fine with voting for him over Bush.

You keep saying these things like it would be bad. Short of a possible popcorn shortage it sounds heavenly.

You keep saying these things like it would be bad. Short of a possible popcorn shortage it sounds heavenly.

Didn’t mean to sound that way.  It would be totally schadenfreudelicious!

How long have you been living in Virginia if you are saying “who?” I think the better question is your other one- Why?  We tell our kids to think big and that they can be anything they want to be.  It is charming when a short uncoordinated dumpy kid expresses the aspiration to become a professional athlete. Not so much when a doughy late-middle-aged guy who writes kiddie porn tells you he wants to be President.

Second stupidest thing George Allen decided to say.

Um….. no.  It’s pretty clear that Webb’s novels have a creepy sexual vibe to them.  George was stupid to think that he could campaign against Webb using the traditionally and largely civil way VA politics used to work.

I don’t have a problem with that passage.  Confederate soldiers died in service of a cause, even if it is not a cause he or we support. They didn’t necessarily want to fight.  They had lives and stories.  They left behind broken hearts.  Just like Union soldiers.

He is a good writer, even if his fiction isn’t to my liking.  I thought Born Fighting was quite good.

Excuse me, but Jim Webb was born in February 1946.  He is currently 68 years old.  His time has passed.

I don’t have a problem with that passage. Confederate soldiers died in service of a cause, even if it is not a cause he or we support. They didn’t necessarily want to fight. They had lives and stories. They left behind broken hearts. Just like Union soldiers.

He is a good writer, even if his fiction isn’t to my liking. I thought Born Fighting was quite good.

I have a feeling many Democrats would have a problem with it, especially after the ‘first black president’ was elected.

Darlin, it was a joke.  Of course I know who he is.  Sen. Allen was done at Macaca.  Of course it didn’t help that Larry Sabato took a little creative license with the truth either.

I think younger than Hillary will be the benchmark.

Unless he’s a transvestite or a flaming homosexual, the Dems will never run a white male again.

Webb did write a novel about a man fondling his son’s genitals. That might count for something among Democrats.

Democrats are not my forte in general but I would think Sen. Booker and Gov. Cuomo.  Although the thought of having to listen to speeches made by Cuomo is frightening.  I know I am being a witch but that voice…..

Unless he’s a transvestite or a flaming homosexual, the Dems will never run a white male again.

Because the definition of hispanic is so meaninglessly vague, I expect Democratics will start discovering their lost ‘hispanic’ heritage, in the style of Chief Liawatha. Webb will announce that his long-ago changed last name used to be ‘Webaraigosa’. Hillary will discover that the family name was ‘Rodhamez’.

It’s all good fun until someone loses an eye.

Webb was Navy Secretary under Reagan and US Senator from Virginia for all those who apparently have never heard of him.

Jim Webb is a fraud.

Jim Webb is a good man. His op-ed against affirmative action for immigrants was spot-on and no Republican has the balls to take up the issue even though it is a no-brainer and non-partisan.

You must be logged in and have JavaScript enabled to post a comment.
