
The list of nursing homes owned by New York counties has been shrinking amid upheaval in the health care industry.

The list of nursing homes owned by New York counties has been shrinking amid upheaval in the health care industry.

Of the more than 40 county-owned nursing home facilities, five have closed and 13 have been sold in recent years. Most of those sales have been to for-profit health care businesses within the past 12 months, according to data provided by Toski & Co., an accounting firm that studies health care issues.

A majority of the remaining 23 county nursing homes, including those in New York's Capital Region, are rethinking their strategy.

Some lawmakers are considering joining the ranks of counties that cut their losses and sold nursing home facilities.

Patrick Grattan , chairman of the Columbia County Board of Supervisors, has been pushing for the county to sell Pine Haven Nursing Home in Philmont, New York.

"Pine Haven has now borrowed approximately $4 million from the county, and the funds that will be needed to repay such loans are uncertain at best," he said, addressing recent operating losses at the home.

Grattan made the plea recently to fellow county officials and residents. He is seeking support for the proposed sale, which is headed for a debate Tuesday. A union representing the home's 160 workers is fighting the proposal, saying it threatens jobs and access to care.

Saratoga County is among the communities already trying to balance its budget by selling a nursing home. The county is waiting for state approval to sell its Maplewood Manor for $14.1 million.

Saratoga and Columbia counties each ran nursing homes at a loss, and the facilities harmed the communities' fiscal stability and borrowing power. Albany County has faced similar struggles and is also trying to sell its nursing home.

If you are commenting using a Facebook account, your profile information may be displayed with your comment depending on your privacy settings. By leaving the 'Post to Facebook' box selected, your comment will be published to your Facebook profile in addition to the space below.

Sign up to receive Albany Business Review's Morning Edition and Afternoon Edition newsletters and breaking news alerts.
