
EVERYONE wants a Triple Crown winner, don't they? The acclaim, the historic importance; it's the true test of the thoroughbred, isn't it? If you get the chance to win a Triple Crown you go for it, don't you? Even if the horse probably won't stay the distance.

But, no. It's still the Triple Crown. So let's crack on. If we've got a chance, we go for it. And so California Chrome heads, like a sacrifice to tradition, to the Belmont.

After securing the second leg of the Triple Crown in the Preakness on Saturday, the chestnut colt goes to Belmont Park as the clear favourite. This is a situation we've grown used to.

Kentucky Derby/Preakness winners are not uncommon - this was the ninth in 18 years - and yet the same high expectations follow each of them to the Belmont. Suddenly everyone thinks they can stay a mile and a half in the New York dirt, but predictably none of them can. Not since 1978.

The Californian is well-fancied, of course, but that's just how the system works. If a horse wins the first two legs he's got a class edge, hence he's favourite. But the market is almost always wrong on this count since the Belmont is no longer about class. It's about stamina.

The main barrier to correctly predicting the Belmont is that the stamina question - the only real question in the race - is a complete unknown for every runner. Stamina is so rare in the US, and so rarely tested, that no one knows which horses have it.

Stamina's not popular either. It's like a hidden disease that no one wants to admit to, or prove, anywhere other than in the Belmont. It's the same story in Britain with the St Leger. The root of the problem is that no one wants to breed stayers.

When the breed and the races they run in part company you have to start to consider some major questions.

At present most horses in America have an optimum distance of below 1m1f. There is a clear disconnect here with the Triple Crown races which are all held at distances above 1m1f. Especially the Belmont over 1m4f.

Britain is further down the road in this evolution away from the Triple Crown. The British Triple Crown hasn't been won since 1970 and now (e.g. Sea The Stars in 2009) horses bypass the final stamina test, opting instead for something more in vogue (over 1m2f).

Perhaps having a racing series at all is a thing of the past? Race analysis is so advanced these days horses can be judged on their merits wherever and whenever they run. They're judged against their rivals and the clock. In such a world a Triple Crown doesn't mean that much.

If, for instance, Camelot had won the third leg of the British Triple Crown in 2012 (as well he might), he would still have found plenty of people willing to pick through the gaping holes in his form.

In the old days winning the Triple Crown might have masked Camelot's ability, but these days we know exactly what he achieved and even if he had landed the illustrious treble we would have assessed his career using more appropriate measures.

Once the last US Triple Crowner (Affirmed) has dropped from living memory we may no longer consider the series as we now do. It may no longer be the focal point of the US season. But, since some folk can still remember 1978, it's off to Belmont again we trudge next month.

The main worry with California Chrome is that he had his stamina exposed in the Derby two weeks ago, where he finished relatively slowly off a steady pace, producing a weak final time (over 1m2f). The expectation is that he will have even less in reserve at the end of the Belmont (over 1m4f).

So stamina is a concern, but so too is class. Sure, the colt has an edge over his contemporaries but so did every other failed Belmont favourite.

When he was trouncing his opposition in the Golden State he looked set to take the world by storm. Back then the sky was the limit, but he hasn't continued that progress in the Classics. Indeed, his RPRs have plateaued.

At Santa Anita he ran to 124, in the Derby it was 125 and in the Preakness 125 again. We appear to be close to finding the limit of his ability - and in the Derby I think we found the limit of his stamina.

Well done on the Classic double and all that. And I'm sure when he reverts to his optimum trip after the Belmont he will still be the best of his generation in the States. But I can't help but have serious doubts about his stamina judged on that Derby run.

The Belmont Stakes finds out the best of them. It has been crushing Triple Crown dreams since 1978 and there's room yet for plenty more nightmares.

They still come, of course, and perhaps that's part of the appeal: to be the one that does what everyone else can't. The modern US thoroughbred can't complete the Triple Crown, so having one that could would really mean something.

It would be beautifully ironic if the saviour of US thoroughbred breeding was to come from one of its lowliest matings (the 8k mare and the 2k sire). Ironic, but unlikely.

This website uses cookies to give you the best and most relevant experience. You can change your cookie preferences at any time and find out more about our cookie policy by following this link .
