
Much is still unknown about the circumstances leading up to Abramson’s termination by New York Times Publisher Arthur Sulzberger Jr.

But at least two well-sourced media reporters, Ken Auletta of the New Yorker, and David Folkenflik of NPR, confirmed that Abramson, 60, who was less than three years into the top Times job, was fired after she discovered she earned less in pay and benefits than her predecessor, Bill Keller, and asked the newspaper to make it right.

There is obviously more to the story, but if that part is true, the comparison to Ledbetter is apt.

Ledbetter, a retired Goodyear Tire and Rubber Co. supervisor, discovered that for years she was paid substantially less than her 15 male counterparts. She sued, and lost because she did not bring the lawsuit in a timely manner. (How could she? She didn’t know she was being underpaid.) Thanks to her, Congress passed the Lilly Ledbetter Act, which restarts the 180-day statute of limitations clock each time a discriminatory paycheck is issued. It was the first bill President Barack Obama signed in office.

The Guardian reported that Abramson tried to hire its U.S. editor-in-chief, Janine Gibson, to be comanaging editor with Dean Baquet, 57, the former Los Angeles Times editor who succeeds Abramson now in the top Times job. Though Gibson turned down the offer, the Times’ own story said Baquet was unhappy about Abramson’s effort to hire her.

Abramson’s dismissal was so abrupt, and Sulzberger was so terse about why he fired her (citing only “an issue with management in the newsroom”), that it’s only natural for people to wonder what really happened.

When Baquet was canned in 2006 by Los Angeles Times Publisher David Hiller after publicly pushing back against proposed newsroom cuts, he stood on a desk in the newsroom for his farewell speech and was treated like a hero.

Like many with a deep interest in the newspaper business and its female leaders, I eagerly anticipate an investigation into Abramson’s firing by Margaret Sullivan, the Times’ independent and consistently excellent public editor.

The public editor must explain why, exactly, Abramson was fired, and why she was treated so disrespectfully.

Robin Abcarian is a columnist for the Los Angeles Times. ― Ed.
