
Now, though, the air is filled with even more questions.

It appears there is a slight problem with a piece of "quipment" which California Chrome has worn for his last six races, all of which he has won - a nasal patch which helps to open, and keep open his nasal passages and something which some feel gives him an unfair advantage.

While many states, including California, Kentucky and Maryland,  allow its use at the race tracks, both for the horses and jockeys (yes, they use them too), some, including New York, don't. In fact, the New York Racing Commission rules state that "only equipment specifically approved by the stewards shall be worn or carried by a jockey or a horse in a race," and so far, they have a history of denying its use.

In 2012, "I'll have Another" was in the same situation as California Chrome, having won both the Kentucky Derby and the Preakness. His owners and trainer requested that they be allowed to continue with their standard use of the nasal strip at the Belmont and were turned down.

He was to run without it but, as luck would have it, suffered a leg injury the day before the race and was scratched. We will never know what might have been.

The nasal strip in question is a much larger version of the "Breathe Right" nasal strips which many of us use to get a good night's sleep when suffering from colds and sinus problems and are otherwise unable to breathe through our nose.

The plastic strip sticks to the outside of the nasal passages, across the bridge of the nose and actually pulls the fleshy passage open. They were actually originally designed for use on race horses and scaled down for human use.

Unfortunately some in the racing world believe that they give the equine using them a huge advantage in that more air can be taken into the lungs. Right now, the state of New York is one.

California Chrome's owners will be formally requesting permission to use the strip when they arrive at Belmont on Tuesday. If it is OK'd and he is sound come race day, he will run. If the use of the strip is denied, the question will be will he run without it.

Only time will tell.

They are Affirmed (1978), Seattle Slew (1977), Secretariat (1973), Citation (1948), Assault (1946), Count Fleet (1943), Whirlaway (1941), War Admiral (1937), Omaha (1935), Gallant Fox (1930) and Sir Barton (1919).

If you already have an account on this newspaper, you can login to the newspaper to add your comments.

By adding a comment on the site, you accept our terms and conditions and our netiquette rules.

Share your story, photo or video about something you've seen.

Choose among a variety of subscription packages and stay up to date with convenient home delivery and our on the go digital e-edition.
