
DARBY – The uncle of a Darby man who was killed in a car accident earlier this year has dedicated his new novel to his nephew.

John Jarvis, a professor of English and Native Studies at Bay Path College in Massachusetts, grew up in Salmon, Idaho. His sister, Anita (Neena) Smith of Darby is the mother of Neacko Smith, 19, who was killed in a car wreck near Hamilton on Jan. 9.

Neacko, a 2012 graduate of Darby High School and a standout wrestler for the Tigers, was on his way home from Missoula to give his mother a ride to her chemotherapy treatments when he was killed.

Jarvis recently published a new book called “Johnny Pail Face Becomes a Human Being,” a non-fiction biography of a 90-year-old Navajo war veteran.

Neacko was Neena’s youngest child and only son among her six daughters. He died just as the final revisions were being made to the manuscript.

“He was on his way home with a friend to take his mother to St. Patrick Hospital in Missoula where she was to undergo a radiation treatment as part of her ongoing struggle with breast cancer,” Jarvis said. “It seemed appropriate to remember Neacko in the book when that happened. It is a way to honor a good young man who we will miss in this family until the day that each of us leaves this earth to join him.” Jarvis also dedicated the book to Neacko’s sister Lori, who shouldered much of the family’s grief when Neacko passed away.

Jarvis has fond memories of his nephew.

Jarvis’s book is the biography of a 90-year-old Navajo soldier who has stories of struggle and adversity to inspire families like Jarvis’ own in Darby. As a career soldier, Johnny Pail Face fought in three wars for his country, beginning with World War II and continuing through the Korean and Vietnam Wars.

Jarvis said he never expected his sister’s cancer and his nephew’s death would hit his family hard just as he was bringing the project to a close.

“The best thing left to do was to balance the bad by using the book for something good,” he said.

Copyright 2014 Ravalli Republic. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Username & Password Required!
