
Several women and men got their hair cut on Sunday during the Donate Eight event at Lutheran Hospital in Fort Wayne. The hair donations were bagged, packed and set to be delivered to the Children With Hair Loss nonprofit organization, which makes wigs and hairpieces for children battling illnesses that impede hair growth. Journal Gazette video by Chad Ryan.

If you are interested in this story, you might be interested in others from The Journal Gazette. Go to www.journalgazette.net/newsletter and pick the subjects you care most about. We'll deliver your customized daily news report at 3 a.m. Fort Wayne time, right to your email.

Lexi Dippold, 10, waits as a stylist gets her hair ready to cut during the “Donate Eight” event Sunday at Lutheran Hospital. Her hair will go create hairpieces for children battling illnesses.

Last updated: May 19, 2014 10:03 a.m.

As the stylist's scissors began snipping through Lily Dippold's long blond-brown hair, she grimaced ever so slightly and looked toward her mom.

Kelly Dippold nodded at her youngest daughter, comforting her, before glancing at her older daughter, Lexi.

The three of them grinned.

The Dippold women were among many people who donated 8 inches or more of their hair Sunday for children in need of wigs.

The program, called “Donate Eight,” took place at Lutheran Children's Hospital and the donations will be sent to Children With Hair Loss, an organization that makes hairpieces for children in need, said Mike James, an IPFW student who organized the event. Stylists from several salons volunteered their time Sunday to cut and collect ponytails for the organization.

Dippold works at Lutheran Hospital and said she saw a flyer advertising the event.

“I really wanted to donate (my hair) and when I saw that poster it was like a sign and everything sort of fell into place,” Dippold said.

She then asked her daughters, Lexi, 10, and Lily, 8, if they would be interested in donating their hair. They hesitated at first, but agreed it would be a good thing to do for children who were not so fortunate.

A few chairs down, 5-year-old Madilyn Neff was a bit concerned about the long ponytail she held in a Ziploc bag.

The young girl looked from her bag to her mom, Becky, and back again before she began to sniffle.

Becky Neff picked her up, running her fingers through her hair and assuring her it was OK and that the long strands would grow back in no time.
