
Saturday marked the 60th anniversary of the landmark decision in Brown v. Board of Education of Topeka, Kansas. The U.S. Supreme Court concluded, "Separate educational facilities are inherently unequal. ..." It would later declare that the process should proceed with "all deliberate speed."

Sixty years later, America can rightly celebrate the denunciation of de jure segregation. Others view the milestone as a reminder of a promise unfulfilled.

Sentinel Editorial-Writer Darryl E. Owens conducted an email interview with John M. Sacher, chair of the department of history at the University of Central Florida, exploring Brown's legacy. An unedited version appears at OrlandoSentinel.com/opinion.

A: The Brown decision, while ostensibly about segregation in schools, stimulated a move against segregation far beyond schools. Prior to Brown, Plessy v. Ferguson, which stipulated "separate but equal" accommodations, was the law of land. With the Brown decision, the Supreme Court declared that separate institutions were inherently unequal. Thus, the impact of Brown extended to the idea that restaurants, movie theaters, restrooms, parks, etc. could not be segregated. In short, the Brown decision paved the way for the civil-rights victories of the 1960s.

A: If anyone expected that the Warren Court waved a magic wand that would quickly make educational opportunities equal for all, they were mistaken. Declaring that schools should be integrated is a far cry from stipulating the best method for doing so. The 60 years since Brown have represented a struggle to find such a method and the discovery that there is neither a perfect nor a simple method. The most common method — busing — comes with its own baggage, particularly an assault on the celebrated idea of the neighborhood school. And, even if there is a way to achieve a perfect racial balance, that balance would not address economic inequalities in school districts. The issue of economics is separate but intertwined with the issue of race and was not resolved by the Brown decision.

A: Evidence indicates that school desegregation reached a peak in the 1980s and has now regressed to a point where schools are as segregated as they were in the late 1960s. That, however, does not mean that Brown's legacy is in jeopardy. First, Brown's legacy extends across all aspects of society. No one is talking about reestablishing Plessy v. Ferguson and re-segregating restaurants, hotels and public facilities. "White only" and "colored only" signs have disappeared for good. Second, our current educational situation is a far cry from the de jure segregation that existed prior to 1954. Children are not forced to attend inferior institutions when there are better schools closer to their home.

A: Absolutely not. Brown can be viewed as an incomplete victory or perhaps a victory that did not end the war. But, to consider it a victory tantamount to a defeat is to demonstrate a fundamental misunderstanding of the segregation that existed in the United States 60 years ago. In some ways, declaring segregation unconstitutional was the easy part. Figuring out a way to overcome socioeconomic inequalities has proved more difficult.

A: We are currently living at a time when charter schools and online education are increasing in popularity. As a historian, it is difficult to judge the impact of these changes. Are they part of a long-term trend or are they just a temporary fad? In theory, charter schools and school choice can help African American students. In reality, they have not done so. That being said, charter schools vary so much in quality that making generalizations about them is risky.

A: It brought the power of the federal government to bear against segregation. It established a legal precedent that the power of federal law would support people working against segregation. As Rosa Parks sat in the front of a bus, as the National Guard brought students to Little Rock High School, as Martin Luther King Jr. marched in Southern cities, and as ordinary men and women participated in sit-ins, they knew that they had the Supreme Court on their side. Additionally, countless African-Americans have benefited from the ability to attend schools at all educational levels, including the University of Florida and Florida State University, which were not open to them in 1954.
