
TRENTON – Republican Assembly leaders in the Democratic-controlled   lower chamber are chiding their counterparts for making the George   Washington Bridge lane closure investigation more about partisan   politics than true reforms, they charged Monday.

GOP legislators   held a Statehouse news conference to call on Democratic lawmakers to   support agendas Gov. Chris Christie campaigned on in 2013 and which   voters supported at the polls by giving him a second term in office. The   lawmakers are sending their message as the ongoing joint legislative   committee investigating the lane closures rolls on amid criticism from   Republicans of being a partisan investigation.

“It’s my opinion   that the Democrats are focusing on 2017,” said Minority Leader Jon   Bramnick, arguing members leading the charge on the joint legislative   committee are more focused on the next gubernatorial election than   enacting reforms at the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey.

“They   are now, in my judgment, playing to a limited number of voters … in   order to appeal to this voting bloc during the next two or three years   so that they can win a Democratic primary,” he said, arguing the 60   percent of New Jersey voters who backed Christie in the last statewide   election over his Democratic rival are being ignored.

Bramick   vowed to host committee hearings of sorts with business leaders to call   attention to the state’s larger issues, he said. The GOP lawmaker   charged Assemblyman John Wisniewski, the Democrat helping to lead the   charge into investigating the administration, with diverting attention   from serious economic woes facing the state.

Despite the Legislature’s makeup not  changing  during the most recent statewide election, Bramnick says  Christie’s  margin of victory was a message from voters.

Bramnick  called on lawmakers to suspend the Bridgegate hearings until the federal  investigations into the lane closures have concluded.

“Why not do the reforms now?" Bramnick asked.

In response, Democrats in both chambers said they are capable of “chewing gum and walking at the same time,” said Senate President Steve Sweeney.

Similarly, Assembly Democrats issued a statement highlighting several initiatives making their way through both chambers.

A. Amistad. It's about principles, and fights undertaken and won on behalf of the powerless.

B. Mr. Smith Goes to Washington. The lead character evokes obvious comparisons to MOST NJ politicians.

C. The Usual Suspects. A bunch of doomed, would-be tough guys are enlisted to carry out the will of one Keyser Soze. 'Nuff said.

E. Valley Forge. It's a little seen 1975 chestnut but is what it purports to be: the portrait of an American hero.

F. American Hustle. It's just too bad those fashions didn't survive to add to the general tawdriness of it all.

G. The Godfather. You doubt the legislature? Clearly, no one would have benefited more from E-Z Pass than Sonny.

H. Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back. It's a coin toss as to which is more painful: this 'movie' or a Christie town hall.

I. My Cousin Vinny. Prieto's turbulent August caused some to backpedal from the speaker who heretofore were nearly family.

Press releases are submitted by PolitickerNJ users, not by staff. They do not represent the viewpoint of PolitickerNJ.com.
