
Share This Story!

Lawmakers are now eyeing a $41 million gap between expected revenue and proposed spending.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Lawmakers are now eyeing a $41 million gap between expected revenue and proposed spending.

Republicans are demanding budget cuts, with lawmakers now eyeing a $41 million gap between tax collections and Gov. Jack Markell's $3.8 billion proposed spending plan.

One Republican leader in the General Assembly said Monday that members of his party were ready to withhold votes on the state's annual capital budget unless Markell and Democrats who control the General Assembly agreed to make cuts to the governor's budget proposal.

"We are serious about blocking some budgetary items unless we see a decrease in operating expenses," said Senate Minority Leader Gary Simpson, who is calling for 2-percent spending cuts across all state agencies. "Two percent is not that much."

Delaware's budget picture is getting worse, not better, for lawmakers as they look to finalize a new spending plan by June 30.

Estimates of state tax collections fell $33 million on Monday, on top of dips in previous months. About $14 million of that revenue comes in the current budget year. The projections will force state agency heads to trim spending even further in the current budget year and could prompt cuts to Markell's spending proposal.

Democrats need Republican support to pass the annual capital budget – which funds school construction, economic development and other projects – so Simpson's position could prove significant.

"That's not a threat," Simpson said, "but there have to be some serious efforts to negotiate."

The state is experiencing weakness across several tax areas. Personal income tax collections are weaker than expected in the current year and in the fiscal year beginning in July, the economic panel said Monday.

Corporate income tax collections are also off from previous months, as is revenue from abandoned property, the unredeemed gift cards and uncashed corporate checks that fund up to 15 percent of the state's budget.

Corporations continue to push back against state auditors seeking abandoned property revenue, leaving lawmakers with $15 million less to work with, David Gregor, the deputy secretary of Finance, told panel members on Monday.

Lawmakers, who typically see an increase in tax collections as the year progresses, are starting to feel pressure to find savings in Markell's spending plan.

Sen. Harris McDowell, a Wilmington Democrat and co-chair of the budget-writing Joint Finance Committee, said the new round of revenue estimates puts the committee in a bind.

"We'll be able to produce a balanced budget, but certainly it won't be a perfect budget," he said.

Markell's proposed gas tax increase to pay for road improvements and a new property tax to fund waterway upgrades may also face even stiffer opposition with revenues falling. Lawmakers will have one more round of revenue estimates in June before closing next year's budget.

Monday's new tax estimates "will make an already challenging budget year more difficult," Ann Visalli, director of the Delaware Office of Management and Budget, said in a statement. Visalli did not attend the monthly meeting of the Delaware Economic and Financial Advisory Council, the public-private panel that produces revenue estimates that lawmakers must follow.

Visalli remained in Dover to work with administration officials and lawmakers on budget plans. The Markell administration continues to pressure agencies to cut spending in the current budget year to cover a shortfall in expected revenues.

Agency heads have responded, returning $104 million to the general fund. With new estimates, agencies will have to find an additional $13 million before June 30. That could present a challenge.

Secretary of State Jeff Bullock said Monday he already has cut 1-2 percent of his budget this year, but some agencies are in a more difficult spot financially.

"Some departments are very, very tight," Bullock said. "In those departments, it's very difficult to come up with cuts."
