
Emmit Sam-Smith holds a star from a flag and the card that will accompany it, one of 3,000 to be given to local veterans and active duty troops.

Emmit Sam-Smith demonstrates how to fold an American flag with help from his adoptive mother, Colleen McComb, and places it in a box with others as part of his Eagle service project.

Emmit Sam-Smith demonstrates how to fold an American flag with help from his adoptive mother, Colleen McComb, and places it in a box with others as part of his Eagle service project.

Emmit Sam-Smith demonstrates how to fold an American flag with help from his adoptive mother, Colleen McComb, and places it in a box with others as part of his Eagle service project.

Emmit Sam-Smith demonstrates how to fold an American flag with help from his adoptive mother, Colleen McComb, and places it in a box with others as part of his Eagle service project.

Details: Events include an introduction of Scouts, troops and veterans, raising of the colors, opening and closing prayers, an explanation of the stars and a reading of the story of the American flag.

A Summit High School student will make his transition from Boy Scout to Eagle Scout with the assistance of Central Oregon veterans and hundreds of old American flags.

Emmitt Sam-Smith, 16, a five-year member of Boy Scout Troop 23 in Bend, is using his Eagle service project to honor veterans and active-duty troops. He’s retiring old, worn-out flags at a ceremony at Vince Genna Stadium and cutting embroidered stars from flags as a memento for the troops.

Mike Whitney, an Air Force veteran and member of the American Legion and Band of Brothers in Bend, originally contributed the idea to the Scouts and immediately sat down with Emmitt to plan the project details.

“We sat down and did a list of who, what, when, where, why and how and started filling in the blanks,” Whitney said.

Whitney helped Emmitt get in touch with several veterans organizations in Bend including the Veterans of Foreign Wars, Daughters of the American Revolution and Marine Corps League. He also helped Emmitt coordinate a flag collection process that included setting up five donation sites around Bend.

Leading his troop members and other volunteers, Emmitt has put in 300 hours on the project and expects to have given at least 400 hours by the time he submits his project for review.

For the stars, Emmitt supervised as his troop members and their parents cut out 3,000 stars from 60 flags over the course of a few weeks. The stars will be given to local veterans and active duty troops as part of Caring for Troops, a Central Oregon nonprofit organization supporting military members. Thirty boxes of the stars have already been shipped to troops in Afghanistan and Special Operations troops in various countries, according to Ken Hauge, vice president of Caring for Troops.

The flag-burning ceremony will take place on Flag Day at Vince Genna Stadium in Bend. Jim Richards, owner of the Bend Elks, said the stadium has a longstanding relationship with both the Boy Scouts and Girl Scouts, and he leased the stadium to Emmitt for free because of his passion for his project.

For the ceremony, Emmitt and Whitney are looking to pair a veteran with a Scout to burn 20 to 30 flags in a 50-gallon drum with wood, to ensure proper retirement.

Start your day with our top stories delivered to your inbox every morning.

Opt-in to our daily newsletter.
