
Asia Pacific Panamax market opened the week on a steady note although ample supply was being reported, with many owners said to be mulling over ballasting to the east coast of South America in search of grain cargoes, shipping sources said Monday.

"There is a steady sentiment in the market. There are ships in the market but owners are not quoting low numbers," a charterer-cum-operator said, adding that owners are keen to look at the ESCA market even though the spot cargoes would dry up once they arrived.

The source added that the market was of the view that there was potential for the ESCA market to be more lucrative because there were expectations of more cargoes flowing.

Delivered daily direct to your desktop, Bunkerwire focuses on marine fuel prices and supply in major ports worldwide. Bunkerwire is essential reading for those who require accurate and timely data on this market sector.

While volumes were thin in the Panamax market, the Supramax segment was experiencing steady fixing volumes.

According to a second charter-cum-operator, a Supramax fixture was done on the East Kalimantan to East Coast India route, with the discharge port being Vizag, at $13/mt.

Meanwhile, with monsoons soon expected to hit India's west coast, not many vessels were willing to trade on the Indonesia to West Coast India route.

With no fresh fixtures reported on the Panamax Indonesia to east and west coast India routes, most of the indications heard where in the $9.75/mt and $8.75/mt range respectively.

Sources said that coal trader Adani's shipping chartering arm Libra Shipping was in the market for spot tonnage out of Indonesia.

Platts assessed the thermal coal freight rate from Banjarmasin port on Indonesia's South Kalimantan province to Mundra port on India's west coast at $9.75/mt Monday, down 25 cents from Friday.

The rate from Banjarmasin to Paradip port on India's east coast was assessed at $8.75/mt, a fall of 25 cents.

Volumes were lackluster out of the Richards Bay Coal Terminal, with maintenance happening there.

The Panamax rate for coal shipments from RBCT to Mundra and Paradip were assessed unchanged at $15/mt and $15.50/mt, respectively, Monday.
