
The Wyoming Office of Homeland Security is addressing concerns raised by a federal audit, says Gov. Matt Mead.

The audit , released by the Department of Homeland Security's Office of the Inspector General in February, identified nearly $400,000 in questionable spending of homeland security program grants, money meant to be spent on anti-terrorism and natural disaster planning and prevention. The audit was first reported Sunday by the Star-Tribune.

In a news release, Mead said the state office is working closely with the Federal Emergency Management Agency to deal with issues raised by the federal oversight agency's audit, has already answered a number of concerns, and will have a corrective plan in place by August.

The audit, which examined state management of the grant program from 2010 to 2012, noted several instances of questionable spending, including $15,866 for a take-home car for the Laramie County undersheriff and $25,904 spent by the state Division of Criminal Investigation on neighborhood drug activity cameras.

Homeland security program grant funding during those two years totaled $14.55 million.

Copyright 2014 Casper Star-Tribune Online. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Guess Gov Mead got caught with his hand in the cookie jar, again. Now to scream damage control.

Yes, I agree we need due process which will theortically provide clear and actual notice of the reasons for action in sufficient detail to enable the person to know the reason for the proposed action and enable him or her to present evidence relating to those reasons. Yes, a reasonable time and opportunity to present testimoney in their defense is in order. There should also be the opportunity to cross examine witnesses and to face those who accuse him or her and a hearing before an impartial board/group, etc. The process of confronting incompetence is also mandatory as is someone being held accountable.  Perception is often taken as reality don't we all know -- even though one cannot be convicted on perception. Someone with a chronically ineffective work career certainly is suspect.  Political appointments and paybacks are as well unworthy even though the model may be playing out at the federal and national level.

$25K for "neighborhood drug activity cameras?" So much for Wyoming's claim of being the last bastion of individual rights and personal freedom. Big Brother has obviously been watching us.

Let me get this right, funds were miss spent by state agencies and the Laramie Co. Sheriffs office but we aren't going to have a legislative investigation, and we aren't threatening to impeach or fire anyone?  Isn't this what the Superintendent has been accused of doing?  Why the double standard Governor?  I don't believe the Superintendent Office was accused of misspending $400,000.

Only $400,000???  That's chump change in the mismanagement world of Hazmat Mead.

That's only a fraction of the money he's spent trying to create nonexistent evidence of wrongdoing against Cindy Hill.

When compared to the hundreds of millions Mead lost when he allowed Phil Nicholas to spend the AML funds on the University of Wyoming instead of recovery mine sites $400,000 is nothing.

But when you mention Homeland Security everyone suddenly pays attention... Like a bad episode of Family Guy.

We provide this community forum for readers to exchange ideas and opinions on the news of the day. Passionate views, pointed criticism and critical thinking are welcome. Name-calling, crude language and personal abuse are not welcome. Moderators will monitor comments with an eye toward maintaining a high level of civility in this forum. Our comment policy explains the rules of the road for registered commenters.

You called someone an idiot, a racist, a dope, a moron, etc. Please, no name-calling or profanity (or veiled profanity -- #$%^&*).

You rambled, failed to stay on topic or exhibited troll-like behavior intended to hijack the discussion at hand.

YOU SHOUTED YOUR COMMENT IN ALL CAPS. This is hard to read and annoys readers.

You have issues with a business. Have a bad meal? Feel you were overcharged at the store? New car is a lemon? Contact the business directly with your customer service concerns.

You included an e-mail address or phone number, pretended to be someone you aren't or offered a comment that makes no sense.

You accused someone of a crime or assigned guilt or punishment to someone suspected of a crime.

Your comment is in really poor taste.

Hint: Enter a keyword that you are looking for like tires, pizza or doctors or browse the full business directory .

Username & Password Required!
