
LA MIRADA >> City officials planned on spending lots of money on fixing streets during the past two years but found that little of the work got done.

However, this year will be different, City Manager Jeff Boynton said.

For the past two years, the city’s budget included a total of $44 million in capital projects, but only about $15 million ended up getting spent.

Boynton’s proposed fiscal 2014-15 budget proposes $24.3 million in capital improvements, much of which is a carryover from the previous year.

The City Council last week reviewed the proposed $43 million general fund budget and is expected to approve it at its June 24 meeting.

There were several reasons for less work than planned during the past two years, Boynton said.

One was that about $3.9 million in redevelopment money wasn’t available until earlier this year to be spent on the final phase of work in the Foster Road area.

The city needed to receive its finding of completion from the state Department of Finance before it could get access to the money.

Bids for the Foster Road area project are due in June.

Also while design work was completed on several projects, that’s only a small percentage of the overall costs, Boynton said. The actual work still needs to be done, he added.

For example, no money has been spent from Measure I, the sales tax increase voters approved in November 2012.

The budget now calls for spending the first two years of Measure I money — about $8 million — to fix curbs, gutters, sidewalks, storm drains and streets in two areas of the city: one north of Imperial Highway and a second in the southern part of La Mirada.

Another $3.4 million is expected to be spent on streets in industrial areas.

About $1.5 million will be spent on slurry sealing of Hillsborough Drive, La Mirada Boulevard, Rosecrans Avenue and portions of Santa Gertrudes Avenue.

As a result of the projected capital improvement spending, Boynton’s proposed general fund budget predicts a $4.9 million deficit.

But that’s not a big deal, said Deputy City Manager Anne Haraksin.

The city’s surplus is about $27 million.

The budget will have some one-time changes, though.

Last year, the city received a $2.5 million payment from its former Redevelopment Agency. That won’t happen again this year. Also, the city this year will have to pay $662,104 for liability insurance after paying nothing last year because of getting a refund from the California Joint Powers Insurance Authority that was larger than the amount it paid in.

Sales tax also is predicted to decrease from $14.3 million in fiscal 2013-14 to $12.9 million in fiscal 2014-15.

Chevron Corp., which had an operation out of a former oil site, is no longer using the property but now plans to develop the site, Boynton said.

In addition, city officials are being conservative in their revenue forecasts, he said. As a result, any surprises in the future are likely to be good ones, he added.
