
Police suspect alcohol and painkiller drugs were involved.

The dead teenager was identified as Jacqueline Gomez, 17 years old. According to the NY Daily News , Jacqueline had attended a party after their senior prom at the Hyatt North Houston hotel with her boyfriend.

Her boyfriend was also the one who discovered Saturday morning that Jacqueline was unresponsive and no longer breathing. The authorities were then called soon after.

Detectives uncovered indications of alcohol in the hotel room.

Police also said that they are investigating whether or not the victim and her boyfriend had taken prescription painkillers as well.

"You can imagine if you have ever attended a high school prom what goes on there," Houston homicide Det. Mike Miller said. "This is no exception."

"She then stayed overnight in the hotel. In the morning hours, the person that was with her found her deceased in her bed. We are not sure at this hour what the cause of death is," added Miller.

The girl's boyfriend had called 911, and was taken in for further questioning about the incident, reports USA Today .

"He was there. He knows everything, so we're just continually wanting to find out what happened and everything," said Miller. "We have no reason to believe he contributed to her death."

Gomez was working part-time at the Kroger grocery store, which was just down the street from her high school. Graduation was only two weeks away.

Other guests staying at the same hotel had no idea about what had happened, reports KHOU News .

"The girls had on beautiful gowns, you know chiffon-looking gowns. They looked really nice. I watched them come in. Yeah that's very tragic," said Donald Burton, another guest staying at the hotel.

© 2014 FashionTimes.com All rights reserved. Do not reproduce without permission.

The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Fashion Times.
