
To understand Thornburg Investment Management – and the more than $90 billion it handles – it helps to understand that flat-line fund, the Limited Term Municipal Fund. The way the fund is managed, the philosophy of investing it represents and the way it became the seed from which other funds grew embody the firm’s culture.

Still, since 1984 that fund reliably has churned out interest payments in good times and bad while minimizing risk and by avoiding the price swings that make a more exciting-looking net asset value graph. It’s a performance that earned the fund a 2014 Lipper Award, one of five Thornburg funds to win Lipper Awards this year.

The Limited Term Municipal Fund buys municipal bonds from around the country, provided the price is right and the risk is appropriate. Municipal bond interest payments are exempt from federal income tax.

The fund is laddered, which means the maturities of the bonds are staggered. Every year, some bonds mature, and the principal is reinvested in bonds with longer maturities.

An investment management firm like Thornburg makes much of its money from fees it charges for its expertise in choosing investments. Most of its marketing involves convincing financial advisers and brokers to convince their clients to buy Thornburg funds.

That is Thornburg Investment Management in a nutshell: sizzle free.

In good times, investors rush into the markets; in bad times, they abandon them in a panic.

Thornburg talks a mile a minute. McMahon speaks quietly and deliberately. Neither man says much about himself unless asked.

Many of their portfolio managers and financial analysts hold degrees from the world’s top business schools, and many of them are chartered financial analysts.

“We are known in the industry for not being marketing driven,” said Chief Operating Officer Michael Doorley, who joined Thornburg last year after stints at Fidelity, Prudential and other firms. “That’s a pretty unique feature. Most of the places I’ve worked were sales and marketing driven.

Fidelity, for example, offers almost 200 mutual funds. Thornburg has 18, and several of those are variations on a theme.

McMahon said new funds often don’t start so much as they evolve.

“Most of our ideas just kind of percolate up,” he said.

Thornburg offered only debt-based funds from its inception in 1982. However, analysts and portfolio managers were identifying great values in equities and, starting in 1990, would occasionally buy some.

They were getting 27 percent annual returns on their equity investments but still didn’t offer an equity mutual fund.

By 1995, Thornburg and McMahon reasoned that since they were buying equities anyway and were getting good results, it probably was time to start a fund. They placed a small help-wanted ad for an equity fund manager in The Wall Street Journal and received 500 applications, including one from William Fries, who was vice president of equities at USAA Investment Management Co.

Thornburg couldn’t believe a guy like Fries could be happy in a 15-person shop based at the foot of the Sangre de Cristos, but Fries stopped by to visit after a ski trip to Taos and got the job.

Fries launched the Thornburg Value Fund in 1995. Three years later, the International Value Fund began under his management. He was named Morningstar’s International Fund Manager of the Year in 2003 for his work on that fund.

Soon the international fund led to an emerging markets fund. Equity portfolio managers discovered they were buying growth stocks for the value funds, so they spun off a growth fund.

“The biggest single step was the decision to do an equity fund with Bill,” Thornburg said.

Equities now account for 75 percent of the firm’s funds under management.

“That’s three quarters of the company that wouldn’t have existed if we hadn’t made that one decision,” he said.

Thornburg Investment Management has more than $90 billion under management today and employs 260 people.

When Garrett Thornburg founded his firm in 1982, he never expected the firm to grow that big.

He grew up in Lakefield, a farm town of 700 people in southwestern Minnesota. He was a young partner with Bear Stearns in New York when he noticed big banks that had low or no income tax liabilities were making tax-advantaged loans to small manufacturing firms using industrial revenue bonds.

The banks wanted better returns than they could get with those tax-advantaged loans, and they didn’t need the tax-advantaged income, but they couldn’t not lend or they would lose competitive position.

Bear Stearns wasn’t interested in the product. Thornburg thought he had a pretty good idea, so he got Bear’s permission to take the idea and start his own firm.

He did his first deal with McMahon, who was a young corporate banker with Norwest Bank, which is now part of Wells Fargo.

McMahon figured if the product worked for Norwest, it would work for other banks, so he began making deals with other banks, generating fees for Norwest and business for Thornburg.

Thornburg is a minority owner of the firm these days and is chairman of its board. The rest of the company is owned by more than 30 employees, who are known as managing directors.

Many Thornburg funds regularly outperform their benchmarks, but the actively managed fund industry is always competing against index funds and exchange-traded funds because those funds charge lower fees and can get the same or better results as some actively managed funds.

What the next Thornburg fund will be is anyone’s guess, though McMahon expects it will percolate up from something the firm already knows how to do well.

“Most of us here spend most of our time trying to deliver on what people have already hired us to do,” he said.

Note: Readers can use their Facebook identity for online comments or can use Hotmail, Yahoo or AOL accounts via the "Comment using" pulldown menu. You may send a news tip or an anonymous comment directly to the reporter, click here .
