
Share This Story!

Dickson County grads love classmates, 'never satisfied'

The 2014 Dickson County High School graduates looked back, to the future.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Dickson County grads love classmates, 'never satisfied'

Dickson County High School’s graduation ceremony was Friday night at the school’s football stadium.

Thomas Waters was the first student to speak at Dickson County High School's commencement Friday night.

His words elicited a sympathetic sigh from the DCHS stadium-filling crowd. Delivering his heart-felt speech, though, Waters never wavered.

The 2014 class president said a seat remained open next to his mother, Judy, at the graduation. The vacant space was in honor of Water's father, Richard, who had died during the school year, at age 43, from a heart attack.

Waters said he "loved this class" and also loved his mother and sister, Kaylee, "with all his heart."

Kamecia Talley, silver medalist, also spoke about her love for her classmates and teachers and added that her brother, who could not attend, was watching by way of Facetime on an iPhone somewhere.

Gold medalist Catherine Pierce said "we all need a new goal now," adding "we are never finished."

"I hope you are never satisfied with where you are," Pierce told her classmates. "Don't let this be it."

Pierce then led the graduates in the Cougar cheer, calling it her "favorite thing."

Salutatorian Trent Brooks' speech was as efficient and straightforward as expected of a student who was named the school's top math student.

Brooks quoted Socrates, who said: "The only true wisdom is in knowing you know nothing."

Brooks said he knew less about life than most in the stadium but would continue learning.

He also expressed optimism in his classmates.

"Someone in this group will change the world," Brooks said.

Davis Easley, school valedictorian, spoke modestly of his high school career goal of being accepted into Harvard – and how he didn't achieve it. This, despite having a 100-plus grade point average for four years and an ACT score of at least 29 and above.

Easley was accepted into Sewanee, a top liberal arts college in Tennessee.

Easley quoted the final Calvin and Hobbes comic strip: "It's a magical world, Hobbes, ol' buddy...let's go exploring."

He said that "life will not come to you" and that "sometimes you have to find it."

He added: "Class of 2014, do what you do best."
