
EXETER — A co-owner of Front Row Pizza says he is deeply sorry for what he described Sunday afternoon as a misunderstanding over a road closure required for the escort of slain Brentwood Officer Stephen Arkell to a local funeral home Friday evening.

Due to questioning of the closure by pizzaria co-owner Rich Braley, Front Row Pizza has received a barrage of negative online feedback on social media site Facebook.

He told Foster's Daily Democrat Sunday evening he feels horrible and that his questioning of police and Stockbridge Funeral Home Director Dan Stockbridge is something he now regrets.

“I feel bad for the Arkell family. I knew nothing about the (scheduled) event. I honestly didn't know anything about it,” he said. Though he'd heard the road would be closed for about a half hour on Friday, he did not know why.

Whether that answer is acceptable to those who caught word of his alleged “meltdown” Friday evening, which he denies, remains to be determined.

Many “reviewers” on Facebook said that if they could give just one star, they would. A one star rating is not a Facebook option.

“If I could figure out how to give you NO stars I would,” wrote Serena Maloney, the daughter of slain Greenland Police Chief Michael Maloney who shared her thoughts publicly as well on Facebook.

“After the lose [sic] of my dad (Chief Maloney) route One was closed for a long period of time, hundreds maybe thousands of people and local businesses show their respect. For a Fallen Hero of NH. (As far as I know none of those business complained... I'm very sadden and disgusted to read and hear of the owner of this business calling and complained about the road being closed for the body of another fallen hero of NH. I heard that the food here was great ... I will never find out for myself... I support local restaurants and not the big chain restaurants but I will NOT support a local one that has no Respect for Fallen Heroes. ( if it allowed me to post with out a star I would have),” she wrote, referencing a Facebook function that requires a minimum one-star rating for any sort of post or comment.

Unclear of the exact relation to slain chief Michael Maloney, another alleged relative took to social media on Facebook, regarding Braley's supposed actions.

“In the Spring of 2012, I learned that the Seacoast of NH bands together and supports their own, in a way that is unimaginably important to those they are quite literally holding up,” she wrote. “With one shameful call and a selfish thought, you've ensured that the support we so humbly experienced will never, ever happen to you. And trust me when I tell you, 'neighbor', it's a big loss,” she said.

A call to Stockbridge funeral home, seeking comment, regarding the disagreement, was not returned.
