
The Wyoming Business Council announced Monday it has selected three finalists in its search for a new chief executive officer.

The finalists are state Department of Workforce Services Director Joan Evans, private businessman Hal Herron, and Shawn Reese, policy director for Gov. Matt Mead.

A search committee selected the three finalists from among a field of 38 applicants. Each will be publicly interviewed at 9 a.m. May 28 at the Holiday Inn in Laramie.

No timeline is currently available for a final decision, but the Council’s board is expected to discuss the candidates during an executive session scheduled for May 29.

The Wyoming Business Council is a state governmental agency aimed at growing new and existing businesses in the state and recruiting new businesses to Wyoming.

According to a release from the agency, at least 10 candidates were qualified for the CEO position, which is expected to pay anywhere from $120,000 to $150,000 a year.

The selection of finalists came down to “nuances” in their applications, according to the release.

Evans is a Wyoming native who was initially appointed as director of the Department of Workforce Services in January 2007 by former Gov. Dave Freudenthal. After being reappointed by Mead in 2011, she led the merger of the state’s Department of Employment into the Workforce Services department. The buniness council reports she currently oversees nearly 600 employees and 55 programs.

Evans was previously the director of the Carbon County Higher Education Center in Rawlins.

Herron is currently the chairman and CEO of Arcadia Minerals Inc., a mineral development company.

A Riverton native, Herron has also served as president of Sutter Gold Mining Inc. and Brunton Company and as senior vice president/director of U.S. Energy Corp., a publicly traded natural resource company. He has also served on the board of multiple organizations, including the Wyoming Heritage Society and the Riverton Chamber of Commerce.

A Cheyenne native, Reese worked at the Wyoming Business Council from 2003 to 2011. He has also developed plans for the Western Governors Association and the Republican Governors Public Policy Committee.

The selection committee was made up of Co-Chairman Rex Lewis, former board Co-Chairman and Star-Tribune publisher Nathan Bekke and current board members Mike Wandler, Lynne Michelena and Jim Espy.

Former Business Council CEO Bob Jensen has advised the search committee. Jensen resigned March 28 and is now working in private enterprise.

Mark Willis is the Council’s interim CEO. He is also the group’s chief operating officer.

Copyright 2014 Casper Star-Tribune Online. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Go with Joan.

The Wyoming business council? don't you mean special interest loans and grants being funneled down to the local level for public/ private partnerships of special interest parties.

We provide this community forum for readers to exchange ideas and opinions on the news of the day. Passionate views, pointed criticism and critical thinking are welcome. Name-calling, crude language and personal abuse are not welcome. Moderators will monitor comments with an eye toward maintaining a high level of civility in this forum. Our comment policy explains the rules of the road for registered commenters.

You called someone an idiot, a racist, a dope, a moron, etc. Please, no name-calling or profanity (or veiled profanity -- #$%^&*).

You rambled, failed to stay on topic or exhibited troll-like behavior intended to hijack the discussion at hand.

YOU SHOUTED YOUR COMMENT IN ALL CAPS. This is hard to read and annoys readers.

You have issues with a business. Have a bad meal? Feel you were overcharged at the store? New car is a lemon? Contact the business directly with your customer service concerns.

You included an e-mail address or phone number, pretended to be someone you aren't or offered a comment that makes no sense.

You accused someone of a crime or assigned guilt or punishment to someone suspected of a crime.

Your comment is in really poor taste.

Hint: Enter a keyword that you are looking for like tires, pizza or doctors or browse the full business directory .

Username & Password Required!
