
BAKERSFIELD, Calif. (KBAK/KBFX) — Law enforcement in Kern County is finding it increasingly difficult to keep track of sex offenders.

A growing number of registered sex offenders are mixing in with the homeless population. The change has been happening since Jessica's Law was implemented statewide in 2006.

"Five years after the law was enacted, we noticed a significant increase of registrants who were registering as transients," said Kern County Sheriff's Detective Randall Meyer with the Sexual Abuse and Assault Investigative Unit.

According to the state Attorney General's Office, there are 2,312 as of May 19 living in Kern County. Slightly more than half of them reside in the greater Bakersfield area. The rest are scattered throughout the county.

Under Jessica's Law, registered sex offenders must live at least 2,000 feet from a school or park.

At least six cities in Kern County - California City, Delano, Shafter, Taft, Tehachapi and Wasco - have separate ordinances that place further restrictions on where sex offenders can live and gather.

Kern County also has a sex offender ordinance but is not as restrictive as the ones adopted by the cities.

The combination of laws and ordinances may be a reason more sex offenders are not finding housing and list themselves as homeless.

And, that adds a new problem for law enforcement and the public who want to know where sex offenders reside.

"For a transient, we don't have a correct address at this point in time and no address we can check on the registrants," said Meyer.  That means a transient sex offender can be staying anywhere and law enforcement has no idea where to find the person in order to check he or she is in compliance with Jessica's Law.

To complicate matters, Meyer said his unit is currently unable to enforce the law. Jessica's Law is currently being legally challenged as being unconstitutional, and two cases are under review by the California Supreme Court.

"At this point in time, law enforcement cannot enforce that law," said Meyer.

The areas in Bakersfield that have the greatest number of sex offenders are found in zip codes 93307, 93308 and 93305, according to Megan's Law website , which lists and maps the area where sex offenders live.

Other communities have seen an increase in sex offenders. The Kern River Valley, which has a much smaller population than Bakersfield, now has the second highest number of sex offenders living in Lake Isabella (31), Weldon (11), Wofford Heights (10), Kernville (4) and Mt. Mesa (1).

"It's a concern for everybody. You can't let your kids go out and play anymore," said Sharon Coughlin of Lake Isabella.

Meyer advises the public to keep informed as much as possible about the whereabouts of registered sex offenders who are not transients. One tool is the Megan's Law website, which the public can use to find sex offenders either through their name, address county, city or zip code.

Another site is called Offender Watch.

This site will alert you through email when a sex offender moves in to a designated location. The site is accessible through the Kern County Sheriff's Office website , however Offender Watch is currently down but expected to be operating soon, said Meyer.

Parents, don't let a registry give you a false sense of security. Â Don't think that because someone is not on the registry that they do not intend to groom your child. Â Chances of your child being molested by a stranger or even a registered sex offender are low. Â Just read the papers. Â People like Sandusky and Castro would have both passed their background checks. Â Your child is at greatest risk from those you trust well enough to leave them with. Â That is how the grooming process works. Â Again, read the paper and you will see that most offenders are uncles, cousins, babysitters, step dads, neighbors, teachers and coaches. Â 97% of sex crimes are committed by people NOT on the registry. Â You are hating the people who got caught, not the ones you live with and are firmly entrenched in the grooming process.

"It's a concern for everybody. You can't let your kids go out and play anymore," said Sharon Coughlin of Lake Isabella.

Jessica's law, the Wetterling Act, Â the Lungsford Act, the Adam Walsh Act (SORNA) gives law enforcement an opportunity to gloat over how the cops can set up registered offenders as targets for discrimination, targets for vigilante assassination, targets for denying employment opportunities, targets for renting or owning a home, targets the registered offenders family at the grocery store, the offender's children at their schools and so on. Â Life on the registry is cruel and unusual punishment even though our Supreme Court claims being on the registry is not punishment. Â BS is BS no matter how you slice it. Â As stated the dangerous offenders are the ones not caught. Recidivism for registered offenders is like 1.5%. What's wrong with this picture? Â Even a fool knows when he/she is being harmed.

Furthermore, Â freedom to live where you choose and travel where you choose is a constitutional right. When citizens rights are denied to one person then everyone's constitutional rights are being challenged. Â The real criminals are your legislators, judges, and law enforcement. Â The real criminals are slowly stealing away your rights. What is happening to the registered sex offender will happen to you under another pretext; you can count on it unless you fight back against unconstitutional laws.

It would also help if they stopped putting 18 year old guys with 16 year old girlfriends and homeless guys who get caught peeing on a bush on the list too. I want to use the list to find out where the DANGEROUS predators are and the courts keep watering down the list.

this is the story about my 7 year old niece McKenzie who fell sick 2 days ago in Redding Calif., and was told twice by the emergency room Drs. that she was basically alright and to just go home.

Our night sky can be very dramatic here in Kern County under the right conditions. Here is one of those such nights where all the elements aligned.
