
NEW YORK, May 19, 2014 /PRNewswire/ -- Novocure, a commercial stage oncology company, announced today that an analysis of the efficacy and safety data from its U.S. patient registry will be published as part of the 50th meeting of the American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) in Chicago, IL from May 30 – June 3, 2014.  The U.S. patient registry included data for all recurrent glioblastoma patients treated with NovoTTF Therapy from October 2011 to November 2013 at 91 leading oncology centers in the United States (n=457).

NovoTTF-100A System is a portable, non-invasive medical device designed for continuous use by patients. In vitro and in vivo studies have shown that the NovoTTF-100A System slows and reverses tumor growth by inhibiting mitosis, the process by which cells divide and replicate. The NovoTTF-100A System weighs about six pounds (three kilograms) and creates a low intensity, alternating electric field within a tumor that exerts physical forces on electrically charged cellular components, preventing the normal mitotic process and causing cancer cell death. In patients with recurrent glioblastoma brain tumors, the system has shown clinical efficacy comparable to that of active chemotherapies with better quality of life and without many of the side effects of chemotherapy. The NovoTTF-100A System has received marketing approval in the United States (U.S.) and is a CE Marked device cleared for sale in the European Union, Switzerland, Australia and Israel.

The FDA has approved the NovoTTF-100A System for use as a treatment for adult patients (22 years of age or older) with histologically-confirmed GBM, following histologically – or radiologically-confirmed recurrence in the supra-tentorial region of the brain after receiving chemotherapy. The system is intended to be used as monotherapy, and is intended as an alternative to standard medical therapy for GBM after surgical and radiation options have been exhausted.

Patients should only use the NovoTTF-100A System under the supervision of a physician properly trained in use of the system. Full prescribing information is available at www.novottftherapy.com   or by calling toll free 1-855-281-9301.

Novocure Limited is a private Jersey Isle oncology company pioneering a novel therapy for solid tumors called NovoTTF Therapy. Novocure U.S. operations are based in Portsmouth, NH and New York, NY. Additionally, the company has offices in Switzerland and Japan and a research center in Haifa, Israel. For additional information about the company, please visit www.novocure.com .
