
Marcus Crossland said his attempt to help his son, Dino, confront his fear was a mistake and has since lost his job because of the incident, which was recorded and posted online last month. He and his wife, Emily White, said they plan to move away from their neighborhood because of the backlash.

today Marcus Crossland said he kicked his son down the skateboard ramp in an attempt to help the 6-year-old boy face his fears.

The Florida man who kicked his 6-year-old son down a skateboard ramp said it was a “bonehead” attempt to help his son confront his fear and his family is still paying the price almost a month later.

But Marcus Crossland said the tough love experiment on his son, Dino, backfired when a clip of the shocking ordeal at the Jacksonville skate park was posted to Instagram on April 26.

Crossland kicked his son down the ramp after the 6-year-old boy took too long to go off the ledge on his own.

Crossland was apparently frustrated because his son took too long to go down the ramp on his own.

The video, which was posted on Instagram, shows Crossland kick his son down the skateboard ramp.

The video, which was recorded by a teen skater, shows Crossland standing on top of the half-pipe — the biggest ramp at Kona Skate Park — with his son before he walks behind the child and kicks him off the ledge.

Crossland’s mea culpa came after he apparently lost his job because of the incident — which is still being investigated by local authorities — and now he said his family is being forced to move.

“It’s been really rough,” his wife, Emily White, told the show.

First Coast News The half-pipe, dubbed Big Brown, is the biggest ramp at Kona Skate Park in Arlington.

But White said the video does not show her husband as the father he really is to their son.

Today Marcus Crossland and his wife, Emily White, said they are planning to move out of their neighborhood because of backlash over a 2-second action.

She said Crossland is not abusive, despite what critics have charged.

Crossland said he plans to move the family out of the neighborhood in an attempt to start over.

© Copyright 2014 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.
