
Share This Story!

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Annabelle Cutter, 18 months, is oblivious to the press conference happening at the University of Cincinnati Medical Center.

Ohio hosting 1 of 5 research sites for charity.

One in every 10 newborns in the U.S. is admitted into a newborn intensive care unit each year because of preterm birth or other serious medical conditions.

The problem is acute in Ohio, which ranks ranks 48th nationally in overall infant mortality; Kentucky is not much better, ranking 42nd. In Hamilton County, there are about 4,000 high-risk births a year.

Now, thanks to the March of Dimes, University of Cincinnati Medical Center is home to the latest U.S. program created to help premature and sick babies who need to be hospitalized immediately after birth.

On Monday, the March of Dimes unveiled the  newborn intensive care unit (NICU) Family Support  program at UCMC. The program helps parents and families of premature babies with education throughout their child's hospital stay and continued support as they transition their newborn from the NICU to home.

"We need to do more, and we are doing more," said  Jennifer Howse, president of the charity.

"Often, families are overwhelmed, confused and intimidated when their baby is admitted into the NICU," said Amy Mueller, a family support specialist for  March of Dimes. "This program was designed to comfort them, and work with them to make sure they understand their baby's diagnosis and help them be proactive in their care while they're in the hospital and at home."

The program, funded by  March of Dimes, has been implemented in 130 hospitals across the country and served more than 92,000 families.

The Ohio collaborative is anchored by a team-based research effort led by the state's top medical minds and institutions, including Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center, and Ohio State and Case Western Reserve universities. From geneticists to molecular biologists, to computer scientists and epidemiologists, the team is working to better understand the what causes early births for so many mothers.

Among other efforts, the team is exploring racial disparities in preterm birth. African-American women are twice as likely to experience a premature birth compared with other women. But researchers have discovered that Somali-born women, who are of African descent, have the one of the lowest rates of preterm birth. The team is now sharing research tools across the state to learn why.

Dr. Louis Muglia of Cincinnati Children's, coordinating principal investigator of the Ohio Collaborative, said researchers in the state have begun to explain how genetics and the environment interact to trigger preterm labor, and how it might be prevented.

Using mice with a genetic predisposition to preterm labor that had been exposed to a mild infection as a model system, the scientists prevented preterm birth with injections of the hormone progesterone. Progesterone is approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration as a preventive treatment for preterm labor in women, but it does not work in all women, and the researchers hope their studies may help explain why this is so.

Starting in July another  program will be launched to help women known to be at high risk of preterm birth. The initiative will include clinical consultations with women before and during pregnancy to help them understand their risk factors and take steps to prevent premature birth.

"This collaborative will help us find the answers to prevent preterm birth so that more babies will get a healthy start in life," said Howse. "One day, parents ... won't have to leave the hospital without their babies."

The other partners in the collaboration include Nationwide Children's Hospital in Columbus,  University Hospital's MacDonald Women's Hospital, Rainbow Babies & Children's Hospital and MetroHealth System -- all in in Cleveland.
