
Isle Brewers Guild cofounders Devin Kelly, left, and Jeremy Duffy on the roof of the Kinsley Avenue building that they want to convert into a brewery.

PROVIDENCE — Americans’ increasing taste for unusual beer flavors has drawn the interest of a pair of Rhode Islanders who plan to build a brewery in one of the city’s industrial sections.

Jeremy Duffy and Devin Kelly plan to buy an old warehouse at 498 Kinsley Ave. in the Valley section and turn it into the home of Isle Brewers Guild, where craft brewers would produce and sell their creations.

The craft-brewing industry continues growing, as the sector saw a 20-percent sales increase from 2012 to 2013, on top of 17-percent growth the year before, according to the Brewers Association, a Colorado-based industry group for craft brewers.

Craft brewers have been cropping up in Rhode Island on a regular basis. Foolproof Brewing and Grey Sail Brewing are just a couple that have launched in the state in recent years.

Duffy and Kelly wouldn’t compete with brewers such as those. Instead, they plan on being production partners with small brewers.

The partners aim to help what they describe as “nano-breweries,” companies they said produce less than 3,000 barrels — 93,000 gallons — of beer annually.

“What’s happening with some brewers is they’re having capacity issues,” Duffy said.

The brewery would make beer under contract for five or six craft brewers who have outgrown their own production capacities. Duffy, Kelly and a third partner would retain a majority stake in the brewery, while the craft brewers each would have a minority stake.

Those brewing partners would sell their beer to retail customers at Isle’s Kinsley Avenue building.

About 60 people would work at the brewery — about two-thirds of them Isle employees, the rest brewmasters and others employed by the partner beer labels.

They picked the 80,000-square-foot Kinsley Avenue building because it has a central hall measuring more than 26 feet high, tall enough to accommodate brewing equipment and storage tanks. There’s a water main line running by the building — critical for a business that expects to use more than 6 million gallons of water annually.

There’s also room for cold storage, as well as what the partners see as an integral part of the business — a “sampling” room and outdoor patio where people can buy from the brewers.

The brewery as tourist attraction is long established in the United States.

Craft breweries have helped remake old industrial neighborhoods in other cities — including the New York City borough of Brooklyn, Cleveland, Pittsburgh and Boston.

Duffy and Kelly see their project as having the same potential effect as breweries in those other postindustrial neighborhoods.

The Isle site sits across Sims Avenue from the Steel Yard — the well-regarded campus for arts education, work-force training and small-scale manufacturing. The Alco project — the refurbished mill that is home to United Natural Foods Inc. — sits across the Woonasquatucket River. The Foundry and other refurbished mills dot the city’s western half.

“We believe we can create a really nice environment for [tourism],” Duffy said.

Duffy is the former vice president of business development at Providence public relations firm Duffy & Shanley Inc. Kelly is the owner of Dynamic Bicycles, of Bristol, and former president of Portsmouth-based sailboat maker LaserPerformance.

For five years, Kelly worked for international brewing company InBev, which resulted from the 2004 merger of Belgium-based Interbrew and Brazilian brewer AmBev. InBev’s beer brands included Stella Artois, Beck’s and Labatt.

InBev purchased Anheuser-Busch in 2008. Kelly left the company in 2011 as a marketing vice president.

The Isle Brewers Guild partners aim for an opening in the second half of 2015.
