
The Lake Mills Public Works Board reviewed the city’s drinking water sanitary survey during its monthly meeting last Tuesday.

The survey is done every three years and a representative from the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources (DNR) visits the city to go through records, etc.

Utility superintendent Paul Hermanson said typically the results aren’t so bad but this year the city got hit hard.

“It’s not the report I like to give but we’ll be straight up with you and see what went on here,” he said.

The survey was last done in 2011 and there were no significant deficiencies reported but this year there were several. The DNR noted the city has a good system and wants to keep it that way. Other surveys completed in the past may not have been done as thoroughly, Hermanson said.

A schedule has been set up for the next 20 years that establishes a schedule for inspecting the pumps, water tower and reservoir. The system lacks adequate man power in numbers only. There’s the possibility of hiring a part-time individual to work in both water and electrical areas, Hermanson said. The fire hydrants also need to be flushed more often.

The city should additionally consider connecting a 12-inch line between the Brookstone subdivision and American Way in the industrial park. Furthermore there is a 33 percent loss of water which means only 66 percent of the water is getting to the end user. The percentage has been in the 20’s and 30’s for the last three to four years but the city can’t find what the problem is. A leak was fixed on reservoir four and on Prairie Avenue.

“When we fix these things we’re not seeing the associated decrease in water loss,” Hermanson said.

The utility superintendent recommended hiring a company to perform an inexpensive leak detection study this year, checking to see if the meters are running correctly and to look at the city’s record keeping.

The public works board also discussed the wastewater treatment plant violations. Hermanson said the treatment plant has been experiencing an ‘upset’ meaning something has been coming into the plant that is causing it to not work up to its optimal range.

Bill Kiessling III, wastewater treatment plant foreman, said they started noticing in January the solids weren’t being settled in the clarifier. He spoke with a biologist who said everything seemed to be running correctly. If violations continue, he said the Department of Justice could start prosecuting.

City manager Steve Wilke said they’ll get permits and perform tests and if the situation isn’t rectified, the city could start monitoring from the manholes.

A representative from WPPI Energy gave a presentation regarding the electric rate application that was put together in collaboration with the Lake Mills Light & Water Department.

Nicole Guld, rate analyst for WPPI, told the board the company serves 51 customer owned electric utilities in Wisconsin, Iowa and upper Michigan and serve about 195,000 customers. The rate application was broken up into several parts: Revenue requirement, cost of service study and proposed rate design. The application can be submitted to the public service commission following approval from the public works board and city council. She said customers would be notified if there is a rate increase.

Guld also explained that Lake Mills needed a rate increase for several reasons including recovering increased expenses and recovering costs associated with local improvements.

An average residential customer that uses about 645 kWh’s would see a $9.98 increase in their bill or about 12.5 percent. Also, an average commercial customer that uses 1,652 kWh’s would see a $19.69 increase in their bill or 9.9 percent.

Guld added that Lake Mills is below the Wisconsin Electric Power Company (WEPCO) rates by 4.28 percent and that residential customers are 8.5 percent below WEPCO. The city last did an application in 2009.

“We recommend you do a rate change every two to three years to keep the rate classes aligned properly and make sure the cost of providing service to each of those individual rate classes hasn’t changed,” Guld said.

The application will be forwarded to the city council.

In other business, the city received a $1.3 million grant from the Department of Transportation (DOT) for Mulberry Street repair work and it must be accepted by July 1. There is a concern, however, about the water expenses required of the city including with the light and water building and the South Main Street and Mulberry Street projects.

Mulberry Street has undergone asphalt reconstruction in 1990, 1996 and most recently in 2006 but the street is in dire need of repair.

“Mulberry is in bad shape. The problem with Mulberry and the reason we keep plaster and asphalt on it is there’s no base or drainage. It’s a pretty major road. It has a lot of major design problems,” Wilke said.

The board unanimously approved the acceptance of the grant.

Other items discussed on the agenda included impact fees/wastewater report and dissipating cooling study.

Board member Robin Wolf was absent from the meeting. Future agenda items include an update on the planning of the utility buildings.

1 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language.

2 Don't Threaten or Abuse. Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated. AND PLEASE TURN OFF CAPS LOCK.

3 Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.

4 Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.

5 Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.

6 Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness accounts, the history behind an article.

Welcome to the discussion.
