
• In April, the U.S. Supreme Court wiped out laws putting aggregate limits on the total that individuals can donate to campaigns. That struck down Wisconsin’s $10,000 aggregate limit.

The decision was a “victory for candidates, political parties and PACs in that it will allow them to seek out more contributions,” said attorney Mike Wittenwyler.

• ON MAY 6, U.S. District Judge Rudolph Randa ruled that special-interest groups and candidates may work together on “issue advocacy” ads, which stop just short of telling voters how to vote.

Issue ads are different from “express advocacy” ads, which tell voters whether to vote for or against specific candidates.

Randa’s ruling stopped a John Doe probe by prosecutors investigating whether conservative groups illegally conspired with Gov. Scott Walker’s campaign and GOP candidates before recall elections the governor and Republican senators survived.

Federal Court of Appeals judges immediately stayed parts of Randa’s ruling, pending a trial.

But, if Randa’s ruling is upheld, it would overturn GAB’s past interpretations of state law and a Wisconsin court ruling.

• LAST Wednesday, 7th District U.S. Court of Appeals judges issued a broad ruling that, according to Wittenwyler, struck down the state’s ban on corporate campaign donations and two GAB rules.

Wittenwyler said Court of Appeals judges threw out one GAB rule that regulated issue advocacy ads in the weeks before elections and another that imposed registration and reporting requirements on some other organizations that sponsor independent expenditures.

In an opinion written by former state Supreme Court Justice Diane Sykes, Court of Appeals judges called Wisconsin campaign-finance law outdated.

“Like other campaign-finance systems, Wisconsin’s is labyrinthian and difficult to decipher without a background in this area of the law; in certain critical respects, it violates the constitutional limits on the government’s power to regulate independent political speech,” Sykes wrote.

But Kennedy and the retired judges on the GAB cannot duck that question for long. The deadline for filing nomination papers is 5 p.m. June 2.

McCABE SAID the “magic words” rule adopted by the old Elections Board applied to campaign ads that urged voters to “vote for,” “vote against,” “elect,” “defeat,” “support” or “oppose” specific candidates. GAB replaced the Elections Board.

GAB the beat cop can still arrest violators, McCabe insisted.

Posted in Opinion , Todays opinion on Monday, May 19, 2014 4:00 pm.

1 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language.

2 Don't Threaten or Abuse. Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated. AND PLEASE TURN OFF CAPS LOCK.

3 Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.

4 Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.

5 Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.

6 Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness accounts, the history behind an article.

Welcome to the discussion.
