
Nationwide, Community Action Agencies create victories daily for low-income families and individuals to become self-sufficient and economically secure. This May, GMN joins its colleagues throughout the country in commemoration of National Community Action Month.

Community Action Agencies were created in 1964 when President Lyndon B. Johnson signed the Economic Opportunity Act. National Community Action Month highlights Community Action Agencies' work fighting poverty on the local level.

"Our goal is to highlight the real problems low-income people in Guernsey, Monroe and Noble counties are facing, especially during these challenging economic times," said Executive Director Gary W. Ricer. "People come to GMN desperate for help because they have experienced so many hardships. We show them they can change their lives."

Gov. John Kasich has proclaimed May Community Action Month in Ohio and GMN will mark the occasion with Guernsey, Monroe and Noble County commissioners signing the proclamations.

The national office of the Community Action Partnership designates May as National Community Action Month to recognize the work of CAAs that are fighting poverty on the local level. Each year, CAAs help 20 million in their efforts to escape poverty and achieve financial stability through programs such as job training, housing, energy assistance and education.

"Our programs are designed with a variety of situations and individuals in mind, and we have a proven track record of helping the most vulnerable people achieve economic security," said Kenneth Phillips, GMN Board president.

Statewide in Ohio, CAAs serve nearly 800,000 low-income individuals annually. The 50 agencies in Ohio administer $750,000,000 in resources aimed at alleviating the problems of poverty in local communities.

"The economy is on everyone's mind. People want to work, they want to be able to purchase a home and provide for their families," said Philip E. Cole, executive director for the Ohio Association of Community Action Agencies. "With the economy, these basic goals seem elusive and out of reach. That's why Community Action programs are needed now more than ever."
