
Jacob Turner had a rough opening inning as the Marlins finished 4-7 on a trip during which they also lost Jose Fernandez for the season.

SAN FRANCISCO -- One bad inning brought a fitting end to one bad road trip for the Marlins — both on the field and off — when they dropped a 4-1 decision to the Giants on Sunday to close out the series.

The Marlins went 4-7 on a trip in which they also lost pitching ace Jose Fernandez for the season, but still managed to return home with a winning record overall.

The Giants scored three runs in the first off Jacob Turner, who then turned into a different pitcher after that and retired 15 of the final 16 batters he faced. But the damage had been done and the Marlins couldn’t recover under a cloudless sky at AT&T Park.

“It’s been an emotional road trip,” said manager Mike Redmond, alluding to the loss of Fernandez to an arm injury that resulted in Tommy John surgery.

It was a road trip that might have turned out even worse had the Marlins not recovered somewhat. After starting out 1-5, the Marlins went 3-2 over the final five games.

With a win Sunday, they would have taken the series from the Giants.

But Turner got off to a poor start. Though he managed to gain the upper hand early in the count, going either 0-2 or 1-2 to six of the first eight Giants that he faced, he still gave up four hits and hit a batter in the inning.

Turner put Giants leadoff hitter Gregor Blanco into an 0-2 hole, only to hit him with the next pitch. After Buster Posey scored Blanco with a sacrifice fly, Turner gave up four consecutive two-out singles, which brought two more runners across the plate for the Giants.

After the rough first inning, Turner settled down. He gave up only two hits over his final five innings, an infield single in the second to Giants pitcher Ryan Vogelsong and a solo homer in the fifth to Pablo Sandoval. Otherwise, he was close to perfect. He struck out seven from the second inning through the sixth.

Nonetheless, Turner remained winless in 18 career starts on the road. He is now 0-11 on the road.

Redmond had intended to give Giancarlo Stanton the day off on Sunday and left him out of the starting lineup. Stanton has not missed a game all season, and Redmond had been vowing to give him a break.

“He’s banged up, been running around a lot in the outfield, and everybody needs a blow,” Redmond said.

With Stanton on the bench, the Marlins’ lineup struggled to get anything going against Vogelsong. They had runners at second and third in the fifth, but Giants shortstop Brandon Crawford made a diving stop up the middle, robbing Adeiny Hechavarria of a base hit that probably would have scored both runners.

But their best chance came in the eighth.

After Hechavarria singled to start the inning and Derek Dietrich doubled, Christian Yelich scored a run with a ground ball out. Casey McGehee followed with an infield single, which brought up Garrett Jones.

Jones battled through a tough, 10-pitch at bat against Giants reliever Santiago Casillo, fouling off four consecutive two-strike pitches. One of those Jones lined down the line in right for a foul ball that missed by inches of going into the corner for extra bases.

But Casilla eventually struck out Jones on a sinker.

Redmond then sent up Stanton to pinch-hit with two outs. But Stanton lofted an easy fly ball to right for the third out. Stanton is now 1 for 13 in his career as a pinch-hitter with no home runs.

It didn’t happen, and the Marlins headed home after playing 21 consecutive days.

“We’ll take the day off [Monday] and go get ’em at home,” Redmond said.

The Miami Herald is pleased to provide this opportunity to share information, experiences and observations about what's in the news. Some of the comments may be reprinted elsewhere on the site or in the newspaper. We encourage lively, open debate on the issues of the day, and ask that you refrain from profanity, hate speech, personal comments and remarks that are off point. Thank you for taking the time to offer your thoughts.

The Miami Herald uses Facebook's commenting system. You need to log in with a Facebook account in order to comment. If you have questions about commenting with your Facebook account, click here .

This affects comments on all stories.
