
NORTH ADAMS, Mass. - What began with a dream several years ago ended  Saturday for hundreds of graduates with a selfie.

Massachusetts College of Liberal Arts President Mary K. Grant capped  off a lively Class of 2014 commencement ceremony by whipping out her  phone from beneath her robes, turning around, and snapping a picture  of herself and 409 graduates.

The unexpected move encapsulated the light-hearted and optimistic  spirit of the event, which featured an empowering commencement address  by Charles Desmond, a longtime educator and chair of the Massachusetts  Board of Higher Education.

Though there were times of levity, students and faculty also took a  somber moment to remember the life of student Rebecca Haskell, who was  days from graduating before she died unexpectedly on May 10. In her  absence, Rebecca's two sons, Caiman Ketchum and Avry Haskell-Ellerbee,  accepted her diploma from Grant.

Grant opened the ceremony by celebrating the accomplishments of MCLA  students who came from a variety of backgrounds -- including  traditional students and those who have returned to school to finish  their degrees.

Those sentiments, and embrace of the diverse student body, were echoed  by student president Jake Powers.

"Take a break if you need to, but never, ever quit," Powers said,  sharing wisdom he learned from his father.

Desmond told the graduates though the job market might be tough, they  should cherish their liberal arts education.

"You've received a precious gift, those of you who are graduating here  today," Desmond said. "The gift of a liberal education from a public  institution whose mission is to educate practical problem-solvers."

Desmond, who also received an honorary Doctor of Humanities, told  graduates lessons he learned from his own difficult journey to where  he is today, growing up with a single father who suffered from alcohol  addiction.

"I didn't have people around me to guide me," Desmond said.

After getting into Boston University, Desmond said, he spent most of  his time in local pool halls - "I was what you might call a pool  shark," he said.

"I made a lot of money playing pool, essentially teaching rich kids  how to part with their cash," Desmond joked.

But that lifestyle wasn't fit for college, and a dean at the  university "invited" Desmond to drop out. Shortly after leaving  school, Desmond was "invited" to go to Vietnam by the U.S. government,  where he was "surrounded by death and destruction."

"I promised God that if I survived, I would try to do something better  for the rest of my life," Desmond said. "There's something about being  close to death that makes you think differently about life."

Desmond learned two lessons from this, he said, that he wanted  graduates to take with them as well.

First, every student should know that he or she is special and important. "I hope that if you don't come from a background of privilege, that  you realize that a background of modest means can actually be an asset  and not a liability," Desmond said.

Secondly Desmond asked that student have confidence in the education  they received, despite growing concerns about the value of colleges  across the country.

In today's world, Desmond told students, "you're going to need a  skill-set from a liberal arts education."

"You may not only need to find a job, you may need to invent one," Desmond said.  Grant closed the ceremony by instilling her confidence in graduates  that they will make a difference in the world - and asked them to "not  sit back and wait."

"You are far from finished," Grant said.

Welcome to your discussion forum: Verified accounts are now required for immediate posting. Please verify your e-mail address in Disqus, or sign in with your social networking account. You may also post using your e-mail address (which will remain private), but those posts will first need to be approved by the moderator. Comments made here are the sole responsibility of the person posting them; these comments do not reflect the opinion or approval of the Bennington Banner. This forum encourages open, honest, respectful and insightful discussions; there is no need to be offensive. Read our guidelines.
