
WORCESTER, Mass., May 19, 2014 /PRNewswire/ --The Worcester Business Journal named Allen Falcon, CEO of Cumulus Global among the "10 to Watch" today in the MetroWest 495 BIZ special supplement.  The " 10 to Watch " list identifies emerging business leaders who foster unique skill sets, find and develop new opportunities, and bring their respective companies to new heights.  The Worcester Business Journal covers business activity in the vibrant Central Massachusetts, 495 Corridor, and MetroWest regions.

"This is more than a personal honor for me," noted Falcon while acknowledging the award.  "This honor reflects the commitment of the entire Cumulus Global team to the businesses, schools, non-profits, and governments we serve."  Falcon also praised Cumulus Global's customers, stating, "We are fortunate to have customers that want to learn, innovate, and grow, and that focus on the business value of our solutions."

Based in Westborough, Massachusetts, Cumulus Global serves small and mid-size businesses, schools, and local governments in Massachusetts, throughout New England, and across North America. The company recently opened offices in New York and is looking forward to continued growth and expansion.

"While we deliver cutting edge and proven solutions, do not let our zeal for cloud solutions fool you," added Falcon. "We serve much like a traditional value-add partner.  We assess business objectives, needs, and priorities; we select technologies and services to create pragmatic and effective solutions; and we follow through with deployment, education, training, and support."

Recognition among the "10 to Watch" in MetroWest follows other recent industry accolades, including Cumulus Global's recognition as a 2014 Pacesetter and the 5th fastest growing private company in Massachusetts by the Boston Business Journal, being named to CIO Review's list of the 20 Most Promising Education Tech Providers , and being included on CRN's Next-Gen 250 list of cutting edge solution providers for the second consecutive year.

Visit PR Newswire for Journalists for releases, photos, ProfNet experts, and customized feeds just for Media.

Browse our custom packages or build your own to meet your unique communications needs.

Request more information about PR Newswire products and services or call us at (888) 776-0942.
