
Share This Story!

As history and heritage events begin to abound, two this weekend highlight Kent and Sussex counties.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Lt. Col. David L. Stricker, a Dover resident who lost his life in battle during the Civil War, will be honored in a public ceremony Sunday in Dover.

As history and heritage events begin to abound, two this weekend highlight Kent and Sussex counties.

One Saturday in Lewes harkens back to the seafaring life of the 1700s and 1800s, while one Sunday in Dover honors the sacrifices of local soldiers in the Civil War.

Lt. Col. David L. Stricker, a Delaware hero in the Civil War, will be honored at noon Sunday in a public memorial service at the Old Methodist Cemetery, W. North and S. Queen streets.

Stricker lived in Dover when the war broke out, according to Delaware Public Archives historians.

In 1861, he entered the service as a captain in the 2nd Delaware Regiment and rose in the ranks, leading Delaware troops in the battles of Antietam and Chancellorsville. He was promoted to  lieutenant colonel in the spring of 1863.

In the second day of fighting at Gettysburg, Stricker was wounded, but returned to active duty by spring 1864. He was leading troops at the Battle of Spotsylvania in Virginia when he was killed  May 12, 1864.

Sunday's ceremony was organized by the Col. David L. Stricker Camp #64 of the Sons of Union Veterans, the 2nd Delaware re-enactment group, the  Delaware Heritage Commission, and the archives.

The program features laying of wreaths, reading of the names of Kent Countians killed in the war, a three-volley salute, and a short presentation about the 2nd Delaware troops, archives spokesman Tom Summers said.

A public reception will be held at the Delaware Public Archives, 121 Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd. North. , No reservations needed.

The third annual Zwaanendael Maritime Festival, "A Sailor's Life for Me," shares early seafarers' adventure, excitement and hardships.

The free 10 a.m.-3 p.m. event Saturday  at the Zwaanendael Museum, 102 Kings Highway, Lewes, gives all ages a chance to scrub the deck  and learn about shipboard food, play period games, explore a vessel's cargo and serve on a block-and-tackle station.

At the station, organizers say, guests will be "drilled by a demanding mariner looking for new crew members."

The museum itself is an icon in state history. It was built in 1931 to honor the 300th anniversary of the state's first European colony, Swanendael, set up by the Dutch in 1631 by Hoorn Kill, now the Lewes-Rehoboth Canal.

The museum is modeled after the town hall in Hoorn, the Netherlands. It showcases Lewes-area maritime, military and social history. Exhibits now include "A Seaborne Citizenry: The DeBraak and Its Atlantic World" about the British warship that sank off Delaware in 1798.
