
Share This Story!

Epworth Skate Project has raised $74,000 toward a concrete skate park in less than a year.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Ben Bamforth of Lewes, 15, starts to drop off a quarter pipe at a Skate Day at Epworth United Methodist Church in Rehoboth.

During a Skate Day at Epworth United Methodist Church, 2-year-old Javien Diehl sits on the curb with a helmet on, watching the older skaters fly past him on the concrete.

From across the parking lot, his father Nate Diehl, 32, watches. The skaters who come to the church are cautious, conscious of the little ones scurrying around below them and always quick to make an adjustment to make sure they stay safe.

Since the church started collecting equipment one piece at a time seven years ago, the parking lot has become a hub for skaters in the community — one place they can go and not get yelled at to leave or tailed by police officers, they said.

"It really feels comfortable," Diehl, who lives in the Rehoboth area, said. "Not having to look over your shoulder."

While the wooden ramp and quarter pipes have been great for the skaters, they fall apart. Upkeep is expensive, splinters happen, and skaters who have come to Epworth for years said the park is in constant flux. Last August, a fundraising campaign to build a more permanent concrete park began, and less than a year later the Epworth Skate Project is only $1,000 shy of the $75,000 needed.

Contracts have been signed and construction on the park will start in July, taking about four weeks, organizer Susan Selph said. For some people like Karen Barwick, whose son Brennan has been coming to Epworth to skate all seven years, the park will mean reducing the "countless miles back and forth" to the nearest skate park in Ocean City.

"We're so excited about the skate park. There just isn't a lot of things for the kids to do around here," she said.

One thing that sticks out to her about the skating community is the camaraderie across age groups, Barwick said. When Brennan, now 17, was growing up, she said it felt like he had a bunch of big brothers — now, she sees him help out younger skaters in the same way.

"What was once counter-culture is really a family oriented environment," she said.

Many skaters bring their kids with them to the park, Selph said — skaters range in age from 2 to 40. And with another generation growing up, older skaters see the need for the park greater than ever.

"My son needs a place to skate," Aaron Lester said. "And I can't be getting into trouble anymore."

Lester, 23, brings his son Shane, 3, to the park with him. Hopefully, having a permanent park will help the community grow, he said.

"With a skate park here, you're going to get a bigger scene," he said. "Skate parks can create a lot of things."

They also see a wide range of socio-economic diversity at the park, according to Selph, from parents who can bring their children on skateboarding vacations to parents who cannot even sign their children in because both are constantly working.

"It's so diverse," she said. "That's what makes it so great."

Once the park is built, Skate Epworth will need to continue raising money to pay for maintenance and other costs. In the future, Selph said they hope to hold programs at the park as well.
