
Texas Land Commissioner Jerry Patterson, who has sought to raise voters’ apprehensions about Sen. Dan Patrick’s past mental health problems, on Monday sought to snare Patrick in a trap. But Patrick, who is leading the race for lieutenant governor, once again eluded Patterson’s grasp.

Patterson, chief author of the state’s 1995 concealed handgun license law, said that when Patrick applied for a conceal-carry license, he had to disclose his two stays in Houston psychiatric hospitals in the 1980s and obtain a doctor’s seal of approval to be carrying a gun.

Patterson called on Patrick to let the Department of Public Safety release his application for a concealed handgun license, so reporters can see if Patrick complied with the law.

Patrick spokesman Allen Blakemore, though, said Patrick is “definitely not” going to ask DPS to do that.

Patrick fully complied with the law when he applied for a conceal-carry license shortly after being elected to the state Senate in 2006, Blakemore said.

At the time, the law required applicants to disclose any psychiatric hospital stays during the two previous years. Because Patrick’s voluntary hospitalizations for mental illness were some two decades earlier, he had no obligation to disclose them and obtain the required letter from a doctor saying his mental illness was in remission and not likely to recur, Blakemore said.

Only in 2009 did the Legislature change the law so that concealed handgun license applicants have to disclose any psychiatric hospitalizations in their past, he explained. See line 10 of page 140 of the measure, House Bill 2730 .

Blakemore dismissed Patterson’s verbal potshot as the latest venom from an unsuccessful candidate for lieutenant governor who can’t stand to see Patrick moving closer to secure the GOP nomination — which in Texas has been almost tantamount to election.

Patterson, though, insisted Patrick has a “pattern of lying and obfuscation” about long-ago events that has repeated itself in recent months and days. Patterson emailed his guns-related musings about Patrick to reporters and also put them on his website .

Next week’s Republican runoff for lieutenant governor pits Patrick against incumbent David Dewhurst, whom he bested by 13 percentage points in initial voting. Their runoff contest has devolved into an ugly, please-avert-your-eyes fracas.

Late last week, as my colleagues Terry Stutz and Christy Hoppe reported in this story , Patterson released documents from a 1989 civil lawsuit showing Patrick was treated for depression and a chemical imbalance.

On Friday, Patterson released still more lawsuit documents. They included a hospital nurse’s assessment from earlier in the 1980s, which quoted Patrick as saying he tried to commit suicide by cutting his wrists and taking an overdose. Patrick is quoted as saying he changed his mind and sought emergency medical treatment.

Blakemore has dismissed Patterson’s disclosures as a smear campaign. Patrick has been open about having sought treatment for depression about 30 years ago, he said. The Patrick campaign also released a 2011 letter from the doctor who treated his depression. It said a recurrence of his depression is unlikely.

Dewhurst has distanced himself from Patterson, though on Friday he raised what he said are questions about Patrick’s character and fitness for office.

“People are scared of Patrick,” Dewhurst said in an interview with The Dallas Morning News.

“I am worried about the Senate if he gets elected, what senators will do with the rules, and I am worried about the stress he will be under and whether he can handle it,” he said.

On Thursday night, Dewhurst issued a statement expressing sympathy for Patrick and his family over their ordeal during Patrick’s hospitalizations, Blakemore noted.

The “feigned” sympathy was nauseating and so is the latest Dewhurst red flag about Patrick’s fitness for office, Blakemore said.

“It is extremely offensive and disgusting for him to make those comments,” he said.

Patrick let his concealed handgun license expire on his birthday in April 2011, Blakemore said. He said Patrick still could renew it at any time, though Patrick now would be under the 2009 law’s requirement to disclose his psychiatric hospitalization and get a note from his doctor.

“He answered truthfully” in applying for the license in late 2006 or early 2007, Blakemore said.

Patterson has said Patrick can’t be trusted.

He noted that earlier this year, Patrick failed to list the 1989 civil lawsuit, in which he waived confidentiality about his past mental health problems, in a Dallas Morning News candidate questionnaire. I did a blog post in January about Patrick’s omission, which another Patrick spokesman implied was inadvertent.

Early voting began on Monday.

The blog for the Dallas Morning News politics team tracks Dallas Fort Worth area, Texas and national campaigns.
