
ROGERS COUNTY, Okla. - Five robbers took shotguns and prescription pills from homes in Rogers County Sunday night then led troopers on a high speed chase.

Sheriff Scott Walton with the Rogers County Sheriff’s Office said they have four of the suspects at the Rogers County jail.

But he said they are still looking for a fifth suspect and trying to piece all of the information together.

“Certainly an unusual occurrence for Rogers County, we don’t have robberies and we don’t have home invasions,” said Walton.

He told FOX23 it was just after 11:30 Sunday night when they were called to a neighborhood in the Oologah and Talala area.

“Five to six individuals entered a home, produced a weapon and robbed individuals at that location,” he said.

The suspects took guns and prescription pills. Walton said while they were responding to the call they got into a pursuit with the suspects’ car.

“That vehicle crashed in the area of 136th Street North and Highway 169. When we got on scene there were two taken into custody and the others took off on foot,” he said.

Walton said he doesn’t think it will take long to find the fifth suspect, but they do know they are looking for a woman.

Walton told FOX23 there are parts of this case that just don’t add up, because he said the suspects were let into the home.

“I have a lot of questions on what activity took place and what were they really on that property to obtain,” he said.

Neighbors said they are shocked that this could happen.

FOX23 talked with a woman who said she’s close to the victim, an 87-year-old man, and she doesn’t understand how or why people would do this.

“I haven’t heard of anything like that since i lived here back in 2005. It’s unheard of,” said Merilyn Roth.

She told FOX23 she checks on the man who lives in the home day to day.

“He did fall and break his hip. I went down there and found out he was the one who got robbed,” she said.

Walton said there is more to this story than victims are telling deputies.

Roth told FOX23 no matter what the details are she has protection for her home.

“It makes me really glad I have my Rottweiler because he will tear somebody up if they come in this house,” she said.

She said she’s lived in the neighborhood for years and it doesn’t change her opinion one bit.

“It don’t really make me feel any different about the area, I figured it’s just something random that happened.  I don’t feel unsafe being here I just don’t see how they could do that to an 87-year-old man,” she said.

Thank you for registering!

We have sent you a confirmation email. Please check your email and click on the link to activate your account.

Thank you for registering!

We look forward to seeing you frequently. Visit us and sign in to update your profile, receive the latest news and keep up to date with mobile alerts.

Don't worry, it happens. We'll send you a link to create a new password.

We have sent you an email with a link to change your password.

We've sent an email with instructions to create a new password. Your existing password has not been changed.

To sign in you must verify your email address. Fill out the form below and we'll send you an email to verify.

Check your email for a link to verify your email address.
