
BELLEVUE, Wash., May 19, 2014 /PRNewswire/ -- Eating Recovery Center of Washington, a 24-bed residential eating disorders treatment center, will open its doors today in an effort to increase access to Residential eating disorders treatment in the Northwest.

Eating Recovery Center of Washington is a partner program with The Moore Center , a provider of specialized outpatient eating disorders treatment for patients and families in the region since 1991. The programs at Eating Recovery Center of Washington will mirror those of Eating Recovery Center's Residential programs for adults and adolescents in Denver, Colorado, which were created and are overseen by internationally recognized eating disorders treatment experts Drs. Kenneth Weiner, Craig Johnson, Emmett Bishop and Ovidio Bermudez.

"We saw a tremendous need for increased access to Residential eating disorders care in the Pacific Northwest," explains Ken Weiner, MD, FAED, CEDS, Founding Partner and Chief Executive Officer of Eating Recovery Center. "It is important that the region has both a trusted local treatment program as well as a 24-hour care option, working in tandem. Eating Recovery Center of Washington brings much-needed services, dedicated to the treatment of patients suffering from very serious and complex illnesses, to the Northwest region."

Eating Recovery Center of Washington is located on the Overlake Hospital Medical Center campus in Bellevue, WA, in a new, state-of-the art building. The treatment center's location on a hospital campus with more than 1,000 physicians supports seamless transition to acute care if additional medical intervention is necessary. The Overlake Hospital Medical Center is just two miles from The Moore Center, a partner program of Eating Recovery Center since July 2012. This close proximity enables The Moore Center's medical and clinical leadership to collaborate with Eating Recovery Center's experts to ensure effective delivery of evidence-based treatment philosophies, processes and interventions in a 24-hour treatment environment.

Additionally, The Moore Center's Partial Hospitalization Programs for adults and adolescents offer a step-down level of care for patients discharging from the Residential program at Eating Recovery Center of Washington. These programs offer 11 hours of treatment 7 days per week, as well as opportunities to practice recovery outside of the controlled treatment environment during evenings at home or in peer- or family-supported apartment communities near the Bellevue treatment center. By offering a full day of programming every day of the week, The Moore Center's PHP supports patients through all meals and snacks and provides ample structure and containment to maintain the symptom interruption and/or weight restoration achieved in the 24-hour treatment environment.

"Continuity of care between Residential and Partial Hospitalization levels of care is extremely important for recovery," continues Dr. Weiner. "Upon discharge from Eating Recovery Center of Washington, patients and families will benefit from the consistency of treatment philosophies used by The Moore Center, as well as their extensive clinical and medical expertise in the treatment of eating disorders."

Psychological interventions include individual, group and family therapy grounded in the principles of Acceptance and Commitment Therapy (ACT), Dialectical Behavior Therapy (DBT), Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT) and Family-Based Treatment (FBT, for adolescent patients and families).

Eating Recovery Center is an international center providing comprehensive treatment for anorexia, bulimia, EDNOS and binge eating disorder. Under the leadership of Drs. Kenneth Weiner, Craig Johnson, Emmett Bishop and Ovidio Bermudez, programs provide a full spectrum of services for children, adolescents and adults that includes Inpatient, Residential, Partial Hospitalization, Intensive Outpatient and Outpatient Services. Our compassionate team of professionals collaborates with treating professionals and loved ones to cultivate lasting behavioral change. Denver-based facilities include the Behavioral Hospital for Adults, the Behavioral Hospital for Children and Adolescents, the Partial Hospitalization Program and Outpatient Services for Adults and the Partial Hospitalization Program for Children and Adolescents. In an effort to increase patient access to care throughout the United States, Eating Recovery Center provides centers of excellence for the treatment of eating disorders across the country. Sacramento-based Eating Recovery Center of California offers Partial Hospitalization, Intensive Outpatient and Outpatient Services, as well as Outpatient Services in Fresno and the Bay Area (opening Spring 2014); The Moore Center and Eating Recovery Center of Washington offer Residential, Partial Hospitalization, Intensive Outpatient and Step-Down Services in Bellevue, Washington; and Insight Behavioral Health Centers offers comprehensive outpatient, PHP and residential programming for eating disorders, as well as evidence-based treatment for obesity, mood and anxiety disorders at five Chicago area treatment centers.

Visit PR Newswire for Journalists for releases, photos, ProfNet experts, and customized feeds just for Media.

Browse our custom packages or build your own to meet your unique communications needs.

Request more information about PR Newswire products and services or call us at (888) 776-0942.
