
Jeb Wallace-Brodeur / Staff Photo  Much of Montpelier downtown space is densely packed residential area.

MONTPELIER — An expert on housing issues across Vermont says the state’s capital is in dire need of new housing.

The city council was given a presentation on the housing situation in Montpelier by Polly Nichol, director of housing for the Vermont Housing Conservation Board. She also serves on the Montpelier Housing Task Force.

Unfortunately, she recently told the councilors something they already knew: Housing here is out of reach for many would-be first-time homebuyers, and that many homeowners and renters are paying too much of their incomes to keep up with high housing costs.

Another important point emphasized by Nichol, however, was that there is not enough housing stock in Montpelier, and she said the city should work to help encourage more housing starts for all income levels and age groups to help with housing needs here.

“What’s the definition of affordable housing? In the housing world, that is that a household pays less than or equal to 30 percent of their income,” said Nichol, including mortgage principal, interest, taxes and association fees, or the cost of rent for renters.

According to the information Nichol shared with the council, “More than a third of our homeowners and renters pay more than 30 percent” of their incomes toward rents or mortgages and associated housing costs. Many pay more than half of their incomes for housing, more renters than homeowners in that group, the data shows, but some owners with mortgages, as well.

“In 2012, for a two-bedroom apartment in Montpelier, the median rent was just over $1,000, $1,075, and then somebody living on disability would have to pay more than 100 percent of their income in order to be able to afford even an efficiency apartment in Montpelier,” said Nichol.

She said she recently scanned the apartment ads on CraigsList, and found a range of a one-bedroom at $800 to $2,000 for a house in Montpelier, “and what really struck me was there was almost nothing listed for rent,” she told the council.

The city is expensive — too expensive for many trying to live here in homes or apartments, the numbers show — and there is not little available housing stock, but the city has been identified as a place where growth should happen, since there is capacity for growth with water and sewer infrastructure and services here and more.

A household with the median income in Montpelier could, in 2011, afford a home at the $195,000 price tag, the information shared by Nichol reveals. But, she said, that same year, the median sales price was “a little over $270,000, and the average was over $373,000” she continued.

A report shared by Nichol shows that between 2000 and 2010, the number of people aged 30 to 39 declined by about 15 percent, and Nichol said younger families, and first-time homebuyers often find they are priced out of Montpelier, or that what is available at lower price ranges may need so much work they can’t afford to take the homes on.

Some of the younger city council members, including Jessica Edgerly Walsh and Justin Turcotte agreed they know of people who could not buy into Montpelier, or who have rented longer than they wanted to because of the too-high costs to buy in.

That point speaks, too, to the lack of housing, stressed Nichol, especially rentals. “There hasn’t been a whole lot of new rental housing stock built,” she said. “Perhaps most alarming in 2012 no building permits were issued for new housing,” including single family and multi-family, said Nichol.

Montpelier does have a number of subsidized and rent-restricted units, Nichol noted.

A total of 374 rental units have project-based subsidies, according to the data supplied by Nichol, with 41 percent of those reserved for elderly tenants.

Ideas for adding more affordable housing, which Nichol offered at the end of her presentation on Wednesday, include allowing builders to build to the full allowable density, she said, encouraging more accessory apartments, for which there is a housing trust fund to help with, and offering financial incentives to young families to help with down payments for first-time homebuyers. She said the city needs to trumpet the housing trust fund better, to get the word out about that opportunity in Montpelier.

The city has a down payment assistance and equity building program for qualified homebuyers and funds “could be used to offset some accessory apartments,” he noted.
