
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

GULFPORT, Mississippi -- Commissioners for the Mississippi State Port Authority have finalized a lease agreement with McDermott International Inc. to locate and operate a spoolbase pipe fabrication facility at the Port of Gulfport.

The facility will support the oil services industry, leaders said in a news release.

McDermott expects to invest in the facilities of the port's east pier and will employ about 100 full-time employees.

The tenant lease is for an initial 10-year term and provides for three additional 10-year extensions.

"This is a great day for Gulfport and the state of Mississippi," said John Rester, MSPA board of commissioners president. "This break-bulk operation will result in significant tonnage growth at the port, and that tonnage increase drives employment."

projected to get underway in the first quarter of 2016.

Current warehousing along the east pier will be demolished prior to construction.

for the operation of a spoolbase," said Tony Duncan, executive vice president of Subsea.

"This facility complements our efficiency and our high-performance vessels," he said. "We will be ideally positioned to serve a wide range of our clients' needs from this base in the Gulf of Mexico."

Gov. Phil Bryant said the announcement "is one of many recent positive accomplishments of the Port Restoration Program."

The Port of Gulfport "is an important economic driver for south Mississippi, and the investments we are making today will position the region for growth for years to come," Bryant said.

Following the successful completion of the current Environmental Impact Statement process through the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, the port may expand the southern end of the east pier by 15 acres for McDermott's use.

and CEO.

"We will continue our aggressive efforts to create jobs and opportunities at the Port of Gulfport for the people on the Gulf Coast," he said.

© 2014 Alabama Live LLC [al.com and gulflive.com]. All rights reserved ( About Us ).
