
The director of Truckers Against Trafficking , an organization that recruits truckers to fight human trafficking, is looking for more help from truck drivers in North Dakota.

Kendis Paris, TAT’s executive director, voiced her call to attendees of the North Dakota Motor Carriers Association convention. She encouraged carriers to ask their employees to be more aware of criminal activity and to call the group’s hotline to report any illegal activity.

“We haven’t received a lot of calls from North Dakota. I think the primary reason is, nobody knows about the number,” said Paris.

North Dakota Attorney General Wayne Stenehjem and U.S. Attorney Timothy Purdon also attended to conference to encourage drivers to participate in TAT’s efforts. Stenehjem’s office has investigated approximately 100 complaints over the last six months of trafficking or luring minors.

Paris first became aware of the issue in North Dakota when a trucking company reported increased instances of prostitution there.

“It was someone from a trucking company who cared enough to make that phone call,” said Paris.

Truckers Against Trafficking has put together a training video that has a list of questions to ask potential victims and the information needed for authorities to open an investigation. It also lists the organization’s hotline number, 888-3737-888.

“We want to saturate the trucking industry with this message,” said Paris.

Paris went on to state that even though truck stops and rest areas can be potential hot spots for these crimes, she believes that the majority of truckers want to help and assist in resolving the problem.

“At the end of the day, I don’t think anyone wants those guys in the industry,” stated Paris.

Purdon said that his office continues to investigate the tragedy of human trafficking and added that truckers can play an integral by being the “eyes and ears” on the nation’s highways.

“We’re looking for partners. We need to build cases against traffickers,” said Purdon.

Knowledge empowers us to make real change in the trucking industry and create The Path to the Future. Stay informed by subscribing to Go By Truck News Daily Alerts.

Become a part of real change in trucking and join the Guardian's Voice, a free email newsletter dedicated to providing solutions that unite us, not divide us.
