
ATLANTA, May 19, 2014 /PRNewswire/ -- SunTrust today announced the introduction of a new set of trade processing and payment tools for companies and institutions that conduct business in international markets.  The new trade-processing suite, which includes a client-facing web portal, provides substantially more control over, and visibility into, the complexities and risks associated with trade and standby letter of credit portfolios.

"Treasury and payment services are a major area of focus for SunTrust," said Mark Chancy, wholesale banking executive. "Our investment in this trade-processing and payments platform demonstrates our commitment to meeting the global trade and transaction needs of our clients. From core deposit services to capital markets access and M&A advisory, SunTrust is uniquely positioned to serve the evolving needs of clients at every stage of growth."

The new trade processing suite provides clients a full range of trade and standby products, including document images, enhanced reporting, real-time transaction status, robust entitlement controls, and interactive communications with the SunTrust Letter of Credit/International Operations team.  The new product suite will help clients manage international business with more precision and greater insight, while also increasing processing efficiencies.  Cibar Inc., of Colorado Springs, Colorado, provides the new product suite's back office processing system.

SunTrust Global Trade Solutions offers a broad range of services and products for clients in international markets.  From 2010 to 2012, SunTrust was honored as Export Lender of the Year by the U.S. Small Business Administration for providing working capital loans to U.S. exporters.  Along with providing expertise to help clients navigate international trade, SunTrust Global Trade also offers tailored export working capital financing solutions.

About SunTrust Banks, Inc. SunTrust Banks, Inc. STI, +0.84% headquartered in Atlanta, is one of the nation's largest banking organizations, serving a broad range of consumer, commercial, corporate and institutional clients. As of March 31, 2014, SunTrust had total assets of $179.5 billion and total deposits of $132.9 billion. Through its flagship subsidiary, SunTrust Bank, the Company operates an extensive branch and ATM network throughout the high-growth Southeast and Mid-Atlantic states and a full array of technology-based, 24-hour delivery channels. The Company also serves clients in selected markets nationally. Its primary businesses include deposit, credit, trust and investment services. Through its various subsidiaries, the company provides mortgage banking, asset management, securities brokerage, and capital market services. SunTrust's Internet address is www.suntrust.com .

SOURCE SunTrust Banks, Inc.

Copyright ©2014 MarketWatch, Inc.  All rights reserved.

Intraday Data provided by SIX Financial Information and subject to terms of use .                 Historical and current end-of-day data provided by SIX Financial Information. Intraday data                 delayed per exchange requirements. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones & Company, Inc.                 All quotes are in local exchange time. Real time last sale data provided by NASDAQ. More                 information on NASDAQ traded symbols and their current financial status. Intraday                 data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, and 20 minutes for other exchanges. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM)                 from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. SEHK intraday data is provided by SIX Financial Information and is                 at least 60-minutes delayed. All quotes are in local exchange time.
