
Recently I wrote about getting terrible charley horses after a grueling pre-sugarin’ day on snowshoes. It was almost as if my experience was a precursor of our upcoming season. Mother Nature had its own version of charley horses with the “painful” weather she gave us, weather that never really allowed for a healthy sugar season. Thankfully, my charley horses are not chronic but lots of folks responded as if they were and sent me remedies, a whole world full of them.

“I had read in a column in the Ventura (Calif.) County Star written by Dr. Peter Gott from Ohio, one way to stop charley horses is to put a bar, new or used, of soap on or near the charley horses. I laughed when I read it but later when I had them day after day and night after night I tried it. It worked. The only soap that does not work, that I know of is Dove.

I used to put a bar in between the bottom sheet and the mattress about knee level. Whenever I felt one coming on I would move my leg close to the soap and it would quit.

I also carried small pieces in each of my front pockets. In addition I would put one in the top portion of each sock. I never had any charley horses when I did this. When I would forget the soap, I got them. I would then grab a piece and put it on the knot and away it would go.

Steve’s cure left me with a “can’t-wait-for-the-next-charley-horses-just-to-try-it-out” sort of feeling. I’ve named it the “Princess and the Pea” remedy. The cure’s “clean”-cut for sure but makes for a mighty lumpy night’s sleep.

Barney, another of my readers, said the cussed things ended his ballroom dancing career. “Every time I danced up on my toes I got those charley horse cramps” he said. He gave me the name of a company, Penn Herb in Philadelphia, where you can get an old Indian remedy, Cramp Bark capsules.

“Drink lots of water” several folks said and a couple of them stipulated Quinine water. Mention of one liquid, however, that really “puckered up” my interest, came from Tigard, Oregon: ”dill pickle juice, works wonders, stops cramps in seconds” said the man. His mention of dill pickle juice reminded me of a story my brother Elliott tells from long ago at the Maple Corner Schoolhouse. “Some kids from a poor family up toward Woodbury Gulf came to school with pickle juice sandwiches for lunch.” He said all the other kids had meat or jelly in their sandwiches, but for that poor family, the cupboards were empty except for pickle juice. No doubt life was unfair to those kids but at least they might have always enjoyed a good night’s sleep, free from charley horses.

I agree with Joe that snowshoes are instruments of torture. Sometimes, however, nature leaves you no choice but to strap ‘em on when snow’s “up t’yer crotch” and sugar season’s comin’ on. At times like that, we’re in the woods making trails any way we can, leg cramps or not.

Burr Morse lives in East Montpelier.
