
Elvira McLachlan, 73, never played pool before she retired. But after she took a class that was offered at the Cabarrus County Senior Center in Concord, she found a new hobby. She even medaled in billiards at the 2014 Cabarrus Senior Games. “Pool is my game,” she said.

On her last day of work, Elvira McLachlan told colleagues she intended to spend retirement the same way as many other women she knew.

“I said, ‘I’m going to put on a muumuu and eat as much as I want,’ ” recalled the 73-year-old former payroll manager from Connecticut.

But as a member of America’s most active generation of senior adults yet, she didn’t stick with that plan for long. “My knees started hurting, and I sat home and was bored,” said McLachlan.

As baby boomers cross the finish line to retirement over the next 15 years – many still enjoying good health and living longer, active lives as a result – the need for services to support them will have to keep up at a comparable rate.

In Cabarrus County, the population of those 65 or older is anticipated to double from 20,000 in 2010 to 40,000 by 2030. Officials are taking steps now to figure out those future needs.

The first draft of the Aging Strategic Plan, a document to better determine the needs of the county’s growing senior-adult population, will be discussed by the Cabarrus County Board of Commissioners at its July meeting.

The plan, created by Cabarrus County employees from numerous departments at the commissioners’ request, looks at the education, housing, health, recreation, transportation and income needs of future senior adults in the county.

“We feel we needed to concentrate and take more of a strategic view in how we are going to offer services to that population, and what we’re going to offer them,” said Deputy County Manager Jonathan Marshall.

One of the plan’s objectives involves developing partnerships with other municipalities – as well as nonprofit, for-profit and faith-based organizations – to collaborate on services.

County officials have already begun to combine staffs among some departments where services appeared to overlap. Those decisions, said Marshall, were made not for budget reasons but for service delivery purposes.

“We have a Division of Adult Services in our Human Services Department, and we have some staff in our Aging Department who are offering similar services, and we felt like we could more effectively meet those demands by combining the two,” he said.

The county spends $2,884,411 on senior-related services. That includes two senior centers, one in Mount Pleasant that costs $140,505 to operate annually and another in Concord that costs $433,240 yearly. Nutrition services account for $455,077; the Community Alternatives Program for Disabled Adults costs $1,172,572 a year; adult day care operates at $67,762; and $615,255 is budgeted for other senior adult services.

All programs are considered discretionary, although county commissioners have publicly stated they don’t want to make any cuts to senior adult programs.

The county has already taken its first step toward preparing for the surge of senior adults.

A $370,000 renovation project at the Concord senior center was completed this month, adding 1,141 square feet of space. The project included a new fitness room with updated equipment, a dance studio and a computer lab.

The center receives 31,000 visits annually. McLachlan spends two to three days a week there, attending dances and exercise classes and playing pool – an activity she never played before she retired.

It’s much better, she said, than her original plan of staying home and watching television every day.

The Charlotte Observer welcomes your comments on news of the day. The more voices engaged in conversation, the better for us all, but do keep it civil. Please refrain from profanity, obscenity, spam, name-calling or attacking others for their views.

The Charlotte region is vast and diverse. The more voices engaged in conversation, the better for us all. The Charlotte Observer welcomes your comments on news of the day, but we ask that you keep the discourse civil.

Do not use profanity or obscenities. And don't try to camouflage profanity with asterisks, abbreviations or other symbols or foreign phrases.

Do not use threatening language. Talk of violence won't be tolerated.

No racial, gender or sexual-orientation name-calling.

Do not attack other commenters for their views. Do not libel or defame anyone or violate their privacy.

Keep your comments succinct and stay on topic. Comments that bear no relation to the story may be deleted.

Do not add images to your comments.

Do not report comments as abusive simply because you disagree with them. Report them only if they violate these guidelines.

Do not post spam or advertising of any kind.

Do not post a comment using all capital letters.

We do not monitor each and every posting, but we reserve the right to block or delete comments that violate these rules.

You can help: Notify us of violations by hitting the "Report Abuse" link. Users who continue posting comments that violate these guidelines may, at our discretion, be blocked from submitting future comments as well.

And finally, as Mark Twain said: "Always do right. This will gratify some people and astonish the rest."
