
West Virginia Attorney General Patrick Morrisey says the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency isn't following its own rules. I Morrisey pointed out the agency had failed to include “required and critical information in the regulatory dockets of two of the agency's recent proposals for regulating carbon dioxide emissions from existing and modified power plants.

Morrisey pointed out the agency had failed to include “required and critical information in the regulatory dockets of two of the agency's recent proposals for regulating carbon dioxide emissions from existing and modified power plants.

The owner of three Clarksburg rental properties demolished because of alleged code violations waited too long to challenge the validity of the city's building ordinances, Harrison County Circuit Judge James A. Matich has ruled.

The owner of three Clarksburg rental properties demolished because of alleged code violations waited too long to challenge the validity of the city's building ordinances, Harrison County Circuit Judge James A. Matich has ruled.

College can be a heady experience, particularly for kids who, often for the first time, don't have mom and dad waiting at home to ask them where they've been, who they've been with and what they've been doing.

College can be a heady experience, particularly for kids who, often for the first time, don't have mom and dad waiting at home to ask them where they've been, who they've been with and what they've been doing.

Morgantown resident Mitch Brozik, 52, has pleaded guilty tax evasion.

Brozik admitted to U.S. Magistrate Judge John S. Kaull in Clarksburg that he'd concealed a corporate bank account he used for personal expenses, provided inaccurate information to his personal accountants and made false statements to IRS Special Agents about the accurancy of his personal tax returns, his knowledge of personal expenses charged to corporate credit cards and the existence of a corporate bank account that was not included in corporate records.

U.S. Attorney William J. Ihlenfeld II says Brozik, who is free on bond, faces up to three years in prison.

His case was prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Andrew R. Cogar and investigated by the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigations.

All content © Copyright 2000 - 2014 WorldNow and WVSTATE. All Rights Reserved.
