
A guest on ABC's " The View " on Monday explained why he has fathered about 100 babies without having used a sperm bank. He did use a sperm bank for ten years until he met his quota. Then he began volunteering his sperm to help women have babies after they have exhausted all other means. Ted Houben, 44, is known as Europe's biggest sperm donor . However, he doesn't get paid for being one.

Houben has gained international attention in the media for offering his service as a sperm donor. He travels the world to help couples who seek to have a baby but are unable to do so because of medical reasons. He visits the families who seek his services, and he determines if he wants to donate his sperm. He agrees to help the couple only if he finds a positive, warm, and loving home.

Houben considers it to be his mission in life to give loving couples the chance to be a family. Not only did he tell his story but also what it means to be a modern day sperm donor and the love and controversy that he is faced with.

The women on " The View " were shocked to hear Houben's story . They came right out and asked him how he donates his sperm without using a sperm bank. He wasn't ashamed to tell them that he has sex with the women with their husband's permission. The husbands have the option to watch. Some do and some don't.

One of the women on "The View" asked what happened if the woman's doesn't get pregnant with the first donation. Houben said he will donate for as many times as it takes. After the birth of the baby, it is up to the couple whether Houben is to have contact with the child or not. Houben said it is fine with him either way.

The sperm donor said he doesn't advertise. Instead, couples seek him out for his services which are totally free. Other men have asked to help out, but Houben said he prefers providing his service alone.

For more information about Ed Houben and his mission to continue being a sperm donor, visit his website .

Rolling Stones front man Sir Mick Jagger attended the premiere of 'Get on Up' with his son Lucas. The legendary rock star was a producer on the biopic of Soul singer James Brown.

Jimmy Fallon's tribute with a clip of Robin's first "Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson"
