
Social media hasn’t been kind, and you’d never guess it by some of the current political campaigns, but the Nebraska Tourism Commission did get one thing right: the friendliness of Nebraska’s people is the state’s greatest asset.

That’s the conclusion reached after months and $75,000 worth of research, three online surveys of visitors, potential visitors, residents and community/visitor industry stakeholders.

“Nebraska is about genuine friendliness and relaxation across all audiences, but also a fun place for nonresidents,” the report concludes.

Other states have their beaches, mountains and amusement parks, Kathy McKillip, Nebraska Tourism Commission executive director told the Lincoln Journal Star, but no other state has focused on its people as its No. 1 asset.

All Nebraskans must step up, believe in and sell the notion that it’s so nice here that people are going to want to experience it, she said.

Despite all the sniping, most Nebraskans genuinely are nice and love to share “The Good Life” with visitors, when given the chance.

Any views or opinions presented below are solely those of the author and do not represent those of the Kearney Hub. We reserve the right to remove comments and or (if necessary) ban users that repeatedly fail to abide by the following rules. PLEASE NOTE: All discussions are closed automatically after 7 days.

Keep it clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language.

Disagree respectfully and stay on topic.

Don't threaten or abuse. Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated. AND PLEASE TURN OFF CAPS LOCK.

Be truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.

Be nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.

Advertising is not free. Do not use comments as a means to promote your website or business.

Be proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.

Share with us. We'd love to hear eyewitness accounts, the history behind an article.

Users will receive one warning.

Any offense thereafter will result in a ban.

© Copyright 2014, Kearney Hub , Kearney, NE. BH Media Group Holdings, Inc |  13 East 22nd Street, Kearney, NE 68848; 308-237-2152.
