
A year after Vermont enacted a law allowing terminally ill patients to hasten their own deaths, no one has done so.

That has critics questioning whether Vermont needed the law at all, or whether the driving force was really outside groups looking to spread their cause.

“Twelve full months after enactment of Act 39, no one in Vermont has used the law to end their own life, despite claims from proponents that such a law was necessary,” said Edward Mahoney, president of Vermont Alliance for Ethical Healthcare, which opposes the law.

“It’s not surprising that we have not had a lot of numbers,” said Linda Waite-Simpson, director of Compassion & Choices in Vermont, a national group that supports the law. In Oregon, which has had a similar law since 1997, the numbers grew gradually as patients, doctors and pharmacists became more familiar with the details, she said.

According to the state Health Department, doctors have reported writing two prescriptions for lethal doses of medication requested by terminally ill patients under the law, but supporters say in both cases the patients died without taking the medication. The first was a Middlebury man who died before picking up the medication at a pharmacy, his sister told the Burlington Free Press in December.

Waite-Simpson said the second patient was unable to find a pharmacist willing to fill the prescription and died before Compassion & Choices could help arrange a connection.

Waite-Simpson said other people have inquired about using the new law. Some are surprised to learn the process takes at least 15 days, she said.

True Dignity Vermont, another group that opposes and hopes to overturn the law, said it has had inquiries from people confused about what the law does.

“The most alarming reports we have received to date involve two separate clinical psychologists, dealing with two different patients, both of whom had suicidal tendencies. In each case, the patients revealed their belief that suicide was more ‘acceptable’ now that the legislature had passed this law,” said Carolyn McMurray of Bennington, spokeswoman for True Dignity.

Terri Hallenbeck covers the Legislature, state government and politics for the Free Press. She is a 1983 graduate of the University of Vermont. After two years in the Peace Corps, she started her career in daily newspapers in 1986 and worked as a reporter and editor in upstate New York before moving back to Vermont in 1998.

One piece of good news, pharmacists are unwilling to participate.

Not one single person has committed suicide under this legislation and the law has been on the books for about a year.   That makes it clear to most that there is no reason for the law to exist and at the same time the law that does exist presents a clear and present danger to the public because it does!

I am a pharmacist and if were asked to fill such a prescription I would not.  I of course would not because I believe this is a bad law and the state should not be in the business of condoning and facilitating such a practice.

There are so many dangers created by this law including coercion and even worse.  The actual use of these medications is so fraught with danger for those using them.  Up to 20% of those trying to kill themselves with these drugs will suffer horrific side effects before they die and they might not even die at all but linger in terrible pain with no options since euthanasia is not legal.

I personally believe there is potential liability for me that would come from filling.  If such a prescription was presented to me and I was say inclined to fill this prescription because filling prescriptions is my job,  I would again decide not to because of the liability that could flow from doing so.   Under the law the physician who wrote the prescription is granted immunity from criminal, civil and administrative liability but there is no such immunity given for pharmacists or other health care professionals.

Just think about it.  No matter what some advocate of the law might say, if an angry relative of a person who used the law wants to bring a lawsuit and finds out that the law protects the physician, where are they going to look for a target?  The pharmacist is next in line.  It is understandable why advocates of the law are saying that they are finding it difficult to find pharmacists to fill such prescriptions.

No one has been hurt yet and those good Republicans and Democrats in the legislature should see the error of their ways and repeal this law before someone gets hurt or dies.

Copyright © 2011 www.burlingtonfreepress.com. All rights reserved.

Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
