
He said it was never his intention to offend, saying: 'I respect all cultures'

Macklemore has released a statement to say he had not intended to resemble a Jewish caricature when he donned a 'random' costume for a Seattle show last week.

The rapper was branded 'anti-Semitic' after he appeared on stage at Seattle's Experience Music Project Museum wearing a long black wig, thick beard and large nose on Friday night.

But in a statement he released on his website on Monday night, he said that he had simply chosen random items to wear so that he could disguise himself while walking around at the secret show.

'Disguise was the intention,' he explained. 'I wasn't attempting to mimic any culture, nor resemble one. A "Jewish stereotype" never crossed my mind.'

Offensive? He wore a long wig, long beard and large nose, which some branded 'anti-Semitic'

He added  that some people thought he looked like Ringo Starr or Abe Lincoln,  while he thought he looked like Humpty Hump - a rapper - 'with a bowl  cut'. But he realized others had since not agreed.

He said he recognized that he hadn't made the wisest choice of costume.

'I acknowledge how the costume could,  within a context of stereotyping, be ascribed to a Jewish caricature,'  he wrote. 'I am here to say that it was not absolutely not my intention,  and unfortunately at the time I did not foresee the costume to be  viewed in such regard.

'I'm saddened that this story, or any of my  choices, would lead to any form of negativity... I truly apologize to anybody that I may have offended.'

After  images of his performance appeared online, some Twitter users branded him  anti-Semitic and even actor Seth Rogen, who is Jewish, attacked the  musician, writing: 'First you trick people into thinking you're a  rapper, now you trick them into thinking you're Jewish?'

Following the backlash, Macklemore tweeted that the costume had simply been a 'random' collection.

Rogen  responded: 'Really?? Because if I told someone to put together an anti  Semitic Jew costume, they'd have that exact shopping list.'

Macklemore, 30, performed the show with Ryan Lewis. Both are originally from Seattle and have been celebrated for their progressive messages.

The duo gained widespread fame with a  message supporting diversity, and their hit song 'Same Love' calls for  tolerance and support for members of the gay community.

The two also performed the song at January's Grammy Awards while several same-sex couples were married.

Lewis and his mother appeared on Anderson Cooper's show on CNN to talk about their HIV-AIDS charity efforts before Macklemore posted his message Monday night.

In a postscript on his statement, the rapper pointed out the work of the Anti-Defamation League, providing a link to the group's website. The ADL was formed to fight anti-Semitism.

The comments below have been moderated in advance.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
