
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

BIRMINGHAM, Alabama --Jefferson County could face a fine of up to $50,000 and other sanctions for violations in a program that regulates chemicals at a treatment plant, AL.com has learned.

Last year the US Environmental and Protection Agency conducted an audit of the county's risk management program, which regulates chlorine and sulfur dioxide at the Village Creek sewer plant.

The EPA cited the county for "potential" violations in the program and began talks on remedies, according to county officials. The county has yet to acknowledge what it calls the "potential" violations, but is in settlement negotiations with the EPA, according to officials.

"We responded very aggressively to anything that was cited as potential violations and we believe we are now in full compliance with all the risk management program guidelines and rules," said David Denard, director of the county's Environmental Services Department.

An EPA spokesperson said there is not a consent order in place yet with the county and declined to confirm or deny whether violations were found.

At Village Creek, sewer officials used chlorine gas to disinfect the water and sulfur dioxide to take the chlorine back out. That way chlorine does not get into the creek.

The EPA informed the county in December of what it considered violations and remedies.

Denard said the county responded quickly and "we are very confident that there are no violations there now," he said. "We are being very proactive about that, and will in the future."

The fine could include a cash payment of approximately $50,000 to the EPA along with what is called a "supplemental environmental project" where the county performs a community service-type venture or the county may have to purchase safety equipment related to cleanup.

Updated at 9:17 a.m. on 5/20/2014 with comments from an EPA spokesperson and clarification to the headline.

© 2014 Alabama Media Group All rights reserved ( About Us ).

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
