
'On the other side of it, if you tell people that you  didn’t, they won’t believe you'

Florida Senator Marco Rubio is staying mum on his personal use of marijuana.

The 2016 hopeful said during an interview for ABC News and Yahoo News' Politics Confidential that he won't say whether or not he's smoked the substance because he feels no good will come from answering the question.

'Here’s the problem with that question in American politics, if you say  you did, suddenly there are all these people saying "Well, it’s not a  big deal, look at all these successful people who did it." Rubio said. 'On the other side of it, if you tell people that you  didn’t, they won’t believe you.'

The Republican politician said part of the reason he doesn't want to talk about his potential past marijuana use is because he doesn't want to be a bad influence on America's youth.

In his book American Son, Rubio details his poor grades and bad behavior in school.

Rubio said in the interview released on Monday, that after the book came out, 'one day someone came up to me and said, "You know, I enjoyed your book, but I  want you to know, my son came up to me and said he doesn't have to get  good grades in high school, because look at Marco Rubio, he didn't do  well in high school and look how successful he's been," ' Rubio explained. 'And that impacted me.'

'I don’t want my kids to smoke marijuana, and I don’t want other  people’s kids to smoke marijuana,' he said said.

'I think there’s no  responsible way to recreationally use marijuana.'

Interviewer Jonathan Karl told Rubio he would believe him if he answered the question, but Rubio wouldn't budge.

'Look, I understand that it’s a question that people today need to ask,  but the bottom line is that I don’t think people should smoke  marijuana,' he said.

Rubio said the Obama administration was sending the nation the wrong message  about weed by letting states that have legalized it break federal law.

'When something is legal, implicitly you are saying, it can't be that bad, because if it's legal, it can't be that bad for you,' he said.

'And the bottom line is, I believe that adding yet another mind-altering  substance to something that's legal is not good for the country, Rubio said.

Two presumed 2016 presidential candidates have come out in favor of decriminalizing marijuana: Republican Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky and Texas Governor Rick Perry.

'After 40 years of the war on drugs, I can’t change what happened  in the past, ' Perry said earlier this year. 'What I can do as the governor of the second largest state  in the nation is to implement policies that start us toward a decriminalization and keeps people from going to prison and destroying  their lives, and that’s what we’ve done over the last decade.'

Only New Jersey Chris Christie has come out as strongly as Rubio against pot use.

'I don't favor legalization. I don't favor recreational use. I  don't favor decriminalization. And I don't favor the use of marijuana as  a medicine,' Christie said in March.

Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, Vice President Joe Biden and Senator Ted Cruz have more nuanced views on the subject.

Clinton is not for legalization and has questioned the medical benefits of marijuana.

Biden said in February cracking down on pot users is a 'waste of our resources.'

Cruz has called on the Obama administration to enforce federal marijuana laws and is not for legalization but is willing to have an 'intelligent conversation' about the country's drug policies.

Former Florida Governor Jeb Bush's opinion on weed is unknown.

If Rubio or any of the other likely 2016 presidential candidates did admit to smoking pot, it wouldn't be the first time in recent memory a future occupant of the Oval Office admitted to handling a zig-zag in his or her day.

Presidents George W. Bush, Bill Clinton and Barack Obama all smoked pot, though Clinton famously claimed he 'didn't inhale.'

In his 2012 biography of Obama, author David Maraniss claimed Obama was a member of a group that referred to itself as the Choom Gang in high school that rode around in a Volkswagen bus they called the Choomwagon.

Obama himself wrote about his pot smoking days in his memoir Dreams From My Father. He expressed regret for doing drugs during the 2008 campaign, however.

'It’s not something that I’m proud of. It was a mistake, ' Obama said.

Rubio appears to have taken a page out of George W. Bush's playbook.

Bush did not respond to questions about his pot use when he was running for higher office. His use of marijuana only became known after excerpts of conversations secretly recorded by his biographer Doug Wead were published in his book.

'Do you want your little kid to say, "Hey Daddy, President Bush tried  marijuana; I think I will," ' Bush told Wead. 'I wouldn't answer the marijuana  question. You know why? Because I don't want some little kid doing what I  tried.'

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
