
5/19/2014 - HURLBURT FIELD, Fla.  -- The 1st Special Operations Civil Engineer Squadron hosted an Arbor Day celebration in recognition of its continued Tree City USA status at the family campground on Hurlburt Field, Fla., April 23, 2014.

The national Tree City USA program provides the framework for community forestry management for cities and towns across the country, according to the National Arbor Foundation website.

For two decades, the National Arbor Foundation has recognized Hurlburt Field as a Tree City USA community.

The base continuously met or exceeded the four required standards, including the creation of ordinance providing clear guidance for planting and maintaining and removing trees from public places.

"Each year we like to dedicate a tree recognizing Hurlburt Field's commitment to protect, enhance and preserve our natural resources while educating the base community on the benefits of trees," said Kristal Walsh, 1st SOCES natural and cultural resources manager.

Col. Douglas Dudley, 1st Special Operations Mission Support Group commander, said Arbor Day has always been special for him.

"I grew up [near] Nebraska City, Neb., the location of the first Arbor Day celebration and home of the Arbor Foundation," he said. "Arbor Day was always a big event in the local schools while I was growing up. I remember celebrating the day by planting trees as part of our school's Arbor Day program."

After his speech, Dudley and boy scouts from Troop 509 planted a tulip poplar.

Walsh said the tulip poplar tree was chosen because the camping area was in great need of shade trees. The tree will also provide a source of pollen for the conservation of bees.

Dudley said he wants Hurlburt Airmen to join the fight to protect the environment.

"We support a very diverse and unique mission here," he said. "We also need to ensure we preserve our environment and act as good stewards because what we do has a lasting effect on our community and our ability to execute our mission."

Walsh said Arbor Day events can help strengthen any community.

"Tree plantings and other Arbor Day events bring environmental awareness to military families here at Hurlburt Field," she said. "They can offset the nature deficit issue with children and families today."
