
Jose Andres didn’t have to give the hard sell to the celebs who appeared in the video he showed during the commencement address he gave at George Washington University this weekend.

Andres, the chef and owner of a slew of restaurants from Washington to Las Vegas, began his speech to the graduating class of 2014 with a short film explaining how he wound up with the speaking gig.  In it, A-listers, including actors Gwyneth Paltrow, Owen Wilson, Morgan Freeman, Sam Waterston, Matt Dillon, Jesse Tyler Ferguson, Attorney General Eric Holder and “Today Show” co-host Al Roker all appear, taking phone calls in which they turn down the job, claiming to be too busy.

Andres befriended some of the celebs — like Paltrow, whose home he’s cooked in — through mutual foodie friends. Others he met through charitable work, like Dillon, who the chef met on an Amtrak train on the way to a Refugees International event , where Dillon was the emcee (guess they weren’t on the quiet car).

Emily Heil is the co-author of the Reliable Source and previously helped pen the In the Loop column with Al Kamen.

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
