
After a tumultuous year, Plainfield Park officials are looking to turn things around.

Park commissioners recently elected Mary Kay Ludemann as board president and Janet Silosky as vice president. Former board president, Peter Hurtado, remains on the park board as a commissioner.

The elections come one year after Silosky and commissioner Peter Steinys were seated on the board. The two joined forces with Hurtado to form a board majority that quickly came under fire for several decisions, including the hiring last year of Plainfield Village Trustee Garrett Peck as the district's executive director. Peck resigned from the park district in January.

Though meetings over the past year have been packed with residents, many of whom have called for Hurtado's resignation, a recent meeting drew little criticism as residents remained hopeful that troubles from the past year were coming to an end.

"The plan is to move forward," Ludemann said.

Silosky's "change of heart" has helped fuel changes on the park board, Ludemann said. Silosky pointed to recent questions over a contract involving Hurtado's daughter's boyfriend as the impetus for the new direction.

Along with hiring Peck, the board has come under fire for awarding a contract for computer work to a firm that has worked with Peck's company and approving policies residents said limited public comment.

Documents regarding some park district actions had been forwarded to the Will County state's attorney's office for review. Those in turn were forwarded to the Illinois State Police. No action has been taken regarding the documents.

In addition, state lawmakers have proposed legislation to expand the park board size from five commissioners to seven in response to citizen complaints about the board.

The legislation has been passed by members of the House and was expected to be voted on by members of the Senate later this week.

If approved it would allow state Rep. Tom Cross and state Sen. Jennifer Bertino-Tarrant, both of whom sponsored the bill, the authority to appoint one new park board member each and expand the park board to seven commissioners. The new appointees would then need to seek election to the park board in the next regularly scheduled election.

Though Silosky opposes what she calls "political appointments," she recently backed a resolution supporting the legislation in an effort to move the board forward, she said.

Silosky and Ludemann also both pointed to the board's recent hiring of Rich Grodsky as interim executive director as a move toward getting the park district back on track. Grodsky serves as a consultant working with various park districts and was formerly the executive director of the Elmhurst Park District. The district is conducting a national search for a new executive director and plans to have one hired later this summer.

"I'm looking forward to everything good," Silosky said when asked what she expects in the coming months.

Ludemann acknowledged Silosky's support has helped change things on the board.

"Her change of heart has helped move us in the right direction," Ludemann said.

Park board commissioners meet again on June 11.
