
Crime Stoppers of Lufkin wants your help locating Ja'Vonte Da'Leone Hunt.  As of May 19, 2014, Angelina County Community Supervision and Corrections Department holds a Revocation of Probation warrant for Hunt's arrest.

In June of 2013, on conviction for the offense of Possession of a Controlled Substance, Ja'Vonte Hunt was sentenced to four years of probation.  The conviction followed his October 2012 arrest in Lufkin for Evading Arrest and Possession of a Controlled Substance.  Officers responding to a burglar alarm saw Hunt walking in the area; when they attempted to speak with him, he fled on foot.  Hunt was captured and found him in possession of approximately one gram of an off-white, rock-like substance that field tested positive for the presence of cocaine.

Ja'Vonte Da'Leone Hunt is a 21-year-old, black male with black, short-cut hair and brown eyes.  He stands approximately 5'10" tall and weighs approximately 205 pounds.

The images of Ja'Vonte Hunt shown here was captured in April 04, 2014, following his arrest for Criminal Trespass.

The listed warrant information was correct and current when published but may no longer be current or correct when read.  Warrants and charges must be verified before arrest.  NEVER attempt to apprehend any suspect yourself; doing so may be dangerous and Crime Stoppers will not pay a reward to anyone involved in such action.

If you know the current location of Ja'Vonte Da'Leone Hunt, or if you can provide information that might lead to his capture, call Crime Stoppers of Lufkin at (936) 639-TIPS or click the "Solve this Crime" link below.  All calls and tips are anonymous and Crime Stoppers may pay a cash reward for information that leads to Hunt's arrest.

Diboll ISD students got to celebrate their first day back to school with a party. Everyone in the community was invited to attend the districts' first back-to-school bash.

One former Nacogdoches educator just can't get away from a school filled with personal memories.G.W.. Neal celebrated another “first day of school” even though he didn't plan it that way.

All content © Copyright 2000 - 2014 Worldnow and KTRE. All Rights Reserved.
