
Last Modified: Sunday, May 18, 2014 at 11:47 p.m.

WINTER HAVEN | Mildred Bennett Foster attended Bethune-Cookman College in Daytona Beach on a clarinet scholarship, performed in Carnegie Hall with her college choir and was offered a job in California right out of college -- but she came back to her native Winter Haven to nurture the community that nurtured her.

She helped thousands of little hands find their way across the black-and-white landscape of piano keys, and she guided thousands of young voices learning to sing, imparting a love of music to many along the way.

Sunday night, friends, family and many of those former students gathered at First Missionary Baptist Church of Winter Haven to celebrate Foster, who is 75. Several performed for her and shared memories of how she inspired them before a crowd of a few hundred.

Winter Haven City Manager Deric Feacher led the ceremony, and Mayor Nat Birdsong surprised Foster with a key to the city.

"This is the key to the city and the key to our hearts," Birdsong said. "You are very deserving."

Feacher said Foster put the conductor's baton in his hand to direct the chorus at Jewett and inspired him to continue playing and directing music.

"She has really been an excellent role model -- an icon -- in the community," Chenita Hilton said Friday morning. Hilton took Foster's music class when she was in elementary school and took private piano lessons from her.

"She has helped so many people," Hilton said.

Foster began teaching music at Jewett Primary School in 1961. She said she was the first black elementary music teacher in Winter Haven.

After desegregation began in Polk County in 1965, she started teaching at Jewett Elementary School.

She taught music for 32 years and, then, for 7  1/2 years was the resource coordinator for the school's Florida First Start program, which helps at-risk children and their families.

"I had a lot of confidence in children. I felt that they could really appreciate music," Foster said Friday. "It was gratifying."

She retired in 2000. In 2001, Jewett School of the Arts named a building after her: The Mildred Foster Performing Arts School.

Throughout the years, she touched so many lives that everyone has a different story about her and the things she has done, Hilton said.

Hilton and  Olivia Smarte, another of Foster's former students, worked together to coordinate the event for a teacher who made the most of her time and resources.

Foster gave voice and piano lessons to students outside of school. At school, she worked with what she could get. At first that meant tapping on drinking glasses with different levels of water in them to teach music notes.

Eventually, she was able to teach children with keyboards, bells, harps and flutophones.

Hilton said she remembers Foster as a strict but effective and encouraging teacher.

Foster said she loved  working with children -- and she could relate to them.  She once was a child who slacked off on practicing the piano and tried to fake her way through songs so her mother wouldn't find out, she said.

With the help of her music teacher, Idella Robinson, Foster ended up falling in love with music.

These days, Foster spends her time caring for her mother, Laura Miller; her grandson, Edric Bennett Jr.; her husband, Oscar; and, of course, herself.

She doesn't perform, but she loves to sing along with the church choir.

That keeps her plenty busy. And the people around her help keep her heart full.

Friday morning, she was teary in anticipation of Sunday.

Reader comments posted to this article may be published in our print edition. All rights reserved. This copyrighted material may not be re-published without permission. Links are encouraged.
