
Coloradans who want to switch political parties in order to cast ballots in next month's Democratic, Republican or American Constitution Party primary elections  must change their current political party affiliations on voter registration records by Friday.

For example: Any voters  currently registered as Democrats or Libertarians, or who now are listed as American Constitution or Green party members, must change that registration to  Republican  in order participate in picking which of four GOP gubernatorial candidates will advance to this fall's general election ballot.

In Boulder County, voters now officially listed  as Republicans, Libertarians, or Green or American Constitution party members must switch their official affiliations and declare themselves to be Democrats in order to help settle Democratic primary election rivalries for the offices of Boulder County coroner and Boulder County surveyor.

In Weld County, Republican voters will be choosing between two GOP candidates for the post of county sheriff, two Republicans running for an at-large county commissioner's seat and two Republicans vying to be Weld's next county clerk. Currently registered Weld Democrats, Libertarians, and American Constitution  and Green party voters will have to switch their registrations to Republican in order to help decide which of those  GOP contenders will win the primaries.

Friday's deadline for switching party registrations in order to participate in the June primary for the Republican, Democratic or American Constitution Party doesn't apply to voters who currently are on the rolls as being unaffiliated with any political party.

Unaffiliated voters can declare the pertinent affiliation up to and on Primary Election Day, June 24, in order to get and cast ballots in the  Democratic, Republican or American Constitution primary.

County clerks will begin sending primary election mail ballots to registered American Constitution Party, Democratic Party and Republican Party voters on June 2. Completed ballots will have to have been received by the voter's county clerk by 7 p.m. June 24 in order to be counted.

Boulder County residents can visit bouldercountyvotes.org to register to vote, to check and update their current voter registration information, and to view the content of this year's primary election ballots.

Boulder County residents also can call their county clerk and recorder's office at 303-413-7740 or can visit one of the clerk's three office locations between 8 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. Mondays through Fridays: the main office at 1750 33rd St., Boulder, the Longmont branch at 529 Coffman St., or the Lafayette branch at 1376 Miners Drive.

Contact Times-Call staff writer John Fryar at 303-684-5211 or jfryar@times-call.com .
