
Tulsa County commissioners this morning voted 2-1 to approve a $2,167 a year pay increase for the county's eight elected officials.

After learning the status of Joe Mixon and Dorial Green-Beckham last week, now it seems we know about Frank Shannon.

'Modern Family' ties 'Frasier' as sitcom champ, Bryan Cranston earns Emmy for outstanding lead actor in a drama series for his work in 'Breaking Bad'

Charles Warner: Oklahoma has pushed back his execution to Nov. 13.

Posted: Tuesday, May 20, 2014 2:30 am | Updated: 7:26 pm, Wed May 21, 2014.

Executions in Oklahoma and Missouri, including one scheduled for Wednesday, will violate international law and should be halted until an international body can investigate, the ACLU said in a petition Monday.

The American Civil Liberties Union filed a petition Monday with the Organization of American States’ Inter-American Commission on Human Rights seeking to halt the execution of Russell Bucklew, set for Wednesday in Missouri, and Charles Warner, set for Nov. 13 in Oklahoma.

“The upcoming executions by lethal injection in Missouri and Oklahoma will most certainly violate international law against torture, cruel, inhuman, or degrading treatment, should they go forward,” the ACLU states in a release.

Bucklew’s execution would be the first in the United States since the botched execution of Clayton Lockett in Oklahoma on April 29.

Bucklew’s attorneys claim that he will suffer during the execution due to a rare medical condition, cavernous hemangioma. The disorder causes tumors that have severely compromised Bucklew’s airways, placing him at risk of extreme pain during the execution, his attorneys have said in court filings.

Bucklew was convicted in the 1996 shooting death of Michael Sanders, who was living with Bucklew’s ex-girlfriend at the time.

Jamil Dakwar, director of the ACLU’s Human Rights Program, said in the group’s news release: “Lethal injection in the United States has reached such a level of barbarism that the world needs to know the facts.

The U.S. Supreme Court has upheld lethal injection in the United States, provided that carrying it out does not constitute cruel and unusual punishment, which is banned by the Eighth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution.

Federal courts have held that inmates are not entitled to a pain-free death but that states can cause only the amount of pain necessary to carry out the punishment.

After a doctor had declared Lockett unconscious, witnesses watched the inmate writhe in pain and mumble for three minutes on a gurney before a window covering between the death chamber and the witness room was closed.

Prison officials later said a problem with Lockett’s vein prevented them from carrying out the execution as planned.

The DOC has refused to say whether any lifesaving measures were taken after the execution was ordered halted, but Lockett died 43 minutes after it began.

DOC records show that an unknown quantity of the lethal drugs was absorbed into Lockett’s tissue, leaked out of his body, or both.

Lockett was executed for the 1999 death of Stephanie Neiman, 19, of Perry. He was convicted of abducting her, shooting her twice and ordering an accomplice to bury her in a shallow grave while she was still alive.

Warner was convicted in the 1997 rape and murder of 11-month-old Adrianna Waller, his roommate’s baby, in Oklahoma City. He was scheduled to be executed two hours after Lockett on April 29, but his execution was stayed six months while the state investigates and revises its protocol.

For Lockett’s execution, the DOC used a new drug — a sedative called midazolam — followed by two drugs used in past executions. The DOC’s protocol called for the inmate to receive 100 miligrams of midazolam, five times less than the amount used in Florida executions.

The Tulsa World has reported that state officials consulted no experts in devising the new protocol, relying on legal research instead. Attorney General Scott Pruitt’s office has said it advised the DOC on the protocol and that prison officials were responsible for final decisions on the methods.

Pruitt and Gov. Mary Fallin did not comment Monday on the ACLU’s lawsuit.

It is unclear what, if any, authority the international human rights body would have to investigate or halt executions in Missouri and Oklahoma.

Lockett’s botched execution was condemned by the United Nations commissioner for human rights. In addition, President Barack Obama said the execution was “deeply troubling” and ordered a national review of capital punishment.

“Even in the face of a global outcry over the Lockett execution, Oklahoma has refused to order an independent investigation into the failed experimental protocol,” the ACLU petition states.

Fallin has assigned her public safety commissioner, Michael Thompson, to lead the state’s investigation. Critics have said the investigation lacks independence because Thompson was appointed by Fallin, was a witness to the execution and oversees the DOC in his Cabinet capacity.

“The Inter-American Commission has a mandate to promote respect for human rights in the region and acts as a consultative body to the OAS in this matter. The Commission is composed of seven independent members who are elected in an individual capacity by the OAS General Assembly and who do not represent their countries of origin or residence,” the website states.

Cassandra Stubbs, director of the ACLU capital punishment project, said the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights can hold a hearing to investigate executions in Oklahoma and Missouri. The commission can also ask the U.S. government to seek action by the two states, she said.

In a May 6 press release, the organization urged that all states using lethal injection for executions fully disclose the drugs’ source and information about the composition and training of the execution team.

Oklahoma and Missouri have state laws banning the release of information related to executions, including drug suppliers and the names of physicians, pharmacists and others on the execution team.

Oklahoma is one of 32 states where the death penalty remains legal. The state ranked No. 1 nationally in a 2011 study of the number of executions per capita by state.

Resolutions seeking a moratorium on executions in Oklahoma have not received a hearing in the state Legislature.

1 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language.

2 Don't Threaten or Abuse. Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated. AND PLEASE TURN OFF CAPS LOCK.

3 Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.

4 Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.

5 Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.

6 Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness accounts, the history behind an article.

Welcome to the discussion.

PieCat Lady posted at 2:14 pm on Fri, May 23, 2014.

I am glad the ACLU has petitioned the Commission on Human Rights to investigate US executions.  Our country addresses human rights violations in other countries -  for example, withholding foreign aid to apply pressure for change.  Why does our "civilized" country fail to see that the death penalty is barbaric?  No form of execution, even "properly" administered, is humane.  Every execution is wrong.  If you agree, or would like to see multiple reasons to oppose the death penalty, check out ncadp.org - the National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty.

PieCat Lady posted at 2:02 pm on Fri, May 23, 2014.

Shonda Waller, the child's mother, opposes the death penalty for Charles Warner, the offender who committed this atrocity.  Her request should be honored. Obviously she realizes that two wrongs don't make a right, and killing the man will not bring back her baby or give her closure.  When will our country abolish this barbaric form of vengeance?  No matter how "humane" the procedure, killing is wrong and evil, whether it is done by an individual or by the State in the name of the People.

Mert Rozman posted at 6:31 pm on Tue, May 20, 2014.

George Jones posted at 6:19 pm on Tue, May 20, 2014.

3) Correcting such sweeping inaccuracies as 2/3rds are communist and the rest Islamic apart from the US which is the only non communist non Islamic country in the whole world is a complete waste of time.

Ok then three things I've learned.

By the way Jean, I'm surprised to learn that I grew up in Communist or Islamic Britain with a staunchly conservative (female) Prime Minister running the country and a non-elected (female) Monarch as head of state and the Church of England. How much more Communist/Islamic can you get I ask myself.

JD Cavin posted at 5:39 pm on Tue, May 20, 2014.

I find your lack of facts disturbing. More than 2/3's of the UN nations are Communist? There are 4 full communist nations. China, Cuba, Vietnam, and Laos. Many people consider North Korea communist, but it is socialist and has disavowed communism. (Since, after all, Communist and Socialist are DIFFERENT ideology). In Nepal, the Communist party is currently the elected party, but there are other parties allowed, so it isn't a Communist nation. Then, there are 10 nations where the Communist party is part of a coalition government, made up of several different parties. Those are Bangladesh, Belarus, Brazil, Mali, Peru, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Syria, Uruguay, and Venezuela. Counting all of those, that is 16. 16 out of 193 is NOT even close to 2/3's, much less "More than 2/3's" as you claimed. And the rest of the world is Islamic? I'm pretty sure the rest of South America that isn't "communist", and most of Europe would dispute that.

rob morrison posted at 3:38 pm on Tue, May 20, 2014.

Charles Craighead posted at 2:39 pm on Tue, May 20, 2014.

Mert, what I'm saying is people are making a big deal out of nothing. we don't need to be humane or "civilized" when killing criminals, God wouldn't consider being humane as Jean would have everyone believe.

Tim Pedersen posted at 2:14 pm on Tue, May 20, 2014.

We do disagree on capital punishment, Mert - I'm in favor of it.

Mert Rozman posted at 1:58 pm on Tue, May 20, 2014.

The ACLU's sole effort is to require the GOVERNMENT to follow the law and the Constitution.  Even when government finds that inconvenient, and citizens find it unpopular.

Especially then.

Mert Rozman posted at 1:55 pm on Tue, May 20, 2014.

I'm against capital punishment.

Mert Rozman posted at 1:54 pm on Tue, May 20, 2014.

Different crimes.

Same result.

Mert Rozman posted at 1:53 pm on Tue, May 20, 2014.

Mert Rozman posted at 1:53 pm on Tue, May 20, 2014.

rob morrison posted at 1:32 pm on Tue, May 20, 2014.

Jean Taylor posted at 12:36 pm on Tue, May 20, 2014.

Jean Taylor posted at 12:35 pm on Tue, May 20, 2014.

International law has not authority, nor business interfering with, a U.S. state carrying out executions for heinous crimes.  The ACLU is way out of line for involving the global community on a matter that applies to U.S. states, and U.S. citizens.  We are a sovereign nation.  But once you allow foreign entities a say in what we do within our borders, we will cease to be sovereign, and will become instead part of a one world government.  Think about this:  More than 2/3's of the UN member countries are Communist, aka: Socialist.  The rest, excluding the USA, are Islamic.  Do you really want that political ideology running the USA's personal biz?  Not me.  The less UN and/or international/global anything, the better.

James Polk posted at 12:21 pm on Tue, May 20, 2014.

So ... let me get this right.

Ed Wheeler posted at 12:18 pm on Tue, May 20, 2014.

Many years ago State Representative Bill Wiseman (D-Tulsa) convinced the Democrat-dominated legislature and Democrat Governor that executions should be conducted with lethal drugs.  Wiseman was the son of a respected minister in Tulsa and it can be presumed he had no experience with life in the streets.  Had he possessed that wisdom, he would have realized that druggies have compromised and weaked vascular systems. Weakened veins will often collapse and needles can often penetrate through weak veins and the chemicals are then dumped into soft flesh.  As a result, such procedures too often result in disastrous consequences resulting in emotional arguments and demonstrations. Lawyers drag out appeals to the point of ludicrosity and now they want executions to be videotaped in hopes of turning off  the weak stomached public from the idea entirely.  The solution is to design a mechanism connected to a clock.  Strap the condemned into a chair, announce the time and set the clock which upon reaching the time will automatically fire three rifles that had previously been registered on lthe heart of the condemned. No fuss, noi muss and no  writhing or groaning or whining. We have plenty of ammunition and rifles, so the supply will never be in question; and the end result will be  quick and certain.  Of course it is moot because too many juries don't have the spine to order a death penalty for some animal who has slaughtered another human being or more than one, and too many DA's who don't prosecute death penalty cases because they are afraid the jury won't find a guilty verdict.  Without a death penalty though, what protection is there for prison guards and staff.  Without one, inmates have nothing to lose by  killing prison staff. Death penalties work. The convicted do not kill again.

George Jones posted at 12:17 pm on Tue, May 20, 2014.

Um, no - that would be the recent BENHGHAAAAAAAZZZZZIIIIIII special waste of time committee announcement press release. Can't top that one.

George Jones posted at 12:16 pm on Tue, May 20, 2014.

You don't get to pick and chose, its all or nothing.

But you actually correct in one statement - no; we(I) don't care two hoots about Clayton Locket as a person but I do care that we do things properly according to the law.

George Jones posted at 12:06 pm on Tue, May 20, 2014.

Tim Pedersen posted at 12:00 pm on Tue, May 20, 2014.

I don't agree with your stance on capital punishment, Mert, but I do agree that it's the people that are prosecuting.  In that light, it should also be the people that set the punishment - not the families.

Jonathan Schwarz posted at 11:47 am on Tue, May 20, 2014.

I thought it was a jury of 12 people who decided the punishment.

Mert Rozman posted at 11:01 am on Tue, May 20, 2014.

"...in American jurisprudence the victims of violent crimes really don't matter."

Excellent, Royce!  That's almost a true statement!  You're improving!

Of course we all know that prosecutors usually work closely with crime victims and their families - especially in the cases of horrible violent crimes.

But there is a reason why criminal cases are styled as "The People vs. Jack Ripper" - rather than as "The Family of Jane Doe vs. Jack Ripper." It is WE THE PEOPLE who are prosecuting - NOT the family.

And that is as it should be.  Crime against one of us is a crime against all of us.  Grieving families aren't always able to make sound judgments that they won't regret later.

Mert Rozman posted at 10:55 am on Tue, May 20, 2014.

It doesn't hurt to remind people of what they already know.

Mert Rozman posted at 10:54 am on Tue, May 20, 2014.

"Botched" is the wrong term anyway.

It should be "badly botched." But that takes up a lot of headline space.

Mert Rozman posted at 10:53 am on Tue, May 20, 2014.

And the only problem at Ford's Theater for Mr. Lincoln was that troublesome bullet.

Mert Rozman posted at 10:51 am on Tue, May 20, 2014.

I doubt that this petition will have any legal effect.

But Bloody Mary has to be uncomfortable having her administration's botchery shown in a bright spotlight on an INTERNATIONAL stage.

Oklahoma's status as the laughing stock of America is bad enough.  Now the entire civilized world will be laughing at us - or turning away from us in horror.

Mert Rozman posted at 10:48 am on Tue, May 20, 2014.

At least Bloody Mary hasn't tried to blame Obama for this debacle.

Mert Rozman posted at 10:47 am on Tue, May 20, 2014.

Rob, the ACLU defends your right to make idiotic comments.

Mert Rozman posted at 10:45 am on Tue, May 20, 2014.

It sounds more like Peggy thinks that state killing is compassionate.

Mert Rozman posted at 10:44 am on Tue, May 20, 2014.

Nothing at all.

Charles Craighead posted at 10:40 am on Tue, May 20, 2014.

When God decides punishment is necessary he shows no mercy.

G M posted at 10:27 am on Tue, May 20, 2014.

Ending the controversy is easy. Just go back to the electric chair or firing squad. Both were deemed humane enough in the past. Both are still on the books if lethal injection is not available.

Rick Neal posted at 10:21 am on Tue, May 20, 2014.

How about telling the cold blooded murderers that, the same ones who would have done the same thing to you if you were in the wrong place at the wrong time.

Gordon Mills posted at 10:20 am on Tue, May 20, 2014.

PP, good idea. We can start by eliminating the military and CIA and swell the ranks of the unemployed for you to support.

Gordon Mills posted at 10:18 am on Tue, May 20, 2014.

PP, it sounds like you believe in torture and vengeance.

Peggy Pianalto posted at 9:33 am on Tue, May 20, 2014.

By killing someone, we're ending their misery. Life in prison is a miserable way to live and to know there's no chance of ever leaving is a daily punishment. I prefer that.

George Jones posted at 9:28 am on Tue, May 20, 2014.

George Jones posted at 9:28 am on Tue, May 20, 2014.

I think that should be the decision of the victims family, they may not want to keep seeing their lost relative's picture in the paper along side a picture of the person who killed them.

I thought your main concern was for the victims? It doesn't seem that way, you seem more concerned about your own feelings then theirs.

If you want to see pictures of the victims then I suggest google will help you locate them quite quickly.

Peggy Pianalto posted at 9:27 am on Tue, May 20, 2014.

Jean Mcmahon posted at 9:27 am on Tue, May 20, 2014.

George Jones posted at 9:25 am on Tue, May 20, 2014.

Oh I forgot, republicans don't believe in taking responsibility, they will always try and blame somebody else first.

Rick Neal posted at 9:19 am on Tue, May 20, 2014.

"Jamil Dakwar, director of the ACLU’s Human Rights Program, said in the group’s news release: “Lethal injection in the United States has reached such a level of barbarism that the world needs to know the facts."

Well alright then, let's just start choppin' off heads with swords as they do in other country's, or how about just a good ol' fashion hanging, or I don't think firing squads are out of order.  Let them take their pick.

James Polk posted at 8:51 am on Tue, May 20, 2014.

James Polk posted at 8:50 am on Tue, May 20, 2014.

BR Bush posted at 8:34 am on Tue, May 20, 2014.

I agree with the comment below.  Why not show the photos of the victims?  An 11-month old baby?  Raped?  Then murdered!  Where's the outcry for the unbelievable horror this defenseless child went through.  How about we just let this guy go back to the general population.  Or how about the brave young lady that fought and was BURIED ALIVE!  Where's her photo.  Every time the TW throws up any criminals photo to try and solicit sympathy for them, they need to put there victims photo up next to them.

Bud Wright posted at 8:08 am on Tue, May 20, 2014.

Royce Currieo posted at 7:56 am on Tue, May 20, 2014.

Russell Bucklew's sleaze bag lawyer claims that his client will suffer "physical pain" if he is executged by an injection of lethal drugs.    it's worthwhile mentioning that the ACLU declined to state whether or not Bucklew's victim experienced any pain, but then in American jurisprudence the victims of violent crimes really don't matter.

Why can't Democrats be honest and admit that all this hoopla over Clayton Lockett's execution is nothing more than a rather weak excuse to bash governor Fallin and other Republican officials in our state government.

These yo-yos don't care any more about Clayton Lockett than I do.

Ron Denton posted at 7:52 am on Tue, May 20, 2014.

It's amazing. Someone would probably lose their job over this omission, but there's not many left.

Ron Denton posted at 7:50 am on Tue, May 20, 2014.

The ACLU has decided to compete with for who can come up with the goofiest "press release" or lawsuit. It was just a matter of time.

John Elwell posted at 7:40 am on Tue, May 20, 2014.

The world already knows the facts. They have been publish everyday since Lockett execution. Those states and countries against capital punishment we remain against it. States favoring capital punishment will continue putting animals down.

rob morrison posted at 7:02 am on Tue, May 20, 2014.

Milo Dean posted at 6:24 am on Tue, May 20, 2014.

Botch one and now you've ruined the death penalty for everyone.  Heckuva job Gov. Mary!

Larry Downing posted at 4:52 am on Tue, May 20, 2014.

John Sakelaris posted at 10:07 pm on Mon, May 19, 2014.

Must the courts in Oklahoma give any legal standing to the "Organization of American States’ Inter-American Commission on Human Rights?" The OAS has been trying to get the US to agree to ban the death penalty.    Such an approach conflicts with the prerogative of the individual US states to have or to not have a death penalty.

Someone in Oklahoma who wants to live a life of violent and, quite likely, deadly crimes would be well-advised to first move to Illinois or Iowa, as they are the closest states with no death penalty.

Lonnie Lamb posted at 9:20 pm on Mon, May 19, 2014.

The only problem in Oklahoma was not getting a good vein.  I hope the Missouri executions goes as scheduled.  Why keep showing the pictures of these convicted killers?  If you need a picture, show their victims.

dave_s-142 posted at 8:23 pm on Mon, May 19, 2014.

Wonder how long the attorney had, to come up with a disease that would affect the execution of the murderer in Missouri?  How does he know if it will affect his client or not?  Execution is scheduled...Get on with it.

Gordon Mills posted at 7:06 pm on Mon, May 19, 2014.

Report a correction to editors when you see inaccurate content at tulsaworld.com/corrections .

We're always interested in hearing about news in our community. Let us know what's going on!
