
Senate candidate Matt Bevin said the outcome of Tuesday's primary election will hinge on who is motivated enough to get out and vote.

Bevin faces Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell and several other candidates on the ballot for the Republican primary Tuesday. He spoke at the Bowling Green-Warren County Regional Airport on Monday morning.

He encouraged voters to speak to people at work and church about the election in the hours remaining before polls open at 6 a.m. Tuesday.

Bevin said the country isn't on a good path financially and that it needs to rein in spending.

He said he wanted to run for Senate not only to be a conservative voice in the Senate, but also to fight against apathy he sees in many voters.

"This is a battle for the heart and soul of the entire political process," Bevin said. "It's about who's in charge."

He said people shouldn't be afraid of the unknown when considering who to vote for in the primary election.

"If we know we're going to a bad place, we've gotta take risks," Bevin said.

Asked about Sen. Rand Paul, R-Bowling Green, he said that, though Paul has endorsed McConnell, "the enthusiasm with which he says that in recent days and weeks and months speaks for itself," he said.

Bing Hilton of Glasgow said he likes that Bevin takes the opportunity to talk to speak with and understand people while he campaigns and that he’s traveled around the state to talk to people.

"He's out there for the people," he said.

Hilton said Bevin understands as a businessman that changes need to be made in the country.

Christopher Thomas of Hardyville said he likes that Bevin is a veteran and believes he will fight against corruption in the U.S. Department of Veteran Affairs.

"He's very vocal about getting help for us and not turning a blind eye," he said.

Thomas is a combat-wounded Army veteran who served three tours in Iraq and said he believes Bevin won't be swayed in his support for veterans and for Christian values.

 – Follow government beat writer Katie Brandenburg at twitter.com/BGDNgovtbeat or visit bgdailynews.com .

1 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language.

2 Don't Threaten or Abuse. Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated. AND PLEASE TURN OFF CAPS LOCK.

3 Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.

4 Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.

5 Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.

6 Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness accounts, the history behind an article.

Welcome to the discussion.
