
Dangers Of Prescribing ADHD Meds To Toddlers: 'We're Living In The U.S. Of Adderall'

The Center for Disease Control just added a new layer to debates over administering drugs to young children with ADHD symptoms. The organization released an inflammatory report, covered by The New York Times on Friday, stating that 10,000 toddlers in the United States are medicated for attention disorders, outside the pediatric guidelines.

Dr. Nancy Rappaport, Dr. Lawrence Diller, and New York Times reporter Alan Schwarz joined HuffPost Live to address concerns the report has raised, including the idea that kids as young as 2 and 3 years old might be misdiagnosed.

"It's outside the American Academy of Pediatric guidelines to diagnose a child, let alone medicate them below the age of four," said Schwarz. "Even the ones that are extraordinarily hyperactive, you don't know whether that's ADHD, a problem in the home, sleep."

Rappaport agrees. "You could look hyperactive, [and] it could be because you have trauma going on at home," she told host Ricky Camilleri. "Difficulty concentrating, being hyperactive doesn't necessarily mean you have attention deficit disorder."

Among the children studied in the report, most of them received government assistance from medicaid, which contributed to the guests' common denominator: symptoms possibly stemming from family struggle, not brain disorder. When asked if he thought toddlers should be diagnosed so young, pediatrician Dr. Lawrence Diller examined the bigger picture.

"If you address the family and social issues ... poverty, substance abuse, violence, racism that is being manifested and called neurological disease," said Diller. "I don't think so."

Watch the full HuffPost Live segment here .

The first national survey that asked parents about ADHD was conducted in 1999.  According to the CDC, since then, there has been an increase in parent-reported ADHD diagnoses.

There was a 16% increase since 2007 alone, a New York Times analysis pointed out.

According to CDC research, genetics does play a large part. Scientists are also currently studying factors like brain injury, environmental exposure, premature delivery, low birth weight and substance abuse during pregnancy to find out if there is a link.

The last recorded data from 2007 showed that 66.3% of children ages 4-17 diagnosed with ADHD take medication as treatment.

Learning disabilities, anxiety and depression can all present with similar symptoms to ADHD.  A diagnosis can only be made after an extensive exam.

According to the Child Mind Institute, scans show an average difference of 3% in volume of the brain areas having to do with with attention span and impulse control between brains that do and don’t have ADHD.

Boys are more likely than girls to receive the ADHD diagnosis. 10% of 14-17 year old girls in the CDC report had been diagnosed with the disorder, compared to 20% of boys in that age group.

According to The Child Mind Institute, there is no research that proves a connection between the two.

They are called Predominantly Inattentive Type, Predominantly Hyperactive-Impulsive Type and Combined Type.

Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day..

Use this form to alert a HuffPost editor about a factual or typographical error in this story.

Thank you!
