
Human Resources is often thought of as the department of a large company that handles benefits, payroll and employee relations.

Jason Hanold and Neela Seenandan agree that HR is responsible for those things, but say that’s just the beginning.

The couple, who live in Kenilworth with their four children, started the company four years ago, and because of its growing success, just completed a large expansion of their Sherman Avenue offices.

Hanold, who holds a master’s degree in communications from Northwestern University spent 22 years as a recruiter, first for corporations that included Whirlpool and McKinsey & Company, where he met Seenandan, followed by the executive search firm, Russell Reynolds Associates.

Seenandan, who is originally from England, and a graduate of the University of Newcastle had a 16-year career in human resources, working at the executive level of companies that included Nielson, Aon Corporation, and McKinsey.

“She has sat in senior level HR roles and has actually done the jobs we’re hiring for,” Hanold said.

Hanold Associates, which the two described as a retained executive search firm that specializes in director level positions and above, works with clients all over the world, such as Nike, eBay, Amazon, and Kellogg’s, and in Chicago, Northwestern Memorial Hospital, Sears, Allstate and Abbott Laboratories.

Sabrina Matthews is the director of learning and organizational development for a Chicago based financial firm, a position she obtained last fall, thanks to a call she got from Hanold Associates.

Matthews described the process as very smooth, and said before she knew it, she had a new position.

Hanold Associates employs 12 executive recruiters, all who according to Seenandan are passionate not only for recruiting, but for HR.

“The role of an HR executive can be so positive and influential, and can create an environment people want to not only work in, but where they are motivated, and want to give you 150 percent,” she said.

May 20, 2014 11:17 a.m.
