
Share This Story!

Seven people died in wrong-way collisions this past week, including a Mesa police officer.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Houston creates safety net that sends wide alert on freeways - and warns wrong-way driver.

A video image of the scene of Sunday's deadly wrong-way crash on the Loop 202 in Gilbert.

There is no immediate engineering-based strategy that ADOT can implement, spokesman Tim Tait said. He adds, however, that ADOT has committed to studying freeway configurations and research into strategies to detect and intercept wrong-way drivers.

Currently the system to communicate information to law enforcement and other motorists runs "very quickly," Tait said, but that is only when there is good information and technology.

When ADOT officals see a wrong-way driver on camera, Tait says they immediately activate overhead message boards in the area to warn motorists of oncoming traffic and work with DPS to coordinate the location of the wrong-way vehicle. While DPS deploys ground units and a helicopter for aerial assistance, ADOT follows the vehicle on the camera and the two remain in constant communication.

But outside the Phoenix metro area, ADOT is blind to what is happening on the freeways.

"It doesn't help that there is a lack of technology out of the metropolitan areas in detecting as well as overhead message boards," Tait said.

According to data provided by ADOT, 12 people were killed in wrong-way crashes from 2009 to 2011. In the past week, seven people were killed in three separate wrong-way cases.

In response to those seven fatalities, ADOT met with the Arizona Department of Public Safety and the Arizona Governor's Office of Highway Safety on Sunday afternoon in an emergency meeting. The three entities reviewed the three recent collisions and discussed strategies for reducing these types of crashes in the future.

In Friday's collision on the Interstate 17 about 40 miles north of the Valley, a man in his 60s drove the wrong way undeterred for 25 miles. As five patrol cars and a helicopter scrambled to find the vehicle, he crashed into a van carrying six relatives from an extended family. The driver killed Evan Christian Hendriadi, 50, Jenny Sudjono, 70, and Lioe Kim Tjhiuw, 78. Three others, including a 9-year-old boy, were left  with serious injuries.

"We are accessing our current methods to see what can be improved in these areas for situations such as this," Tait said. "We look for feasible innovative solutions."

But DPS Spokesman Bart Graves said that driver is in control of the events during the entire situation.

"Whether it is 30 miles or five miles, miles go by very quickly when it comes to freeway speeds," Graves said. "It is the time element that is really against us."

In most wrong-way driving cases, the driver realizes the error quickly and disappears before patrol officers arrive, Graves said. It is "highly unsual" for there to be three fatal wrong-way crashes within a week, he adds.

Graves said that motorists' assistance is a key for the department. Motorists should quickly call 911 when a wrong-way or impaired driver is observed and provide dispatchers with good information on the vehicle, location and direction of travel to assist officers with a quick intercept, he said.

Wrong-way drivers tend to steer to the far right, so overhead message boards that are activated by ADOT say "Oncoming traffic, merge right."

Graves recommends getting off the freeway entirely as quickly as possible.

In 2009, ADOT focused on combating the problem of drivers crossing the center line into oncoming. Over the decades, the agency has added more divided highways, installed more cable and concrete media barriers and cut rumble strips between opposing traffic.

ADOT installed raised pavement markings on off-ramps at seven Valley intersections. The markings - dubbed as "cat's eyes," are dark in in the proper direction of traffic. However, if see coming from the opposite direction, drivers see a red reflection.

But the reflection, have a limited effect on drunk drivers.

Three-quarters of all wrong-way crashes are caused by drunken drivers, and half peak around 2 a.m., according to the National Highway Traffic Safety Admiration.

In last Monday's crash that killed off-duty Mesa police Officer Brandon Mendoza and the wrong-way driver, DPS officials determined that the driver had a blood-alcohol content that was three times the legal limit.

The agency is still investigating whether impairment played a role in the I-17 crash as well as Sunday's Gilbert crash on the Santan Freeway that claimed the lives of Mesa residents Michael Ruquet, 25, and his passenger Ashley Adea, 20.

Both drivers in the two incidents are still in the hospital with serious injuries.

Graves said that the main focus of DPS is to get impaired drivers off the road. DPS officials will tackle this issue with rigor and partner with the Governor's Office, he said.

As for ADOT officials, they are looking to successful pilot programs in other states to adapt to Arizona highways, Tait said.

A censoring system is something that is being considered. In states such as California, sensors are installed at the bottom of the exit ramps and throughout the length of the freeway to detect vehicles traveling in wrong direction.

"We are looking at what other states are doing and how that can be applied to the entire Phoenix metro area," Tait said. However, sometimes ides that sounds good don't always turn out so well in actual practice. Tait said there is a concern in the availability and the reliability of the technology. Some of the sensors can give false positives, he said.

ADOT has federal research funds to study these issues, Tait said.

"The mission is to protect the lives of the people traveling on state highway by committing to research to make improvements as soon as possible."

Three fatal head-on collisions caused by wrong-way drivers in the last week caused state law-enforcement and transportation officials to hold an emergency meeting Sunday on how to deal with the problem.

There have been several wrong-way crashes in Arizona in 2014 and three in May alone. Here's a look at the accidents that are prompting officials to discuss ways to stop wrong-way drivers on Valley freeways.

John F. Maxwell, 34, drove his Jeep in the wrong direction on the freeway and crashed into a produce truck, according to the Arizona Department of Public Safety.

A woman driving the wrong way on eastbound I-10 near Warner Road crashed into a semitruck and another car. The driver and a passenger in the other vehicle were taken to the hospital with non-life threatening injuries, officials said.

Raul Silva Corona, 42, crashed into off-duty Mesa police Officer Brandon Mendoza's Volkswagen Passat on the HOV ramp. Both drivers died.

Three members of the same family -- Evan Christian Hendriadi, 50; Jenny Sudjono, 70; and Lioe Kim Tjhiuw, 78  -- were killed in a crash with a Chrysler 300 that was traveling north in the southbound lane, about 40 miles north of the Valley. Officials said the wrong-way driver is a Phoenix man in his 60s.

Mesa residents Michael Ruquet, 25, and his passenger Ashley Adea, 20, were killed in a Gilbert collision with a wrong-way driver who drove west in the eastbound lanes. Officials identified the wrong-way driver as Patricia Murphy, 68.

The two-vehicle accident on the northbound Arizona  143 resulted in serious injuries for both the suspected wrong-way driver and one person in the other vehicle, DPS officials said.

Erin May Corona, 33, was arrested on suspicion of aggravated assault after DPS investigators said she drove the wrong way for at least 5 miles on the Red Mountain Freeway portion of Loop 202 on July 25, 2014, authroties said.

A crash involving a wrong-way driver closed Interstate 17 southbound at Thomas Road in Phoenix on July 30. Four people were injured.
