
Share This Story!

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Dead alewives wash up along the shores of Burlington. Although impressive in scale, the die off is not unexpected, according to Vermont Department of Fish and Wildlife experts who say that the marine species is easily weakened by Lake Champlain's icy waters.

When thousands of alewife — a non-native invasive species — turn belly-up in April and May, wildlife experts say.

This spring's mass mortality has been in full swing for about three weeks, most notably in the Inland Sea portion of the lake between Milton and Keeler Bay in South Hero, said Brian Chipman, a fisheries biologist with the Vermont Fish and Wildlife Department.

Thousands of dead alewives wash up along the shores of Burlington.

"It's pretty much to be expected," he said Monday.

Expiring en masse is an alewife rite of spring probably linked to abrupt changes in water temperature, Chipman added.

The first major die-off took place in 2008, followed by another in 2011.

The alewife remains a dominant species in the lake because of its feeding and reproductive prowess, Chipman said.

Its proliferation comes at the expense of native species.

Yet alewife, a type of herring, is happiest and truly at home off the more thermally stable Mid-Atlantic coast.

The species proliferated in the Great Lakes  in the second half of the 20th century, and was first discovered in Vermont in 1997, in Lake St. Catherine, according to the Department of Environmental Conservation.

Its presence in Lake Champlain was first documented in 2005 — although whether its entry was abetted through human activity is still debated among wildlife experts.

So far, humans have not sought out Lake Champlain alewife as a food source to any notable extent, said state fisheries biologist Bernie Pientka.

Dead alewives wash up along the shores of Burlington. Although impressive in scale, the die off is not unexpected according to Vermont Department of Fish and Wildlife experts who say that Lake Champlain's waters are in many ways, inhospitable to the marine species.

"How big is the market around here for smoked herring? Not big enough," Pientka said.

In any case, he added, alewife filter-feed on tiny, drifting zooplankton, and would be difficult to "target" by hook and line; and anglers angling to harvest boatloads by net face legal obstacles.

Other creatures are less constrained by the bounty. Dead and dying alewife are apparently satisfying the appetites of many native fish, Pientka said.

Other animals delight in the carrion, added Ellen Marsden, chairwoman of the Wildlife and Fisheries Biology Program at University of Vermont.

"Certainly the racoons and mink seem to enjoy the feast on shore!" Marsden wrote in an email. "Also gulls —though the other fish-eating birds prefer their dinner more fresh (still wriggling)."

The precise cause of the alewives seasonal demise is still being studied.

Scientists at the University of Wisconsin, who noted the presence of alewife in Lake Michigan in 1949, postulate the marine animals' kidneys aren't adequately sized to maintain a healthy saline balance in cell tissue.

All of that osmotic "pumping" stresses the fish, according to the university's Sea Grant Institute website.

The institute elaborates on the scenario: The relative shortage of food in the winter, the metabolic cost of spawning — and intrusions of cold water in the lake shallows — periodically combine to deliver an often fatal metabolic beating to alewives who have otherwise made themselves comfortably at home in our Great Lakes.
