
SXL is also active in the business of transporting natural gas liquids (or NGL). The company’s Mariner West ethane pipeline has started up and is operational at approximately 20,000 barrels per day. Sunoco Logistics is expecting increase supply throughput to approximately 50,000 barrels per day by the end of the second quarter in 2014. For this next step, additional pumps will be added to the system to increase the full capacity of the system.

The other showcase SXL project in NGL is the Mariner East project. In the first phase of the project, the Mariner East pipeline will deliver NGLs produced in the Marcellus Shale Basin to the Marcus Hook facility. The pipeline will have a capacity of 70,000 barrels per day. It’s expected to be able to deliver propane by the second half of 2014 and deliver both ethane and propane by the middle of 2015. There’s significant demand for long-term transportation of Marcellus and Utica Shale NGLs to the Marcus Hook facility. A successful open season of the first phase has given way to open season of the second phase of the project.

In its terminal business, SXL has long-term contracts with the refineries, which provides stability to its revenues. SXL has 39 active refined products terminals located in the Northeast, Midwest, and Southwest United States. Its largest terminal is located at Nederland, Texas, which accounted for nearly 50% of the segment’s total volume in 2013. Throughput at the Nederland Terminal is primarily related to third-party customers. The majority of the throughput at the crude oil terminal facilities in the northeast relates to refining operations at Pioneer Energy Services’ (PES) Philadelphia refinery. In 2012, SXL entered into a 10-year agreement to provide terminalling services to PES at the Fort Mifflin terminal complex.

Sunoco Logistics Partners L.P. (SXL) is a master limited partnership (or MLP) that operates in the midstream business. The general partnership (or GP) interest of SXL is owned by Energy Transfer Partners (ETP); while the GP interest of ETP is owned by Energy Transfer Equity L.P. (ETE). Other energy players operating in the same sector as SXL include Enterprise Products Partners L.P. (EPD), Plains All American Pipeline L.P. (PAA), and Energy Transfer Partners L.P. (ETP). All of these companies are components of the Alerian MLP ETF (AMLP). ETE is a component of Global X MLP & Energy Infrastructure ETF (MLPX).
