
Watchdog group Eye on Sacramento released a 34-page report Monday that found flaws in several different areas of the downtown plan, including financial risk to the city, traffic impacts, poor long-term city planning and, perhaps most egregiously in the group’s eyes, lack of a public vote for the project.

On the eve of the pivotal vote for a new downtown Sacramento arena , a group critical of the plan issued a final broadside against it before the City Council is expected to approve it tomorrow night.

Watchdog group Eye on Sacramento released a 34-page report Monday that found flaws in several different areas of the plan, including financial risk to the city, traffic impacts, poor long-term city planning and, perhaps most egregiously in the group’s eyes, lack of a public vote for the project.

The report from Eye on Sacramento, which participated in an ultimately unsuccessful plan to put the arena plan before voters , also pointed out state Sen. Pro Tem Darrell Steinberg , a Sacramento resident, pushed through legislation to reduce environmental review for the project, and the city and Sacramento Kings officials included a project labor agreement that will inflate construction costs. The report also castigated local media for not examining the project and financing plan critically enough and seemingly supporting the project for financial reasons.

However, the team and city moved Monday to blunt criticism of the plan as it’s implemented by announcing formation of a community advisory council to see specific goals are met along the way.

Among those goals are hiring locally and using small and local businesses where possible, ensuring a role for arts and culture in the project and making sure the process is transparent and accountable.

If you are commenting using a Facebook account, your profile information may be displayed with your comment depending on your privacy settings. By leaving the 'Post to Facebook' box selected, your comment will be published to your Facebook profile in addition to the space below.
