
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

Hurricane Phil levee preparedness exercise Col. Richard Hansen, commander of the New Orleans District office of the Army Corps of Engineers, explains a hurricane preparedness tabletop exercise that was conducted with New Orleans area and state levee officials on Monday, May 19, 2014.

Hurricane Phil, a fictional storm used by the Army Corps of Engineers and local and state levee officials on Monday morning (May 19) to test their strategies for operating the New Orleans area hurricane levee system , was designed to create trouble.

The initial threat of a severe hurricane north of the Caribbean Sea that is intent on a five-day journey across Florida, entering the Gulf of Mexico and brushing across much of the northern Gulf Coast before slamming into the Mississippi-Louisiana state line.

The next day's forecast brings even worse news. Phil is now taking dead aim at New Orleans, where it's expected to arrive as a Category 3 or stronger storm, with winds greater than 110 mph. More importantly, on this path, the surge threat is dramatic. A repeat of Hurricane Isaac flooding of communities on the western edge of Lake Pontchartrain are expected, except with even higher surge levels. And Slidell and the Mississippi Gulf Coast will see similar high teens surge levels.

By the third day, however, the path has shifted "left," and to the south, with an ultimate landfall now expected in Galveston, Texas. The threat to the New Orleans area has shifted as well, with meaning the severest threat of surge flooding in the New Orleans area has shifted to the east bank community of Braithwaite and West Bank communities seeing greater threats from both surge and rainfall flooding.

On the fourth day, 24 hours before it is now predicted to pass the mouth of the Mississippi River, Phil has strengthened to a Category 4 hurricane, and will make landfall on Saturday in Galveston.

The slowed movement adds up to 36 hours of rainfall on Louisiana's coast, increasing the threat of flooding posed by storm surge.

The Hurricane Phil scenario actually was developed several years ago by the National Hurricane Center and the Federal Emergency Management Agency to be used in a training course held each year at the center for emergency managers, said Frank Revitte, warning coordination meteorologist with the Slidell office of the National Weather Service.

"This scenario poses a threat to the entire region," Revitte explained. "It covers a large area of the Gulf, and it's a large storm, so it provides a lot of actions for a variety of people participating in the exercises."

The scenario was unveiled day by day, with representatives from the corps, the state's Coastal Protection and Restoration Authority, the Southeast Louisiana Flood Protection Authority-East and –West, and individual levee district officials chiming in on actions they would take if the threat were real.

On the first day, the storm is still too far away to trigger evacuations or gate closings, but its potential size and intensity are enough to trigger additional information-sharing between regional levee authorities and their levee districts, explained several of the planners sitting at a large U-shaped collection of tables in the corps' New Orleans District headquarters building.

For both east bank authority executive director Bob Turner and newly appointed west bank authority regional director John Monzon, the brief exercise was the latest in preparations for the two authorities to be in charge for the first time of operating most of the gates and surge barrier structures in the corps-built levee system.

The corps has been turning over parts of the system to the two authorities over the past two years as construction has been completed, but will have representatives in the two authorities' emergency operation centers to assist during storms.

Legislation being considered by Congress this week could return operation of one of the more complex structures – the metal sector gate and adjacent barge gate in the Lake Borgne surge barrier structure – to the corps, but an appropriation for the corps to actually operate the structure again is likely a year away.

In the Hurricane Phil scenario, the barge gate is closed when the threat of tropical storm-force winds is still 96 hours away from the New Orleans area, but the sector gate – which is the area actually used by barges and other vessels – won't be closed until it's clear the closure is required by rising surge in the lake.

The levee authority will then wait for water levels to stabilize in the Gulf Intracoastal Waterway and the Industrial Canal before closing the Seabrook storm surge gate at the entrance to Lake Pontchartrain, Turner said.

Phil triggers an even more complex waiting game on the West Bank, where officials would use wind speed rather than surge height, to determine when to close the new West Closure Complex.

That's because the counterclockwise motion of the winds around Phil's eye will actually be pushing water south as the storm approaches. But waiting too long could result in not enough water being available behind the surge gate to allow it to be closed, officials said.

Corps, state and local officials also will be dealing with a variety of predictive modeling in making decisions.

For instance, elected officials deciding on when to evacuate residents – which would be likely for the entire New Orleans metropolitan area in the Hurricane Phil scenario – will rely on National Hurricane Center and National Weather Service wind and surge predictions.

The weather service predictions take into account the potential that a hurricane can change directions within hours of landfall. But they also recognize the amount of time it takes to evacuate the area, erring on the safe side to assure that residents aren't trapped in areas like New Orleans where evacuation routes are easily flooded.

For gate closing and other structural decisions, the corps will be providing the levee districts with information from their ADCIRC modeling program, which is based on the NHC six-hour forecasts, but provides greater local detail of what surge water will do.

The wide variety of individual navigation gates will require quite a bit of coordination between the levee districts, the corps, the Coast Guard and local boaters and fishers. In some locations, such as the gates on Bayou Bienvenue, the structures may be opened and closed several times to allow shipping to reach shelter before surge heights require a final closure.

Once the eye of the storm passes, officials will have to address the threat posed by heavy rainfall slowly making its way through the rivers and bayous running into Lake Pontchartrain on decisions on when to reopen navigation gates.

The lake often remains well above normal levels for three or four days after the eye of the hurricane passes, since the only exits for water are through the Chef Menteur and Rigolets passes. Opening the Seabrook gate would pose a threat to businesses whose operations are outside floodwalls and are protected by the new gate, officials said.

Plus, only a small amount of water can make its way through the Industrial Canal and Gulf Intracoastal Waterway from the lake, and Lake Borgne may also be high in the storm's aftermath.

"There's too much risk involved in doing that and Seabrook wasn't built to handle the reverse flow from that," Turner said.

Similar issues are likely on the West Bank, where heavy rainfall could make its way into the Algiers and other canals running to the West Closure Complex at the same time that the higher winds on the east side of the storm are pushing surge higher into Barataria Bay, officials said.

Col. Richard Hansen, commander of the corps' New Orleans District office, warned that even with the preparedness shown by federal, state and local agencies, the biggest risk still facing the area is complacency on the part of the public.

"It's the Achilles heels, the weakest part of the system," Hansen said. He said that the answer all public officials should be giving to questions about whether the levee system is adequate or whether there's enough money to operate and maintain the system also should be the same: "Get a game plan," a referral to the state's efforts to get families and businesses to develop emergency plans in advance of hurricane season.

© 2014 NOLA Media Group. All rights reserved ( About Us ).

The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of NOLA Media Group.

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
