
Earn Free CME Credits by reading the latest medical news in your specialty.

SAN DIEGO  --  Sepsis, the inflammatory response to infection, appears to be a contributor to or major cause of as many as half of in-hospital deaths, researchers reported here.

In reviewing two major databases, research scientist Vincent Liu, MD , an intensivist at Kaiser Permanente in Santa Clara, Calif., said that depending on the definition of sepsis, 34.7% to 52% of deaths in the Healthcare Cost and Utilization Project Nationwide Inpatient Sample were due, in part, to a sepsis diagnosis, and in the Kaiser Permanente Northern California cohort, sepsis was a contributor to 44.2% to 55.9% of the deaths occurring in those hospitals.

"Most of these patients had sepsis at admission," Liu said in his oral presentation at the American Thoracic Society meeting here. "Given the prominent role it plays in hospital mortality, improved treatment of sepsis  --  potentially a final hospital pathway for multiple other underlying conditions  --  could offer meaningful improvements in population mortality."

In performing his study, Liu accessed the Nationwide Inpatient Sample that included 6,555,621 patients who were hospitalized for any reason  --  a number than represents 20% of the national subsample. The cohort involved patients from 1,051 hospitals and covered the calendar year 2010.

The Kaiser Permanente sample included 483,828 patients who stayed overnight at the hospital  --  excluding obstetrical cases  --  from 2010 to 2012.

The Kaiser data included information on whether the patient was diagnosed with sepsis on admission. The national sample did not provide that information, Liu said. The research team scoured admission records for hospital codes signifying a sepsis diagnosis.

In the Kaiser Permanente data, sepsis was listed as an explicit cause of death in 36.7% of cases and was listed as a cause of death in 40.8% of implicit cases. When sepsis or infection was listed as a cause of death in the hospital codes, the explicit percentage was 71.7%; the implicit percentage rose to 66.6%.

Liu said that in addition to being a major factor in one out of two to one out of three hospital deaths, he and his colleagues calculated that treatment of sepsis may account for as much as 24% of hospital charges in the U.S.

Most sepsis was present at the time of admission.

Patients with less severe sepsis accounted for 56% of sepsis deaths; most of these patients were treated in non-intensive-care unit setting.

Most deaths among sepsis patients could be directly linked with preceding infection.

"Standardized approaches and quality improvement and performance improvement efforts for less severe sepsis patients could drive further mortality reduction," Liu suggested.

He lamented the lack of funding for mortality research, comparing it to the budget for smallpox research.

The study was published online as a research letter in the Journal of the American Medical Association simultaneously with Liu's presentation in San Diego.

"Sepsis mortality in hospital is an underestimated, under-recognized phenomenon in hospitals due to problems in hospital hygiene and due to an increasingly older and frailer patient population," said Klaus Rabe, MD , professor of medicine at the University of Kiel in Germany.

He told MedPage Today, "The question is what public health measures can be done to change this. There has been legislation that is all over the place, and couldn't be more different from country to country."

Rabe said, for example, in Germany it is prohibited for clinicians  --  such as doctors and nurses  --  to shake hands with hospitalized patients because it is a common vector for transmitting possible infections through a hospital. Those infections in a vulnerable patient can quickly develop into fatal sepsis, he suggested.

Liu disclosed no relevant relationships with industry. Co-authors disclosed relevant relationships with Edwards, Pfizer, MedImmune LLC, Eli Lilly, Ferring Pharmaceuticals, Roche Diagnostics International, and Eisai.

Source reference:       Liu V, et al "Sepsis contributes to nearly half of all hospital deaths in the US" ATS 2014; Abstract A2188.

This survey is a poll of those who choose to participate and are, therefore, not valid statistical samples, but rather a snapshot of what your colleagues are thinking.

MedPageToday, powered by Everyday Health Inc., is a trusted and reliable source for clinical and policy coverage that directly affects the lives and practices of health care professionals.

Physicians and other healthcare professionals may also receive Continuing Medical Education (CME) and Continuing Education (CE) credits at no cost for participating in MedPage Today-hosted educational activities.

© 2014 MedPage Today, LLC. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of the MedPageToday.com terms of use and privacy policy . The material on this site is for informational purposes only, and is not a substitute for medical advice, diagnosis or treatment provided by a qualified health care provider.
