
COLUMBIA — Moses Mayfield, a merchant who lost his license to sell guns and ammunition after being denounced in a letter with anti-Semitic attacks, appealed to Brig. Gen. Clinton Fisk for permission to ship his unsold stock to Cincinnati.

COLUMBIA — Moses Mayfield, a merchant who lost his license to sell guns and ammunition after being denounced in a letter with anti-Semitic attacks, appealed to Brig. Gen. Clinton Fisk for permission to ship his unsold stock to Cincinnati.

An online service is needed to view this article in its entirety. You need an online service to view this article in its entirety.

Brig. Gen. Odon Guitar, Fisk’s predecessor commanding the District of Northern Missouri, gave Mayfield the permit to sell arms in March. Guitar, a Columbia resident, would have been well-acquainted with Mayfield’s character.

ST. LOUIS — Columbia publisher William Switzler was named one of 22 delegates to the Republican National Convention in Baltimore as part of a delegation pledged to support the nomination of President Abraham Lincoln for a second term.

Switzler, along with Gov. Willard Hall of St. Joseph, were among four delegates elected to represent the entire state. Switzler took part in the opening session the day before but did not attend the concluding session, when national delegates and the platform were approved.

Switzler, who denounced Lincoln as a “Black Republican” in the 1860 campaign, now depended on the president for his paycheck. In addition to his role as editor of the Columbia Missouri Statesman, Switzler was provost marshal for conscription for the Ninth Congressional District. The patronage job included a salary of $115.50 per month.

HIBERNIA — M.R. Tarlton denounced the government and swore he would not be taken alive when soldiers arrived at his home to arrest him for disloyal speech and making threats against soldiers.

Tarlton, 59, was bitter over the loss of his slaves to the Union army. He had been seen in town — a community later known as both Cedar City and as a part of Jefferson City before being destroyed in the Flood of 1993 — claiming to be armed and ready to kill.

“He said that he had two good revolvers and that he was going to hang them to his side and that he was going out bushwhacking and that he was going to kill every Union man he came to,” Thomas Burnett testified about a scene three weeks earlier.

DOVER, Ark. — Confederate Col. Sidney Jackman, who Union authorities in Missouri believed had been north of the Missouri River for more than a month, was given orders to press every able-bodied man age 16 to 50 in to service in a region more than 300 miles to the south.

Periodic rumors that Jackman was near Glasgow in Howard County with 200 men had Union commanders in St. Louis and St. Joseph jumpy. Troops had been out several times but found nothing.

Dover is about 320 miles south of Glasgow.

CASSVILLE, Ga. — Officers of the Missouri Brigade, along with their counterparts throughout two corps of the Confederate Army of Tennessee, read orders to their troops telling them they were to turn on the Yankees who had forced their retreat toward Atlanta.

The troops had arrived the previous day after moving 275 miles from Alabama. Gen. Joseph Johnston believed he could fight one column of the Union army under Maj. Gen. William T. Sherman before support could arrive.

The army would “turn and march to meet the enemy,” troops were told. The attack was aborted when a Federal force missed a road and marched into the Confederate rear. Confused about the size of the threat, Johnston put the Missourians and the rest of his army into defensive works to await a Federal attack.

You have viewed your 10 free stories.  You can come back at the end of your 30-day period for another 10 free articles, or you can purchase a subscription and enjoy unlimited access to local news, sports, photos and thoughtful analysis to help make sense of it all. If you need help, please contact our customer service office at 573-815-1600.
