
This month, the Susan G. Komen foundation held its first Walk for the Cure under new leader Judith Salerno — the woman tasked with helping the organization finally move on from the controversy that rocked it back in 2012.

Salerno, 62, is used to long odds and tall orders. The working-class Newark, New Jersey, native became one of the first in her family to go on to higher education, graduating from Stonehill College; a self-described “chubby kid” turned middle-aged distance runner and obesity expert; and a single mom of three who went back to school at nearly 30 to become a doctor, graduating from Harvard Medical School and getting a master’s degree in public health at the university as well.

After careers in journalism, policy and medicine — including stints leading the Institute of Medicine and geriatric programs at the Department of Veterans Affairs and the National Institutes of Health — she turned late last year to perhaps her toughest challenge yet: reversing Komen’s fortunes after a tough stretch that began when the nation’s leading breast cancer nonprofit, under former CEO Nancy Brinker, decided to withhold funding from Planned Parenthood, citing concerns over abortion funding. The group ultimately reversed the decision — but over the year that followed, donations dropped, and some sponsors and volunteers began to shy away.

When I got out of medical school, I was 33, going on 34. I wanted to have a family. So I had my three children while I was training as an intern, resident and fellow. So I was always on call during my pregnancy. And I did 36-hour shifts with my tummy out to here. And I remember not being able to keep up on rounds one morning because I was waddling, because I was so pregnant. And one of the attending doctors at an unnamed hospital in this area turned and said to me, “Well, nobody asked you to get knocked up.” And I was so taken aback.

I was working in a lab after my second child was born, doing clinical research at the NIH. And I had a project that I had worked on, built myself, taken away from me, because the lab chief said to me, “Well, I think it’s too much for a woman with three children.” And I told him: I think I should make that decision, not you. And I had been considered a very high performer in the lab. But after that, I just said, I’m out of here, I really don’t need this. I have three young children, three children under the age of 5, I’m working full time. And I soon after that became a single mother, too, and I said: I need a place where I feel more supported in what I’m doing.

Oh, yeah. Just tell me I can’t do something, and I will prove to you I can. That’s always been it. When I was doing my pre-med work at Georgetown, I talked to a person who was a professor of chemistry, talked to him about what I wanted to do with my pre-med work. And he said to me, ‘You know, you’re too old to learn science. It’s like another language. If you don’t learn it at a young age, you can’t do it.’ And I said: Yes — I hear you. But I don’t believe you. And just to prove him wrong, I killed myself to get straight A’s in chemistry. And I showed him what I could do.

Friends E-mail(s) Separate emails with a comma. Maximum of 5 emails allowed.
