
A recent interview reminded us that attitude and drive win the game.

treasurer's office was mired in scandal, with two corrupt former treasurers on their way to federal prison and an operation that begged for cleanup. A candidate for the office used the slogan: "I will end the embarrassment."

, the office is back on an even keel. With Lewis unable to run again because of term limits, the two Democrats vying to succeed him promise to build on that foundation -- although their view of the office is somewhat different.

The contest is between former state Sen.

, a veteran of state and federal government positions, in the November general election.

was bumped off the ballot -- in a challenge brought by Wertheim -- for not having enough valid voters' signatures on his nominating petitions.

Now Padilla is supporting Eichenberg, with robocalls to voters on his behalf.

, stresses his experience and his record of public service.

Wertheim, 46, touts his progressive vision for an under-the-radar office that could be used "for something more than just counting money."

Eichenberg is a Realtor and a property tax consultant who helps people protest their tax assessments.

in 2008 and served one term before deciding not to run for re-election in 2012, citing family obligations.

While he was there, he chaired a task force on government restructuring and sponsored successful legislation expanding the Governmental Conduct Act to local governments.

Democratic leadership and other current and former legislators who attest to his qualifications, professionalism and integrity.

Eichenberg says his years administering government agencies makes him the best candidate for the job.

"I have the credentials, the experience and the integrity in the race," Eichenberg told the Journal.

In conversation and on the campaign trail, he stresses the importance of transparency in the treasurer's office and safety in investments.

"As State Treasurer, my priorities will be: Safety, Liquidity and Yield -- with safety being paramount regarding our investment program," reads his campaign brochure.

He also says there should be more state investment in local infrastructure, such as roads, schools and libraries.

economic problems "demand we look at offices like the treasurer's office differently."

Citing the state's negative job growth and bottom-of-the-barrel ranking in child welfare, Wertheim says the treasurer could promote progressive economic policy and jobs creation.

"This is not a position where you have sole control or authority to do a lot of things I've been talking about ... but you do have influence," he told the Journal .

to establish early childhood education programs.

He also pledges to invest more state funds in businesses that advance "renewable, sustainable energy sources" such as wind and solar.

Wertheim acknowledges the office's core function is being the state's banker, "and in that regard I view myself as a conservative."

. He said his law practice is heavily focused on financial litigation.

, and the American Federation of State,

18.

The race has taken on a negative tone in recent weeks.

Padilla's phone calls on behalf of Eichenberg say that Wertheim has "a reputation of being a bully," a "history of being deceitful," and that he wanted "the only qualified Hispanic out of the race."

Wertheim -- who calls himself "the real Democrat" in the race -- sent out a couple of mailings last week attacking Eichenberg on a variety of fronts.

merit system; Eichenberg counters that the same newspaper later endorsed his re-election as treasurer.

ruling on a complaint by an employee Eichenberg fired when he was county treasurer -- whom Eichenberg says he fired for other reasons. And the mailer faults Eichenberg for missing two votes on the Hispanic Education Achievement Act and for voting against a bill prohibiting health insurance companies from discriminating against women.

EDUCATION: B.A.,

; former director, Property Tax Division,
