
After extending Brian Elliott on Monday , the St. Louis Blues appear unlikely to sign UFA goalie Ryan Miller. Miller, you recall, spent his entire career with Buffalo up until the 2014 trade deadline, when he jumped to St. Louis. Miller put up a .903 save percentage with the Blues over 19 games. I guess that was all Doug Armstrong needed to see.

Now, once again, we face an interesting question: should the Capitals sign Miller? Do they need stability in net before they can jumpstart their offense? Would an injection of experience even out a weary defense? Can he make the big saves in big games, which are definitely more important than the small saves in minuscule games.

Let’s weigh the matter carefully.

Good talk, guys.

Can Washington fit Miller’s salary under the cap? Probably but why bother? Spend it on bodacious defensive improvements. Or…preferably, more Russians at any position.

What would Miller mean for Holtby’s confidence and Grubauer’s development? It would destroy the falcon punching holtbeast and it would delay das Deutschland’s development.

So…should they do it? My expertise in drinking beers and watching hockey tell me no.

Rob W.

We have two legs to stand on (Holtby & Grubi), we don’t need a kickstand, thanks.

I’d like to see Grubi develop a bit more in Hershey and be brought up in 2015-2016.

I’d like to see first who are GM and HC would be, before signing anything of significance. With this two all-defining unknowns nothing is off the table.

Idk babe. I want to see who the GM and Head coach is first babe.

hell no– he’s getting 1.8M through 2017. Good for him.

Exactly. I’m more than happy to see Wagon get the money he straight-up earned than coming back here to get jerked around. Letting Hendricks go was one of the worst decisions GMGM made. Sure he’s not worth what the Preds paid him to be a Predator but FFS he was the glue in the locker room. It’s hard not to give your best when you see Wagon coming in with a face that looks like he went through 10 rounds with Tyson and still trying to kick ass on the ice.

He also has this sick shootout move that is better than 50% — would have come in handy while we were going to the shootout all the time last year.

We don’t need Miller. As long as Holtby can play his way, he will be perfectly fine. Holtby deserves to be the #1 goalie in DC. If Miller comes I don’t see that happening.

I’m gonna have to think about this one.  Nah, no, I’m not.

No.

ARE YOU INSANE?!?!?!?!?! Getting Miller is one way to quickly get us to last place….. He is very shaky and unstable…..

There has to be an appropriate Samuel L. Jackson “awe hell nah!” around here somewhere….

No.  Defense is priority 1 and another scorer is priority 1A.  Holtby is not the problem.

Nope, don’t need him. Huge salary for a 33 yr. old goalie who sure didn’t look good in the playoffs. We have Braden and ? maybe Grubauer but for the money we need defense.

Rmnb writers/contributors I am afraid you all are losing your touch!

The goalies are not the issue…..why not spend they money on someone who can play defense!

I’m going to be contrary and say we should consider it, at least.  Look at who’s left in the Cup playoffs and look at their goalies.  Is Holtby nearly as seasoned as those guys?  I’m just wondering if Braden’s aggressive style would serve him well in the postseason?  I could be completely wrong – evaluating goaltenders mystifies me.  I love Holtby but I’m not 100 percent confident that he is our answer to our No. 1 goaltender.  One caveat – if signing a true blue-chip goalie prevents us from acquiring a solid blueliner or re-signing Grabo, then forget it – we play on with Holts.

NO! OH GOD PLEASE NO! NO! NO! NOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO!

Seriously, haven’t we learned this already? Goaltending isn’t the problem, defense and 5v5 is!

My gut says hell no.  My brain says “maybe.” We won’t know what kind of team we’ll have until we get a new GM and HC.

I’d be willing to allow them to re-sign Grabo right now even if we were picking a GM and Coach at random out of the phone book next week.  Other than that, I agree with this statement.

LOL. Completely agree defintely a big NO (unless he’s willing to sign on the cheap a la Tomas Vokoun back in 2011).

I would be fine with Holtby and Grubauer in net, but that makes our goaltending depth really thin and it would hurt to give Grubby another year to develop in Hershey.  There are a decent number of quality UFA goaltenders this off-season that would be a nice back-up for Holtby and would be significantly lower than Miller’s cap hit.

RMNB depends on reader participation. If you’ve got news, photos, or a cool story, send it our way.

Game previews and mischief.

Russian Machine Never Breaks is not associated with the Washington Capitals; the NHL, or its properties. Not even a little bit.
