
MINNEOLA — A soapbox derby racing event planned for Memorial Day weekend has come to a screeching halt.

The race, which was due to take place on a downhill course along Mountain Club Drive on Saturday and May 25, was canceled due to logistical and permitting issues.

John Bomm, the event's coordinator, said he hopes to reschedule the event for September or October. He is looking for other locations in Lake County, including Eustis and Clermont, to hold the race.

"I got 35 kids that wanted to race," said Bomm, who recently formed the Clermont/Minneola Box Car Racing, a nonprofit soapbox racing program for area youths. "They're very disappointed."

Because the location was on private property, Bomm said he thought he only needed permission from the owners.

However, Minneola City Manager Mark Johnson said because the roadway at the location is open to the public, Bomm would need to submit a special-events permit application detailing a parking plan at least 90 days in advance.

"This is the first time they've done it here, so it's a learning process for everybody," Johnson said.

An application for a traffic plan would also need to be submitted to the Sheriff's Office at least a week prior to the event, sheriff's spokesman Lt. John Herrell said. The plan would entail rerouting traffic, closing streets and intersections and assigning on-site deputies to manage traffic.

'Stepping stone'

Bomm, a Long Island, N.Y., native, has four children who have been involved in derby racing over the past eight years. He said he wanted to bring the family-friendly sport to Lake County because it's safe and fun for everyone.

At the event, Bomm said he planned to have cars on display and information about the sport, which dates back 80 years. Those who cannot afford to build their own cars could use some he owns, said Bomm, a former Orlando resident who moved to Clermont a year ago.

"We will find something," he said. "I will not give up. This is just a stepping stone."
