
INDIANAPOLIS | Kathryn Kay “Kathy” (Crosswhite) Allison, 60, of Indianapolis, died May 16, 2014.

Kathy was born on June 4, 1953, in Rapid City, South Dakota, to Leslie Harry and Alberta Rosella (Wilburn) Crosswhite. Kathy was an administrative assistant for Wayne Township School Corporation for 18 years and she was a member of Chapel Hill United Methodist Church.

Kathy was preceded in death by her father, Leslie Harry Crosswhite.

Kathy is survived by her loving husband, Charles Douglas "Doug" Allison, and her two beautiful children, Charles Justin (Karla) Allison and Kristin Lee Allison; her beloved grandchildren, the twins Lucas and Reily Allison; her mother, Alberta Rosella Crosswhite; and her brother, David Crosswhite and sister Carolyn (Joe) Wilson.

Calling is scheduled for Thursday, May 22, at Flanner and Buchanan-Speedway, 2950 North High School, Indianapolis, IN 46224, from 4 p.m. to 8 p.m. EDT.

Funeral services will be at 11 a.m. Friday, May 23, at Chapel Hill United Methodist Church, 963 North High School, Indianapolis, IN 46214. Inurnment will be at West Ridge Park Cemetery.

Memorial contributions may be made to the Alzheimer’s Association, 50 East 91st St., Indianapolis, IN 46240.

Online condolences and a video tribute may be shared at www.flannerbuchanan.com.

Copyright 2014 Rapid City Journal. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site consitutes agreement to it's user agreement & privacy policy.

The Rapid City Journal offers obituaries as a way to inform friends throughout the area about the death of a person. Obituaries also offer families the opportunity to provide a final public memorial.

A standard obituary will list the name, age, residence of the deceased; date of death; branch of military service; and funeral arrangements. Obituaries for veterans will display an American flag. There is no charge for this obituary.

A memorial obituary, for which there is a charge, allows family or friends to fashion the obituary to their particular specifications. In addition to information for the standard obituary, you may add information about the person’s life, work, community activities, awards or honors, special interests or anything else you feel is important. Obituary information must be provided by the funeral home handling arrangements.

Username & Password Required!
