
As graduation speeches go, this one figures to be a little awkward.

Jill Abramson, the ousted executive editor of the New York Times, will address the graduating class of Wake Forest University Monday morning in what will be her first public comments since her very public blowup with the newspaper last week.

Abramson agreed to give the commencement address at the Winston-Salem, N.C., school several months before the public knew how dicey things had become at the office.

She and school officials conferred Thursday, the day after her firing, and both sides reaffirmed that she was still on to address 1,900 graduates and about 10,000 of their family members and friends, said Wake Forest spokeswoman Katie Neal.

And so an otherwise routine commencement speech will take on a somewhat different coloration, with C-SPAN beaming it to a national audience.

Abramson has maintained her silence as her public relations battle with the Times has devolved into two competing narratives. Abramson’s supporters say she was a victim of sexist treatment by the Times and its chairman, Arthur Sulzberger Jr. Sulzberger’s camp has denied this, saying instead that Abramson alienated the newspaper’s journalists and mismanaged the newspaper at a time of wrenching change in the news business.

Sulzberger escalated the rhetoric over the weekend, issuing a statement that was a harsh critique of the woman he chose to run the paper in 2011.

Since then, he has made two more statements, both disputing published reports that Abramson’s compensation was less than that of her male predecessor, Bill Keller. The stories, published by the New Yorker based on interviews with unidentified people close to Abramson, have ratcheted up the competing sexism vs. incompetence angles.

Sulzberger said Thursday that Abramson’s compensation this year is about 10 percent more than Keller received in 2011, his last year as editor (the New Yorker said Keller received $559,000 in base salary that year, and that Abramson started off at a lower figure, $475,000, which was eventually raised to $525,000 this year after she protested). The Times has not released specific year-by-year figures or a breakdown of how each editor was compensated, making comparisons of salaries and bonuses by year difficult, but has said Abramson’s total pay was “broadly comparable” to that of her predecessors.

According to one executive who said he was familiar with the discussions, Sulzberger was displeased with Abramson over several decisions, including her hiring of a lawyer to press the salary issue. He told her earlier this month that he was intent on replacing her with her top deputy, managing editor Dean Baquet. To ease the transition and help Abramson save face, he offered to announce that she was taking early retirement. Abramson rejected this, insisting that her firing be a matter of public record, the executive said.

Baquet, who was named Abramson’s successor Wednesday, had complained to Sulzberger about being blindsided by Abramson’s decision to hire another journalist — the Guardian’s Janine Gibson — as a managing editor in charge of the newspaper’s digital reporting, a position that would have made her Baquet’s equal, people at the Times said. Gibson eventually turned down the job.

The attempt to hire Gibson points to what the New Yorker reported Sunday as another possible cause for Abramson’s dismissal: that she had been dishonest with Sulzberger and Times Co. chief executive Mark Thompson. The magazine said Abramson told Sulzberger that she had alerted Baquet about Gibson’s hiring when, in fact, she had not. Gibson believed her hiring had been cleared with all the key players, based on what Abramson told her, according to the article.

A Times spokeswoman would only say that Sulzberger “spoke specifically in his statement [Saturday] about what led him to dismiss” Abramson.

Paul Farhi is The Washington Post's media reporter.

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
