
Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell said his re-election would help ensure Kentucky's influence in national government and create the opportunity for big changes in the country.

"If you want to change America, you need to change the majority leader and change the majority in the Senate," he said.

McConnell spoke this afternoon at the Bowling Green-Warren County Regional Airport.

He said President Barack Obama's administration has done a lot of damage to the country and the commonwealth of Kentucky in the past six years.

McConnell said he wants to serve as "offensive coordinator" of a Senate with a Republican majority after 2014 elections instead of being "defensive coordinator" as the Senate minority leader in a Senate with a Democratic majority.

"When you're on offense, you get to call the plays and set the agenda for Kentucky and for America," he said.

He recalled sitting in his assigned place in the back of the room in the Senate when he was first elected.

"I remember looking around the room and thinking to myself, none of these people are ever going to die, retire or be defeated," McConnell said.

After 2014 elections, McConnell said he could have the best seat in the Senate.

Richard Worden of Bowling Green said he has been voting for McConnell since he began his career in the Senate.

Worden said he likes McConnell's conservative views.

"I'm hoping that the Senate goes Republican and that the House stays Republican," he said. "And I realize that that's not going to stop the person that's in the White House, but I hope it slows him down and then the next presidential election maybe we can make some really big changes."

Worden said he is concerned for the future of the country, for his children and grandchildren and that the country is becoming increasingly socialist.

He said he's hopeful McConnell's political advertisements will begin to focus more on policy in the future.

"I could care less about chicken fighting," Worden said, referring to an advertising criticizing Senate candidate Matt Bevin for speaking at a cockfighting rally. "There's a whole lot more going on in this world than that."

Tabor worked on McConnell's first campaign for Senate, she said.

She said McConnell puts his heart into working for Kentuckians.

"He tries to help us all he can," she said.

 – Follow government beat writer Katie Brandenburg at twitter.com/BGDNgovtbeat or visit bgdailynews.com .

1 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language.

2 Don't Threaten or Abuse. Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated. AND PLEASE TURN OFF CAPS LOCK.

3 Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.

4 Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.

5 Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.

6 Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness accounts, the history behind an article.

Welcome to the discussion.
