
Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own.

I'm managing director of Strategic Communications for FTI Consulting, based in Houston. Prior to joining FTI in 2012,  I had a 33 year career in the oil and gas industry, working public policy issues for a number of companies including Shell, Burlington Resources, El Paso Corp., and Coastal States. I've also led numerous industry-wide efforts to address regulatory and legislative issues at the local, state and federal level. From April 2010 through June 2012, David served as the Texas State Lead for America’s Natural Gas Alliance. I attended Texas A&I University and The University of Texas, earning B.A. in accounting.

Hysterical hurricane activity predictions have calmed down after 7 years of record low activity in the Atlantic, but the oil industry prepares the same regardless:  Offshore Industry Prepares for Hurricane Season –  ImpactWeather, a Houston-based private weather forecaster that serves the industry, predicts nine named storms in the Atlantic this season, including four hurricanes. AccuWeather, another private weather provider, projects 10 named storms and five hurricanes. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration makes its forecast next week.  Chris Hebert, ImpactWeather’s lead hurricane forecaster, said while those broad seasonal forecasts generate headlines, they don’t matter much to the oil and gas industry. “For the most part, for the private industry, the forecast is a curiosity,” Hebert said. “There’s nothing different they do. It just takes that one hurricane coming into the Gulf,” he said, to do serious damage.

 Meanwhile, the ongoing U.S. shale boom produces yet another production record:   U.S. Oil Crude Oil Production Hits 28 Year High – U.S. crude production climbed to a 28-year high last week as the shale boom moved the world’s biggest oil-consuming country closer to energy independence.  Output rose 78,000 barrels a day to 8.428 million, the most since October 1986, according to Energy Information Administration data. The combination of horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, has unlocked supplies from shale formations in the central U.S., including the Bakken in North Dakota and the Eagle Ford in Texas .

And of course, more U.S. production means steadily falling oil imports.  How rapidly are they falling?  Dr. Mark Perry spells it out here:  U.S. Oil Imports Fell to a 29 Year Low in Q1 2014, at Just 28.4% – According to data recently released by the Energy Information Administration, America’s net petroleum imports fell to 28.4% during the first three months of 2014 (see chart above, data here). That’s the lowest dependence on foreign sources of petroleum since 1985, when net petroleum imports averaged 27.3% for the year. The two decade increase in net petroleum imports from 27.3% in 1985 to a peak of 60.3% in 2005, has been almost completely reversed in less than nine years.

Thought by most to be in irreversible decline just a few years ago, the Permian Basin continues to grow into the reigning giant of U.S. shale oil production:   Permian Basin Tops for Horizontal Oil Rigs in First Quarter 2014 – The Permian Basin, a long time oil- and natural gas-producing region in West Texas and southeastern New Mexico, has seen a significant increase in horizontal oil-directed drilling activity over the past five months. This trend began at the start of 2013, and accelerated from the week ending on December 27, 2013, to the week ending on May 9, 2014. During this time, the number of horizontal, oil-directed rigs in the Permian Basin rose by 63 rigs, 50% of the total increase in the United States. This growth was heavily concentrated in counties in the Permian Basin containing formations with high production potential.

Meanwhile, in Levelland Texas, the shale gas boom leads to another major investment in plant, equipment and jobs in the plastics industry:  Pipeline Plastics to Build 3rd New HDPE Plant in 3 Years – Started in just 2011, Pipeline Plastics LLC will build a third plant — this one an estimated $10 million facility in Levelland, Texas — to meet demand for pressure pipe used for oil and gas applications.  The Levelland Economic Development Corp. agreed May 15 to provide economic incentives worth $750,000 for the project, which is expected to create up to 40 manufacturing jobs for bimodal high density polyethylene pipe.

All of which helps explain why Texas continues its long winning streak of being rated by executives as the best state in America to do business .  It remains a wonder that other states with massive, untapped oil and natural gas resources don’t seem to be able to understand this very simple and clear cause and effect relationship.  And note the states that rank at the bottom – New York, California, Illinois.  Does anyone else see a common theme there? Oh, well…:   Texas Continues 10 Year Winning Streak as Best State to do Business – For the 10th straight year, Texas has been named the best state for business by Chief Executive magazine. More than 500 American CEOs weighed in on the annual survey, grading states on taxes and regulatory issues, quality of workforce, public health, and cost of living.  Once again, Texas came out on top. The survey called out key companies such as Exxon Mobil Exxon Mobil , AT&T AT&T , Dell and Southwest Airlines for contributing to strong job numbers in the state. Texas also ranked No. 1 nationally for domestic migration, with more than 113,000 people moving to the Lone Star State in 2013.

And now for our Totally, Completely, 100% Shamelessly Self-Serving Link of the Week!:  The Texas Railroad Commission Is Not Broken – The current three commissioners – Barry Smitherman, David Porter and Christy Craddick – have over the last few years moved more aggressively than any other commission panel in my memory to rewrite regulations to ensure they are up-to-date and effectively address the current deployment of technology and drilling and completion practices of the modern oil and gas industry. A good example is the Commission’s recent rewriting and issuance of an updated Statewide Rule 13, which governs the requirements for completing oil and gas wells, protection of groundwater resources, and the conduct of hydraulic fracturing operations. This new Rule 13 once again puts Texas’s regulatory structure at the forefront of state-level industry regulation and now serves as a state-of-the-art role model that other states are in the process of emulating.

Sure, what could possibly go wrong?  Besides, we have the money…oh, wait…:   Should We Cover All Our Roads With Solar Panels? – Depending on how you look at it, the “Solar Roadways” proposal is either a brilliant solution to America’s energy woes — or totally insane  The idea is simple enough: The United States would replace the asphalt and concrete in its roads, sidewalks, and parking lots with a type of industrial-strength glass that contain solar panels…Back in 2010, the company assumed that a 12′ by 12′ glass panel would cost around $10,000. At this rate, covering all of our roads would cost $56 trillion — nearly 20 times the annual federal budget. Even on a smaller scale, these panels are at least 50 percent more expensive than regular roads, and possibly more.

But, but, but…half-truths is actually an improvement for these guys:  Sierra Club Peddling Half-Truths – What Feibelman failed to explain is that her organization doesn’t just want to “transition” to “clean” energy, but to completely eliminate traditional energy sources. Her group’s “Beyond Coal” and “Beyond Natural Gas” campaigns are a testament to that goal. Sierra Club goes so far as to celebrate coal plant closures with back-slapping press releases – indifferent to the Americans who just lost their jobs. Is this really what the American people support? Not quite.

What was the coal plant replaced with? Some entity that requires no workers? What could replace a coal plant at this point besides a natural gas plant? Natural gas plants have workers,just like coal plants.

Different plants, different skill sets, different workers. Some people feel compassion for workers of any kind who are forced out of their jobs by regulatory overreach. Obviously, that doesn’t include the folks at the Sierra Club, or you, I guess.

Do you feel compassion for workers of any kind when their jobs are sent to China or India? That is job destruction. Millions and millions of American jobs destroyed. Huge net job loss for the country. Unlike converting from coal to gas power plants which doesn’t lower the total amount of jobs.
