
RALEIGH, NC (AP) -- Three North Carolina agencies are joining together in a campaign to keep people safe this summer.

The Highway Patrol, the Wildlife Resources Commission and the Alcohol Law Enforcement Division are announcing an effort on Monday that will focus on roadways and the water. The event is being held at the Upper Barton Creek boat access on Falls Lake in north Raleigh.

Law enforcement officers will be watching for impaired drivers by conducting checkpoints near recreational boating areas as well as making public service announcements that educate motorists on the dangers of driving while impaired.

Patrol Commander Col. Bill Grey says May is one of the busiest travel periods of the year, so motorists are being asked to buckle up, drive carefully and remain vigilant while traveling.

Submitted by Timekeeper (not verified) on Mon, 05/19/2014 - 9:39am.

Submitted by SnatchHammer (not verified) on Wed, 05/21/2014 - 1:43pm.

Submitted by indawindigoes (not verified) on Mon, 05/19/2014 - 10:10am.

Submitted by MG (not verified) on Mon, 05/19/2014 - 3:44pm.

That is exactly why we have this ever-growing problem with alcohol and drug-abuse putting everyone at risk.

While I agree with the comment we need more serious consequences, the fact is laws do very little to fix things. The REAL solution is to stop raising children in a world of arrogance and teach them a respect for life and self-reliance. As long as everyone from the entertainment industry to the POTUS make fun and laugh at alcohol and drug use, this will be the result.

Submitted by indawindigoes (not verified) on Tue, 05/20/2014 - 6:45am.

They lie when they say there is a serious problem on the water. Any time you go swimming or go out on a boat, your life is in danger, it has not changed. Statistics do not back up the claim that there is a problem on the water.

Now the highways are another matter. where speeding, following too close, aggressive and reckless driving are not enforced nearly enough, and these are the acts that cause most accidents.
