
This kind of bullshit makes my blood boil: the New York Post‘s cover today shows a picture of New York City’s First Lady Chirlane McCray with the headline, “I WAS A BAD MOM.” It references an article that just came out in New York magazine about McCray’s life in which she writes about her difficulties balancing work and motherhood.

But did McCray actually ever call herself a “bad mom”? Of course not.

McCray was an out lesbian and radical feminist activist who belonged to the Combahee River Collective, a black feminist lesbian organization. She also published an article in a 1979 issue of Essence called “I Am A Lesbian.” Over time, however, how she defined her sexual orientation changed and in 1994, she married fellow progressive Bill de Blasio, who is now NYC’s mayor.

Fathers, of course, say and think these kinds of things about parenthood, too, but they don’t end up on the front page of the Post over it. Chirlane McCray’s only fault here is honesty: she said something women aren’t supposed to say. She said something mothers aren’t supposed to say. Moms are supposed to be endlessly selfless, sacrificial and long-suffering. Moms aren’t supposed to want to be away from their babies. Instead, women like Chirlane McCray end up at the center of the mommy wars, just for speaking openly and honestly.

 In 2005, Bill and Chirlane decided to move their mothers, both in failing health, into a house that de Blasio’s mother, Maria Wilhelm, owned down the street. Katharine McCray, who had multiple myeloma, occupied the top floor, and Wilhelm, who suffered from heart ailments, lived below. It fell largely to Chirlane to coordinate “the grandmas’ ” care, keeping track of the coming and going of home health aides, driving them to doctors’ appointments, rushing to the emergency room as needed. It was, she remembers, one of the most difficult periods of her life.

The Post shouldn’t be trashing Chirlane McCray on their front page. They should be giving her a pat on the back.

An email will be sent to the address of the account.
