
KNOXVILLE, Tenn. (WVLT) -- An East Tennessee couple celebrated their anniversary at a place not many people would expect.

They enjoyed two roast beef sandwiches at the same spot they stopped 40 years ago on the way to their honeymoon in Gatlinburg.

“We met in the 7th grade and we were 12 years old,” says Terri Ferry.

She and her husband, Dan, remember it like it was just yesterday.

"I was going through the gymnasium in our junior high school and I passed this really tall guy,” Terri says.

Dan laughs and says, “Well at that age, not very many girls paid very much attention to me so, I was very excited about the whole thing."

Then at age 13, Dan asked Terri to a sweetheart dance at church.

"My hands were sweating so much I was a little bit afraid to hold hands with her,” Dan says.

After high school graduation, Dan went off to MTSU and Terri stayed in their hometown and attended UTC, there was just one problem.

Their relationship blossomed, Dan proposed their junior year and they were married senior year of college. On that day 40 years ago, the Ferry's stopped at Arby's on Kingston Pike in West Knoxville before starting their honeymoon in the Smoky Mountains.

“We didn't know about Arby's. We were driving up Kingston pike and saw the big hat and the sign and thought that would be a good place to stop,” recalls Dan.

Since they spent most of their money on the hotel, they left out the curly fries and each just ordered a roast beef sandwich. It didn't matter though because it was the first place they ate together as a married couple. Dan wanted to recreate that special day to mark 40 years of wedded bliss.

“She's just magnetic,” says Dan.

Terri says, “He was always kinda wild and crazy and that's what attracted me to him and he hasn't changed."

Although the tradition of Arby's roast beef sandwiches will never fade, it's each other they truly cherish.

“It's a very, very high valued relationship, that I don't think I could make it through life without,” Dan says.

The Ferry's have two kids, a son and daughter. Terri still still has the dress she wore to the church sweetheart dance when she was 13.

Comments may be monitored for inappropriate  content, but the station is under no legal obligation to do so.

If you believe  a comment violates the above rules, please use the Flagging Tool to alert  a Moderator.

Flagging does not guarantee removal.

Multiple violations may result in account suspension.

Decisions to suspend or unsuspend accounts are made by Station Moderators.

Links require admin approval before posting.

Questions may be sent to webmaster@wvlt-tv.com .  Please provide detailed information.
