
Red Bluff >> The Tehama County Sheriff's Office has released details about a robbery-turned-homicide Friday afternoon on a hiking trail off of Highway 36 east of Red Bluff.

Francis "Pat" Gregory, a 69-year-old man from West Tisbury, Mass. was hiking with a 76-year-old friend from Manton on the Iron Canyon Trail in the Sacramento River Bend Natural Area Friday afternoon.

Sometime between 11:30 a.m. and noon they encountered a white man, described as around 6 feet tall with a thin build and short black hair and a black mustache or beard.

The man produced a firearm and demanded money and personal items from Gregory and his friend.

After the robbery was completed the man shot the victims and left them in a remote area about 100 yards from the trailhead parking lot.

The suspect was wearing dark denim pants and a dark or black T-shirt with an unknown design on the front of it.

About three hours after the shooting an uninvolved hiker came upon the two men and hiked back to the trailhead to notify emergency services.

Gregory died at the scene from his injuries.

The Manton man was suffering from gunshot wounds and airlifted to an area hospital for treatment.

As of Saturday morning he was listed as stable, but in critical condition.

Detectives from the Tehama County Sheriff's Office are actively investigating the incident.

Detectives are asking for assistance from anyone that may have been at the Iron Canyon trailhead or in the area of the trailhead between the hours of 9 a.m. and 3 p.m. on Friday, and from anyone who has seen or recognizes a person that matches the description of the suspect.

If anyone has information , contact detective Jeff Garrett at 530-529-7920, ext. 3032 or contact the Tehama County Sheriff's Department at 529-7900.

The Iron Canyon trailhead is about five miles east on Highway 36 from Highway 99 in Red Bluff.

Gregory was a well-liked, highly respected man in his community back in Massachusetts, Martha's Vineyard Times editor Nelson Sigelman said in an email to the Daily News Saturday.

Gregory was the town moderator for decades in West Tisbury.

He was vacationing in the area with his wife.
