
More young women say they would back reality TV star Joey Essex in an election than Nick Clegg, a new poll reveals.

Just 1 per cent of women aged 18-30 surveyed by Cosmopolitan said they admire Mr Clegg, the Deputy Prime Minister, but 3 per cent said they would consider voting for Essex.

In fact all of Britain’s party leaders proved so unappealing that most young women said they would rather vote for politicians who are from other countries or dead.

In the damning survey of the so-called ‘millenial’ generation of female voters, MPs were described as self-interested, deceitful and power hungry with just 1 per cent of women believing politicians to be hard-working, intelligent and essential.

Margaret Thatcher is admired by 6 per cent of the women surveyed, while 4 per cent said they would vote for Prime Minister David Cameron.

Almost one in five - 19 per cent – said they would be more willing to vote if there was less lying and spin and if there was politicians they admired and trusted.

Meanwhile 12 per cent want a completely new system and 62 per cent agreed with Russell Brand calling our political system ‘broken’, according to the research.

Among the political parties, Labour was backed by 35 per cent, with the Tories in second on 17 per cent.

Opinion was evenly split between Ukip and the Liberal Democrats with 7 per cent of women choosing to vote for both.

The  Ukip vote has significant regional variation with the party having most  sway in East Anglia with 21 per cent of women stating they will vote  for them compared to no one in the East Midlands.

Political  parties are not attracting young female talent to their ranks either  with 84 per cent vowing they would never consider it as a career, the  survey found.

In  a list of career choices, being a politician scored marginally more  than being a stripper. The preferred career choices were teacher or  doctor, followed by journalist, model and banker.

‘British  politicians have a huge disconnect with young women and have a big  fight on their hands if they want to win the battle for the millennial  vote.

Toni Pearce, National Union of Students president, said: ‘I've always believed that it's not that young people aren't interested in politics; it's just that many don't find it very accessible at the moment.

‘Our leaders just aren't representative of the society we live in - men outnumber women four to one in Parliament and out of a cabinet of 23, only four are women.

The comments below have not been moderated.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
