
UNIVERSITY leaders in the North-East have spoken out against Britain leaving the European Union – warning it would be a disaster for higher education.

The vice-chancellors of Newcastle and Teesside universities said £1.2bn of annual research funding was at stake in the controversy over EU membership.

And they vowed to campaign vigorously against withdrawal, if David Cameron succeeds in staging his promised referendum, in 2017.

Professor Graham Henderson, of Teesside University, and Professor Chris Brink, of Newcastle University, have both signed a round-robin letter to a national newspaper.

It describes EU membership as “central” to their institutions’ success in stimulating innovation and growth, pointing to the £1.2bn of European research funding that UK universities receive.

The letter reads: “This supports UK-based research and transnational research projects which pool knowledge to solve social and economic challenges in a way that no country acting alone could do.

“EU programmes facilitate the mobility of researchers, staff and students, providing opportunities for young people and contributing to the excellence of our research base.

“EU structural funds invest in British skills and infrastructure to deliver local economic growth and support university-business collaboration.

In total, 23 vice-chancellors have signed the letter, vowing to ensure “our voices are heard” by joining pro-EU campaigners.

They also fear that the strength and appeal of British universities, currently the most popular in the world outside the United States, would be damaged.

The prime minister has vowed to stage an in-out referendum if he wins next year’s general election and that it will be a “red line” in any Coalition talks.

By leaving the EU some of the £40m a day we have to pay into the EU  would then be pumped into the UK's education system. it would not be a disaster and these educated people should see that.

Dont be fooled by the LIBLABCON and their poodles in the establishement and vote UKIP on May 22nd to get our country back !

Voting UKIP will completely screw this country.  Anyone with half a brain  . . .  actually, anyone with half a brain will probably vote for them or one of the other bigoted small parties.  We need to stay in the EU and it's not just the academics.  Big business needs up to stay in the EU.  Here are just two local companies that will move out if we pull out.  Nissan and Hitachi.  Their suppliers will also be hit.  Add to this the fact that we will automatically stop other people coming here.  Leaving the EU is as stupid as Scotland leaving the UK.  You would think that people have been set up to try and screw the UK.

Even the dreaded Cameron promising a referendum is plain stupidity.  We are running out of sensible parties now.  That leaves the Greens, Labour and the Lib Dems.  The latter have probably blown their chances now, so either Clegg and co leave to join the Tories or their party will sink without trace.

4 of the top 5 countries for immigrants to the UK are from outside the EU.

The UK actually has a fairly average (low average at that) % of immigrants.

We have a lower % than Spain, Germany, Sweden, Denmark... the list goes on.

The immigrants in the UK contribute more to the economy in taxes paid than they take out in benefits.

We want you to enjoy your visit to our website. That's why we use cookies to enhance your experience.  By staying on our website you agree to our use of cookies. Find out more about the cookies we use .
