
A LACK of British warships to help reinforce a crucial Nato naval group in the face of the renewed threat from Russia has been branded a “national disgrace” by the former head of the Royal Navy.

Retired First Sea Lord Admiral Lord West said the UK government needs to find money for more frigates and destroyers.

His comments follow the revelation last week from Defence Minister Mark Francis that the UK has provided no ships for the Nato maritime patrol group in the eastern Atlantic since 2009.

The group was recently reinforced by Nato allies including the US, Canada and Turkey in the light of the Ukrainian crisis and concerns that Russian president Vladimir Putin has an expansionist agenda after annexing Crimea.

The Royal Navy has 19 destroyers and frigates and has to use them for other priorities such as piracy in the Pacific and defending the Falklands.

In the past week, three frigates have joined the Nato maritime patrol group in the eastern Atlantic.

The first of the three, the American USS Taylor, joined flagship HNoMS Thor Heyerdahl from Norway and FGS Magdeburg from Germany. These were followed by the Turkish frigate TCG Gemlik and the Canadian frigate HMCS Regina.

SNP defence spokesman Angus Robertson MP said the lack of British warships indicated that the UK is failing to meet Scotland’s defence needs.

The SNP hopes that an independent Scotland will eventually have four frigates and would take part in the Nato group.

He said that in the past three years Russian naval battle groups have arrived in Scottish waters, leading to Royal Navy ships having to be sent from Portsmouth.

He said: “During recent visits by the Russian navy, the MoD has needed to despatch ships from the south coast of England to Scottish waters because there are no appropriate conventional naval vessels based in Scotland.

The row has again brought into focus the 2010 security and defence review which critics say means the UK now has to pick specific priorities and abandon former commitments.

The next strategic defence and security review is due to start next year and be published after the general election.

© 2014 Johnston Publishing Ltd.

This website and its associated newspaper adheres to the Press Complaints Commission’s Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion, then contact the Editor by clicking here .

If you remain dissatisfied with the response provided then you can contact the PCC by clicking here .

The Scotsman provides news, events and sport features from the Edinburgh area. For the best up to date information relating to Edinburgh and the surrounding areas visit us at The Scotsman regularly or bookmark this page.

For you to enjoy all the features of this website The Scotsman requires permission to use cookies.

Cookies are small data files which are sent to your browser (Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome etc) from a website you visit. They are stored on your electronic device.

This is a type of cookie which is collected by Adobe Flash media player (it is also called a Local Shared Object) - a piece of software you may already have on your electronic device to help you watch online videos and listen to podcasts.

Yes there are a number of options available, you can set your browser either to reject all cookies, to allow only "trusted" sites to set them, or to only accept them from the site you are currently on.

However, please note - if you block/delete all cookies, some features of our websites, such as remembering your login details, or the site branding for your local newspaper may not function as a result.

A tool used by some of our advertisers to target adverts to you based on pages you have visited in the past. To opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

Our sites contain advertising from Google; these use cookies to ensure you get adverts relevant to you. You can tailor the type of ads you receive by visiting here or to opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

This is used to help us identify unique visitors to our websites. This data is anonymous and we cannot use this to uniquely identify individuals and their usage of the sites.

This comes from our ad serving technology and is used to track how many times you have seen a particular ad on our sites, so that you don't just see one advert but an even spread. This information is not used by us for any other type of audience recording or monitoring.

ComScore monitor and externally verify our site traffic data for use within the advertising industry. Any data collected is anonymous statistical data and cannot be traced back to an individual.

Our Classified websites (Photos, Motors, Jobs and Property Today) use cookies to ensure you get the correct local newspaper branding and content when you visit them. These cookies store no personally identifiable information.

We use Grapeshot as a contextual targeting technology, allowing us to create custom groups of stories outside out of our usual site navigation. Grapeshot stores the categories of story you have been exposed to. Their privacy policy and opt out option can be accessed here.

Our partner for Newspaper subscriptions online stores data from the forms you complete in these to increase the usability of the site and enhance user experience.

Add This provides the social networking widget found in many of our pages. This widget gives you the tools to bookmark our websites, blog, share, tweet and email our content to a friend.

We use Advertising agencies to provide us with some of the advertising on our websites. These include (but are not limited to) Specific Media, The Rubicon Project, AdJug, AdConion, Context Web. Please click on the provider name to visit their opt-out page.
