
A recent interview reminded us that attitude and drive win the game.

--Like so much in the communications age, the long-foretold Internet of Things has sneaked up on us.

in 1999) denotes a world in which appliances, physical objects, clothing, sensors, and data systems are all wirelessly networked, allowing you to monitor and control them from afar, on the go -- and, alas, for them to monitor you.

Many people now monitor their houses (temperature, surveillance cameras, crock pot making dinner, fridge, budgie-cage warmer) remotely. Already there are hundreds of gadgets you can app-erate on your mobile device, from garage door openers and security systems to pacemakers and implantable insulin pumps.   And there are single-hub control systems, such as Staples Connect. It's estimated that by 2016 about 19 billion intelligent devices will be wirelessly networked -- about 2.5 per person on Earth.

Foremost has been the smart car, starting for you, parking for you, and avoiding fender-benders. About 1.5 million people, for example, already drive smart Fords. New models can synchronize Ford's SYNC system with the software called AppLink, so you can voice-control your smartphone apps while in your car, orchestrating your world while on wheels.

Imagining the Internet Center released a big survey about all this.

, director of the Pew project, says it was time: "There seems to be a critical mass. More and more companies are building infrastructure and new products, like the Samsung Gear line of smart watches, Google Glass, and personal drones."

The study, titled "The Internet of Things Will Thrive By 2025," is a curious document. It surveys 1,867 experts and industry soothsayers. The gist: The Internet of Things will be great, and there will be issues -- chief among them privacy and security.

"Eighty-three percent say, 'Yup, it'll happen and have benefits,' " Rainie said, "then they say, 'But here are the things you're going to have to worry about as we move into this world,' many cautionary notes to policymakers and engineers, saying, 'This could go very wrong if we're not careful.' "

. If you decide to skip the gym today, "your gym shoes [will] auto tweet . . . to the peer-to-peer health insurance network that will decide to degrade your premiums."

Yikes.

If the self becomes totally quantifiable, a specter rises: the sacrifice of privacy. Reading my blood sugar, blood pressure, and other vitals could help my doctor track and treat me. But once your private data exist, as Rainie puts it, "there's usually a way for someone else to get at them, whether it's law enforcement, companies, or government entities."

Many respondents focused on how the Internet of Things will intersect with Big Data -- the brave, current world of lightning-fast crunching of unthinkably vast info-universes, sifting and shifting to learn what the sifters and shifters want to know about you.

. "The Internet of Things will demand -- and we will give willingly -- our souls."

More heartening is what respondents say about us, the users.

"Human beings have a say," as Rainie puts it. "As users, we discover undreamed-of uses for new tech the designers never saw. We'll do the same with our smart houses, cars, sneakers, and fridges."

And as we do, we may shape the Internet of Things into an Internet of Us.

Stay smart.
