
María Isabel in her bedroom at Casa Xochiquetzal, 2013. The former sex worker, who grew up in Michoacán, Mexico, ran away from home at the age of 9 after a year in which her father “used her.” When she got to the Mexico City bus station, she met a woman selling tamales who offered her a home and education. María Isabel nearly finished her studies to become a teacher, but when her caretaker died, she became a sex worker at 17. She now reads, writes poetry, embroiders, and makes earrings and bracelets.

It’s an unusual question that isn’t often asked: What happens to sex workers once they retire? Photographer Bénédicte Desrus spent six years answering that question while documenting Casa Xochiquetzal, a home in Mexico City for (mostly) retired sex workers.

Left: Paola, a resident at Casa Xochiquetzal, puts on makeup before going to work in 2008. When this photo was taken, she was one of the youngest women at the shelter and still worked the streets. On Jan. 1, 2011, she disappeared and never came back. Right: Victoria, who at age 81 is the oldest resident of Casa Xochiquetzal, in 2008.

Canela takes a visiting dog on a walk in 2009. Originally from Oaxaca, Mexico, Canela came to Mexico City to work at a very young age. She is now well-known and respected in the neighborhoods that surround Casa Xochiquetzal. At 72, she suffers from Down syndrome and a number of other illnesses. Of all the women at Casa Xochiquetzal, Canela is the only one who did not have children. Most women who live at Casa Xochiquetzal have relatives, but for a number of them, contact is sporadic or nonexistent. existent.

Making Casa Xochiquetzal a reality wasn’t an easy undertaking. Carmen Munoz, herself a retired sex worker, spent 20 years trying to persuade the government and NGOs to open the shelter. Finally, in 2006, Mexico City’s municipal government provided the building and the resources that ensure the residents have access to health care, food, and shelter with the understanding that they all participate in the daily maintenance of the home. More than 250 women from age 55-86 have received help from living in the shelter since it opened.

Victoria, a resident of Casa Xochiquetzal, visits her daughter in Pachuca, Mexico, an hour northeast of Mexico City, in 2013.

Juana, a resident of Casa Xochiquetzal, takes a shower at the shelter in 2013.

Leticia’s belongings at Casa Xochiquetzal in 2012. At the age of 8, Leticia watched as her mother said goodbye from the back of a trailer. She never saw her again. Originally from Chihuahua, Mexico, Leticia began working at nightclubs and eventually married. She didn’t walk out on her husband when he hit her—he made good money—but she did leave when he brought other women into their house. She abandoned everything, including her children, and has tried twice to commit suicide. At Casa Xochiquetzal, she practices yoga daily and tries to be a peacemaker and a good housemate; however, her sweet expression can quickly turn to anger. She stays active by knitting, embroidering, and reading the Bible.

Norma rests in her bedroom in 2013. Although she remembers her early childhood fondly, she was abused by one of her brother’s friends when she was 9 years old and was also assaulted by a priest where she lived. Soon after, she decided to find work as a waitress in various red-light districts. She always liked watching the dancers close up—“but not so close she’d get burnt,” as her co-workers used to joke. She’s a cheerful, extroverted woman who has the dirt on absolutely everyone.

Jimena, a resident at Casa Xochiquetzal, in her bedroom in 2009. A solitary woman, she tends to spend much of her time alone in her own room.

A retired sex worker, who prefers not to share her name, attends the funeral of another sex worker who died of cancer at age 64 in 2010.

David Rosenberg is the editor of Slate’s Behold blog. He has worked as a photo editor for 15 years and is a tennis junkie. Follow him on Twitter .

There Were No Disasters at the Emmys. That’s Why They Were So Boring.

The Ice Bucket Challenge Isn’t Going Away. But Giving Money to Disease-Specific Charities Is a Bad Idea.

In August 1980, He Planted a Giant Bomb in a Nevada Casino. Here’s What Happened Next.
