
As the county progresses through its five-year review of the county’s Comprehensive Plan, which guides future growth and development in the county, James City County staff is turning to students for input.

Christy Parrish, proffer administrator for the county, and Leanne Pollock, county planner, have been visiting high school government classes to share a presentation about the Comprehensive Plan then soliciting their input. On Thursday, the duo visited an Advanced Placement government class — the fifth class on its schools tour — at Jamestown High School for their opinions.

First, the students watched a video about the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, which will paint a picture of progression over the next 20 years. Next, the students viewed a slideshow about what the plan covers : demographics, economic development, housing, environment, housing and more — and why it is important.

“This is an effort to get some feedback. … It’s government. We all know you can’t just complain, complain, complain and get no action,” said Angela Moore-Lobach, the class’ teacher.

After gaining an understanding of the document responsible for mapping the county’s future, students began speaking out about things that matter to them.

One student said he wanted to see the county include more activities and venues for the younger generations; right now things are geared to what older people want, he said. Another student chimed in, offering up a skating rink and concert hall as options.

When asked if they planned on remaining in James City County or returning after college, the class split on its answers. Some students had no intention of returning, others said they might when they were older and starting their families.

The James City County area does not afford many people in their mid-20s the opportunity to go out and meet people to make friends with or date, Moore-Lobach said to the class. There is a gap in the generations opting to live in the county, and most 20-somethings have to leave the area for nightlife, she said.

The students agreed, but also said a lack of higher-paying job opportunities, jobs in engineering and advances in renewable energy are things pushing them to seek housing in other localities.

Aside from having the chance to speak up about what is important to them, students were also given comment cards to provide written feedback. The anonymous responses are recorded in a spreadsheet, which is provided to the Community Participation Team tasked with aiding in compiling information for inclusion in the next Comprehensive Plan. Feedback from the previous classes visited was available Thursday.

The county is continuing to seek input on the Comprehensive Plan from community members of all ages. For more information about the plan, or to provide input, visit the county’s website .

It is GREAT that these young people are being introduced early to how local government works. Their input is thoughtful and representation from this demographic slice is important. Kudos to staff for including them.

Nothing like our elected officials getting more bad ideas from other non qualified people. The reason The county caters to the older people is they are the ones with the money, They pay the bulk of all the taxes, If these kids want all this stuff then they need to find a way to pay for it. The reason the deer are being killed on the road is that the hunting season is to short. What ever happened to HUNTING FOR THE HUNGRY, it was like a meat store for the poor. OH that’s right they want steak not venison.

Bad ideas from unqualified people? What makes the loudest citizens in this county any more informed. I heard one of the citizens who speaks loudly at BOS meetings talking in the Toano CVS about hybrid dogs. His information came from a “couple of books he read” so that apparently makes him an expert. Rember this, the older population may have the “money” but it will be the younger generation that shapes this county.

The students are right…there is really a lack of something to do around here for the 20 something’s. It would be nice to have a concert venue or more active night life or just something for folks under 30 to do. It would be nice of the county would consideran outdoor amphitheater rather than a field house or aquatics center.
