
CALL TO ACTION | Planned Parenthood President Cecile Richards said to Barnard graduates that they should continue being involved in the issues they started advocating for in college.

Amid congratulations and sentimentality, around 100 members of Barnard’s class of 2014 walked onstage at Radio City Music Hall with strips of red tape on their caps during Barnard’s commencement ceremony on Sunday to show support for those working to change Columbia University’s sexual assault policies .

The show of solidarity came after an email sent to the senior class that morning asked students to wear red tape to raise awareness about a “woefully inadequate set of services” available to survivors of sexual assault.

The students’ display did not affect the ceremony itself, which featured Planned Parenthood Federation of America President Cecile Richards as the commencement speaker.

Richards, whose selection drew some controversy earlier in the semester, spoke about her experiences advocating for causes ranging from apartheid divestment at Brown University, to her mother Ann Richards’ 1990 campaign for governor of Texas, to women’s reproductive rights.

Richards talked about the political progress women in the United States have made in the past century.

Richards also touched on the controversy surrounding her selection as commencement speaker.

Richards urged students to continue being involved in issues they started advocating for in college.

“In your four years at Barnard, you’ve produced ‘The Vagina Monologues,’ you’ve worked on mayoral and presidential campaigns, you’ve tutored kids in the neighborhood, you’ve taken back the night, and today you are getting ready to leave all of that behind you and become a fully functioning adult in your career,” Richards said.

Senior Class President Stephanie Fernandez, BC ’14, and former Barnard Student Government Association President Maddy Popkin, BC ’14, both spoke about using the skills they gained as students to challenge authority.

Popkin talked about Barnard’s role in the advancement of women.

Still, she said that parts of Barnard’s trans policy could be improved and emphasized the importance of wellness and queer communities on campus.

“I am confident that we will stay true to our commitment to provide quality education to all women, not just those of us who are considered to have a female body, but trans women, too,” Popkin said.

Richards’ message of general action and civic involvement struck a positive note with graduates.

“I’m glad that she embraced the general idea of controversy,” Amelia Lembeck, BC ’14, said.

Kate Christensen, BC ’14 and former president of the Columbia University College Republicans, said she appreciated the approach to general involvement Richards took in light of the controversial nature of Planned Parenthood.

In March, Christensen wrote an op-ed in Spectator arguing that Richards’ selection as speaker unnecessarily alienated many students who were opposed to abortion, of which Planned Parenthood is a major provider.

“I appreciate that it was a call to action, and that she acknowledged what it took for a lot of students and families to be there for her remarks,” Christensen said.

Graduates also said they appreciated the silent protest with red tape.

Barnard President Debora Spar spoke about the importance of having an environment of different opinions.

“Real diversity is being with people, and crucially listening to people, who share different, even fundamentally different, views. It means looking at these views and thinking about these views even if you wholly disagree with them,” Spar said.

Richards, along with Harvard sociologist Mahzarin Banaji, Xerox CEO Ursula Burns, and musician Patti Smith—who also performed at the ceremony—were all awarded the Barnard Medal of Distinction.

This question is for testing whether or not you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions.

Enter the characters shown in the image.

What perhaps should also be mentioned is that Barnard Commencement Speaker Richards also currently sits next to Correctional Corporation of America [CCA] board member Thurgood Marshall Jr. on the Ford Foundation board of trustees--despite student activists at Barnard and Columbia calling on Columbia University to divest itself of any stock it still owns in CCA or other for-profit prison-industrial complex-linked corporations.
