
The stunning move by a commencement speaker at Haverford College on Sunday to use the celebratory occasion to lambaste students who had protested against another speaker drew a standing ovation by many but also sharp criticism.

William G. Bowen, former president of Princeton, called the protestors' approach both "immature" and "arrogant," and the subsequent withdrawal as a speaker of Robert J. Birgeneau, former chancellor of the University of California Berkeley, a "defeat" for the Quaker college and its ideals.

Bowen's remarks to an audience of about 2,800, plus nearly 300 graduates, added a new twist to commencement speaker controversies playing out increasingly on college campuses. Bowen -- one of three speakers who received an honorary degree -- faced no opposition, but chose to address the issue, calling it "sad" and "troubling."

The controversy arose over Birgeneau's leadership during a 2011 incident in which UC Berkeley police used force on students protesting college costs. A group of more than 40 students and three Haverford professors who are also Berkeley alums objected to Birgeneau's appearance, noting that many of them had participated in Occupy protests as well and wanted to stand in solidarity with Berkeley students.

They wrote a letter to Birgeneau, urging him to meet nine conditions, including publicly apologizing, supporting reparations for victims, and writing a letter to Haverford students explaining his position on the events and "what you learned from them." Birgeneau declined and withdrew.

"I am disappointed that those who wanted to criticize Birgeneau's handling of events at Berkeley chose to send him such an intemperate list of 'demands,'" said Bowen, who led Princeton from 1972 to 1988 and last year received the National Humanities Medal from President Obama. "In my view, they should have encouraged him to come and engage in a genuine discussion -- not to come, tail between his legs, to respond to an indictment that a self-chosen jury had reached without hearing counter-arguments."

Bowen's remarks stung some students and professors, who criticized his decision to chide graduates on their day in a forum where they had no opportunity to respond.

"It was an ambush," said Maud McInerney, an associate professor of English and chair of Haverford's English department who signed the letter to Birgeneau. "It is really unfair to shame students at their graduation. It's a captive audience. That's an abuse of power."

Others, who attended the outdoor campus ceremony under sunny skies, applauded the move.

"His remarks were appropriate and justified," said Bo Abrams, a senior political science major from Los Angeles. "He said all the right things in response . . . to a blown-out-of-proportion situation."

There was even disagreement within families. Joanna Kessler, a senior art history major from Mobile, Ala., said though not among the student protestors, she disliked Bowen's remarks.

"I thought they were excellent," said her father, Tom Kessler.

"You did?" she responded, her eyes widening.

"I'm not a fan of the actions of the chancellor, but I do believe points of view should be expressed," he said.

Increasingly, it seems, controversies over commencement speakers are becoming a rite of spring.

Rutgers University also held commencement on Sunday -- without former Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, who withdrew after professors and students there protested over her role in the Iraq war. Smith College and Brandeis University lost speakers this year, too.

Bowen, who took no position on Birgeneau's handling of the Berkeley situation, also had criticism for Birgeneau's response to the Haverford students' demands, which the former UC Berkeley chancellor delivered in a curt e-mail. Birgeneau failed "to make proper allowance for the immature, and, yes, arrogant inclinations of some protestors," Bowen said. "Aggravated as he had every right to be, I think he should be with us today."

Suzanne Martin, there to see her son, Paul, graduate agreed with Bowen's assessment.

"It was a missed opportunity on both sides," said Martin, of Chicago.

Her husband, Hart Weichselbaum, added: "Students have the excuse of being 21 years old. What's his [Birgeneau's] excuse?"

Bowen also took aim at Michael Rushmore, a senior political science major from London, who called Birgeneau's withdrawal "a minor victory."

"It represents nothing of the kind," Bowen asserted. ". . . I regard this outcome as a defeat, pure and simple, for Haverford -- no victory for anyone who believes, as I think most of us do, in both openness to many points of view and mutual respect."

Rushmore said he was disappointed that Bowen lashed out. He said he wished that Bowen would have taken a position on Birgeneau's actions in the 2011 incident instead.

"What we wanted to talk about was whether Birgeneau made the right decision," he said. "We thought he hadn't and he hadn't been held accountable."

Bowen also recounted other instances in which speakers faced protest with a better outcome, including a case at Princeton when protestors merely stood and turned their backs to George Shultz, former secretary of state, who addressed the crowd.

This content is published through a licensing agreement with Acquire Media using its NewsEdge technology.

An educationalist with ‘nads’.

I think ideally the speakers who are so controversial should say “ok I will show up and I will speak and afterwards you may ask questions” I would love thwe chance to ask some people questions instead of cutting them off. Dr. Rice has much to offer just in her life experiences.I bet they would let hillary clinton speak and never mention Benghazi or all the mysterious deaths surrounding her “legacy”.All our kids are being brainwashed in our liberal schools.

Good for him! I wish more people would speak up about this liberal fascism at our nation’s colleges.

Won’t be long before college graduates receive a brown shirt instead of a diploma.

I rated your comment with only four stars, MustLiveFree.  I understand your point of view, and partially share it.  But surely, it must depend on the political viewpoint of the student in question, whether he or she would be automatically drafted into a Nazi Brown Shirt organization upon graduation.  If the student had aligned himself with left-wing organizations on campus, or made any voluntary left-wing statements, then your view is probably true.

However, if the student had been a member of Campus Young Republicans during his years in college, or voluntarily made conservative speeches or contradicted left-wing views expressed by others, then I don’t see how the Nazi’s could draft that student into their organization.  I do agree with your premise that the current administration has Nazi characteristics.  They just have not YET gotten to the violence-against-dissenters aspect of the dictatorship.

Connie wouldn’t you call being fired from you job for exercising your right of free speech and disagreeing with GLAD “violence against dissenters”.  Some that the radical  GLAD movement sought to hurt that readily come to mind are Chick Fil A, Phil Robertson, Mozilla, etc. Not debate here, just make them sorry they opened their mouths.

Actually, I’d call that the free market at work. Chick Fil A and Phil Robertson are still going strong thanks to the support of people like us who oppose the speech of those Liberals, but they have just as much of a right to demand someone fired as we have to demand them reinstated.

That our college students cannot see the mostly left wing brainwashing they coddle up to as the BS it really is is mind boggling. Our “college class” of kids is now our most close minded group after our partisan politicians, and our pervertedly ideological administration? These so-called students are creating a horrid and myopically limiting future for themselves. And in this case, per the article, more conservative students (Quakers) reject a potentially more liberal speaker (i.e., from Berkeley)? It goes both ways, doesn’t it! Our present day college students really need to grow up. Stop baby-time now. Grow a brain.

Such self-importance is so easily crumbled when reality rears its ugly head.

In 2005, I had to sit through a speech by a leftist alum of the university that railed against GW Bush.  He talked too long in addition to being boring. At the end he said, “and now to wrap up” and the grads cheered before he could finish.  It is a shame that they had to be rude to get the message across. He proceeded to speak for 10 more minutes. Leftist just don’t get it that a college graduation is not the place to be partisan. It is a place to encourage the young people to go out and work to change the world.

What really makes me mad about these College’s is the fact that just a ” few ” of these trouble makers can disrupt and entire College. Some of them, I noticed, were wearing Muslim Garb and numbered about 8 or 10 students. Why did these “students” even bother registering in this College to start with and why did the other “students” let this happen. If this College is Taking American Tax Payer Dollars to stay afloat, they should not have any say about who the other Students want as a “Special ” Speaker. Another thing is, If you don’t want to listen to the Speaker, don’t attend the Forum. American Tax Payer Dollars should not be given to a College if they will not welcome or except qualified Speakers. Thank you for your time. TSgt., USAF Retired.

Agreed I thought College was supposed to expand the mind and see different views, meet people with different backgrounds, not silence any opposing views.

Besides it is a commencement speech, you can respect others for their position and experience, without agreeing with everything they say or do.

@mrsgunnut10,

I don’t think the Muslim students in hijabs were necessarily the same students who didn’t want Birgeneau to speak, so there’s no need to single them out and imply that they don’t have a right to attend school with everyone else. If we want to be a nation of religious freedom, we need to respect both Christians and Muslims.

“The controversy arose over Birgeneau’s leadership during a 2011 incident in which UC Berkeley police used force on students protesting college costs.” Is that anything like the student who was told he couldn’t pass out a copy of the Constitution?  Did associate professor Maud McInerney say anything about the incident?  Probably not, not liberal enough.

Comedienne Flip Wilson said it best, “A lie is as good as the truth if you can find someone who believes it”!

Bowen was right in the chastising of the students, the elite of academia (anemia) like McInnerney are really afraid of ideas which counter their own.  The left and liberals want to silence opposing opinions, just contemplate the spate of disinvite petitions.  The right and conservatives will listen and the decide to comment.  This weekend Jeb Bush spoke at my Alma Mater, Grove City College, Laura Bush spoke a few years ago and Senator Gerald R. Ford spoke at my commencement.  Should Abby Hoffman been the speaker, we would have listened and only then repudiated what he had said.

I do not know anything about Birgeneau but I must be on his side if the left and liberals want to silence him.  I can only pity the students who will not expand their minds and listen, I listen to what I disagree with, but I will not choose to silence it, I will debate it!  The left, liberals, do not want debate because they know they are at a disadvantage, TRUTH.

Just remember, the world is flat, the sun revolves around the earth, and witches float.

Debate, no just yell louder and act more outraged than the people you disagree with, and try to get some friends to berate the people that disagree with you, they will change their views sooner or latter.

Seems to me the students and professors just received a taste of “what’s good for the goose is good for the gander” treatment.

The “political correctness” police embedded within academia, the media and entertainment industries, and in government, especially within the judicial, are seeing the results of their decades long agenda led by the far left liberal activists. We now have intimidated everyone in our country to resist saying almost anything that could be construed as racist, anti-gay, sexist, pro life, or admitting you believe in God as you will be punished. Support anything that advocates marriage as between the thousand year old tradition of a man and a woman, and you will be demonized and punished one way or the other.

This extremist and zealous “political correctness” is now considered more important to the PC advocates then the ability of someone to do their trained for job. Look at the CEO of Mozilla who was forced to resign by its Board because the gay rights advocates found out he contributed $1000 4 years ago to the petition in California to preserve the traditional definition of marriage which was passed by the voters. It had nothing to do with his executive management skills and the fact that he basically invented major software programming products.

It has gotten totally upside down and out of control, and is undermining freedom of speech and our Bill of Rights, while also affecting even our private economy by creating a hyper sensitive litigation encouraged environment costing individuals both their jobs and livelihood while making law firms wealthy.

This has to be stopped.

Big campaign in schools to stop bullying, GLAD and other political correct people forget the lesson. use internet as bullying platform.

IOW: Hey kids, welcome to the real world, where everything doesn’t have a storybook ending.

That little dose of reality might just be one of the best messages they could have received, assuming that they get it.

I suspect these pampered, arrogant, close-minded college brats won’t see the light until they enter the real world. They will learn rather quickly that their opinions and political views are irrelevant to the people who sign their paychecks. It will be a rude awaking for many of them.

In this age rampant egos run a muck, there’s little give but lots of take, especially by the leftists, who although they take pride in their being tolerant, they are ALL totally intolerant of views outside their belief parameters!

Michael Rushmore, a senior political science major from London, who called Birgeneau’s withdrawal “a minor victory should be stripped of all academic credits and deported, as he has obviously failed to understand that our first amendment rights mean that occasionally you have to listen to those you violently disagree with.

I can recall in the 1970′s the American Nazi party won the right to hold a march through Skokie Ill, a largely Jewish neighborhood.  They were allowed to do so because even unpopular speech is protected under our constitution.

If the 40 or so people that wanted to protest the speaker were allowed to hold at a different location, at the same time, they should have been allowed to do so.  Go ahead, and miss your commencement.  Explain to your parents how your opinion and protest is more important to you than attending something that they sacrificed and paid for.

We are dealing with fascist academicians and cowardly or corrupt administrations at our colleges.  The time has long since passed where we should sit idly by and allow this kind of lawless fascist oppression to happen on OUR campuses. It is time to remove the criminal elements from our colleges in both the faculty and the student body.  If they will not resign, then they should be compelled to leave.

God gave them two ears and only one mouth for a reason.

The protestors’ position is indefensible. It is a star chamber jury condemning a person without trial and it is an undisguised protocol for banning free speech. Yet, because students “like” her and her positions, every college in the Nation appears willing to let Hillary Clinton speak, without holding her in any way accountable for the murder of a US Ambassador while she clearly and admittedly did not prepare for the risks and while she has been unable to describe a single action she took while the event was occurring to save the Ambassador and others with him or to otherwise mitigate the damage. If only those who agree with us, or who parrot our positions on every issue, are allowed to speak, then the First Amendment is, simply, a dead letter.
