
SEOUL, May 19 (Yonhap) -- Families of those killed in last month's deadly ferry sinking have requested police to investigate a teenage son of the ruling party contender for Seoul mayor for making insulting remarks about them, a law firm said Monday.

The action against the youngest son of Chung Mong-joon, a seven-term lawmaker of the Saenuri party, came nearly one month after the billionaire-turned-politician made a public apology over his son's online remarks.

In his Facebook posting, Chung's 19-year-old son had written that "the (South Korean) people's sentiment is very uncivilized and it does not make any sense for the people to expect the president to become god and meet their every need."

"Uncivilized people make up an uncivilized nation, as a nation is composed of people," he said, referring to an incident in which the president was shouted at and water bottles were thrown at the prime minister at a gymnasium where families of those missing were gathered. The posting was later deleted.

The April 16 sinking of the 6,825-ton ferry Sewol left more than 300 people, mostly teenage students from a high school, dead or missing, fueling strong public criticism over the government's haphazard emergency rescue system.

Some of the victims' families have attempted to march to the presidential house to express their discontent, but they were blocked by riot police.

Accusing Chung's son of defaming the victims' families, a 45-year-old man surnamed Oh, filed a complaint with the Dongjak Police Station in Seoul, according to a committee comprising the families.

The complaint was sent to the police station last week, but it's still not clear whether the police has received it, the law firm representing the victims' families said.

"Chung's son said 'people' in his writing but given the context, it was nothing less than referring to victims' families as being uncivilized," Oh said.

"(He) should know what wrongdoing he has done and take responsibility for his action," Oh said, adding that the teenage boy should know everybody is equal before the law.

Copyright Yonhap News Agency, 2014. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.
