
As calls for reform of the Seanad are put on the long finger, Senator Seán Barrett speaks to The University Times about his proposal to make the Upper House more accessible while keeping the independent voices.

Seven months and fourteen days ago 1,240,729 voters gave two fingers to our Taoiseach Enda Kenny and his cohort in Government when the referendum to abolish Seanad Éireann was defeated by a margin of 51.7 per cent to 48.3 per cent.

The count played out like an orchestral climax, as politicians and political parties clambered to take the credit for the ‘No’ result once it was safe to call. On camera, a Fianna Fáil spokesperson humbly thanked voters for seeing through the “dishonesty” and “populist positions” of the ‘Yes’ campaign and even threw a bone to the “other civil society groups” that gave them a dig out during the campaigning period. No mention of Labour, naturally.

As the opposition parties and interest groups threw digs at Kenny and reveled in the embarrassment of the whole affair, the public looked fondly at the images of university senators Seán Barrett and David Norris jumping for joy at the announcement of the result. For them, this was not a game of party politics, but the protection of an institution they cherish for its history, traditions and, in the case of these senators, an independent voice.

Throughout the campaign, the six university senators notably outsmarted the ‘Yes’ side in Seanad debates, Dáil debates and arguments in the Dáil bar.  However, there was a fear that their calls for reform, not abolition, from a group that are perceived to be elitist would fall on deaf ears. The existence of the university seats was part of the ‘Yes’ campaign’s long list of reasons why the Seanad should be abolished since they only represent a tiny percentage of the populace. An attempt to defend highbrow claims to seats in the Oireachtas and an Upper House that produced wind-bag politicians was expected to fall flat on its face – but it didn’t.

The Seanad referendum win is something Senator Seán Barrett still openly relishes in. Speaking to him for fifty-five minutes over the phone, the Trinity senator spoke fondly about the historical links between Trinity College and Seanad Éireann.

“You probably know about the Provost John Henry Bernard, predecessor of our own Provost Patrick Prendergast,” said Barrett.

Of course, I hadn’t a clue.

Barrett is proud to say that the Seanad is “very much a TCD creation” with a history of giving a voice to minority groups. Yet, with the Seanad still standing and a demand for reform, the university seats are under scrutiny again as the Parliament seek to make the House more inclusive.

Last week, Senator Seán Barrett put forward a proposal to Seanad Éireann to open the house up to other third-level institutions and graduates by creating a new type of constituency through a split of the cultural and educational panel. By amending Section 52 of the Seanad Electoral Act and adjusting the numbers in the panels to put eight members on the cultural and educational panel, this would form a constituency “for the election of four members of Seanad Éireann to the educational constituency”.

If the proposal is taken on board, this would work towards eliminating the elitism of the university seats as Dublin City University, the University of Limerick, the Institutes of Technology, the Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland and any institution that is recognised as a provider of the “Qualifications and Quality Assurance Authority of Ireland” (now known as the Higher Education Authority) would be eligible to vote in this newly created constituency.

However, while this proposal may tackle the issue of exclusionary seats, some would argue that a reshuffle which gives more priority to culture and education is too idealistic and inefficient, and that perhaps the only way to open to the wider public is to scrap the university seats altogether. Senator Barrett disagrees, saying that these seats are important to keep so the Seanad does not evolve into another breeding ground for party politics.

Speaking on the plans to eighty-six the university seats, Barrett pointed out that the Taoiseach appoints eleven Senators to the Seanad, whereas “there are only six of us”.

According to Barrett, not only do the university seats protect the Seanad from dissolving into party politics, but connects the Oireachtas to third-level expertise without an agenda.

Although he apologised for his “the young generation is the future” cliché, Barrett is well known as a big advocate for students. Whether it’s taking his Transport Economics class to Brewbakers for coffee after his lectures, his 14 year tenure as Junior Dean or even sticking up for the student populace on the College Board, banalities like that seem a lot more convincing from somebody who believes in them.

As for the future of the Seanad? Well, apart from the reforms that he would like to see introduced, the future of the house lies with fresh-faced intellectuals roaming around our university.
