
We interviewed all four hopefuls. Here’s the best of what they had to say.

Well first you pull back on the breaks that have nothing whatsoever to do with job creation.

Those of us who've run a lot of businesses know that when it comes to entrepreneurialism, young dogs hunt, old dogs beg. So the young dogs are out there working hard, trying to create jobs, trying to find customers. It's the big, stodgy, old companies that simply are trying to get a subsidy essentially in exchange for political support. Not for job creation, that we need to address.

Tom Corbett only needs to have a little chat with himself and say, "Tom, stop gerrymandering the school formula." "Okay, Tom! I will!" The fact that the funding of our schools has become a political back-room deal is brought to you, totally, by Tom Corbett. And it just… it strains belief a little bit too much that now he's aghast about it. When Ed Rendell was in office, we — like just about every other state in the union — had an objective, transparent school funding formula based on common sense things like "What's the population in this school district?" "What's the average income in this school district?" "What's the percentage of students with special needs in this school district?" In a McGinty administration, it will be that transparency, that accountability and that common sense that will come back to the fore and push out what Tom Corbett has done, which is to make our children's future a matter of political arm-wrestle.

Allyson Schwartz is staring at me, intense, her eyes glazing over. It’s a moment on the heels of her character being challenged—but she seems to be feeling, too, what she so badly wants, right there for the taking, after a career of push-push-push. She wants to be governor for herself, of course, and just maybe for the rest of us as well.

“The fact is, my style is different. It’s different because I’m a woman; it’s different because my history is different. It’s different because I’ve come up through public service for different reasons, a different starting point.

I think I'm uniquely qualified to go toe to toe against whoever the other side puts up because I've actually done this. And when they pretend or try to speak for those of us who have built businesses, who have employed people and met payrolls, I could actually come right back and say "Actually, maybe some of the things you think work for business might not work as well." I've done this. I've worked in the trenches. I'm a lifelong Democrat and everything I've done and seen in my business career has reaffirmed me as a Democrat. And I think that would be something that would be somewhat unusual in politics and state politics that would make me a good candidate.

Your morning dose of headlines, opinions, sports, photos and gossip, Monday through Friday.
