
PORTSMOUTH — Over 70 primary care physicians, nurse practitioners, physician's assistants and registered nurses gathered at the Sheraton Harborside Hotel Saturday for a “Safe and Competent Opioid Prescribing Education” summit Saturday.

The conference was a joint effort between the Boston University School of Medicine Continuing Medical Education program and the New England division of HIDTA; High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area.

An opioid is defined as any psychoactive chemical; often becoming abused and subsequently, addictive.

Keynote Speaker, Michael Botticelli, Acting Director of the Obama Administration's Office of National Drug Control Policy, addressed the group praising the medical and law enforcement communities for working together to combat the problem of prescription drug abuse.

Alford encouraged the health professionals, when assessing their patients, to query them about past use of drugs, alcohol and other additive behavior, as well as those of family members. These patients can then be considered to be in one of three categories; Low, Medium or High, for risk tolerance to an additive drug.

It is at that point Alford recommends having a frank discussion with the patient about how to go forward with a treatment plan; not only about the use of the drug for pain control, but how to control the drug within the house, and how to dispose of unused prescriptions.

Another disturbing trend Alford details, is that of patients getting prescriptions from other doctors in addition to their primary care physician. A common term for this is “doctor shopping,” a practice where patients obtain multiple prescriptions of opioids from various prescribers thereby supporting their substance abuse.

According to Dr. Seddon Savage, an Adjunct Associate Professor of Anesthesiology at Dartmouth Medical School, state-sponsored monitoring programs will help to combat this situation. The majority of the states have adopted prescription drug monitoring programs. New Hampshire is the 49th state to do so.

Ilana Hardesty, Program Operations Manager for BU School of Medicine Continuing Medical Education program, says that Boston University has been providing 'safe opioid prescribing education' since 2010 with a program developed in conjunction with the Mass Board of Medicine Registration, which handles licensing for physicians.
