
Deaths happen because of drunk driving because we let it, insists the Wausau Daily Herald in a weekend editorial. Citing a recent tragedy in nearby Merrill, the Daily Herald says we have to stop turning a blind eye to the problem. There are things we could do, but we haven't shown the resolve to do them, the paper argues.

The Beloit Daily News was in a tizzy over the weekend over the news t hat the IRS paid some $13 billion in tax credits to people who didn't deserve them. The paper claims the tax agency commits such snafus regularly and that's a reason people don't trust it.

On BloggingBlue, Ed Heinzelman says that "Republican apologist" Christian Schneider admits in his op-ed for the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel the reason gerrymandering is so important to his party. You draw the districts so Republicans can elect Republicans, Schneider wrote.

Conservative blogger James Wigderson, a big defender of all things Waukesha, lectures Milwaukee businesses about endorsing a new arena for the Bucks that would include some taxpayer money. Wigderson is particularly upset that Waukesha taxpayers might have to fork over some help for the new arena. He tells the businessmen to fork over their own money if they're so in favor of the new venue. Besides, he pouts, the owners are Democrats.

Madison's rightie blogger David Blaska is upset with the Madison School Board's decision to negotiate a new contract with the Madison teachers union, saying the board is flouting the law by doing so.

Blogger Jeff Simpson tells his readers that they shouldn't trust Rep. Steve Nass with their money. Simpson lists a number of transgressions that he insists Nass has committed over the years and concludes that the representative, now a candidate for the state Senate, shouldn't be trusted with federal funds earmarked for literacy grants around the state.

James Rowen on his blog takes issue with a contention by pro-mining interests that the presence of asbestos in the proposed GTAC mine is conjecture. There's no conjecture about it — it's a fact, Rowen says, and points to a letter from longtime geologist-environmentalist Al Gedicks that appeared last week in the Journal Sentinel.

On his blog, Mike Leon contends that Attorney General J.B. Van Hollen ought to be defending Wisconsin constitutional officers from U.S. Judge Rudolph Randa's decision that the state's John Doe investigation into illegal campaign collusion is unconstitutional. Rather than fighting the right to investigate illegal activities, the attorney general needs to be defending the people, Leon asserts.

Copyright 2014 madison.com. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site consitutes agreement to it's user agreement & privacy policy.

Username & Password Required!
