
"We make every effort to see that our actions live up to our words and be vigilant with regards to our behavior."

Friday was a day of honour, showering and show of gratitude and praise on Dr Christiana Ayoka Mary Thorpe for the Chief Electoral Commissioner of the National Electoral Commission (NEC).

This took place during the launch of book ‘Reach in for the Stars’ and also the RIFTS foundation.

The book which was written by a Sierra Leonean, Michael Wundah is about the life and work of Dr Thorpe.

In his ‘Forward’, Wundah stated that “the writing was “inspired and motivated by the greatest of masters, who orders as well as concludes all things bright and beautiful.

In launching the book, the First Lady Sia Nyama Koroma said the book is rich in content  and history, well written and one can easily deduce the content   as it is a story about a strong, committed woman, dedicated to the service of the nation and empowerment of women and girls.

She said the book written from someone’s heart and it is the latest of the effort of Dr. Thorpe’s meaningful contribution to the nation and the society.

As Dr. Thorpe took her vow in the sisterhood, this helps to shape her life and because of this, she has placed high premium on education.

On her role in electoral management, Mrs. Koroma said “her life reveals she is a non-conformist, as she saved the nation when the country was clamouring for change”. She cited page 141 in the book which she spoke about her decision in the 2007 elections.

In that extract, it is written “the country was at the crossroads of change. The clamour of the people for change had become ear deafening. They would have nothing less.

In her appreciation, she gave a background of the book which she said started in May 2013, that was why she choose that day to launch the book, and it was her intention that she write the book after leaving the Commission.

Dr. Thorpe said the touching side of the book is the discernment she has about the dreaming which is the logo of the book and she knows if she had been in convent, she would not have done it, except when she is outside and this she has done.

Awoko Newspaper Copyright © 2010-2011. All rights reserved.
