
NAGPUR: The state government may have issued a GR (government resolution) for procuring land from Panjabrao Deshmukh Krishi Vidyapeeth (PDKV) on March 4 for extension of Akola airport, but the fate of the airport is far from certain. In a letter dated May 15, the Airport Authority of India (AAI) stated that the Akola airport is unlikely to get an aerodrome license due to non-fulfilment of DGCA and civil aviation requirements. The letter also ascertains that there is no demand for an airport from any scheduled airline for operating flights from Akola.

The letter, shared with TOI by a source in the university which received it on Monday, has been addressed to the Maharashtra additional chief secretary of General Administration Department (GAD), PS Meena. The Akola airport expansion plan has been facing stiff opposition from all quarters such as PDKV authorities, former university staffers and vice chancellors as also society at large. The expansion would mean a loss of 60.68 hectare of land including research fields, many buildings, irrigation pond, etc which are vital for running of the university.

The Nagpur Bench of Bombay High Court has also stayed the expansion of the Shivni airport after Vidarbha Association for Research Technology and Development in Agricultural and Rural Sector (VART-DARS) filed a PIL through its president Balwant Batkal.

However, the  AAI executive director Kalpana Sethi's letter does not clearly says that it would not develop the airport. AAI chairman  Alok Sinha told TOI the authority stands by every word mentioned in the letter and certainly as of now there was uncertainty about the proposed expansion.

Referring to the state government's stance that the airport would not be feasible on 174.67 acre area due to highway on one side and agriculture university on other in 2011, the letter says, "Due to non availability of land for development works, the mandatory requirement of 300m basic strip cannot be fulfilled whereby the runway remains a non instrument runway, catering to fair weather operations during daytime only. The scheduled flight operations also get restricted due to non availability of a runway equipped with navigations aids."

Experts and authorities in university and other opponents are seeing the proposal as politically motivated. They feel it as a conspiracy of businessmen and traders to push the government in favour of airport now and make it unfeasible after a few years. "The government issued a GR just a day before the implementation of election code of conduct is a clear indication of this," said a highly-placed university official. Sources say that in fact the chances of the proposed Bellora airport coming near Amravati are more as it is being backed by the former President Pratibha Patil . This issue has also been contested in the PIL where it is claimed that two airports cannot be made within 100km distance.
