
There is no schools place crisis, the leader of Kingston Council has said, as figures reveal some schools had four times as many applications last year as they had places to offer.

Kingston Council figures show for the September 2013 academic year there were 6,764 applications for 2,040 places. Although parents are encouraged to put down up to six choices, a chief education officer said many did not.

The most popular school in the borough was Latchmere School that had 491 applications for 120 places, with 156 parents making it their first preference.

Kings Oak only had 90 applications for 90 places with just 36 parents saying it was their first choice.

Liberal Democrat and Kingston Council leader Councillor Liz Green said there were always dropouts and many of the children ended up going to private schools.

He said council officers publicly admitted they faced “a challenge” even if they did not admit to a crisis.

Christine Blower, general secretary of the National Union of Teachers, said: “As a result of the Government’s academy and free schools programme, councils find themselves in the untenable position of having responsibility for providing quality primary and secondary places, but no power to plan, commission or build schools. “The reality is that many children could be without a school place, perhaps as many as one in four.

“We need to see an end to this chaotic approach to education provision and return to policies which work for all children and young people.

Local authorities know best where and when places are needed in their communities. They need the power to open new schools”.

- Christian group Chapel Street and Gems, who run schools across the world, including in the United Arab Emirates, have put in applications for funding.

- They are expected to be told whether they are successful by the Education Funding Authority in the next few weeks.

- Chapel Street wants to open a primary and secondary school in Kingston or Norbiton to begin opening its first stage by September 2015.

- Gems is hoping to run a primary school somewhere in Tolworth , starting with 60 pupils.

Her party campaigned against the new Secondary School in North Kingston , blocked the  permanent expansion of local school primary School sand failed to plan for the surge in demand for secondary school places in Kingston and have failed to provide enough quality school places in the Borough .

Good to hear our Leader saying something before the elections but I sort of get the feeling that when she lifts her head from the sand she will be surprised at the army of pigs flying by.

After four years of serial objections to new school places across the borough, it's too late for the Tories to gain any credibility on the school place issue.

Under the Tory Free School regime, it's idealogue & lunatic Michael Gove, not the council, who ultimately decide when new schools are  allowed to be built.

Michael Gove delayed the desperately needed North Kingston school funding by a year. No reason was ever given. Cynical souls might ask whether Michael Gove's delay was intentionally introduced so that the school wasn't built before this election. It wouldn't be the first time that nasty Tories have played politics with kids' education.

Regular readers will know that the Tories betrayed Surbiton parents, opposing Lime Tree once they saw the brilliant work that MP Ed Davey had done at Westminster. In 2009, Ed was the first MP to raise the impending London schools population rise. His work led to £8.2 million coming to Kingston, which was used to create thousands of new primary school places.

Two faced Conservatives blanket opposed most of the proposed new school places. Usually on the basis that they were "unsuitable". Tellingly, they never came up with any acceptable alternative sites that could deliver the places quickly and where needed. When the Tories serially objected to 1000's of new places in the knowledge that no alternative sites existed to meet immediate need, they were playing nasty politics with kids' education.

Off the top of my head, from 2009 to 2013, Conservatives refused to support the majority of the 945 new places provided by the Lib Dems in Surbiton & Berrylands. That's a shameful record. No doubt figures are similar in other parts of our royal borough.

For a full timeline on Michael Gove's unexplained North Kingston delay, see this 2013 Kingston Guardian story.

Flashback 2011: Conservatives petition against hundreds of proposed new New Malden places. "Unsuitable", they say.

Given the above, at least we can eliminate the Captain as being Cllr Greene.

Captain Shamrock,

Under the Lib Dems, our schools are among the best in the country.

Our primary schools are 4th out of 152 local authorities.

First  all Government policies has to be signed off by all Ministers including the Lib Dems ministers.

Next the Lib Dems  seem to think they are beyond the Law. Apart from the Ex  Leader  on Kingston Council serving jail time for Child **** .

Her party campaigned against the new Secondary School in North Kingston , blocked the  permanent expansion of local school primary School sand failed to plan for the surge in demand for secondary school places in Kingston and have failed to provide enough quality school places in the Borough .

First  all Government policies has to be signed off by all Ministers including the Lib Dems ministers.

Next the Lib Dems  seem to think they are beyond the Law. Apart from the Ex  Leader  on Kingston Council serving jail time for Child **** .

First  all Government policies has to be signed off by all Ministers including the Lib Dems ministers.

Next the Lib Dems  seem to think they are beyond the Law. Apart from the Ex  Leader  on Kingston Council serving jail time for Child **** .

First  all Government policies has to be signed off by all Ministers including the Lib Dems ministers.

Next the Lib Dems  seem to think they are beyond the Law. Apart from the Ex  Leader  on Kingston Council serving jail time for Child **** .

First  all Government policies has to be signed off by all Ministers including the Lib Dems ministers.

Next the Lib Dems  seem to think they are beyond the Law. Apart from the Ex  Leader  on Kingston Council serving jail time for Child **** .

Not Really just read the National press today about Kingston. Quote.

"At first glance, you don't much fancy Lib Dem chances. Their administration was horribly rocked when its leader stepped down last year following his arrest on suspicion of possessing indecent images of children. He pleaded guilty and lost his liberty for two years. The Lib Dems lost the by election caused by his resignation from the council. Another councillor elected as a Lib Dem has become an independent. Throw in the party's unhappy standing in the polls, and who would wager much against a Tory win?"

But we will see on Thursday .As my Husband says at the end of the day it's the voters who will have the final say. But with Ladbrokes giving odds of a 1/2 Con win 5/1 Lib Dem win  and he says that bookmakers don't like giving money away.

So no substance to back up your claims, just press hubris.

I don't know because I have not raised a compliant. Not much came of the last few times this trick was tried, wasting time and tax payers money.

Mary Clark ( B .. RA ) you have no idea what its like in the school system at the moment ... the first wave of bulge classes that hit the primary schools will hit the secondary schools in Sept 2015 ... absolutely no provision has been made for this ... expect the tsunami that will hit your Tory administration  , better buy some lifeboats now .

We want you to enjoy your visit to our website. That's why we use cookies to enhance your experience.  By staying on our website you agree to our use of cookies. Find out more about the cookies we use .
