
(Reuters) - Gunmen killed three policemen on Monday night at Cairo's Al-Azhar University, security sources said, a week before a presidential election former army chief Abdel Fattah al-Sisi is expected to win.

The assailants stepped out of two cars and opened fire on a security checkpoint just outside the university, also wounding 11 people, the sources said.

Militants have stepped up attacks on security forces since Sisi toppled Islamist President Mohamed Mursi last year.

Hundreds of police and soldiers have been killed in the Islamist insurgency against the army-backed government.

In an interview with Reuters last week, Sisi said Egypt needed support from the United States in its battle against Islamist militants who pose a threat from several areas, including the Sinai Peninsula and the border with Libya.

Security forces have devastated the Muslim Brotherhood since Mursi's fall after mass protests against his rule, killing hundreds in the streets and arresting thousands.

But containing hardline Islamists who stage shootings and bombings is proving far more difficult.

I thought the U.S. was in the business of overthrowing dictatorships, the Taliban, Saddam, Gaddafi which didn’t give them their desired results.   Now with Assad they say he should go but hesitate.  Sisi needs help, will they know become an enabler because of their past results (and utter failure in those countries).

There is no place for dictators, despots and desert tyrants like Saudis & UAE who support these dictators like evil Sisi enabling them to look good and impede green shoots of democracy & freedom in ME. And by the way Israel is also in league with these desert tyrants and despots as it wishes to have a clean label but behind scene Israel also undermines democracy by imposing inhuman sanctions on Palestine and occupying Arab lands so Israel is no different than Putin’s Russia, China and India who are occupying other peoples land since many decades.People who wants to have clean conscience should avoid these countries and their goods & services as you will indirectly finance these evil people and country so they continue doing these evil deeds.

There is no place for dictators, despots and desert tyrants like Saudis & UAE who support these dictators like evil Sisi enabling them to look good and impede green shoots of democracy & freedom in ME. And by the way Israel is also in league with these desert tyrants and despots as it wishes to have a clean label but behind scene Israel also undermines democracy by imposing inhuman sanctions on Palestine and occupying Arab lands so Israel is no different than Putin’s Russia, China and India who are occupying other peoples land since many decades.People who wants to have clean conscience should avoid these countries and their goods & services as you will indirectly finance these evil people and country so they continue doing these evil deeds.

This discussion is now closed. We welcome comments on our articles for a limited period after their publication.
