
When it comes to juvenile justice, Fall River has an innovative program that works. B.M.C. Durfee High School junior Rezwana Uddin wants this program to be exported from Bristol County into other Massachusetts communities, and she's making the case to Massachusetts' next governor.

When it comes to juvenile justice, Fall River has an innovative program that works. B.M.C. Durfee High School junior Rezwana Uddin wants this program to be exported from Bristol County into other Massachusetts communities, and she’s making the case to Massachusetts’ next governor.

To that end, Uddin created a short two-minute video highlighting Fall River’s Youth Court program, titled “Implementing Youth Courts throughout Massachusetts.” The video, which took third-place honors in a League of Women Voters of Massachusetts contest, highlights the peer-driven program, which is held Wednesday and Thursday nights at the Fall River Police Station.

Uddin serves as an attorney in the program, which is used as an alternative for relatively minor juvenile offenses, including assault, alcohol-related issues, petty theft, graffiti “tagging” and shoplifting. Uddin points out that Fall River’s Youth Court has a 92 percent compliance rate, and has cut down on repeat offenses by more than 70 percent. The Youth Court concept is based on the model of restorative justice.

As Uddin explained, “It aims to help individuals make up for the harms they’ve caused and restore their place in society.” After the offenders complete their community service, write letters of apology or otherwise make it right, the incidents are expunged from their records. While youth courts are unique to Fall River and New Bedford in Massachusetts, there are 1,100 similar programs in 49 states.

In the video, Uddin addresses the next governor in the two-minute video: “Last summer I can say I’ve done something most teens have never done before. I stood in front of a jury and judge and represented a young boy in a real case for a misdemeanor he committed.” Uddin explained that her experience has given her insight. “I think what they did is just as important as why they did it,” she said.

In addition to being effective and cutting down on juvenile crime offenses, while helping victims and offenders heal, the program is a great teaching and learning tool for young people like Uddin, who are volunteers with the program. Offenders who go through the program may serve as jurors in future cases.

Unfortunately, the Bristol County program has been chronically underfunded. But youth courts are a wise investment. Proponents of the program note that the cost of sending an offender through the youth courts system is a $1,000 to $1,200 commitment versus $10,000 for four months in the Department of Youth Services system.

Since the program works, the next governor ought to indeed heed Uddin’s advice and expand the program into other Massachusetts cities with large at-risk student populations, including Springfield, Boston and Chelsea. The League of Women Voters hopes to deliver the videos, including Uddin’s, to the new governor-elect in November. Let’s hope the Bay State’s next governor takes notice.

Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.
