
FORT PIERCE - Indian River State College is hosting an Advanced Technology Open House on Tuesday, June 3 at 6 p.m. Students and interested individuals can learn more about career options in Cyber Security, Robotics/Photonics, Digital Media, Graphics and Engineering at this Open House event at the Kight Center for Emerging Technologies, just off 35th Street, located on the Indian River State College Main Campus at 3209 Virginia Ave. in Fort Pierce.

At the open house, learn about skills in the latest technologies available in the college's Advanced Technology Institutes: Learn more about the Cyber Security Institute where students can learn about network security, cyber-attacks and identity theft threats. Graduates specializing in this emerging field are in high-demand and hired at salaries well above average.

Find out how to prepare for a career in electronics engineering technology with expertise in robotics, photonics and laser technologies with the Robotics and Photonics Institute. Changing at the speed of light, the field of photonics affects almost every industry with applications in laser eye surgery, fiber optics for high speed Internet access and more.

Learn about digital imaging, including video and 3-D animation. The Digital Media Institute prepares students for creative careers in computer graphics, commercial arts and multimedia design.

Find out how Power Plant Institute prepares students for an amazing high-paying career in the rapidly growing field of energy. Students gain the skills to maintain and operate power plant systems, including the sophisticated technical equipment used in the operation of today's power plants.

Find out more on the Civil Engineering Technology program at IRSC. The program provides students with the skills necessary to enter the field of civil engineering as a technician with emphasis on design of projects. Students who succeed in this field are practical and critical thinkers, who enjoy creative problem solving, want to use the latest technologies and have an interest in math and science.

This story is contributed by a member of the community and is neither endorsed nor affiliated with TCPalm.

Ready to subscribe to TCPalm? Choose between a Premium or Digital subscription below.

Need Help? Call us at 1-877-710-6180.
