
SEBRING—Anne Nichols Reynolds is the ultimate Renaissance woman.

Educator, painter, writer, archaeologist, world traveler, avid reader and family matriarch are also accurate descriptions.

During her 12 years on the SFSC board, some of Reynolds’ most satisfying moments were watching students cross the stage for graduation.

Prior to becoming a trustee, Reynolds had been a teacher herself for 14 years, teaching English and writing at the middle school.

As Reynolds began writing fiction on her own, she discovered a local writer’s group, the Avon Park Wordsmiths.

Affiliated with the Florida Writer’s Association, the group meets at the Avon Park Public Library from 1 to 3 p.m. on Fridays.

Sunny Serafino, chairwoman of the Wordsmiths, initially met Reynolds during a creative writing class at SFSC.

Another one of Reynolds’ passions is painting. Beginning as a child, Reynolds has painted throughout her life.  As an adult, she regularly meets with a group of painters.

Reynolds grew up traveling around the country because her father was a surgeon with the Veterans Administration and the family relocated every few years.

She enrolled at Florida Southern College in Lakeland to work on a Bachelor of Arts degree in sociology.

In 1965, she met Charles and married him a year later. Her husband’s family has worked in agriculture for years in the central Florida area, focusing on citrus and cattle.

Reynolds has truly enjoyed their life together as a family in rural Florida, continuing today with their grandchildren.

Archaeology is another of Reynolds’ interests. Initially she worked in a small group with Robert Austin, an archaeologist with the University of South Florida.

Their field training lasted several months at a local site as they learned excavation and documentation techniques.

As a member of the Kissimmee Valley Archaeological & Historical Conservancy, Reynolds is part of a team of educators who work with students at Walker Memorial Academy in Avon Park.

KVAHC is a chapter of the Florida Anthropological Society and holds regular meeting from September through April, sponsors a field school, and conducts a speaker series featuring archaeology professionals.

One of her more interesting sites is located near Lake Placid where she has been able to confirm natives occupied the land as early as 4,000 B.C.

After acquiring sufficient experience, Reynolds was part of an archaeological group that traveled to Israel and worked for about a month.

Reynolds has since returned several times to Israel and enjoys traveling with her husband and family as time permits.
