
See Search Box  lower down this column for searches of Finfacts news pages. Where there may be  the odd special character missing from an older page, it's a problem that  developed when Interactive Tools upgraded to a new content management system.

Finfacts is Ireland's leading business information site and  you are in its business news section.

George Osborne, chancellor of the exchequer (r), met with Dame Nancy Rothwell, university president, and professors Sir Andre Geim and Sir Kostya Novoselov, to discuss their research, University of Manchester, Oct 2011. David Willetts, universities minister, is second from right.

Graphene is viewed as a potential wonder material  that is derived from  graphite and Sir Andre Geim and Sir Kostya Novoselov, Russian-born scientists, who in  2010 had shared the Nobel Prize in Physics, first isolated the one atom thick  carbon layer at the University of Manchester in 2004. However a decade later,  there are fears that the UK may  lose out on its commercialisation.

Graphene is potentially a better conductor than silicon; it's transparent, lightweight,  strong, flexible and elastic - - features that are of keen interest to the electronics  business.

The scientists had worked in the Netherlands before moving to the University of Manchester  and they published  their seminal research paper on graphene in  October 2004.

On April 1, the chancellor was back in Manchester to  mark the topping out ceremony of the National Graphene Institute (NGI) and he  delivered a speech praising "revolutionary science" at the University of  Manchester.

Set to open in early 2015, the £61m institute will see  university scientists and  commercial partners working side by side on future applications using the wonder  material.

However, based on patent applications, the UK is a  laggard in the race to commercialise the discovery, with China and South Korea  sprinting ahead..

The Financial Times says that of the 11,372 patents  and patent applications worldwide relating to graphene, the UK has filed just  101 - - equivalent to less than 1%.

Almost two-thirds of the patent applications have  been made by Asian companies or organisations, according to data compiled by  Cambridge IP, a UK-based technology strategy company.

China in 2012-2013 made more than 80% of all patent applications.

The quality of patents vary and numbers in  themselves do not tell the whole story.

However, Dr Andrea Ferrari,  director of the Cambridge Graphene Centre,  acknowledged to the  FT that the UK  and Europe need to catch up in terms of patent activity.  “If you wait too long, then you may find that some technology may be blocked by  patents,” he says.

Of the 11,372 graphene patents filed to date, 7,924  relate to manufacturing technologies, according to Cambridge IP. Asia accounts  for 3,060 of these patents, compared with Europe’s 361 and 41 in the UK.

The FT says that while development will take many  years, a challenge for the UK is that is that its firms  that are working on development are minnows compared with the likes  of Samsung Electronics of South Korea.

The biggest UK high tech company ARM Holdings  reported in February 2014 that its processor technology was in 2.9bn chips that  had been shipped in 2013, including ones used in smartphones and tablet devices  - -up 16% year-on-year.

However, it supplies the IP (intellectual  property); it doesn't manufacture and the FTSE 100 company has less that 3,000  employed worldwide compared with 44,000 in Google's core business.
