
William Taylor scans a horse skull with his 3D scanner.

Anthropology graduate student William Taylor is spending his summer field season in Mongolia searching for information about how early inhabitants interacted with horses. Taylor is interested in people of the “Deer Stone-Khirigsuur” culture, who lived on the Mongolian steppes about 3,000 years ago. Little is known about these ancient people, who are named for the elaborate stone obelisks carved with images of flying deer they left behind. It is not clear why, but people of this culture also ritually buried the heads of horses in groups around their stone monuments.

With so few clues to the culture, anthropologists have to use every means they can imagine to try to learn more. Taylor hopes to learn if these horses were ridden, or used to pull chariots, and is seeking clues from the skulls of horses found in ritual burials.

He’s compared those horses with those he knows have been put to particular use, such as farm horses, or military horses. Using a 3D scanner, Taylor has sought a quantitative signal he could use to distinguish between wild horses and ridden horses.

He hopes comparing the scans he already has of horse skulls with those in Mongolian museums will yield some answers. Western anthropologists have only been able to travel and work in Mongolia for the last few decades. Taylor says that many projects are ongoing in the country, but for anthropologists that isn’t a long time. "There are easily several lifetimes of work for whoever wants to work there," he said.

Taylor first became interested in Mongolian horses when he worked with Dr. William Fitzhugh, an anthropologist who has worked with the Smithsonian and who is the leading U.S. expert on the ancient “deer stone” culture. He traveled to Mongolia with Fitzhugh in 2011, excavating burial sites and felt an instant connection between the people he met there and the culture he knew back home in Montana. He says the landscape is about the same, and he found cultural similarities between Montanans and Mongolians.

Taylor looked at UNM when he was ready for graduate school since his mother and grandfather are both former students. He found a mentor in  E. James Dixon, director of the Maxwell Museum who is also an expert in arctic cultures. Over the last several years, Taylor has studied under Dixon and co-chair Dr. Emily Lena Jones, an archaezoologist who specializes in the study of ancient animal remains.

Taylor will be back at UNM in the fall to continue to work toward his doctorate, and he hopes to have mountains of new data to analyze.

For more news, visit the UNM Newsroom and follow us on Twitter.

William Taylor scans a horse skull with his 3D scanner.
