
Tuesday, August 26, 2014 - 10:46 a.m.

THE latest president of the Talisay City College (TCC) has decided to decline the position, more than a month since he was appointed as acting president.

Talisay City Engineer Gamaliel Vicente Jr., who is the sixth person appointed as the college’s acting president, told reporters yesterday he decided not to push through if Mayor Johnny de los Reyes wouldn’t sign his papers.

Tuesday, August 26, 2014 - 09:53 a.m.

THE proposal to totally close the Inayawan Sanitary Landfill has been revived by the Cebu City Environment and Natural Resources Office (Cenro).

Cenro head and Landfill manager Randy Navarro said it is better for the City Government to totally close the landfill since it is spending P10 million for it.

Tuesday, August 26, 2014 - 09:43 a.m.

THE Cebu Provincial Police Office (CPPO) is showing no signs of slowing down.

The office received a Silver Eagle Award from Camp Crame last Friday after passing the first stage of the Performance Governance System (PGS).

Tuesday, August 26, 2014 - 09:05 a.m.

CEBU City Mayor Michael Rama wants all Cebu City Hall employees, barangay workers and police personnel included in his “shape up or ship out” program.

In his regular news conference, Rama said being healthy is one of the preparations of the City for upcoming activities, such as the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation Summit in 2015 and the International Eucharistic Congress in 2016.

Tuesday, August 26, 2014 - 08:48 a.m.

A POLICE officer was wounded after he was shot by an unidentified assailant outside a police substation in Barangay Poblacion, Lapu-Lapu City at dawn yesterday.

PO1 Ezekiel Melodia II, 32, a native of Sta. Catalina, Negros Oriental, suffered a gunshot wound in his back but was in stable condition yesterday.

Tuesday, August 26, 2014 - 12:01 a.m.

THREE days before he died, Insp. Crisanto Abella told his family that he might not be able to return home soon because the activities for Alcoy’s fiesta would keep him busy.

The town’s police chief had no idea his absence would be permanent.

IT WAS an ironic and pathetic sight to behold. Jovito Palparan, the most feared commander of the Army’s 7th Infantry Division and the arrogant favorite of then president Gloria Arroyo, acting like a cornered rat, was finally captured in Sta. Mesa, Manila last August 12.

It was one of the major achievements of the Aquino administration that the radical left and its adherents never appreciated for obvious but strange reasons.

Monday, August 25, 2014 - 11:44 p.m.

AUTHORITIES arrested last Sunday 10 persons—including one minor—who were unloading sacks of a protected shell species in New Port, Barangay Maya in the northern Cebu town of Daanbantayan.

Monday, August 25, 2014 - 11:42 p.m.

CEBU City Mayor Michael Rama wants to create an office that will focus on the implementation of the P10.6-billion Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) in the city.

It will be headed, he said, by lawyer Rafael Yap, executive director of the Cebu City Traffic Operations Management (Citom).

A SUSPECTED level 2 drug pusher was killed in a shootout after the Provincial Intelligence Branch (PIB) of the Cebu Provincial Police Office (CPPO) raided his house in Barangay Yati, Liloan yesterday morning.

Four others were arrested and shabu worth almost P2.1 million was seized.

FOR threatening a radio reporter during a phone interview, former Philippine Drug Enforcement Agency (PDEA) 7 director Esperidion Javier was suspended for six months and one day without pay.

The agency’s Internal Affairs Service (IAS) found the official guilty of administrative case for simple misconduct and conduct prejudicial to the best interest of service for challenging radio dySS reporter and Sun.Star Superbalita correspondent Guamittos Logroño to a duel last year.

CEBU City Mayor Michael Rama wants the newly-created Cebu City Investment Incentive Board (CCIB) to determine what priority investment areas and businesses will get tax incentives under the Investment Incentive Code.

“I don’t want to dictate because more heads are better than mine and I don’t want to influence them,” Rama told reporters.

MANDAUE City officials yesterday opened an exhibit showing the city’s history as part of the City’s 45th Charter Day celebration.

They staged the exhibit, which displays images of Mandaue through the years, at the ground floor of the Parkmall. It will run until Aug. 31.

Monday, August 25, 2014 - 11:26 p.m.

THE Department Of Agriculture (DA) 7 has identified 11 municipalities in Cebu as beneficiaries of the Grassroots Participatory Budgeting Process (GPBP) of the Aquino administration.

GPBP became controversial after the National People’s Congress considered it as another form of pork inserted in the 2014 annual budget.

Monday, August 25, 2014 - 11:24 p.m.

MANDAUE City Mayor Jonas Cortes has asked residents of the City’s relocation site in Barangay Paknaan to convince other families living on riverbanks to move to the area.

So far, only about 400 families out of the 1,200 beneficiaries have moved to the 6.5-hectare relocation site.

THEY are characters with special powers who would save the universe from evil. Or they might be persons who have done extraordinary things and died for common good. For others, these are the images of a hero.

Monday, August 25, 2014 - 11:20 p.m.

MANDAUE City Mayor Jonas Cortes has asked residents of the City’s relocation site in Barangay Paknaan to convince other families living on riverbanks to move to the area.

So far, only about 400 families out of the 1,200 beneficiaries have moved to the 6.5-hectare relocation site.

THEY are characters with special powers who would save the universe from evil. Or they might be persons who have done extraordinary things and died for common good. For others, these are the images of a hero.

A COUPLE was arrested last Saturday in Barangay Lawaan, Dumanjug, Cebu.

Eddie Magudato and Angelica Magudato, 45, fell in the hands of the Municipal Anti-Illegal Drugs Special Operations Task Group (Maidsotg) of the Dumanjug Police Station.

MANDAUE City will have a new vision and mission.

These will be revealed when Mayor Jonas Cortes delivers his State of the City Address (Soca) this Wednesday afternoon at the City Hall grounds.

THE Cebu City Council is proposing that automated teller machines (ATM) be secured by guards.

The council invited the Philippine Bankers’ Association in Cebu and the Philippine National Police to a public hearing on Sept. 3.

THE Cebu City Council is proposing that automated teller machines (ATM) be secured by guards.

The council invited the Philippine Bankers’ Association in Cebu and the Philippine National Police to a public hearing on Sept. 3.

Monday, August 25, 2014 - 11:01 p.m.

CEBU City Vice Mayor Edgardo Labella is asking officials in Barangay Bonbon to help investigate individuals and groups quarrying in a portion of Mananga River.

He also wants to know what agencies gave these personalities permits for the extraction.

Monday, August 25, 2014 - 11:00 p.m.

-- Belie earlier claims of police station chiefs that their areas were drug-free or were not in critical state with regard to prohibited drugs;

Monday, August 25, 2014 - 12:43 a.m.

THE Cebu City Council has approved an Investment Incentive Code, while Mandaue City is coming up with a list of “preferred business activities” that can be offered tax holidays.

Both cities are vying for more investors, as well as the expansion of existing businesses.

THE number of non-government organizations (NGOs) accredited by the Cebu City Government is now down to 60, from 100 organizations in recent years.

“We now have stricter rules in the accreditation of NGOs because of the Janet Napoles pork barrel fund scam. We want to see to it that those we accredit are genuine and legitimate NGOs,” said Councilor Sisinio Andales.

Monday, August 25, 2014 - 12:39 a.m.

THE public works agency is studying three options on how to implement the proposed Cebu Circumferential Road Project (CCRP), which is intended to cut travel time from the south to Danao City by half.

The City of Naga is being considered as a possible entry point for the CCRP, with its end point in Danao City in the north, about 55 kilometers away.

Monday, August 25, 2014 - 12:37 a.m.

IT’S part of the routine of students in the Calape National High School in Daanbantayan, Cebu to arrive every day to water and take care of their vegetables.

Through their efforts, the Calape high school won their sixth award—again, in first place—in the Secondary Big School category of the Our Cebu Program.

REP. Antonio Tinio of ACT Teachers Party-List yesterday said six national government agencies (NGAs) were used by the Aquino administration as conduit in the release of P20.7 billion of Priority Development Assistance Fund (PDAF) for the continuous use by congressmen nationwide.

Monday, August 25, 2014 - 12:33 a.m.

A DRUG suspect who allegedly killed and injured Bohol policemen was gunned down in a checkpoint in Guindulman town last Saturday night.

Artemio Tare Jr., 31, died from multiple gunshot wounds in the chest and head, said Senior Insp. Joemar Pomarejos, the town’s police chief.
