
When Jordan Holley enrolled in the introduction to social work class at the University of North Texas, he had no idea the class would change his life – but it did, and the social work major and graduating senior has been changing the lives of others ever since, both as an advocate for disenfranchised populations and as a leader for fellow social workers.

UNT’s social work program, based in the College of Public Affairs and Community Service, recently recognized Holley for his contributions by awarding him with a Fannie Belle Gaupp Outstanding Student Award. A 2010 graduate of Garland High School and former resident of Sachse, Holley will receive his bachelor of social work degree on May 10.

Holley said his teachers have inspired him to live in the present and be compassionate and competent in all areas of his life.

During his four years at UNT, Holley has worked as a crisis intervention specialist with Denton County Friends of the Family, a domestic violence and sexual assault shelter. He also served as student representative and national board member for the National Association of Social Workers, vice president of the UNT Social Work Student Association and president of Phi Alpha Honor Society for Social Work. In addition, he produced two graduate career fairs for social work students at UNT and Texas Woman’s University.

Holley travels to Washington, D.C., every other month to participate as the only undergraduate student representative on the board of directors of the National Association of Social Workers, the largest membership organization of professional social workers in the world. There he meets community leaders from across the nation who share his passion for advocacy, and gets experience in shaping and funding social policies.

At the Denton County Friends of the Family, he works on a 24/7 crisis hotline for victims of sexual assault and domestic violence, and screens eligible clients into the shelter, many of whom are women and children.

 “Working with these survivors has opened my eyes to the intense struggle that I didn’t even know existed in my community,” he said.

UNT’s social work program sponsors an annual graduate and career fair thanks to Holley’s foresight and initiative. Holley said he created the event so that seniors of social work could meet prospective employers and representatives from Texas universities that offer master’s degree programs in social work. Now in its second year, the fair attracts more than 100 students from both UNT and Texas Woman’s University.

Holley will pursue a master’s degree in social work at Texas Christian University, where he will reunite with Lynn Jackson, an assistant professor at TCU and his former teacher who introduced him to the field of social work.

1 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language.

2 Don't Threaten or Abuse. Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated. AND PLEASE TURN OFF CAPS LOCK.

3 Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.

4 Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.

5 Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.

6 Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness accounts, the history behind an article.

Welcome to the discussion.
