
Getting bills passed is an art and a science, the reason people pay  lobbyists millions of dollars. But for some young Floridians, the 2014  session was a breakthrough in succeeding in the legislative arena.

After more than a decade of trying, students watched as lawmakers passed  a bill (HB 851) granting in-state tuition to undocumented immigrants  who have attended Florida secondary schools for at least three years.  Gov. Rick Scott has promised to sign the measure.

Wearing orange mortarboards and brandishing their high-school diplomas,  the students repeated their stories of hard work and good grades, their  dreams of higher education colliding with the cost of out-of-state  tuition. When HB 851 stalled in the Senate, they held a sit-in outside  Senate President Don Gaetz’s office, calling on him to allow a floor  vote. He did.

Lawmakers also passed a bill (HB 755) allowing Jose Godinez-Samperio, an  undocumented immigrant with a law degree, to be admitted to The Florida  Bar. Scott signed the measure on Monday.

But Godinez-Samperio, who got his start in legislative advocacy working  on the first in-state tuition bill in 2003, has no illusions about the  reason for its hard-won success.

“The 2012 election, really, is when our message started getting heard,” he said.

Godinez-Samperio is an example of a so-called “Dreamer,” an undocumented  immigrant brought to the United States as a child. He was 9 when his  parents brought the family from Mexico and remained after their visas  expired, which meant they were here illegally. Godinez-Samperio became  an Eagle Scout, was valedictorian of his high school class, graduated  from New College and attended law school at Florida State University  before passing the Bar exam. But he was blocked from admission to The  Bar because he was not a U.S. citizen.

As a high school student, Godinez-Samperio worked on the first version  of the in-state tuition bill with former Rep. Juan Zapata, a Miami-Dade  County Republican who was the sponsor. He has stayed with the measure  ever since and recalls 2010 as a considerably more difficult political  climate than 2014.

The session also held disappointments for young activists. Members of  the Dream Defenders, known for their 31-day sit-in outside Scott’s  office last summer, saw little progress on their key issues of repealing  Florida’s “stand your ground” self-defense law and ending  zero-tolerance policies in public schools, both of which, they say,  target minority students.

“We were constantly having to fight not only to be seen but to be  heard,” acknowledged Ciara Taylor, political director of the Dream  Defenders.

Members of the Dream Defenders have a more adversarial relationship with  state leaders than some other youth groups. They marched to the Capitol  after George Zimmerman was acquitted in the 2012 shooting death of  Trayvon Martin, an unarmed teen.

Meanwhile, Florida Youth Shine, an advocacy group for young people who  have been in foster care, convinced lawmakers to help teens in foster  care learn to drive. It was just a year after the Legislature passed two  groundbreaking foster-care bills, the so-called “normalcy bill” giving  foster families more of a right to make decisions for their foster  children, and a measure giving kids in care the option of staying until  age 21.

But like the Dreamers, the members of Florida Youth Shine haven’t always  been as welcome at the Capitol. Spudeas said they learned not to focus  on their hard-luck pasts.

Since the group started coming to Tallahassee in 2007, Spudeas said, it has grown from about 30 members to 250 statewide.

This year, 43 members spent Children’s Week at the Capitol lobbying more  than 60 legislators. They backed a provision in the child welfare bill  (SB 1666) that would keep siblings together in foster care whenever  possible. Lawmakers heard from kids who hadn’t seen their brothers and  sisters in years.

Sen. Denise Grimsley, a Sebring Republican and a longtime ally of Youth  Shine, said the legislative process is more accessible now, not just for  young people but for everyone, because technology and transparency have  improved in the last 30 or 40 years.

(1) Be Nice. No comments that slander another, no racism, no sexism, no personal attacks.

(2) No Harrassing Comments. If someone says something bad about you, don't respond. That's childish.

(3) No Libel. That's saying something is not true about someone. Don't do it.

(4) Keep it clean. Nothing vulgar, obscene or sexually related. No profanity or obvious substitutions. Period.

(5) NorthEscambia.com reserves the right to remove any comments that violate our rules or we think to be inappropriate. We are not responsible for what is posted. Comments may not appear right away until they are approved by a moderator.

(6) Limit your comments to the subject in this story only, and limit comments to 300 words or less. Do not post copyrighted material. Comments will not be added to stories that are over 30 days old.

(7) No posts may advertise a commercial business or political group, or link to another commercial web site or political site of any kind.
