
Via a short conversation on a sticky note, Meredith Jacob and Madeline Carl agreed to pursue a lofty travel adventure: visit all 50 states in 50 days.

The two Stephens College seniors, roommates and friends since sixth grade, left Columbia today, following a trail they have planned in detail that takes them up and around the East Coast before making their way around the West and eventually flying to Alaska and Hawaii before calling it quits.

Via a short conversation on a sticky note, Meredith Jacob and Madeline Carl agreed to pursue a lofty travel adventure: visit all 50 states in 50 days.

The two Stephens College seniors, roommates and friends since sixth grade, left Columbia today, following a trail they have planned in detail that takes them up and around the East Coast before making their way around the West and eventually flying to Alaska and Hawaii before calling it quits.

An online service is needed to view this article in its entirety. You need an online service to view this article in its entirety.

It's a road trip with a twist: Jacob and Carl are creating a documentary from their travels.

In each state, the two filmmakers have chosen one tourist site to visit and film. But while they're there — whether "there" is the Grand Canyon or the Chicago Bean — they want to find the hole-in-the-wall shops that make each city unique.

"Along the way, we'll be getting interviews and taping ourselves and what we're doing or thinking," Jacob said. "We want to ask people, 'Who supports you in your life?' and parallel their stories with our stories."

The two women are taking Carl's 2008 Saturn from coast to coast. Aside from the cost for gas money, which was unavoidable, the rest of the trip was planned to be as cost-effective as possible, with a food budget that includes occasional grocery store trips and fast-food stops. And the lodging budget is nil.

"We're still working on it, but we're finding friends and family and family of friends all over," Carl said about their lodging plans. "We're trying not to pay for a single hotel room. We've hooked up with people across the country to couch surf, and if worst comes to worst, there's always parking the car in a Wal-Mart parking lot."

Among the stays they have planned so far is in an old asylum in West Virginia. Jacob, a self-proclaimed ghost story lover, said that part of the trip is what she looks forward to the most.

They've got lodging figured out for just more than half of the states, Jacob said, calling it a "work in progress."

Funding was a challenge for the two women. Through their budgeting, they figured they would need to raise about $15,000 to make the trip possible, the most expensive costs being gas money and airfare to Alaska and Hawaii.

Through a Kickstarter online fundraising page, they raked in $15,069 from 96 backers, the majority of whom are friends and family the filmmakers say they bombarded with emails.

"Our families have been unbelievably supportive, emotionally and financially," Carl said. "They have totally blown us away, finding us places to stay, sending us care packages and stuff like that."

After the trip is finished, the two women hope to spend the following months editing the documentary.

The goal would be to finish the film by September for the 2015 film circuit, but they aren't holding themselves to that date because the two digital filmmaking students will graduate in December.

Information about the landmarks they are set to see will be posted on their website, www.50statesin50days.com .

This article was published in the Monday, May 19, 2014 edition of the Columbia Daily Tribune with the headline "Stephens duo hits the road; Trip takes them to every state."

You have viewed your 10 free stories.  You can come back at the end of your 30-day period for another 10 free articles, or you can purchase a subscription and enjoy unlimited access to local news, sports, photos and thoughtful analysis to help make sense of it all. If you need help, please contact our customer service office at 573-815-1600.

Getting your house cleaned just got more affordable!
