
Courtesy photo   State Sen. Howie Morales spoke before the 16 graduating seniors of Aldo Leopold Charter School Sunday at the Besse-Forward Global Resource Center.

SILVER CITY &GT;&GT; State Sen. Howie Morales made a few stops in Silver City in the final weeks before the primary election on June 3, where he will face four other Democrats vying to run against Gov. Susana Martinez. On Friday, Morales read a proclamation at Silver Care Center, a facility that serves Grant, Catron, Luna and Hidalgo counties. Then on Sunday, Morales spoke at the Besse-Forward Global Resource Center at Western New Mexico University to the 16 graduating seniors of Aldo Leopold High School and the friends, family, staff, administrators and teachers who were there for the charter school's commencement.

Aldo Leopold Director Eric B. Ahner introduced Morales, reminding students that Morales was once an educator, according to a news release.

Morales earned a doctorate in education from New Mexico State University. Morales began his professional career teaching special education for Silver City and Cobre schools for eight years, then served as the special-education transition coordinator in Cobre, according to Morales' website.

"Senator Morales is a great advocate for education, who has formally been in a classroom as well as guided and taught people from all walks of life," Ahner said in his introductory remarks, according to the news release.

Morales spoke of life's struggles and hard decisions and used stories to depict some of what may lie ahead for the Aldo Leopold graduating class of 2014. Morales imparted a new definition of winning, one that wasn't necessarily based on a first place victory.

"Winning is even coming in third place, especially if last year you came in fourth," Morales said according to the news release.

Morales also spoke of certain myths.

"The biggest myth being: To show love, care and compassion, is to show weakness," Morales said.

After Morales spoke, the newly minted graduates embraced in a group hug.

Susan Dunlap can be reached at 575-538-5893, ext. 5803.
