
    Fourth-grader Maddie Rupert asks a question Monday during a video chat with marine biologist Keith Fischer in the learning center at Butterfield School in Libertyville. The students talked with a Fischer, who works with the Fish and Wildlife Institute in St. Petersburg, Fla., as part of their lessons on ecosystems.

    Fourth grade students participate in a video chat with marine biologist Keith Fischer Monday in the learning center at Butterfield School in Libertyville. Fischer, who works with the Fish and Wildlife Institute in St. Petersburg, Fla., discussed ecosystems with the students.

Fourth grade students at Butterfield School in Libertyville learning about ecosystems and marine life had some expert help Monday from 1,200 miles away.

Marine biologist Keith Fischer, who works with the Fish and Wildlife Institute in St. Petersburg, Florida, video-chatted with about 100 Butterfield students eager to learn about sea life.

Custom reprints are a powerful and strategic way to share your article with customers, employees and prospects.

The YGS Group provides digital and printed reprint services for Daily Herald. Complete the form to the right and a reprint consultant will contact you to discuss how you can reuse this article.

Need more information about reprints? Visit our Reprints Section for more details.

After Fischer explained his job and the ecosystem around the Florida coast, students took turns asking questions including "What is the largest fish that you have ever see?" "What decomposers are in the ocean?" and "How do scientists come up with strategies to catch fish without damaging the environment?"

"I want to be a marine biologist, too," student Dakota Lyons said after asking Fischer about courses to take in college. "This is really cool!"

Teacher Julie Serrecchia arranged the video chat through personal friends. The presentation was set up through Google Hangouts.

"I am always trying to integrate technology, and this was a wonderful way to do that," Serrecchia said.

Guidelines: Keep it civil and on topic; no profanity, vulgarity, slurs or personal attacks. People who harass others or joke about tragedies will be blocked.              If a comment violates these standards or our terms of service , click the X in the upper right corner of the comment box. To find our more, read our FAQ .
