
Imphal, May 19 2014 : Sky Hospital RIMS road, Imphal observed the World Hypertension Day on May 17 by organising a CME Programme on Trans-Esophageal Echocardiography (TEE) in the hospital's premises.

Dr S Radhakrishnan, Director and HoD, Department of Paediatric Cardiology, Fortis Escorts Heart Institute, New Delhi and Dr L Shyamkishore, Chairman and Chief Cardiologist Sky Group of Hospitals, Manipur were the speakers of the seminar.

Professor Brajamohan Head of Department Paediatrics, JNIMS, Dr Apabi Assistant Professor, Dr Chittor Assistant Professor, RIMS, Imphal were among the prominent delegates who attended the seminar.

The speakers dwelt on the instrumentality of the TEE in the accurate diagnosis of difficult and life threatening heart diseases including tumour of the heart, rupture of the heart muscle during heart attack (papillary muscle), dissection of the aorta (the only central artery pumping out blood from the heart to the whole body), hole in the heart, artificial heart valve problems etc and also the use of TEE in interventional cardiology namely in non operative closure of hole in the heart, balloon dilatation of mitral valve stenosis.

Dr Shyamkishore informed that the Sky Hospitals, RIMS Road, Imphal is the only hospital in the State to have this TEE services and patients from need not go outside to seek the same treatment from now.

Earlier in the day, a free OPD for patients with hole in the heart was also organised at Sky Hospital where 37 patients availed the opportunity of the free OPD by Dr Radhakrishnan who was later joined by Dr Shyamkishore.

In the free OPD some poor patients were also given the benefit of free Echo with which accurate diagnosis and appropriate treatment advice were given to the patients and relatives.

* This news is as published by respected news daily at Imphal, whose name is duly marked as 'Source'.  E-Pao.net is not responsible for it's sanctity & originality.

* Comments posted by users in this discussion thread and other parts of this site are opinions of the individuals posting them (whose user ID is displayed alongside) and not the views of e-pao.net. We strongly recommend that users exercise responsibility, sensitivity and caution over language while writing your opinions which will be seen and read by other users. Please read a complete Guideline on using comments on this website.
