
Following months of debate, the chancellor of the University of California at Los Angeles (UCLA) condemned efforts by pro-Palestinian groups to bar student council candidates from participating in trips to Israel sponsored by pro-Israel groups, the Israeli newspaper 'Haaretz' reports.

The target of the chancellor's criticism was a student-drafted joint statement of ethics, which asked student council candidates, if elected, to refrain from participating in trips to Israel organized by AIPAC, the Anti-Defamation League, and Aish International's Hasbara Fellowships. The statement was supported by a diverse group of pro-Palestinian student organizations at UCLA, including Students for Justice in Palestine, Jewish Voice for Peace, Muslim Student Association, Afrikan Student Union, Armenian Students’ Association and Samahang Pilipino.

"I am troubled that the pledge sought to delegitimize educational trips offered by some organizations but not others," Chancellor Gene Block said, in an email to students, faculty, and staff. "I am troubled that the pledge can reasonably be seen as trying to eliminate selected viewpoints from the discussion. "If we shut out perspectives, if we silence voices, if we allow innuendo to substitute for reasoned exchange of ideas, if we listen only to those who already share our assumptions, truth gets lost, our intellectual climate is impoverished and our community is diminished," he said.

Candidates representing Bruins United, the majority party on the student body, did not sign the pledge. Those representing the other two parties did sign, including the student who went on to be elected student body president.

The situation at UCLA is being closely followed by influential members of the pro-Israel and pro-Palestinian communities, as the joint statement represents a new tactic that could be employed by Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions supporters at other campuses and universities throughout the United States and Canada.

We welcome any comments you may have on this article.

Comments are moderated and we reserve the right to edit or remove any which are derogatory or offensive.

The WJC is not responsible for the content of any comments.

What ever happened to freedom to choose where and when to travel? America is founded on life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. Why can't anyone who wants to travel to a particular place, be able to do so? Israel is our only ally in the Mid-East. Traveling to Israel is an amazing and wonderful experience for young college aged students. How awful that some students are being condemned for wanting to go to a wonderful, democratic, thriving country. I, personally, just returned from Israel after visiting there with my husband. We spent 17 wonderful, glorious days in this fabulous country. It is made up of a widely diverse population of people from many, many, different backgrounds, and religions. Everyone seemed to be getting along. It appeared to be a peaceful, happy, busy, productive, country, with many tourists, and many residents living fulfilling lives. I loved every day of being in this wonderful land. Of course, upon returning home to the U.S.A., I was very happy and proud to be an American. I am fortunate to have been born in this wonderful country. Israel is very much like a smaller version of the American Dream.

I hope that all the negative press, negative attitudes, negative myths, etc. will one day be completely eliminated from the planet.

Sincerely,

The Crimea is occupied by Russia. Northern Cyprus is occupied by Turkey since more than 40 years. Never mind. Let's bash the regions only democracy.

All what I can say: Bravo. It's about time to fall into the trap of the BDS that sole target is the end of Israel.

Sign up!
