
Above: Survios technology in action.

Oculus VR, the virtual-reality startup that Facebook  bought  for $2 billion, has some new company. Survios , a younger VR startup that is following in the wake of Oculus, has raised $4 million in funding so that it can fulfill its dream of building the ultimate VR system with both proprietary software and off-the-shelf hardware.

The funding, coming on the heels of a $3 million round for VR startup Virtuix and a $6.8 million round for immersive-video company Jaunt, shows that virtual reality is a hot category consisting of more than just one firm. Oculus is planning to release the low-cost Rift virtual-reality goggles in the near future. Companies like Survios, which is building its own VR experience, plan to thrive within the ecosystem that the Rift is expanding.

Shasta Ventures led the funding, and Shasta partner Rob Coneybeer, an early investor in home-automation innovators Nest, will join the board at Survios. The company is also announcing other investors and advisors. Michael Chang, a former corporate development director at Electronic Arts and current managing director of Mavent Partners, is both an investor and an advisor. Other investors are Gen Isayama of World Innovation Lab and Renata Quintini of Felicis Ventures.

James Iliff, chief creative officer at Survios, said the in an interview with GamesBeat that the Facebook-Oculus deal drew a lot of attention to VR. The news of the acquisition hit right in the middle of Survios’ own funding round.

Above: A Survios demo.

Survios has similar roots to Oculus. Palmer Luckey, Oculus VR founder, was a technician in the mixed reality lab  at the University of Southern California. Iliff and Survios chief executive Nathan Burba also worked in the lab and graduated from the USC game program. At USC, the Survios team was part of Project Holodeck , which tried to tackle the variety of challenges around immersive virtual reality.

But Survios is different because it is trying to build a complete system, and I believe it has some outstanding demos . It uses the Oculus VR headset, as well as the Sixense wired (and wireless in the future) controllers that allow you to control things and pick items up inside a virtual world. It also uses positional tracking from a Sony Move controller (for now, the device is awkwardly attached to the top of your head), so that you can easily turn around and see the world move in a one-to-one positional relationship with you.

Survios has also added positional audio so that you can hear the direction of things coming at you. You can wear the system on your back along with a battery pack. In prototype form, the whole setup is rather bulky, but Survios is working to make it smaller and cheaper.

On top of that, Survios is making software and games for VR. I sampled the tech in April and had a blast playing a zombie-shooting game. In that demo, you have complete 360-degree freedom. You can spin around and look up or down. The zombies come at you from all directions, and you can fire weapons at them. I did so like an actor in a John Woo action movie, where the hero fires guns in different directions at the same time. It’s a visceral, fun, and sweaty experience.

Survios is definitely making its own games and software user interface to go with off-the-shelf hardware. But it’s also exploring what it can do on its own in case the off-the-shelf hardware falls short. It wants to create the best overall system for VR.

Iliff said that the company is working on making that whole system better.

“This is not VR that tethers you to a desk or a couch,” he said.

Iliff is also excited about Sony’s announcement of its Project Morpheus virtual-reality headset.

Above: GamesBeat lead writer Dean Takahashi demos the Survios virtual-reality tech.

Survios will work on both its platform and games. Iliff said that it is hard to develop good hardware without making games and vice versa.

From Iliff’s point of view, Microsoft’s Kinect didn’t work out. It can’t be used to play hardcore shooting titles. But Iliff refuses to believe that mashing buttons on a controller is the only way to play.

Survios has 10 employees and it continues to hire. The company will launch a product in 2015.

GamesBeat 2014 — VentureBeat’s sixth annual event on disruption in the video game market — is coming up on Sept 15-16 in San Francisco. Purchase your ticket now  to save $200!

GamesBeat is your source for gaming news and reviews. But it's also home to the best articles from gamers, developers, and other folks outside of the traditional press. Register or log in to join our community of writers. You can even make a few bucks publishing stories here! Learn more .
