
You may think you’re the one calling the shots about where and when you move next. You’re wrong.

As it turns out, it’s likely your kids are the ones pulling the strings.

That’s according to survey results from Coldwell Banker Real Estate, released on Tuesday, which found that 79% of Millennial parents (between the ages of 18 and 34) and 70% of Generation X parents (between the ages of 35 and 49) make major purchasing decisions around their children. Moreover, 67% of Millennial parents and 64% of Gen X parents said they were more concerned about the immediate impact of a move on the emotional well-being of their children than whether moving was a good decision in the long run, according to the survey of 2,000 U.S. parents.

Will it be the Dallas home with a two-story closet or the Brooklyn home of a former mayor? Stefanos Chen reveals the winner of WSJ House of the Week. Photo: Ebby Halliday/Sean Gallagher.

It’s a bit of a shift in attitudes from the boomer generation. Fifty-two percent of boomer parents (between the ages of 50 and 69) said they made major purchasing decisions based on their kids, and 54% said they were more concerned about the short-term emotional impact moving would have on their kids than the long-term effect of the move for the entire family.

“Thirty years ago, if a parent had a job opportunity that was positive and was in sync with their job goals, there was a move that was happening, and the kids needed to adjust,” said Robi Ludwig, psychotherapist and lifestyle correspondent for Coldwell Banker Real Estate.

But today’s parents may be much less willing to rock the boat, if children are thriving in their current environment, Ludwig said. “We hear stories about bullying in school, and kids being vulnerable,” prompting parents to stay put, not venturing into the unknown, she said.

To be fair, the numbers don’t indicate that huge of a shift, said Eileen Kennedy-Moore, a Princeton, N.J. psychologist and co-author of Smart Parenting for Smart Kids. “What it’s saying is that a slightly greater number of younger generation parents think about the impact on kids than the older generation,” she said. And even that might not even be fair to surmise, since the parents who currently have young children will tend to be more cognizant of their feelings than those who are recalling how they felt about their child’s emotional wellbeing years ago, she added.

And just because parents consider what is best for their children does not mean kids are the “chief purchasing officers” of the family, as the Coldwell Banker report suggested, Kennedy-Moore said.

While attention to a child’s emotional needs is important, Ludwig and others say parents should have the confidence to make an unpopular decision if it’s better in the long run for the whole family. Plus, there are life lessons to be learned from adjusting to a new set of circumstances.

“We nurture resilience in our children,” said Leslie Connor, a psychologist in Wilmington, Del. “We want to meet their needs and not stress them unnecessarily…but life is so much bigger than their needs.” Instead, parents should be there to help children adjust, she said.

“There is so much to be gained from adapting,” Connor said.

Of course, some moves are made specifically with children in mind, such as moves made into a good school district, said James Sharpe, a Seattle-based real-estate agent with Redfin. About 75% of the families he has worked with put school districts first when looking for a home. In fact, a recent Redfin analysis found that people pay $50 more per square foot, on average, for homes in the best school districts, compared with those located in average-ranked districts.

Age of the child also matters when a family weighs a decision to uproot, as younger kids are much less set in their relationships and are open to change, he said. Sharpe postponed a move for work until his oldest children were out of high school and his youngest was about to enter first grade. As a kid, he didn’t get that kind of consideration: When the 46-year-old’s parents decided to move, he doesn’t remember being included in the decision-making process.

“Younger children have an easier time of replacing friends,” Kennedy-Moore said. “In elementary school and beyond, there’s a deeper bond and kids are understandably upset about having to leave their friends. The older the child, the deeper the connection.” It’s easier for kids to move when younger than six and at transition times, including the start of grade school or high school, she said.

Sixty-eight percent of Millennial parents, 72% of Gen X parents and 74% of boomer parents surveyed said they are or were more involved in their kids’ lives than their parents were in theirs.

And 62% of Millennial parents and 57% of Gen X parents said it was important to live near their parents or their spouse’s parents. Only 43% of boomer parents felt this way when raising their family.

The younger generation may be more reliant on additional help from grandparents, Ludwig said. “With two working parents, which describes the majority of parents nowadays, it’s hard to keep all the balls in the air. Having family nearby can make it work,” Kennedy-Moore pointed out.

It’s possible that some of these parents with younger children are also beginning to care for their own aging parents, Ludwig said. While they may not be established caregivers to their parents yet, they may be starting to factor them into their big decisions, she added.

Copyright ©2014 MarketWatch, Inc.  All rights reserved.

Intraday Data provided by SIX Financial Information and subject to terms of use .                 Historical and current end-of-day data provided by SIX Financial Information. Intraday data                 delayed per exchange requirements. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones & Company, Inc.                 All quotes are in local exchange time. Real time last sale data provided by NASDAQ. More                 information on NASDAQ traded symbols and their current financial status. Intraday                 data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, and 20 minutes for other exchanges. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM)                 from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. SEHK intraday data is provided by SIX Financial Information and is                 at least 60-minutes delayed. All quotes are in local exchange time.
