
As international trade continues to increase in Los Angeles County -- America's international trade capital -- and factors like the Panama Canal potentially affecting the trade sector, business leaders can benefit from expert insight which is useful to strategic planning at the 9th Annual International Trade Outlook, scheduled for June 5th, 2014 in Long Beach, CA.

TOPICS:  The trade forecast, the possible impacts of the Panama Canal widening, and in-depth analysis of the changing nature of Southern California trade with China, including a look at the composition of exports to China shifting from raw materials towards finished business goods.

CHINA FOCUS:  The LAEDC will also release its newly updated report on trade with China, providing perspective on Los Angeles County's No. 1 trading partner, and the 21.3% increase in visitors from China to Los Angeles County during 2013. Discussion will explore the business opportunities that Chinese tourism is creating, the trends in foreign direct investment, new export realities and more.

MEDIA:  Press attend at no charge, with RSVP in advance with Lawren Markle at Lawren(dot)Markle(at)LAEDC(dot)org, or by phone 213-236-4847.

The LAEDC is the region's leading provider of economic development services. Since 1981, the LAEDC's mission is to attract, retain and grow businesses and jobs for the regions of Los Angeles County. The LAEDC serves the 88 cities and more than 100 unincorporated communities of L.A. County through its free business assistance and attraction programs, economic research, fee-supported economic and policy analysis, and public policy leadership.

The WTC LA-LB works to support the development of international trade and business opportunities for Southern California companies as the leading international trade association, trade service organization and trade resource in the Los Angeles region. We also promote Los Angeles County as a destination for foreign investment, thereby enhancing the region's economy, employment and business opportunities for local firms.
