
Park Jong-dae, father of one of the students killed in the sinking ferry, holds his son's guitar.

Last Modified: Sunday, May 18, 2014 at 11:37 p.m.

The trip was the students' last chance for all-out fun before preparing for grueling, all-important university entrance exams, and Si-chan was excited. While packing, he kept saying, “ 'What am I missing?' ” his father, Joseph Park, recalled.

That's exactly what the kids and other passengers did, and many died as a result when the five-story-high Sewol ferry turned upside down and sank in just a few hours on April 16. Most of the 304 people dead or missing were teenagers trapped in cabins where the crew had ordered them to stay.

The tragedy has prompted Koreans to question the very foundations of their society.

together — justice, ethics, our moral system of social security — are not as strong as we thought they were,” said Changsu Han, a psychiatrist at the Korea University College of Medicine, which treated more than 70 students who survived the ordeal.

Of the 476 people on board the Sewol when it left Incheon port for Jeju island April 15, 325 were students from Danwon High School in Ansan, an hour's drive south of Seoul.

The ferry could transport nearly 1,000 people along with hundreds of cars and dozens of shipping containers. But the company that loaded the vessel has said it was carrying more than 3,600 tons — three times as much as the safety limit in a regulator's report.

Ko Kyoung-jin, a truck driver who took the Sewol three times a week to deliver packages to a post office, heard the students' loud Korean pop music blaring above his cabin.

“A little late,” Hyun-jin replied.

The next morning, strong winds were blowing across the water. Hyun-jin took photos of himself wearing a gray hoodie. When he sent the last one to his father, at 8:52 a.m., Jeju was about three hours away.

On the bridge, the third mate ordered the helmsman to make a 5-degree turn. Tracking data show the ship made a 45-degree turn instead. It is unclear why.

Ko, the driver, said he heard several shipping containers crash down. Students screamed. In the cafeteria's kitchen, pots, pans, utensils and chairs crashed.

“Don't worry, there's no chance it will sink,” said a truck driver on deck with Ko.

The ship was leaning to its left, making it difficult to walk. Student Park Su-hyun began filming with his cellphone from his bunk bed, as other kids cracked jokes.

One by one, though, the students put on life jackets.

“Please notify the coast guard. Our ship is in danger. It's listing right now,” a crew member said in a radio message at 8:55 a.m.

The messages that boomed through the ferry's loudspeakers told people to stay in their cabins, which were becoming increasingly difficult to escape.

Three helicopters plucked people off the righthand side of the ship, which by then was facing the sky. Inflatable Zodiac rescue rafts raced through the waves.

Some crew members tried to save passengers, including a woman who gave away her own life jacket and died. But the captain was among the first to escape.

In Ansan, the school issued a text message to parents at 11:06 a.m. saying all students had survived. They were being brought to a school gymnasium in Jindo, a town five hours away from Ansan.

But when Joseph Park arrived, people were in tears. A whiteboard listed confirmed survivors. Park Si-chan's name was not there.

There have been no miraculous rescues — just agonizing waits for heartbreaking news.

Searchers have recovered 284 bodies and continue to search for 20 more. The victims include 250 of the 325 students.

Investigators are still struggling to determine what happened but say the crew was negligent. Prosecutors on Thursday indicted 15 surviving crew members and police have detained the head of the ship owner. The government promises new monitoring and regulations.

The disaster is a shock to this country, a former back-water that transformed itself into Asia's fourth-largest economy. Many now question how far South Korea has really come.

Over coffee at a cafe near Danwon High, Park Jong-dae removes his glasses. He rubs his temples, and speaks of those critical last moments in which his 17-year-old son, Park Su-hyun and others might have escaped, but were told to stay put.
