
The potential impact of growing support for Ukip in Wales is laid bare in a new poll which suggests the Conservatives could lose their European seat and the Liberal Democrats may be left with just one AM in the Assembly.

The latest edition of the Welsh Political Barometer – a collaboration between ITV Wales, the Wales Governance Centre at Cardiff University and YouGov – shows Labour is on course to win the biggest share of the vote (33%) in this week’s European elections but that its support has dropped by six percentage points since February. Ukip is up five points on 23% while the Conservatives are down one point on 16%; Plaid Cymru is up three points on 15% and the Lib Dems are unchanged on 7%.

Among those most likely to vote, Labour leads on 32%, followed by Ukip (22%), Plaid Cymru (17%), the Conservative (16%) and the Lib Dems (7%).

For the next Westminster election, Labour leads on 43% (-4), followed by the Conservatives on 22% (no change), Plaid Cymru on 11% (no change), Ukip on 13% (+4) and the Lib Dems on 7% (no change). This could leave give Labour 31 MPs (+5), the Conservatives five (-3), the Lib Dems two (-1) and Plaid two (-1).

The poll suggests Ukip could make a breakthrough in the Assembly. For the constituency vote, Labour leads on Labour 39% (-3), followed by the Conservatives on 20% (-1), Plaid on 19% (no change), the Lib Dems on 8% (-1), Ukip on 10% (+5).

When combined with regional list polling, this suggests Labour could have 29 Assembly seats (-1), followed by the Conservatives on 12 (-2), Plaid on 10 (-1), Ukip on eight, and the Lib Dems on one (-4).

Forty-four percent of respondents said they wanted the UK to stay in the EU (+3%) while 33% wanted to leave (-5%).

What do you think about this story? Have your say by leaving your comments below.

Nigel Farage's party will win Assembly seats if it can keep up its strong poll performance.

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

Join us on social media.

For the latest local news straight to your Twitter, Facebook feed, e-mail inbox or tablet .

WalesOnline.co.uk conforms to the newspaper industry's voluntary Code of Practice, administered by the Press Complaints Commission.

If you feel we have made an error in a report, or have fallen below our usual high standards, please write in the first instance to: Ceri Gould, Online Editor, WalesOnline.co.uk, Media Wales, Six Park Street, Cardiff CF10 1XR. Tel: 029 2024 3672.

We reach over 1,384,563* unique users a month with dedicated coverage of all things Welsh.

WalesOnline is part of Media Wales, publisher of the Western Mail, South Wales Echo, Wales on Sunday and the seven Celtic weekly titles, offering you unique access to our audience across Wales online and in print.

Ceri has been editor of WalesOnline since April 2012. She was previously executive editor of Media Wales and deputy editor of the Western Mail. She started her career on the Glamorgan Gazette.
