
Class as usual: Students walking into the campus of Allianze University College of Medical Sciences in Kepala Batas.

PETALING JAYA: The ongoing saga between staff at Allianze University College of Medical Sciences (AUCMS) in Kepala Batas, Penang, and its employees over alleged unpaid salaries is taking a toll on its students.

Deputy Education Minister P. Kamalanathan said that what started as a purely human resource issue was now affecting the students as well.

He said he had received numerous complaints and letters from the students regarding promised facilities, such as WiFi access, being removed and classes cancelled as the foreign lecturers have gone home.

He added that the Higher Education Department director-general Prof Datuk Dr Morshidi Sirat had sought an explanation from the college and was told by AUCMS that the matter would be resolved by this month.

“The Higher Education Sector has sent another letter requesting a detailed explanation within the next three working days,” said Kamalanathan.

AUCMS has been accused of ignoring the plight of some of its higher-ranked employees, from acadeÂ­mic to administration staff, who allegedly had not been paid for up to five months.

Some of the affected employees reportedly turned to loan sharks in desperation.

In Kepala Batas, some students said things were proceeding as usual, and AUCMS had informed its students of its current financial status.

A medical student, who declined to be named, said he had read a letter signed by AUCMS president Datuk Dr Zainuddin Wazir to clear the air over the college’s financial status on the Facebook page of his batch.

“However, I cannot recall the details,” he said.

The 22-year-old said, meanwhile, lectures continued as usual.

“The college managed to get replacements whenever our lecturers left. Everything looks fine for the time being,” he said when met at the campus yesterday.

Dr Zainuddin could not be reached for comments.

Another student lamented that Internet services at the campus and the dormitory building outside the campus had been cut off two weeks ago.

“Luckily, there are cybercafes near my dormitory. I hope things will get better,” said the first-year pharmacy student.

Acting deputy vice-chancellor Dr Badrul Akmal Hisham Mohd Yusoff had reportedly acknowledged that AUCMS had financial issues but that the situation would improve “very, very soon”.

A lecturer met at the campus said almost half of the 50 lecturers from the medical faculty had left the college since last November.

He claimed that those with “high salaries” had not been paid since December.

“Most of them have joined a university college in Kedah. Some expatriates have opted for unpaid leave.

“I do not know how long we can last by staying on.

“Many among us have not paid our car and housing loan instalments for a few months,” said the lecturer who had been teaching at AUCMS for three years.

A front-office worker, who declined to be named, said the staff had been kept abreast of the latest developments by their employer.

AUCMS has about 2,000 students and 500 staff members.

Please wait.
