
Lots of high school graduation speeches tell students they've finally grown up, and that it's time for them to join the grown-up world and accomplish big things.

Lots of high school graduation speeches tell students they've finally grown up, and that it's time for them to join the grown-up world and accomplish big things.

And as Salina South High School's senior class president Dalton Pittenger addressed his classmates at graduation Sunday afternoon, he predicted "we are going to do big things in the future."

But, he added, "Big things are always spontaneous and new. They rarely follow the status quo.

That's why big things rarely come from people who grow up."

Pittenger said he drew inspiration from "personal hero" Walt Disney, whom he quoted as saying "That's the real trouble with the world, too many people grow up."

In growing up, he said, "We shouldn't abandon the curiosity and imagination that have gotten us here. If we cease to dream big and set lofty goals, then we abandon childhood innocence and agree to settle for 'average.'"

In watching Disney films while in the process of "growing up," Pittenger said he'd learned many lessons that he can put to use in life, such as from Pinocchio: "Always let your conscience be your guide."

Or, from Beauty and the Beast: "Beauty is only skin deep. Always look beyond the surface."

Or, from Finding Nemo: "Just keep swimming. No matter what your situation, keep working through it."

And lastly -- not from a Disney movie, but the Broadway musical "You're a Good Man, Charlie Brown," -- the lesson that "Happiness is anyone and anything at all that's loved by you. Go out and find your new happiness."

"I'm going to start by saying how thankful I am to you guys," said South High social studies teacher Josh Massey at the beginning of his speech. "This is a great honor."

Massey didn't take the usual route of graduating from high school, going to college and then into teaching; instead, he spent seven years in the U.S. Army, then worked at Southeast of Saline School, eventually becoming building manager, before feeling drawn into teaching and getting his degree from Kansas Wesleyan University.

Massey is now in his fourth year of teaching at South, and principal Linn Exline said she was "not surprised at all" when the senior class asked him to speak at graduation.

But with the "daily grind" of regular teaching work, he put off working on the speech -- until he was asked by another member of the staff at South what the title of his speech was going to be.

"I thought 'it has to have a title?,' and it became this huge monumental task," Massey said.

Finally, he recently started jotting down notes at his desk, trying to decide "what do I have left to say to you ... most of you have been in my classes at least once ... you've gotten the Massey View."

Still, he found a few things to add to his speech, titled "Your Time to Shine."

"There are students in this class who had every reason to fail -- and yet here you are," he said.

In thinking about it, Massey said he wondered who was shining brightest Sunday, "the people with the awards and honors, or the people who worked just as hard just to be here?"

He realized that the purpose of a graduation ceremony isn't recognizing the effort each student put in -- but that they had made it.

"A lot of people shine, and it's not noticed," he said. "When you give someone a word of encouragement, when you go to a friend's house at night to tell them they matter ... by making good decisions when a bad decision would have been easier."
