
Nurses at Sylhet MAG Osmani Medical College and Hospital observed a seven-hour work abstention till this morning after three of their fellows were physical assaulted by some interns.

In protest, around 200 students of the nursing institute attached to the medical college boycotted their classes and examinations demanding punitive measures against the attackers.

They also formed a human chain which lasted for half an hour from around 12:30pm in front of the hospital entrance and then brought out a procession.

The students later handed over a memorandum to the hospital director pressing home their demand, reports our Sylhet correspondent.

Tofail Ahmed and some other interns beat up a male nurse, Proloy Chandra Bapari, around 12:30am as he delayed to response to call of Tofail, hospital sources said.

The interns also beat up two other female nurses while they were trying to resist Tofail and others from assaulting Proloy, the nurses alleged.

They also confined Proloy to a room at the hospital for over an hour, the sources claimed.

Proloy and two other female nurses are now undergoing treatment in the hospital.

Proloy, a third year student of Sylhet Nursing College, was rescued by the senior physicians later.

Immediately after the assault, the nurses immediately started work abstention and held a protest rally in front of the emergency department of the hospital demanding steps against the responsible interns, reports our Sylhet correspondent.

On information, Director of the hospital Brigadier General Md Mizanur Rahman held an emergency meeting with the officials, interns and nurses to settle the issue.

The nurses joined work around 7:00am after getting assurance from the director that the authorities will look into the matter.

When contacted, Tanmoy Bhattacharya, deputy director of the hospital, said a four-member investigation committee has been formed with Professor Md Monozzir Ali of Pediatric department as its chief to probe the incident.

The body has been asked to submit its report in seven days, he added.

As part of their academic syllabus, both male and female nurses, all students of the nursing college, serve patients of the MAG Osmani Medical College Hospital.
