
The Liberty School’s Head of School Bill O’Flanagan, helping student Melissa Roberts, is leaving the school where he was appointed head of school in 2010. He will be headed to the Orchard Friends School in Riverton, N.J., where he will oversee the education of students struggling with  complex learning challenges, including autism, Tourette Syndrome or emotional challenges.

The Liberty School’s Head of School Bill O’Flanagan, helping student Melissa Roberts, is leaving the school where he was appointed head of school in 2010. He will be headed to the Orchard Friends School in Riverton, N.J., where he will oversee the education of students struggling with  complex learning challenges, including autism, Tourette Syndrome or emotional challenges.

Bill O’Flanagan is leaving after four years as The Liberty School’s head of school.

O’Flanagan, 67, is headed for Orchard Friends School in Riverton, New Jersey.

Instead of overseeing two dozen gifted, dyslexic or “twice exceptional” students at Liberty School, O’Flanagan, who has a doctorate in educational leadership from the University of Pennsylvania, will oversee the education of bright youngsters struggling with complex learning challenges, including autism, Tourette Syndrome or emotional challenges.

Leaving the door ajar – that is a hint he could hang around longer. He doesn’t lack a role model.

O’Flanagan’s father retired at age 79 after 51 years as assistant district attorney in Boston.

Orchard Friends School will be a return to roots, so to speak. Before Liberty School, he spent 20 years as head of Pathway School in West Norriton, Pennsylvania, a residential facility with enrollment from across the country. There, he worked with children ages 6 to 21 with deep psychological as well as speech and language challenges.

The Liberty School was founded by Joyce Bilgrav, the mother of four, all of whom are gifted and dyslexic. The school is the third such institution founded by her. She also has started four summer camps for dyslexic youngsters.

Ken Tallman, in the products department of Mercury, the credit- and debit-card processing firm, said the company is impressed enough with the effort that O’Flanagan leads to funnel corporate donations to the school.

O’Flanagan will be succeeded as head of school by Christian Holmen, currently employed there as a math, English and film teacher.

O’Flanagan said his tenure has been rewarding.

Dyslexia isn’t automatically a stumbling block, he said. He referred to the collection of dyslexia “Hall of Fame” photos in sight as one mounts the stairs to The Liberty School.

Among prominent people who have overcome dyslexia to reach career pinnacles, the visitor sees photos of Gov. John Hickenlooper, U.S. Sen. Michael Bennet, Durango hotel owner Rod Barker, Durango Police Chief Jim Spratlen and renowned photographer Claude Steelman.

Bill O’Flanagan, head of school at Liberty School, engages students Monday. O’Flanagan will leave the school at the end of the school year for a job with a school in New Jersey.

Bill O’Flanagan, head of school at Liberty School, engages students Monday. O’Flanagan will leave the school at the end of the school year for a job with a school in New Jersey.

Bill O’Flanagan, head of school at Liberty School, will be leaving after four years. He is headed to the Orchard Friends School in Riverton, N.J., where he will oversee the education of students struggling with complex learning challenges, including autism, Tourette’s syndrome or emotional challenges.

Bill O’Flanagan, head of school at Liberty School, will be leaving after four years. He is headed to the Orchard Friends School in Riverton, N.J., where he will oversee the education of students struggling with complex learning challenges, including autism, Tourette’s syndrome or emotional challenges.
