
And back in the early 1930s, this star made the front page of every newspaper in the United States, when Arcturus was used to symbolically link two great world fairs that were separated by a span of 40 years.  More on that in a moment.

Some folks may add another line to the mnemonic: "Then speed to Spica," for that same arc, continued past Arcturus for roughly the same distance, will come to the bright bluish star Spica in the constellation of Virgo.

Arcturus has been estimated to be about 20 million miles (32 million kilometers) wide, making it roughly 25 times the diameter of the sun . It's about 115 times brighter than the sun.

In his definitive three-volume work "Burnham's Celestial Handbook," Robert Burnham, Jr. points out that the heat received from Arcturus can be measured using modern infrared-detecting instruments. It's found to "equal the heat of a single candle at a distance of about 5 miles."

It was 81 years ago this month — May 27, 1933, to be exact — that Arcturus became the object of a great publicity buildup in Chicago, at the opening of the Century of Progress Exposition.

Sir Edmond Halley was the first to discover this motion back in 1718. Arcturus appears to zip through space at nearly 324,000 mph (521,000 km/h) in the direction of the constellation Virgo. It seems to move toward Virgo by about 1 degree (which is about twice the apparent width of a full moon) over a time span of about 1,500 years.

We are thus very fortunate to live at a time when the distance separating Arcturus and our solar system is nearly at its minimum. It will continue to approach Earth for several thousand more years, but then it will pass us as it continues to move toward Virgo and its distance will steadily increase.

Computations show that in approximately 500,000 years, Arcturus will probably be 800 light-years away from us and likely will have faded completely from naked-eye visibility.

Joe Rao serves as an instructor and guest lecturer at New York's Hayden Planetarium. He writes about astronomy for Natural History magazine, the Farmer's Almanac and other publications, and he is also an on-camera meteorologist for News 12 Westchester, N.Y. Follow us @Spacedotcom , Facebook  or Google+ . Originally published on  Space.com.
