
For more than 30 years, Médecins du Monde, a campaigning medical organisation committed to international solidarity, has been caring for the most vulnerable populations at home and abroad. It has continued to highlight obstacles that exist in accessing health care and has secured sustainable improvements in health-for-all policies. Those working for this independent organisation do not solely dispense care and treatment but condemn violations of human dignity and rights and fight to improve matters for populations living in precarious situations.

MdM currently works in 46 countries across all continents where it focuses on 4 priority areas: caring for the health of migrants and displaced persons, promoting sexual and reproductive health, combating HIV and reducing the harm and risks associated with drug use, crises and conflicts.

Médecins du Monde-France is present in Egypt since the end of 2004.

From 2005 to 2012, it implemented and completed projects to improve health care access for children in street situation.

In May 2014, Médecins du Monde-France will launch a project to improve access to mental health services among most at risk populations in Great Cairo.

In Egypt, the populations most at risk of incurring in mental distress are women victims of violence, disadvantaged children, prisoners, and persons with disabilities. People living with HIV/AIDS and hepatitis C are as well affected by mental distress.

No existence of a platform for exchange and dialogue among non-state actors, families networks, patients, health and social practitioners and local authorities concerned by mental health issues.

Mdm's project main components are capacity building of medical and social staff of Primary health centres and local NGOs, health education, anti-stigma activities and advocacy initiatives.

You will work under the supervision and in close collaboration with the General Coordinator in Cairo.

You will supervise, organise and participate in the implementation of the mission’s medical activities.

You will ensure to integrate a public health approach in the program’s planning, assessment and implementation.

assess needs, feasibility of activities, resources needed, definition of priorities and timing, through a participatory approach with MDM team, local partners and beneficiaries;

supervise the accurate and ethical medical content throughout program’s planning and activities implementation;

coordinate the activities implemented by the Medical team: documentation and gathering of technical information, development of material, educational material;

organize and participate to meetings with the partners and other MdM networks in Cairo;

create monitoring tools with the MdM team and ensure their distribution and explanation to the project partners;

update the health aspects of the country strategy;

support with technical information in cases of project modifications or updates;

ensure the respect of donors requirements;

participate with the general coordinator in the project budget construction and supervision on medical items and medical related activities;

training the medical team on: reporting, health needs assessment and analysis;

ensure the exchange of medical / technical information with the head office; supervise the respect of procedures and of the obligation to give information within the team;

MdM stands up for the integration of people living with disabilities and fights against discrimination.

To apply this position, please send a resume and a cover letter via this link .

To have a look at all our vacancies .

ReliefWeb has been the leading online source for reliable and timely humanitarian information on global crises and disasters since 1996.

Location Maps - Country maps for your reports and presentations.

Humanitarian Icons - Ready-to-use symbols and icons. Free download.

RSS - Subscribe to information finely tuned to your needs.
