
The mirror.

Not all the time. But more than you’d think.

Indeed, you’d figure that if women were in charge of everything, the pay gap would vanish. Not so. A study this year shows female entrepreneurs pay themselves below the level of their male counterparts.

That’s right. They can pay themselves whatever they want. Or, at the very least, a fair wage. But they don’t. To borrow a term from another era, many women act like male-chauvinist pigs.

Over the past two days, the Journal Star ran stories about the glass ceiling that hinders female advancement in the business world. Stats cited showed that women earn just 77 cents for every dollar men make — even less in central Illinois.

I don’t doubt a bit of it. Of course, it’s unfair. It’s strange that we live in a culture where business headlines still mark “first woman” this or that, as if we’re stuck in the 1920s and women just got the right to vote. And it’s surely strange that women don’t get equal pay for equal work.

But it’s even stranger that women can be part of the problem.

I spotted this in February in the New York Times small-business blog, You’re the Boss. It delved into a study by Babson College, a private Massachusetts school renowned worldwide for its entrepreneurial programs. The study took a look at graduates of an MBA-level program funded by Goldman Sachs called “10,000 Small Businesses,” which educates entrepreneurs on how to grow their businesses.

The study’s staggering bottom line: Female entrepreneurs paid themselves 80 percent of their comparable male counterparts.

There were no statistical or professional anomalies involved in the mix. Females accounted for half of the participants. And the scope of their business fields proportionately reflected the small-business community nationally.

The only difference, as the Times pointed out: The program’s participants are “carefully selected for both ambition and competence.” In other words, these are capitalism’s go-getters. Surely they’d realize this country’s uneven playing field between genders.

Yet women are paying themselves not much better than the disparity found in the American work force at large. Six months after graduating, the women narrowed the salary gap to 8 percent. That’s better, but that’s still a big gap when it comes to anyone’s pocketbook.

Page 2 of 2 - What’s going on? The author of the study, Patricia Greene, was too ill to talk to me. But Greene, a professor of entrepreneurship at Babson, told the Times that she was floored and flummoxed by the study’s findings.

“I’m not sure if it’s benchmarking against salaried women, I’m not sure if it’s a lack of confidence, I’m not sure if it’s negotiating themselves down first,” she told the Times.

Greene says she intends to study this phenomenon further to seek answers. For now, though, the glass ceiling is the fault not just of the old boys but the new girls.

If women can’t pay themselves fairly, then the problem goes beyond testosterone. Somewhere along the line, maybe from the cradle, this mind set has to change, for both genders.

No matter who is the boss, women need to grow some chest hair.

Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.

Your privacy is important, read our privacy policy.

Original content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted.
