
Professor Catherine Mitchell, lead author with the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), said reducing "greenhouse gases" to keep the global temperature rise to within 2C rise by 2100 remains a realistic target.

But to avert a global crisis, the Government must "up its game" and stop looking after the big companies who profit from polluting fuels.

As professor of energy policy at Exeter University, she was one of more than 250 scientists to work on the fifth IPCC report – the latest in an analysis  which began in 1988.

The report warned last month that halting disastrous increases in temperature requires the tripling of renewable power and calculates that this would only cost a fraction of GDP and need not mean sacrificing living standards.

Professor Mitchell spoke during a unique gathering of the some of the world's leading climate scientists at Exeter's £48 million Forum this week.

The landmark Transformational Climate Science conference assembled the key academics who led the report's three working groups for the first time in the UK and the only time outside the confines of the United Nations.

She said: "Personally, I think the IPCC report shows how much mitigation we have to undertake if we are to meet the 2C target – in Britain we are nowhere near and we have to up our game.

"The report shows that by 2030 globally we should be getting about 25 per cent of our energy – for electricity, heat and transport – from low carbon sources but we have had a process in place since 1990 and we have only managed 3 to 4 per cent so we are way off target.

"The Government really has to start explaining, not in a scary way, what climate change means to people's daily lives and manage that change.

"There will be winners and losers – I would argue the Government spends too much time looking after the losers – the fossil fuel companies – rather than innovative businesses."

Experts from across the spectrum met to critically reflect on the IPCC report, which was published in stages over the past year.

The report was boiled down from 1.1 million words to 14,000 for the Summary for Policymakers (SFP), which was negotiated by governments over four days last September, sometimes taking up to an hour to agree a paragraph.

A 24-page synthesis report will be presented to the UN climate conference next year in Paris, an annual event, which tends to grab global headlines when a deal on emissions is attempted, as in Kyoto and Copenhagen.

Swiss climate change modeller Professor Thomas Stocker, co-chairman of working group one, summarised the findings during the first of five sessions held over two days in Exeter.

He said the panel had reduced the text further into a set of 19 headline statements, providing a "coherent narrative on less than two pages".

"There is no excuse for policy makers not to understand or read what we have found," he told the audience.

"Warming in the climate system is unequivocal and widespread. All these scientific findings have led us to the simplest of the headline statements – that human influence on the climate system is clear.

"It is short and concise and all the governments of the world have approved this statement."

Professor Dame Julia Slingo, chief scientist at the Met Office, said the panel's findings represent "compelling evidence that climate change is taking the Earth into uncharted territory" which could lead to "unprecedented extremes" of   weather.
