
Above: The UDD (United Front for Democracy Against Dictatorship) held a pro-government rally on May 10 in Bangkok.

BANGKOK (CNN) — The Thai army declared martial law throughout the country Tuesday in a surprise move that an aide to the country’s embattled Prime Minister said the government didn’t know about beforehand.

Lt. Gen. Nipat Thonglek told CNN the move was not a coup.

Martial law went into effect at 3 a.m. on Tuesday, the ticker said.

All Thai TV stations are being guarded by the military, Thai public television announced, showing pictures of soldiers and armored vehicles taking positions outside broadcast facilities in the country’s capital.

The dramatic announcements come days after the head of the army issued a stern warning after political violence had surged in the country’s capital.

Political tensions have been running high in Thailand. Supporters and opponents of the country’s government have staged mass protests in recent days, and caretaker Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra was removed from office, along with nine cabinet ministers, by a top court earlier this month.

If the military appears to be favoring one side, he said, violence could escalate rather than cool down.

“If it’s seen as favoring one side or the other side, then we could see more violence and turmoil against the military,” he said.

Nipat said the precise restrictions of martial law were being worked out.

The government’s “red shirt” support base, many of whom hail from the country’s rural north and northeast, view Yingluck’s ouster as a “judicial coup” and have been protesting what they consider an unfair bias by many of the country’s institutions against their side.

Anti-government protesters are seeking a new government — but not through elections, which the opposition Democrat Party has boycotted, arguing the alleged corruption of their political rivals makes widespread reform necessary before any meaningful vote can be held.

™ & © 2014 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.

Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
