
It is hardly a surprise that despite the Civil War, 14th Amendment, Civil Rights movement, and the “browning” of America’s population, there is still rampant racism plaguing this nation like metastatic cancer. Many Americans labored under the illusion that the election of the first African American President meant that, except for pockets in the former Confederacy, the Ku Klux Klan, and other white supremacist organizations like the Republican Party, racism was all but dead. However, it did not take long for Americans with a brain to comprehend that if anything, President Obama’s election signaled that racial animus was as prevalent as it ever was despite the lack of public Klan rallies, blatant racial epithets, and lynchings in the South. What has been curious, is that until the last few months few, if any, politicians were willing to expose open racism’s ascendance since President Obama took office. Americans should never delude themselves that racism, and its facilitating companion white supremacy, ever went away; it roiled beneath the surface waiting for the right conditions to rise and affect the greatest damage on the nation.

In Holder’s commencement speech , he noted that racially-motivated outburst from the likes of Cliven Bundy and Donald Sterling were much less of a threat to equality than the more subtle, everyday racism such as what he sees in the criminal justice system. Holder warned of finding contentment because high-profile expressions of outright bigotry seem atypical and were swiftly condemned, but he counseled that “if we focus solely on these incidents, we are likely to miss the more hidden, and more troubling, reality behind the headlines.” Holder is right that racism in the criminal justice system is rampant and is not going to go away as long as there is a profit for the private prison industry and reward for racism in law enforcement policies and the judicial system. It would require a complete sterilization of racism in law enforcement as well as a top-to-bottom transformation of the criminal justice system to break the cycle of racism in the criminal justice system. Sadly, it is never going to happen as long as politicians are terrified of speaking out against blatant racism and for-profit incarceration of African Americans.

Another area the effects of subtle racism are manifest is the administration of the public school systems across America where, although segregation is not codified, it is certainly utilized and heavily promoted. As is true of everything in America, educational opportunities coincide directly with affluence and the resources available for schools in richer, whiter, neighborhoods generally far exceed those allotted to schools in poorer minority neighborhoods.

According to current and year-old research, “race, class, home communities, and schools constitute a matrix of conditions that perpetuate both privilege and disadvantage in America.” Despite overwhelming evidence that students and schools in poorer minority neighborhoods do not share equity with their richer, whiter, counterparts, politicians from President Obama to Education Secretary Arne Duncan are wont to claim that “education is the one true path out of poverty – no matter your race, ethnicity, or zip code.” It is a noble sentiment, but it is also as false as claiming there is no racism in America.

In school districts across the country, the first schools to face closure or budget cuts are those located in predominately minority neighborhoods. During so-called “education reformer” Michelle Rhee’s tenure as Washington D.C. school chancellor, when it came time to tighten education budgets, schools in poor minority communities were the first to be axed. Her successor picked up where Rhee left off and immediately targeted 15 schools in poor minority neighborhoods because of subtle racism and nothing else whatsoever. Like the solution for combatting racism in the criminal justice system, it will take complete reformation of education funding policy and cleansing of education leaders beholden to privatization advocates, coupled with robust anti-poverty programs including living-wage jobs, before there will be any change.

There are many, many other forms of subtle racism that affect people of color, and they all need to be identified and as Holder said, “actively discuss ways to combat it.” However, it is prudent to take advantage of blatant racism that does make the headlines to shift the conversation from the outrageous to subtle racism while the public is aware racists are alive and thriving. Democrats have known for five years that Republican opposition to President Obama has nothing to do with policy and everything to do with his race, but they have been mortified to address it openly. It is true that calling out racism in any form will engender accusations of being a racist or persecuting the white race, but remaining silent is not an option if this country is ever going to live up to its lofty, but false, designation as a nation of equal rights and opportunities for all its citizens.

Eric Holder Calls Out the Rampant Subtle Racism in American Culture was written by Rmuse for PoliticusUSA.

Audio engineer and instructor for SAE. Writes op/ed commentary supporting Secular Humanist causes, and exposing suppression of women, the poor, and minorities. An advocate for freedom of religion and particularly, freedom of NO religion.

Born in the South, raised in the Mid-West and California for a well-rounded view of America; it doesn’t look good.

Former minister, lifelong musician, Mahayana Zen-Buddhist.

George Zimmerman’s Acquittal Attaches A Face To… George Zimmerman's acquittal has put the exclamation point on America's new and much more subtle racism, which is defined by the claims of conservatives that racism is dead.

Eric Holder Speaks Honestly About Race In America And Says… Attorney General Eric Holder was a featured speaker at an event commemorating the 50th anniversary of the passage of the Civil Rights Act. During his speech at the event, held Tuesday at Howard University, Holder spoke at length about the causes and effects of racism.

The Mainstream Media Continues to Ignore Rampant Republican… Instead of a public outcry against blatant racism, main stream media failed to report the story on every evening newscast across the country.

First words. I am not a republican but……………………………..

That is the subtle part DJ. He is hinting that minority kids aren’t doing as well because of a lack of parental guidance, not drastically under-funded schools. He is perpetuating an old worn-out stereotype.  I am Caucasian but I am very much aware of the racism in this country. Anyone who says it doesn’t exist, or is not prevalent, is a liar.

That is the subtle part DJ. He is hinting that minority kids aren't doing as well because of a lack of parental guidance, not drastically under-funded schools. He is perpetuating an old worn-out stereotype.  I am Caucasian but I am very much aware of the racism in this country. Anyone who says it doesn't exist, or is not prevalent, is a liar.

DJ, You can call them what you want, I just call them what they are, facts. Bob.

DJ, You can call them what you want, I just call them what they are, facts. Bob.

Shiva, I am registered as an Independent. I vote for as few Democrats as I do Republicans. I by and large find most of them to by disingenuous, they will gladly say whatever they think the voters want to here in order to get elected and stay in office. I guess some prefer one form of hypocrisy over another. Bob.

Shiva, I am registered as an Independent. I vote for as few Democrats as I do Republicans. I by and large find most of them to by disingenuous, they will gladly say whatever they think the voters want to here in order to get elected and stay in office. I guess some prefer one form of hypocrisy over another. Bob.

Dj, I don’t purport to know any more than the facts. As I explained to you before the DCPS left out $400 million on it’s census form and after the figures were revised this is the number the government census bureau, not my numbers. I fully understand why you would not want to trust a government agency with telling the truth, but my gut instinct tells me that the census bureau has less of an ax to grind, as it is not trying to keep its wasted funding. Please feel free to prove me wrong. Bob.

Dj, I don't purport to know any more than the facts. As I explained to you before the DCPS left out $400 million on it's census form and after the figures were revised this is the number the government census bureau, not my numbers. I fully understand why you would not want to trust a government agency with telling the truth, but my gut instinct tells me that the census bureau has less of an ax to grind, as it is not trying to keep its wasted funding. Please feel free to prove me wrong. Bob.

DJ, Even of I took the number that you presented, I could only call the Washington D.C. school system what it is, a miserable failure. A 17% proficiency rate for reading by the 8th grade is hardly anything to boast about. This seems to have happened to so many progressively led inner city school systems. It is not as if it hasn’t been studied ad nauseum, but again feel free to correct me and call me names, i rather enjoy the back and forth. Bob.

DJ, Even of I took the number that you presented, I could only call the Washington D.C. school system what it is, a miserable failure. A 17% proficiency rate for reading by the 8th grade is hardly anything to boast about. This seems to have happened to so many progressively led inner city school systems. It is not as if it hasn't been studied ad nauseum, but again feel free to correct me and call me names, i rather enjoy the back and forth. Bob.

DJ, I do not believe I am moving the goal posts at all. I am just pointing out two facts that are so often tied to each other and yet have proven time and again not to be heavily correlated. It is much like the spending on pollution mitigation you can achieve excellent results with reasonable spending, but if you are looking for 100% compliance the cost becomes prohibitive and the project or product is no longer viable. Inner city school systems are no longer a viable means of teaching our children, they have become little more than indoctrination/day care centers. My last child has just graduated high school and my wife is a special education teacher so I am quite familiar with what goes on in the school systems. I am not saying there are not good outcomes, It is just that fewer and fewer are being well served by and overly expensive system. Bob.

DJ, I do not believe I am moving the goal posts at all. I am just pointing out two facts that are so often tied to each other and yet have proven time and again not to be heavily correlated. It is much like the spending on pollution mitigation you can achieve excellent results with reasonable spending, but if you are looking for 100% compliance the cost becomes prohibitive and the project or product is no longer viable. Inner city school systems are no longer a viable means of teaching our children, they have become little more than indoctrination/day care centers. My last child has just graduated high school and my wife is a special education teacher so I am quite familiar with what goes on in the school systems. I am not saying there are not good outcomes, It is just that fewer and fewer are being well served by and overly expensive system. Bob.

One huge aspect of racism is when black folks are called racists for discussing very real instances of how racial bigotry rears its ugly head.  That’s a blatant attempt to derail any honest discussion, which is necessary in order to address it.  That’s the mindset of people who are unwilling to admit that they are using their white privilege to try dictating to non-white folks–especially black people–how we should feel by discounting experiences other than their own personal ones. I agree totally that the Donald Sterlings and the Robert Copelands can easily be distractions from the insidiousness of institutionalized racism. It’s about more than using the n word because it’s about policies that clearly work to the disadvantage of those who are not white, and especially not wealthy white males. For those of us who recognize racism when we see it, it’s not subtle.  It probably is, though, for those whose race insulates them from a lot.

One huge aspect of racism is when black folks are called racists for discussing very real instances of how racial bigotry rears its ugly head.  That's a blatant attempt to derail any honest discussion, which is necessary in order to address it.  That's the mindset of people who are unwilling to admit that they are using their white privilege to try dictating to non-white folks--especially black people--how we should feel by discounting experiences other than their own personal ones. I agree totally that the Donald Sterlings and the Robert Copelands can easily be distractions from the insidiousness of institutionalized racism. It's about more than using the n word because it's about policies that clearly work to the disadvantage of those who are not white, and especially not wealthy white males. For those of us who recognize racism when we see it, it's not subtle.  It probably is, though, for those whose race insulates them from a lot.

I have to laugh every time you use Reich wing because all I can think of is Robert Reich who I would see occasionally when he worked and I believe lived in Cambridge back in the early 1990′s when I worked up the street from Harvard square. Bob.

I have to laugh every time you use Reich wing because all I can think of is Robert Reich who I would see occasionally when he worked and I believe lived in Cambridge back in the early 1990's when I worked up the street from Harvard square. Bob.

Knight, Try reading for comprehension, I clearly stated that I do not purport to know how someone feels. Certainly not a whole community. I only state what I see as I watch people such as Al Sharpton and Reverend Jackson constantly harp on racism for the blame of many bad outcomes. I stated that “many” in minority communities holler racism whether appropriate or not, again how I see it. I am certainly not Republican although I find it disingenuous that you seem to think you know how everyone in the Republican party “feels”. How would you know what color I or any of my family is since I have not stated it in any of my comments. I think thou doth protest too much. Bob.

Knight, Try reading for comprehension, I clearly stated that I do not purport to know how someone feels. Certainly not a whole community. I only state what I see as I watch people such as Al Sharpton and Reverend Jackson constantly harp on racism for the blame of many bad outcomes. I stated that "many" in minority communities holler racism whether appropriate or not, again how I see it. I am certainly not Republican although I find it disingenuous that you seem to think you know how everyone in the Republican party "feels". How would you know what color I or any of my family is since I have not stated it in any of my comments. I think thou doth protest too much. Bob.

Knight, Again failing to read for comprehension. Where did I say you had stated that all republicans were racist and where did I label a whole group. I was giving you my observations. While it may well be true “Al Sharpton and Jesse Jackson don’t necessarily represent black America”, many if not most embrace what they have to say in the public forum. You can deny that many in the black community do not cry racism over very real or perceived injustices, and that may well be your perception. I see many people getting tired the racist beat down du jour such as “white privilege.” That is why you continue to see a segment of society as racist when it may be that they just do not care. The constant thumping of the racism drum has caused them turn a deaf ear,again my perception. Thinking they are hearing someone cry wolf again. Bob.

Knight, Again failing to read for comprehension. Where did I say you had stated that all republicans were racist and where did I label a whole group. I was giving you my observations. While it may well be true "Al Sharpton and Jesse Jackson don't necessarily represent black America", many if not most embrace what they have to say in the public forum. You can deny that many in the black community do not cry racism over very real or perceived injustices, and that may well be your perception. I see many people getting tired the racist beat down du jour such as "white privilege." That is why you continue to see a segment of society as racist when it may be that they just do not care. The constant thumping of the racism drum has caused them turn a deaf ear,again my perception. Thinking they are hearing someone cry wolf again. Bob.

But the DC school district and other primarily African American school districts deserve more money because it’s much more difficult to teach non-white/Asians/white Hispanic students. Come on.

But the DC school district and other primarily African American school districts deserve more money because it's much more difficult to teach non-white/Asians/white Hispanic students. Come on.
