
Marking the first ever charges of this kind by the US against any other state, today the Justice Department of US announced the accusation of five Chinese military hackers for online spying against US nuclear power US steel, nuclear power and solar companies.

The five conspired are involved in hacking of major US companies like U.S. Steel, Westinghouse, Alcoa, Allegheny Technologies, the United Steel Workers Union and U.S. subsidiaries of SolarWorld, a German company and steal trade secrets that gives competitive advantage to Chinese state-owned companies. The Chinese hackers break into the computers of these companies and get information for the Chinese rival companies.

For years the US Government and other chief security researchers have been tracking the plunders of Chinese hackers on U.S. companies. The re-owned Ugly Gorilla, famous for the invasions at hundreds of organizations in the last decade, is also found in the case of US companies.

The indictment included the five officers’ names, their unit, their photographs and the building in Shanghai where they worked. But there was little prospect of them ever being brought to justice in the U.S., officials said. Instead, the indictment seemed to be envisioned to send a message to Chinese leaders, who have deprived of that the People’s Liberation Army, is betrothed in economic spying and have challenged the U.S. to provide proof.

In response the Assistant Attorney General for National Security John Carlin said that, “Well today, we are providing proof. For the first time, we are exposing the faces and names behind the keyboards in Shanghai used to steal from American businesses”.

The Chinese officers identified as Wang Dong, Sun Kailiang, Wen Xinyu, Huang Zhenyu, and Gu Chunhui were officers in Unit 61398 of the Third Department of the Chinese People’s Liberation Army and wanted by FBI since long.

A china specialist at University of Miami Professor June Teufel Dreyer said that “The indictment was an effort by Obama administration to demonstrate toughness, both to China and the region”.

She continued “From Obama’s perspective, this will hopefully take some of the heat, the criticism, off him that he’s been totally wimpy. But by targeting individuals rather than the entire military, the U.S. may be attempting to limit the potential damage to U.S.-China relations”.

Now we have to wait and see the result as Chinese believes that they are never guilty of anything and US never compromise state’s dignity and value.
