
Required, for the academic year 2014-2015: KS3 ICT Teacher in KS2 to join an enthusiastic and highly motivated team of talented teachers.

EBIS are looking for hardworking, enthusiastic and creative teachers with outstanding subject knowledge and well rounded classroom skills.

It is expected that teachers have a good understanding of the English National Curriculum and recent developments along with the ability to adapt their teaching to second-language learners. (The written and spoken language of all students is very good - all lessons are delivered in English) Applicants must hold a recognised teaching qualification.

Uniquely for schools in Egypt EBIS welcomes applications from Newly Qualified Teachers and experienced teachers alike. EBIS is well on the way to being a school that can undertake full NQT inductions and training.

There is a comprehensive new teacher induction programme in place and full support will be provided through the school Heads of Key stage and Senior Management.

The International Schools Campus ISC aims to provide a broadly based and tailored British Education for students for Nursery to year12. Delivered by sparkling teachers and staff, our curriculum represents the very best of current practice in the United Kingdom with an international perspective appropriate to our Students culture & heritage. The diversity of the student body is not only respected but cherished and celebrated.

EBIS is a through school encompassing all four Key stages and a very well regarded Sixth Form Centre. EBIS offers the English National Curriculum at EYFS, KS1,KS2,KS3 and a combination of GCSE, IGCSE AS and A levels within the Sixth Form.

Please send a current CV with recent photograph and the details of three referees, along with a letter of application, which should include your main qualities and qualifications, your achievements as a teacher, your reasons for applying to EBIS and details of any extra-curricular interests.

Applications should be emailed to Tim Hoban Assistant Principal: tim.h@ebis-cordia.net -closing date for first round of applications is Thursday 22nd May 2014 but early applications are encouraged.

Salary package to be discussed at interview -The majority of interviews will be help via Skype. There is also potential for applicants to be interviewed by arrangement in the UK in early June.
