
LARAMIE — A multimillion dollar plan to add science facilities, staff and students has been presented to the University of Wyoming's board of trustees.

Khaled Gasem, interim dean of the university's College of Engineering, said the plan was presented at the board's May meeting.

"The essential story of what we're doing is to accelerate our contributions and be more helpful to the state," Gasem said. "We can act as catalysts to grow economic development."

The Legislature appropriated $8 million, and UW is expected to raise the remaining $9.2 million for the project. The School of Energy Resources is contributing about $4 million, and private donations are expected to make up the difference. Gasem said industry partnerships will also be key.

"The source of funding is burden sharing, but it's for the common good. I'm comforted we will have the resource base," Gasem said.

The first phase of the plan calls for six new faculty members, four research scientists and 90 undergraduate engineering scholarships to be in place by 2016. The plan also calls for almost 700,000 square feet of new science facilities, an increase in undergraduate enrollment from 1,400 to 1,800 and doubling the number of PhD graduates to 30. The entire expansion is to be completed by 2020.

Gov. Matt Mead appointed a College of Engineering Tier-1 Initiative task force two years ago. Now, the entire university has a goal of entering the prestigious bracket, starting with the College of Engineering and Applied Sciences.

The university has set its sights on being recognized by the Carnegie Foundation, which defines Tier 1 institutions as those with very high research activity. UW is currently ranked as having high research activity.

Copyright 2014 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Not that this new expansion may not be needed but how does all of this square with rampaging government spending in an era of colossal debt and incessant government spending? Even in Wyoming where we have a very enviable fiscal position comparatively - shouldn't pragmatic spending and limited government expansion be guiding our decision-making? This is akin to the pot calling the kettle black.  You might be a liberal if you believe that achieving a record low percentage of Americans working, and record high percentage of Americans on food stamps and other "public assistance," are indicators of a successful economic recovery model.

Attn dude, our education "must instruct" on fact and not "baseless" fact, because [non expert] politicians declare it to be,  In retrospect, in the 70's politicians followed the lead of these same people regarding the "Ice Age" or global cooling.

Lots of money changed hands back then as well. Then is was changed to Global Warming" which was quickly debunked by the science community. While Al Gore made some $500 million off his theory, Al simply changed it to "climate change".

You see, there are those that want to attain wealth and much riches but have no product or service to offer in doing so. And since "fear" seems to sell, while politicians look for more support, elections and fear seem to work hand on hand.

Ironically, the United State are known as the "land of free - home of the brave". But climate change would take us back to "land of the captivated  - home the insecure". That does not bode well as a leader of the free world, America stands for.

Since we live in a global economy, we can't afford "fearing" prosperity.

We provide this community forum for readers to exchange ideas and opinions on the news of the day. Passionate views, pointed criticism and critical thinking are welcome. Name-calling, crude language and personal abuse are not welcome. Moderators will monitor comments with an eye toward maintaining a high level of civility in this forum. Our comment policy explains the rules of the road for registered commenters.

You called someone an idiot, a racist, a dope, a moron, etc. Please, no name-calling or profanity (or veiled profanity -- #$%^&*).

You rambled, failed to stay on topic or exhibited troll-like behavior intended to hijack the discussion at hand.

YOU SHOUTED YOUR COMMENT IN ALL CAPS. This is hard to read and annoys readers.

You have issues with a business. Have a bad meal? Feel you were overcharged at the store? New car is a lemon? Contact the business directly with your customer service concerns.

You included an e-mail address or phone number, pretended to be someone you aren't or offered a comment that makes no sense.

You accused someone of a crime or assigned guilt or punishment to someone suspected of a crime.

Your comment is in really poor taste.

Hint: Enter a keyword that you are looking for like tires, pizza or doctors or browse the full business directory .

Username & Password Required!
