
Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own.

In the past few years since launching this Forbes blog and my own , I’ve found myself immersed in a world of “experts” and information “gurus” – individuals who have worked tirelessly and often selflessly in an effort to master a particular field or area, and have vitally important information to share with the world.  I’ve also brushed up against hundreds of people who simply pretend to be experts, but don’t have a grasp on what they claim to be teaching, and are after only one thing – self-advancement.

Several months ago, my friend Charles Decker – who knows true experts and has worked with hundreds of them over the past 20 years – connected me with Lev Kaye, the Founder and CEO of the new startup CredSpark.com – a platform that helps experts engage with and educate their communities through well-crafted “challenges” that test readers’ mastery of the experts’ area of inquiry.  I was intrigued, and with Lev’s help, developed my own challenge on Women’s Career Issues , which proved to be a powerful learning experience for me.

As former Chief Product Officer of the Princeton Review, General Manager of Kaplan, and Director of Product Development at Reuters America, Lev has learned a great deal about information mastery, and how real experts think, act and communicate. And he also knows a faker when he sees one.

“In this Golden Age of Expertise, three things have never been easier: 1) to find a top expert in any given field, 2) to learn directly from that expert, and 3) to build upon what experts teach us to develop our own body of work.

However, there’s a huge problem today:  While it’s never been easier to work with experts, this also means it’s never been easier to waste your time—and your money—on fakes.  So it’s important to know how to tell the real experts from the shams.

1. Real experts focus on their field, not themselves.

There tends to be an inverse correlation between the amount of someone’s true expertise, and the amount of time that person spends discussing him- or herself.  For real experts, the joy is in the work itself—that’s why they get out of bed in the morning.  Real experts are deservedly proud of what they know, but their interest is less self-focused and more other-focused – about how their work and the important information it reveals can benefit others.  Fake experts, on the other hand, seem to star in every single story they tell.

They’ve got a clear sense of how far their expertise extends, and where it ends.  They never, ever want to mislead you.  Therefore, real experts will be the first to admit when the question you’ve just asked exceeds their personal knowledge.  If they’re really good, they’re likely to introduce you to someone who does have a good answer for you.  Remember your days in grade school, and the embarrassment a student felt when he or she had to admit to the teacher, ‘I don’t know?’ Real experts have overcome that reluctance.

3. Real experts demonstrate intellectual honesty.

They can put their own expertise in perspective – in terms of its importance in the world, and the quality of the evidence supporting their points of view.  Crucially, real experts aren’t afraid of evidence that contradicts their beliefs or their work.  They recognize that the role of experts is to engage in debate, not to suppress it.  Real experts can be skeptical about not only others’ ideas, but also about their own.  Conversely, fake experts’ openness to contradictory ideas resembles that of my 2nd grader, who’s been known to cover his ears and sing “lalalalala!” for minutes on end while his older brother tries to tell him something he doesn’t want to hear.

4. Real experts show intellectual curiosity.

They keep themselves learning.  Fake experts are like intellectual slumlords:  They keep renting the same worn-out ideas, making virtually no improvements to those ideas over time.  But real experts know that in order to stay sharp, they need to keep learning.  That retired professor who pays his own way to attend conferences in his field, uncertain of any financial benefit from attending?  He’s doing so because he can’t help it—he simply has to keep up with the latest developments in his field.

5. Real experts know when and how to share.

6. Real experts know when and how to improvise.

They can throw out the standard operating procedure and still function effectively.  They don’t fear going off script.  Think of a master chef in a restaurant:  She can create amazing dishes regardless of how much or little is in the pantry, and knows how to keep the kitchen running even if the ovens break.  Fake experts tend to have a narrow comfort zone – different approaches and unforeseen problems scare them, because their fakery may be revealed.  However, real experts’ knowledge and abilities are robust, allowing them to remain cool under pressure while rolling with changes.

7. Real experts cannot help but teach.

If you meet a real expert in a topic that interests you, you cannot help but find their insights and ideas stimulating, regardless of how polished (or not-polished) their delivery.  Teaching effectively, of course, requires years of practice, which many experts don’t yet have.  However, real experts tend to show the instinct to teach.  They get asked a lot of questions, and so they may proceed cautiously and ‘size you up’ before showing interest in teaching you—like anyone else, they don’t want to waste time.  But if you demonstrate your desire to learn, odds are that they’ll be willing to teach you, because building peoples’ understanding is part of what drives real experts.

For access to experts in a wide range of fields, and for more information about engaging and teaching your community, visit CredSpark.com .

CredSpark sure seems to be a platform by which a supposed expert (whether fake or real) can create a challenge loaded with questions containing coded language in order to try to convince others that the supposed expert is smarter than everyone else.

Hi DJ – Thanks for your views. Sorry you found it that way. As one who developed a challenge, I can speak from experience that the last thing I would intend to do is “try to convince” anyone of anything. As we share in the post, true expertise isn’t about pushing people to believe anything, but about creating meaningful, educational and informative content that helps people. Thanks for your feedback.

Very timely & useful post! Good advice given that will definitely prove to save time & money. I find #1, 4, and 7 to be the most revealing signs. Thanks Kathy. Great share!

Thanks Brigette – Interesting comments and emails I’m receiving on this. Seems that so many of us have been duped by a fake “expert” at some point in our lives. I find signs #1,4, and 7 very potent too!

I love this Kathy! I, too, have a challenge on CredSpark and love working with Lev. “Experts” these days are a dime a dozen and it does take some work sometime to locate the credible ones. Through programs like Lev’s, people can start to sift through the masses and find good, quality people to follow. I feel you hit the nail on the head with your 7 points – they all had the same message – with experts, it’s not about them. True experts do not have to be the center of the universe – the ones they are trying to help are.

Thanks, Mandy. Great to know of your work (I’ll check out your challenge on CredSpark asap!). I agree with you – experts are in it for the benefit and help they can offer others. That’s the hallmark of an expert you want to associate with. Thanks for sharing.

What a great post! So on target in addition to being gracefully written.

This article is a great reminder for people to beware of “false prophets”. More and more it’s easy to position yourself as an expert and harder and harder to separate the pretenders from the contenders. The wrong advice or working with the wrong people can spell disaster.

Thanks so much, Ken. You’re right on there – working with the wrong people is a recipe for misery and disaster (I know this from experience!). Personally, I love to to work with people who are not trying to push their agenda, but are empathic and fabulous listeners and endeavor to bring their expertise to the table to help YOU achieve your highest goals (and who know their stuff really well.) I enjoyed your post above about branding “posers” – thanks for sharing it!
