
Legionnaires' disease is a very severe form of pneumonia which is caused by a bacterium known as Legionella. Researchers have found that windshield washer fluid is a source of Legionnaires reported  the American Society for Microbiology on May 19, 2014. It has been observed that a form of bacteria which is responsible for respiratory illness which includes the deadly pneumonia known as Legionnaire’s disease may be able to grow in windshield washer fluid.

According to research presented at the annual meeting of the American Society for Microbiology Legionella was isolated from about 75 percent of school buses which were tested in one district in Arizona. Otto Schwake, a doctoral student at Arizona State University, who presented the research, says washer fluid spray can release potentially dangerous amounts of these bacteria into the air. It is suggested by these results that automobiles may serve as a source of transmission for Legionella infections.

Legionella are bacteria which are found naturally in the environment, generally in water. Legionella have been commonly associated with the cooling towers which are found in large-scale air conditioners and hot tubs. Legionella is not spread from person to person but is instead transmitted via mist or vapor which contains the bacteria. The majority of people who are exposed to the bacteria do not get sick, but in some people the bacteria can cause Legionnaires’ disease. This bacteria can also cause a milder illness resembling the flu which is called Pontiac fever.

This research has been reported on by Science Daily . Schwake says this project was started after a series of epidemiological studies found motor vehicle use may be associated with an increased risk for Legionnaires’ disease. The study has been the first to detect high levels of Legionella in automobiles or aerosolized washer fluid spray. It is significant that there is potential transmission of a deadly respiratory disease from a source which is as common as automobile windshield washing system. Schwake also appropriately points out that this study is important because it highlights the fact that people can be exposed to pathogens, particularly those occurring naturally in the environment, in what were previously unknown and unusual ways.

Just 18-months ago Melissa O’Hara’s mom was taking care of her children.  But after a terrible disease caused her to gain over 100 pounds and left her paralyzed, O’Hara has to care for her round the clock.

The number of children diagnosed with ADHD has doubled in the past two decades, and some say the reason lies in educational policy. University of California Berkeley Psychology Professor Alison Gopnik joins Lunch Break to discuss. Photo: Getty.

Shepard Smith, an anchor on Fox News, apologized Tuesday for calling Robin Williams a 'coward' after the news of his apparent suicide broke.
