
Update Required To play the media you will need to either update your browser to a recent version or update your Flash plugin .

Secretary of State Candidates Derek Cressman (D), Sen. Alex Padilla (D), Pete Peterson (R) and Dan Schnur debate in Sacramento on April 23, 2014.

With one arrest the California Secretary of State race exploded onto the public stage. What had been a quiet, if crowded race, became front page news with the arrest of State Senator and Secretary of State Candidate Leland Yee on corruption and gun trafficking charges. There was wide speculation on how that would affect the election. But Claremont McKenna Political Science Professor Jack Pitney says all the attention likely didn’t result in better informed voters.

And there are a lot of issues. The state’s campaign finance disclosure website is notoriously out of date. The office’s technology is also becoming antiquated. Kim Alexander is with the non-partisan California Voter Foundation.

There are several men vying for the job. Republican Pete Peterson is leading in the polls with 30 percent, followed by Democratic State Senator Alex Padilla at 17 percent. Green Party Candidate David Curtis, Independent Dan Schnur and Democrat Derek Cressman round out the top five. Pitney says there’s a clear reason why the office is so coveted.

Pitney points out the office is more administrative than ideological and says all of the candidates are qualified. At a recent debate Peterson, Padilla, Cressman and Schnur largely agreed on most topics. They believe counties should receive more money to run elections. They believe the state should offer both mail ballots and in person voting. However, they take different positions on campaign finance reform.

Schnur has proposed banning fundraising while the legislature is in session.

“I believe that if you do ban fundraising, not just for some of session, and not just for most of it, but for all of session, what you’re essentially doing is creating a separation and you’re weakening the link between political giving and government action,” Schnur says.

Padilla wants a more limited ban.

Cressman maintains fundraising bans are useless.

Peterson brought the race back around to former candidate Senator Leland Yee.

Yee will continue to play a role in the race. Even though he withdrew following his arrest, state election code dictates Yee’s name will still appear on the ballot.
