
Australian Professor J.D. Frodsham ’s newest thriller, “ Crumbling Moon ” (published by AuthorHouse), explores the tension between fate and free will , asking readers to consider whether their actions are freely chosen or pre-destined.

When renowned history professor, Hector Terries, arrives in Greece on a lecture tour, he is forced to confront the mystery of what happened to his beautiful fiancée, who disappeared from the city 24 years earlier. Hector finds himself haunted by disquieting apparitions of the missing woman, leaving him questioning his own sanity. His attempts to solve the riddle lead to his involvement in official corruption, terrorist violence, supernatural phenomena, further romantic entanglements, and a devastating revelation.

These traumatic events transform Hector both physically and psychically, causing him to completely reevaluate his understanding of the nature of reality, the inexorability of fate, and the perennial tragedy of the human condition, as first explored in Classical Greek theatre .

Frodsham draws on his extensive knowledge of both modern and ancient Greece, as well as on his own experience in the field of psychical research, to produce a brilliantly written, scholarly and closely-plotted work of literary fiction, which is at once a political thriller, a murder mystery, a romance, a ghost story and a philosophical treatise.

J.D. Frodsham is currently an emeritus professor of English and comparative literature at Murdoch University. He completed his doctorate in classical Chinese literature at the Australian National University and held professorships at fourteen eminent universities worldwide. He was also president of the Australasian Society for Psychical Research for close on 30 years. His previous publications include: “The Murmuring Stream,” “An Anthology of Chinese Verse,” “Goddesses, Ghosts, and Demons: The Poetry of Li He,” “The First Chinese Embassy to the West” and many other books, monographs and articles.

AuthorHouse, an Author Solutions, Inc. self-publishing imprint, is a leading provider of book publishing, marketing, and bookselling services for authors around the globe and offers the industry’s only suite of Hollywood book-to-film services. Committed to providing the highest level of customer service, AuthorHouse assigns each author personal publishing and marketing consultants who provide guidance throughout the process. Headquartered in Bloomington, Indiana, AuthorHouse celebrated 15 years of service to authors in Sept. 2011.For more information or to publish a book visit authorhouse.com or call 0800 1974150. For the latest, follow @AuthorHouseUK on Twitter.
