
Don't expect much soul searching this side of the election. Which is a shame because there is a good deal to be done. A great many activists and newspapers and politicians will want to reflect on the hysteria they caused late last year when they said the country would be over-run by Romanians and Bulgarians come 1 January.

This column said that prediction was hogwash , and that other countries available to those migrants would take priority, not least because of the language transferability. Last week's official figures showed that the number of Romanians and Bulgarians working here actually fell . Apologies are in order, but don't hold your breath.

There might also be a degree of contrition about foreign students. We were told the government realised their value to the higher education sector and the economy. They should. We took £4.4bn in fees and accommodation costs from foreign students in 2011–12. Of that, £3.8bn was collected from those whose origins lie outside the EU . The Department for Business, Industry and Skills estimates their total value at £14bn.

But while those figures stare us in the face, we can't resist making foreign students part of the toxic immigration issue. There is a cost to that folly. According to a survey by student recruitment specialists Hobsons , we are falling further behind in the so‑called "global race" for these students because ministers have allowed the perception that they are not wanted here to gain currency abroad.

Hobsons surveyed 18,393 students from more than 195 countries and found that the UK, the USA and Australia are still the three most desired places to study in. But of those who decided against coming here, 16% cited our attitude to international students. Not just a troubling figure but a worrying trajectory. The only comfort was that Australia fared worse.

"Too little is being done to demonstrate to international students that both the UK and Australia welcomes them," says the study. New thinking is needed and "immigration policy and practice must reflect this welcoming approach."

And here's the key finding: "The overwhelming majority of potential international students are not motivated by a desire to live in the UK after graduation." They are not vagabonds and stowaways. They are students and we need them. We might reflect on that.

Our editors' picks for the day's top news and commentary delivered to your inbox each morning.
