
Tuesday, May 20, 2014 - When Jang group was publishing Urdu and English newspapers only, it acted responsibly and kept the sensibilities of the people in mind. Founder of the group, Mir Khalil-ur-Rehman was admired for being pragmatist and flexible. On the other hand, Mir Shakeel-ur-Rehman is being dubbed by his opponents as canny and that would do anything for power and pelf. He indeed took the group to unprecedented heights but the reverse process seems to have started because of his arrogance and penchant to be a king maker. Last month, when Geo Group committed the act of libel and defamation against country’s secret agency ISI and DG ISI Lt. General Zaheerul Islam, the owner of Geo Group failed to demonstrate high moral ground. The government had referred the matter of blistering propaganda against the ISI and its chief to PEMRA for action against Geo group, but it took the matter to court to stop proceedings by PEMRA. Geo’s plea was dismissed by the court; and it filed an intra-court appeal in Islamabad High Court.

When law takes its course against others Geo becomes over-assertive, but when it comes to its own, the Group demonstrates double standards. Anyhow, a two-member bench of Islamabad High Court heard Geo-Jang group’s intra-court appeal against Pakistan Electronic Media Regulatory Authority (PEMRA) taking the plea that PEMRA was incomplete. Justice Shaukat Aziz Siddiqui pointed out that in the first instance the verdict of the single bench court has not been challenged; adding that “Geo likes the court decision in its favor, whereas it does not like the ruling against it”. Geo’s lawyer prayed to the bench to dismiss the case, but the court adjourned the hearing for an indefinite period. Yet Geo continues with its shenanigans, and in its morning transmission a blasphemous act invited the wrath of the people who came out in droves on the streets to protest against the group. Punjab Bar Council in resolution has condemned Geo and demanded a ban on the group.

On Saturday, the Punjab assembly adopted a resolution condemning the blasphemy attempt by the Geo Television in its morning transmission. The resolution also urged the Pemra to act according to law and justice. Protest rallies against Geo were held across the country by religious parties, lawyers, students and people from other walks of life. Scholars of the Sunni Ittehad council issued a fatwa against the Channel asking its followers not to watch it. Meanwhile, leaders of Cable Operators Association in a press conference asked its members from across the country to act according to their conscience whether to screen Geo TV to their clientele. It is unfortunate that anchors, reporting editors and other media men associated with Geo media group act on the behest of its owner Mir Shakeel-ur-Rehman, who has the penchant to appease India through aman ki asha and other programs.

There is a possibility of clandestine business relations between a media group of Pakistan and media group of India because corporate India is one of the leading trading hubs in the world. However, one would not come across any Indian journalist or analyst condemning Indian intelligence agency RAW or take a different position to that of the government on Kashmir. On the other hand, some palmed off Pakistani media men have been criticizing military and the ISI day in and day out. They do not realize that they are providing India, US and the West material for denigrating our intelligence agencies especially ISI, which are eyes and ears of military. Media men associated with Geo group have been badmouthing military and the ISI, knowing full well that they will not retaliate or even respond. On the other hand, they took dictation and have been projecting banned organizations for the fear of being attacked by them.

There are indeed patriotic elements in Pakistani print and electronic media who are aware of their national responsibility. Last month, when Geo group accused ISI and its chief of planning an attack on anchorperson Hamid Mir, almost all electronic and print media condemned Geo channel and expressed their solidarity with the ISI and military. In India, the government, military, intelligence agency RAW and media are on the same page so far as Pakistan-bashing is concerned. Unfortunately, Pakistani so-called intellectuals and analysts badmouth military on the basis of three martial laws in the past, not realizing that for the last seven year, military has completely weaned away from interference in political matters, and helped the previous PPP-led government to complete its tenure.

At this point in time when Pakistan is confronting challenges to its internal and external security, Pakistani media men should rise to the occasion, and play their role to counter propaganda by a Pakistani media house as well as hostile Indian propaganda. The said media group has contributed towards promoting terrorism by glorifying acts of terrorists, and linking action against terrorists as human rights violations.  The missing persons’ case has also been blown up out of proportions by the group. Mama Qadar was given publicity and in the process intelligence agencies were criticized. Separatists in Balochistan get all sorts of support from India, but Geo would not project Indian involvement. However, Pakistan Army and ISI are the main targets of Indian propagandists.

Hindu extremism, suppression of Muslims in India, human rights violations in IOK and separatist movements in India have never been projected or highlighted by Geo; while Balochistan issue remains favorite subject of Geo and Times of India (ToI). Obsessed with the idea of promoting Indian culture, Geo has been toeing Indian line in the context of Indo-Pak relations. The core issues including Kashmir dispute, Siachen, Sir Creek and water sharing dispute between India and Pakistan have been further sidelined. Misleading media reports that all stakeholders including Prime Minister, Military, DG ISI, and political parties were taken into confidence before launch of campaign ‘aman ki asha’ are efforts to confuse the people of Pakistan. It is impossible to imagine that ISI would have supported the idea of joint collaboration between the Geo/Jang and Times of India to launch the above initiative.

—The writer is Lahore-based senior journalist.
