
A commencement speaker fed up with the recent wave of students shaming speaker choices at multiple colleges blasted graduates as 'immature' and 'arrogant.'

Former Princeton University president William Bowen used his Sunday commencement speech at Haverford College, in suburban Philadelphia, to criticize students who campaigned against the speaker he replaced - Robert Birgeneau, former chancellor of the University of California, Berkeley.

Dozens of students demanded he write a letter explaining his reasons for calling in police to disperse a 2011 Occupy protest on the UCB campus, and to support payments for protesters harmed by police during the dispersal, Birgeneau instead withdrew.

'I am disappointed that those who wanted to criticize Birgeneau's handling of events at Berkeley chose to send him such an intemperate list of 'demands,' Bowen said, according to the Philadelphia Inquirer .

'In my view, they should have encouraged him to come and engage in a genuine discussion, not to come, tail between his legs, to respond to an indictment that a self-chosen jury had reached without hearing counter-arguments.'

Birgeneau is among several commencement speakers who canceled their appearances this spring amid student protests, and Bowen's criticism did not stop there.

'I think that Birgeneau, in turn, responded intemperately, failing to make proper allowance for the immature, and, yes, arrogant inclinations of some protestors,' Bowen continued. 'Aggravated as he had every right to be, I think he should be with us today.'

More than 40 students and three professors had protested Birgeneau's invitation to speak, objecting to his handling of a 2011 incident at Berkeley in which police used force at a student protest during the Occupy movement.

The group wanted Birgeneau to apologize, support payments for victims and write a letter to Haverford students explaining his position on the events and 'what you learned from them.'

Bowen then directed his outrage at a student leader who called Birgeneau's withdrawal 'a minor victory.'

'I regard this outcome as a defeat, pure and simple, for Haverford - no victory for anyone who believes, as I think most of us do, in both openness to many points of view and mutual respect,' he said.

Bowen's rant drew a standing ovation.

The former UCB chairman is one of several high-profile commencement speakers including former Secretary of State Condoleeza Rice, from Rutgers University, and International Monetary Fund chief Christine LeGarde, from Smith College, to pull out of ceremonies in response to student protests.

Bowen was one of three speakers to take Birgeneau's place as part of what Haverford president Daniel Weiss previously referred to as 'plan b.'

Sorry we are not currently accepting comments on this article.
