
Share This Story!

Five months in, Peter Jankowski says job is to serve the town and entire council.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

When New Hampshire-born Peter Jankowski was unanimously chosen as Cave Creek's town manager five months ago, he was ceremoniously dropped into a position that had stirred divisiveness with his predecessor.

Jankowski replaced the former town manager of more than 10 years, Usama Abujbarah, who was fired last year. That helped spark a recall effort to oust a group of Town Council members newly elected last year that made the firing their first order of business..

Jankowski said his job is to serve the council and the town. In other words, he says in a marked Northeastern accent, "I stay out of politics."

"As for the recall, that's not my business. I'm not involved at all. I'm out of it. That's not where I need to be," he said.

During the tenure of interim Town Manager Rodney Glassman, the council approved a number of plans to guide Cave Creek into the future.

Jankowski said one of his goals in the coming years will be to implement the items laid out in the council-approved wastewater, water and fire infrastructure plans as well as road study, and work toward paying down the town's $56 million debt.

He also will work on improving the town's bill payment system and reorganizing the utility department.

"We need to straighten some of that stuff out," he said. "As mundane as it is, we need to take care of it."

One longtime issue the town has had to deal with is operating Cave Creek's big events, which the town relies heavily on for revenue.

Jankowski said five or six major events bring in at least 50 percent of the town's revenue, and there needs to be a compromise between the major businesses that cater to those events and the smaller businesses that may get lost in the hubbub.

"We want our special events to be successful because they bring in a lot of people, and they definitely benefit those businesses that serve beer and wine and food. But it's not all about cowboys and motorcycles," he said. "Do the events serve all the folks who sell things like art? Maybe not. But they expose people to Cave Creek, and those people come back. And when they come back they're coming back in their SUVs and minivans and they're buying stuff. We can't forget about those indirect benefits of our special events."

He said the upper-management duties of the position suit him and he hopes he's in Cave Creek to stay.

His wife, Laurie, recently visited from Massachusetts to look at schools for their children, ages 11, 12 and 14.The rest of his family plans to move out in July.

"I'm looking to retire here," he said. "This is the last stop on the train."

Over the past year, a political chain of events unraveled, and continues to unfold, in Cave Creek.

Last month recall supporters submitted enough signatures necessary to force a recall of four of seven council members: Vice Mayor Adam Trenk and Councilmen Mike Durkin, Reg Monachino and Charles Spitzer.

Officials are reviewing the petitions to verify signatures. If enough are verified it would force a recall.

Mayor Vincent Francia said Jankowski has a good relationship with the council and that the town has been moving forward.

"As his first order of business, I asked him to bring calm to the staff. And he proceeded to do just that, which was the best thing for me to hear," Francia said. "Staff is more relaxed and at ease. Their mood has changed substantially."

IT coordinator Mike Rigney also said the vibe at Town Hall has changed substantially.

Jankowski genuinely seems to care about the staff and the future of Cave Creek, Rigney said.

"In my opinion, the atmosphere has been much improved. He's easy to talk to, non-judgmental, fair and has a great sense of humor, which is badly needed in his line of work."
