
Less than three minutes after traffic officer Darren Douglas had positioned his squad car in a parking lot along West Collins Drive – in plain view of traffic on the busy street near Natrona County High School – the Casper police veteran jetted from the lot in hot pursuit of a navy blue Chevy Malibu.

The driver of that Malibu, a middle-aged woman who later informed Douglas she is two-and-a-half months pregnant, quickly pulled into a nearby lot, where she was told her alleged infraction: driving 32 mph in a school zone.

Unfortunately for the expectant mother, Douglas also saw her try to stealthily sneak her seat belt on once she had pulled into the lot. Another ticket.

As fate would have it, the woman’s phone, which contained her proof of insurance, she said, was dead, adding a potential third strike to the wallet on her 3 p.m. Friday commute home from work.

Within 10 minutes of the start of the traffic stop, it was over, and the woman was peeling out of the parking lot with a scowl on her face.

In 2013, the Casper Police Department issued 13,609 traffic citations. Roughly 3,200 of those were given out by Douglas alone.

“Yes, but most people are pretty decent,” he said.

“Glaring, yeah, that’s pretty common,” he said.

Beginning today, Douglas and his two traffic counterparts, officers Chris Funch and Jeremy Eastin, as well as the rest of local law enforcement will take part in what they are calling the Click It or Ticket May Mobilization.

The program is a federally funded campaign that will add 130 hours of extra high-visibility traffic enforcement from the Casper Police Department alone, according to traffic Sgt. Pete Abrams.

That means officers like Douglas, whom Abrams affectionately dubbed "RoboCop" and a “zealot, a machine and a true believer” during an interview Friday morning, will be out in full force patrolling for traffic violations until the program ends June 2.

The aim of the program is simple: to make the roads safer for everyone. It is timed to coincide with the beginning of the summer months.

Abrams said the police department has ramped up traffic enforcement in recent years, especially enforcement of seat belt usage.

In 2011, the department issued only 57 citations to people who were not wearing their seat belts. In 2013, the department issued 1,139. That is nearly a 2,000 percent increase in seat belt citations.

Still, despite the efforts in recent years, Natrona County lags far behind the state average when it comes to seat belt usage, according to data gathered by the Department of Transportation.

In 2013, a survey showed that only 64 percent of observed drivers in the county were wearing seat belts on a day last year. That places the county in the bottom three counties in the state. The statewide average was 82 percent.

That data is gathered by trained observers who sit at well-traveled intersections, look into cars and count whether seat belts were used.

The goal is to increase that number to 100 percent, Abrams said. One way the department does that is by focusing on enforcing traffic violations to make people think twice before speeding or not buckling up.

The state could also address the poor seat belt number by making it a primary violation to drive without buckling up, he said. That would allow officers to pull someone over simply for not wearing a seat belt.

Currently, being unbuckled is a secondary violation, meaning an officer must have another reason to pull over a non-belted driver and issue a ticket for that infraction, he said.

Still, he said, the downward trend in driving fatalities last year compared with the number in 2012 is a positive sign that extra enforcement efforts, including prioritization of seat belt use, may be making an impact.

In 2012, 120 traffic fatalities were reported in the state. Last year, that number dropped to 92.

Douglas is part of the continuing strategy for improving driver safety. He recalled his record day for issuing speeding tickets in Casper: 72 in a 12-hour shift.

He stopped patrolling only once during that shift to buy a Mountain Dew and use the bathroom.

“I hate not being busy,” he said.

Copyright 2014 Casper Star-Tribune Online. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Officer Douglas...I hope you receive a bonus and promotion for your hard work.  You are a knight in uniform.

Seat belts are a great idea but a terrible law. It is so frustrating to see a state like Wyoming where we are all about individual freedoms buying into the "click it or ticket" mentality. If a behavior is only harmful to yourself it should be permitted.

Unfortunately they abuse their power. They pull over the wrong vehicles, they let other vehicles blow by at 60 MPH down Second street blowing their smoke and revving their engines.  Yet if you cruise down a steep hill.... may the gods have mercy on you.

While wearing seatbelts is common sense, it should not be a law. The only person in danger would be myself. If I choose to put myself at an elevated risk, that is MY choice.

It is wrong for policeman to make a secondary offense his priority. They are supposed to enforce the law. Not use it to make more money by getting overtime pay. Yes, they often get overtime pay for traffic patrol. Follow the money. Cars cost money. In the past two years there has been an obvious transition in the CPD from protect and serve to harass and levy fines.

Give me a break!

As noted in the article, Officer Douglas’s job is a traffic officer; this means his sole job is to enforce traffic laws.  This could mean saving someone's child from a driver who is speeding through a school zone.  You state that the "Police here seem to have forgotten what they are supposed to be doing...serve and protect".  I believe that he is fulfilling his position here perfectly.  I’m proud to live in a town that has a traffic enforcement team, especially one that works as hard as they do!

Two thumbs up.   I wish there were approval icons for agreement...like/dislike.

Do you ever ticket anyone for being intexticated?  Oh, how I wish the fines were double for using your Ipad or smartphone in a school zone.  I watched a mother in her suburban, playing on her Ipad, ripping through a school zone going 40-45 mph.

Everyday, you see people winging around the corners - making a right on red, never ever stopping before they go.   It's standard practice.

Congrats to Officer Darren Douglas, but had there not been an infraction of speeding involved?  She would had never received a citation -, that's the law. As yes, I have been guilty of  driving three blocks from my home to a convenience store without my seat belt on.

I know I should wear it - but - there is a reason why the seat belt is not cit able by itself.  Its call the US Constitution and its Bill of Rights to us. Government has the right to regulate "private property" on the outside but, not on the inside.

And since laws of our Constitution's Bill of Rights do allow for State's to make their own determinations on seat belt use. Our Legislators - Senators made legislation that our Governor at one time approved of as law to govern public thoroughfares.

Therefore, still forcing our law enforcement to regualte, if there is an "exterior infraction" of a vehicle on these same thoroughfares, they do have a the citation ability for non-use of seat belts. Otherwise, it is government overreach.

Officer Darren Douglas conducted his duties properly.

I made an account just for this article. While Law Enforcement is a needed entity, all of my interactions with Casper/Mills PD has been frivolous. I see people driving erratically all the time, often right next to LE. Common sense has no place with the local jack booted thugs. I have been pulled over for someone else blowing past me, which the officer did not recall seeing in court, however with the good ol' boys club here... that did not matter. The hill going East on Second street.... you better ride your brakes down that hill. May the gods have mercy on you if you do not, you will get pulled over (Even if everyone else is cruising at the same speed downhill). Where the speed limit switches from 30 mph to 20 mph.... you had better be damned sure you are going 20 mph BEFORE you reach the change. Casper is just sad. There are so many more pressing issues, but you have officers (Such as the those mentioned in this article) who seem to get off on giving out tickets.  This guy seems proud of his 72 tickets in a day. That comes out to 6 tickets an hour. Police here seem to have forgotten what they are supposed to be doing... serve and protect. This is not to say some tickets are not justified... but a lot are not and that is where common sense/logic/judgment should take place. If someone is going 32 mph in a 30 mph zone, that should not be a ticket.

Why do I have to have my seat belt on for safety yet motorcyclist don't have to wear a helmet even though it is safer in some minds? Do Cyclist have more rights than I do? I guess so. I must add joining ABATE to my list of things to do. If you give your freedoms up for the sake of safety you will have and you deserve neither. I didn't  make that quote up; Ben Franklin did.

We provide this community forum for readers to exchange ideas and opinions on the news of the day. Passionate views, pointed criticism and critical thinking are welcome. Name-calling, crude language and personal abuse are not welcome. Moderators will monitor comments with an eye toward maintaining a high level of civility in this forum. Our comment policy explains the rules of the road for registered commenters.

You called someone an idiot, a racist, a dope, a moron, etc. Please, no name-calling or profanity (or veiled profanity -- #$%^&*).

You rambled, failed to stay on topic or exhibited troll-like behavior intended to hijack the discussion at hand.

YOU SHOUTED YOUR COMMENT IN ALL CAPS. This is hard to read and annoys readers.

You have issues with a business. Have a bad meal? Feel you were overcharged at the store? New car is a lemon? Contact the business directly with your customer service concerns.

You included an e-mail address or phone number, pretended to be someone you aren't or offered a comment that makes no sense.

You accused someone of a crime or assigned guilt or punishment to someone suspected of a crime.

Your comment is in really poor taste.

Hint: Enter a keyword that you are looking for like tires, pizza or doctors or browse the full business directory .

Username & Password Required!
