
Totem Pole Playhouse honors the talent of area high schools at Majestic Theater 'Tony Awards'

The audience came to a standing ovation as students from Chambersburg Area Senior High School received the top prize of the evening at the inaugural Totem Pole Playhouse Awards on May 18.

The Chambersburg student ensemble cast of "Godspell" took home the Carl Schurr Award for Outstanding Production of a High School Musical.

The idea behind the "Godspell" production, performed at the school in April, was to encourage a sense of community and understanding for others, said director Ian Jacobs.

"The message is, even though some stuff around is broken, there's always room for rebuilding and making something ugly into something beautiful," Jacobs said. "We are a strong, small cast and we are so glad the judges saw the work the kids put into this."

Chambersburg student Austin Widmann won outstanding supporting male actor and "Godspell" ensemble members Hannah Zychal and Sarah Steele received outstanding vocal duet for their performance of "Side by Side," which they performed during the ceremony.

Other schools that received awards include Mercersburg Academy, Waynesboro Area High School, Gettysburg High School, New Oxford High School, Bermudian Springs High School and Littlestown High School.

The evening also included 11 musical performances from high schools in Adams, Franklin and Fulton counties. The format was meant to reflect an experience similar to the Broadway Tony Awards.

This is the first ceremony of its kind for the Totem Pole Playhouse, and plans are already in the works for a larger production next year, said playhouse artistic director Rowan Joseph.

"One of our hopes for the Totem Pole Awards is that people will go to these high school performances and support these kids," Joseph said. "We want to see the students get the recognition they deserve."

Carl Schurr Award for Outstanding Production of a High School Musical - Chambersburg Area Senior High School "Godspell"

Best Actress — Caitlin Cremins of Mercersburg Academy "Legally Blonde"

Best Actor — Ben Dennis of Waynesboro Area High School "Damn Yankees"

Outstanding Supporting Actress — Taylor Davis of Waynesboro Area High School "Damn Yankees"

Outstanding Supporting Male Actor — Austin Widmann of Chambersburg Area Senior High School "Godspell"

Outstanding Ensemble Actress — Emily Baker of Gettysburg High School "Bye, Bye, Birdie"

Outstanding Ensemble Actor — James Riford of Mercersburg Academy "Legally Blonde"

Outstanding Female and Male Soloists — Brittni Blank and Drew Becker of New Oxford High School "Anything Goes"

Outstanding Vocal Duet — Hannah Zychal and Sarah Steele of Chambersburg Area Senior High School "Godspell"

Outstanding Small Ensemble Performance - Matt Meckley, Fisher Selby and Logan Althoff of Bermudian Springs High School "Guys and Dolls"

Outstanding Featured Dancer - Kylee Davis of Bermudian Springs High School "Guys and Dolls"

Outstanding Musical Production Number — Littlestown High School "Anything Goes"

Outstanding Musical Chorus — Littlestown High School "Anything Goes"

Outstanding Stage Crew — Littlestown High School "Anything Goes"
