
MORRISTOWN, Tenn. (WVLT) - Hamblen County is experiencing a job crisis that nobody saw coming.

Companies say more than a thousand jobs are available, but there are no workers to fill them.

The county added around 700 jobs last year, but the unemployment rate remains high, at 6.9 percent.

Team Technologies Inc. has around 30 entry level jobs open right now, but they're not getting many bites from job seekers.

"I really wish some of our younger folks who are graduating high school would come knock on our door, we'd love to put them to work," says Steve Henrikson, president and CEO of Team Technologies.

"I don't know where all of our young kids are going to work."

Chamber of Commerce president Marshall Ramsey says part of the problem is finding people who want to work and follow the rules.

"We do get the comment occasionally, that you find good workers but it's difficult to get them to pass a drug test," Ramsey explained.

Ramsey says many educated, qualified workers leave the county after school. And the ones who do stay, don't have the right training.

He says that's something they hope will change when the governor's 'Tennessee Promise' program goes into effect.  That will allow ever high school graduate to attend a community college for free.

"We think we have a lot of assets here, especially if cost of living is beneficial to you or the desire to raise a family in a home environment."

But for now, the jobs are still waiting.

"We'd love the have some people show up and want to work."

And the employment opportunities keep coming. This year the county plans to add 600 new jobs.

For a list of available jobs in Hamblen County and the rest of Tennessee, click the link to the right.

Comments may be monitored for inappropriate  content, but the station is under no legal obligation to do so.

If you believe  a comment violates the above rules, please use the Flagging Tool to alert  a Moderator.

Flagging does not guarantee removal.

Multiple violations may result in account suspension.

Decisions to suspend or unsuspend accounts are made by Station Moderators.

Links require admin approval before posting.

Questions may be sent to webmaster@wvlt-tv.com .  Please provide detailed information.
