
This article was published May 19, 2014 at 7:08 a.m.

The influence of race on Little Rock neighborhoods will be the topic during a discussion at the Hillary Rodham Clinton Children's Library on Monday evening.

Civil-rights historian John A. Kirk and Jess Porter, a geography professor at the University of Arkansas at Little Rock, host the Monday event.

Kirk and Porter are to discuss how Little Rock's neighborhoods became racially segregated before the 1957 Central High desegregation crisis and explore other influences on where people live. They are to explain how slum clearance, urban renewal, and other policies have enabled racial separation to continue.

The Monday event starts at 6 p.m. The library is at 4800 W. 10th St.

To report abuse or misuse of this area please hit the "Suggest Removal" link in the comment to alert our online managers. Read our Terms of Use policy.

You must login to make comments.

LevyRat says... May 19, 2014 at 7:34 a.m.

More liberal blather .......... name the neighborhood(s) in Little Rock that are racially segerated ...... can't think of one, neither can I.  The TAX AND SPEND LIBERALS want you to judge someone by the color of their skin rather than the content of their character, hence the continued racist discussions.

LevyRat,

Have you ever lived in Little Rock?  When I grew up there, black people lived mostly in certain areas and whites in others.  While some neighborhoods may be more mixed and some changes made, these differences made discrimination in schools easier which is what caused busing and part of the decline of Little Rock schools.  I happen to be anti-busing.  Kids should be studying--not riding buses.  However, racism caused federal interference and busing because the white people could not be trusted to spend adequately on the mostly black schools.

AmericasDoomed says... May 19, 2014 at 11:16 a.m.

Racial separation continues because that's how whites and blacks want it. No amount of government intervention is going to change that. The Obama administration has only worsened racial problems.

doublec says... May 19, 2014 at 12:15 p.m.

One interesting area that should be studied is the differences in racial progress between the two major cities at the center of racial tension, Little Rock AR and Birmingham AL. There seems to be major differences in these two cities on how the racial issues have been handled over the years. Little Rock has continued to battle racial reconciliation, poor public school government and bad overall policies; while Birmingham has no doubt had her issues but has moved forward in promoting and even reconciling racial tensions. The public schools in Birmingham are operated better and the overall climate is more receptive to racial discussions. The Little Rock City government should get together with the Birmingham City Government and see what they can learn from them on how to move forward.

NutButter says... May 19, 2014 at 12:41 p.m.

Schools in Little Rock are integrated but still there are problems. At some point, family & the cultural community must bear their part of responsibility; black or white.

"No child left behind" has not helped anyone get an education. It's a "feel good" mantra that is no substitute for hard work and individual expectations.

Black-on-black crime is a separate issue but is still a major ethnic problem that cannot be blamed on whites and cannot be ignored. At some point, the cultural community, churches, and parents have to take responsibility instead of blaming lack of integration.

The blacks that I know are educated/skilled and have moved out of the high-crime areas and have the same expectations of their children and grandchildren as the same class of whites.

doublec says... May 19, 2014 at 2:28 p.m.

Tension continue because many are self promoted. Our very use of language promotes the tension, African- American, Hispanic-American, Asian-American are just a few examples, these terms say we are separate from the others and hold onto self pride and add to the tension. We should take pride in our heritage but not to the extent that it divides. We need to stop the victim mentality and always thinking some one is out to get us so we better get our own. This line of thought does not help anyone. Religious leaders need to work hard at reconciling the races. In God's system there is no Gentile or Jew; Male for Female; Black or White; Hispanic or Asian; etc. Yet little is done within religious organizations to bring about racial healing. No one race is less responsible than another for the bigotry that exists. Until we stop looking for someone else to fix the problem and we take personal responsibility to cure our own hearts and that of our families this will be a problem. No government law or public policy will correct the issue.

DontDrinkDatKoolAid says... May 19, 2014 at 2:40 p.m.

Po and Pop, We want our own community, like I had as a child.

HalALouyah says... May 19, 2014 at 4:07 p.m.

DoubleC: two awesome posts on your part. What I heard just yesterday "racism isn't a skin issue it's a sin issue".

All rights reserved.

This document may not be reprinted without the express written permission of Arkansas Democrat-Gazette, Inc.
