
Share This Story!

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Burlington Mayor Miro Weinberger talks about the school budget at  C.P. Smith Elementary School on Monday .

Two Burlington School Board members and a city councilor accused Mayor Miro Weinberger on Monday of disenfranchising voters by failing to automatically send absentee ballots in advance of the June 3 school budget revote.

The three men said anyone who requested an absentee ballot for the original budget vote on Town Meeting Day should automatically be sent one for the coming re-vote.

Weinberger responded that City Attorney Eileen Blackwood spoke with an employee in Secretary of State Jim Condos' office, and they came to the conclusion that the June 3 vote is a new election and those who need absentee ballots must request them again.

School Board Commissioners Scot Shumski and Keith Pillsbury with City Councilor Dave Hartnett, D-Ward 4, held a news conference on the lawn of C.P. Smith Elementary School Monday imploring the mayor to change his mind.

"Barre City Clerk Carol Dawes stated it has been standard practice to resend the absentee ballots since former State Director of Elections Kathy DeWolfe made the recommendation as the 'safest legal course of action' based on her belief that a budget revote is essentially a continuation of the original election," Shumski read from a prepared statement.

According to the City Clerk's Office, 1,539 Burlington residents voted by absentee ballot on Town Meeting Day. Shumski said that two weeks before the March election, about 400 people had cast their votes with absentee ballots. Two weeks before the coming school budget re-vote, 229 people have voted by absentee ballot, he said.

Shumski and Pillsbury argued that automatically sending out the absentee ballots would increase voter participation. Though neither could say how many towns in Vermont have adhered to the practice, Shumski said that Jericho, Underhill and Richmond had all done this when their budgets had come to a re-vote.

Shumski said he hoped the Burlington mayor would consider automatically sending out absentee ballots for future re-votes.

Councilor Hartnett represents the New North End, where he said the greatest number of absentee voters reside. He hoped to give more people the opportunity to participate in the special vote, he said.

On Wednesday, the city , stated in a news release that "as with any new election, voters will need to submit a new request for an absentee ballot to participate in the special election on June 3." The release said the practice was consistent with what was done for the last special election in June 2003.

At a separate news conference Monday afternoon, , Weinberger said he was open to further education about the election rules around absentee ballots, but that he was comfortable with the decision that had been made.

The mayor held his news conference to express his support for the revised school budget, and was asked to address the ballot issue by reporters.

"I'm always open to new information if something new comes to light," Weinberger said. "Our time is getting short and we're two weeks from the election. The election officials and the city attorney have put considerable time into this. They consulted again with the Secretary of State's Office, they looked at precedent, and they made the decision. I'm comfortable with the decision."

In an email to Tondy Bell, Burlington chairman of the Vermont Republican Party, state Director of Elections William Senning wrote that even though the vote is different, the subject matter of the vote is the same. However, he pointed out that the law was unclear on re-votes.

Bell provided the email at the request of the Burlington Free Press. Burlington Republicans had been pushing for the automatic distribution of absentee ballots.

Election law states that when doing a reconsideration vote, absentee ballots should automatically be mailed to those who requested them the first time, Senning wrote.

"I think there is an argument that anyone who requested an absentee ballot to vote on that article would assume they had requested one for any revote of that same article, despite a change in the budget figure," Senning wrote in the email. "If asked by a town clerk faced with this question, I would explain this same analysis and encourage them to seek the advice of their town attorney as to how to proceed."

When asked if there was enough time to distribute the absentee ballots, Shumski said he would support pushing back election day to make time to distribute the ballots and have everyone vote, rather than "rushing through a special election."

Hartnett said he hoped the practice would be adopted in the future rather than pushing back the vote.

"Too much work has been done," he said. "This school board has worked too hard. A lot of people put a lot of effort into this, and I would hope we get the ballots out to people before we think about postponing this budget vote for sure."

Pillsbury said the three men were more concerned with the enfranchisement of voters rather than the result of the vote in this case. From speaking to voters, Shumski said he realized that some citizens were unaware of the special election.

"For me, it's really the principle that everyone should have the right to vote on the school budget" Pillsbury said. "The schools belong to everyone."
