
Rachel Rodemann • Times Record / Leroy Jeremiah, superintendent of waterline maintenance at the Fort Smith Utilities Department, discusses his collection of antique water hardware, Wednesday, May 14, 2014, at his office.

When Leroy Jeremiah retires in July, he will complete what he says has been a rewarding and fulfilling career.

Jeremiah, 63, the superintendent of the line maintenance division at the Fort Smith utilities department , will retire July 3 after 40 years of dedicating his work to the city of Fort Smith and its residents. He will end his run as the city’s longest tenured employee, following the April retirement of Fire Department Battalion Chief Larry Hall, who had worked at the Fire Department for 41 years.

Born and raised in Muldrow, Jeremiah attended Muldrow High School and the University of Arkansas at Fort Smith before being hired as an engineering aide in the Fort Smith utilities department in October 1973. Jeremiah took an interest in the field, making it his career.

He worked his way through the ranks at the utilities department, earning state certifications and licensing programs from the Arkansas Department of Health and the Arkansas Department of Environmental Quality along the way.

Jeremiah worked at different levels in the engineering department, before being promoted to superintendent of the line maintenance division, a position he’s held since 1987.

As superintendent, he is responsible for the division’s 97 employees and oversees the maintenance of water lines for the city and the transmission lines to other areas to which the city sells water. Other tasks include the supervision of the repair of fire hydrants and line leaks, as well as customer support to any maintenance issue regarding the water distribution system.

Jeremiah said he will miss the service aspect of his job the most.

Problem-solving has been both a thrill and a challenge for Jeremiah. He spoke of the most memorable moments of his career, and said dealing with inclement weather that has caused interruptions at the treatment plants and flooding to water lines has provided the most memorable challenges. Jeremiah said being responsible for employees comes with its own set of “very tough, life-changing decisions.” He said he never looked forward to having to make personnel moves and considered that task the most difficult challenge.

Fort Smith Human Resources Director Richard Jones said he has always had a nice working relationship with Jeremiah.

Parke, who has worked with Jeremiah for 38 years, said Jeremiah’s calm demeanor and approach were helpful in developing infrastructure projects.

Jeremiah said he won’t miss the unexpected late-night phone calls reporting a problem.

“For most of my career, I’ve been in an area that has 24-hours-a-day, seven-days-a-week responsibilities, and it’ll be nice to know that if my phone rings it’s not involving a major water leak or a malfunction or something,” Jeremiah said.

He said he felt the timing was right to settle down.

Yes, I would like to receive SWTR NewsBreak (afternoon).

Yes, I would like to receive SWTR Football Insider.
