
In a vote last week, Congress once again cemented its dedication to partisan gridlock over national interest by its failure to take action on a pair of energy bills.

Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., had agreed to schedule a vote on forcing President Barack Obama to approve the Keystone XL Pipeline that would carry Canadian tar sands oil to the Gulf Coast, but said he would allow the vote only if Republicans agreed to pass a popular and bipartisan energy efficiency bill without amendments.

Both were tossed out the window when Republicans balked and the Senate came up five votes short of the needed 60 votes needed for a floor vote.

Republicans wanted to add amendments to the energy efficiency bill to help the coal industry by limiting regulation of planet-warming gases and speeding approval of U.S. natural gas exports, according to news reports.

As usual, Democrats blamed Republicans and vice versa.

“This useless, mind-boggling obstruction is what continually grinds the wheels of the Senate to a halt,” Reid said.

We agree with both of those statements and suspect most Americans would, too.

We have strongly advocated for the Keystone Pipeline approval as a way to increase the nation’s energy independence and boost our national security by relying on a friendly neighbor for energy supplies. And the energy efficiency bill, a modest proposal that would have offered incentives for energy-efficient homes and buildings, would have created more than 200,000 jobs and saved taxpayers billions of dollars.

All tossed out the window because congressional leaders are more concerned about positioning themselves for midterm elections instead of doing the work for which they were elected.

Small wonder that even before the non-vote last week Congress’ approval rating had dipped to 11 percent. For comparison, that puts our lawmakers’ favorability below such things as pornography, which is approved by 30 percent of Americans, and on a par with polygamy, which is morally acceptable to 11 percent of Americans, according to Gallup polls last fall.

Small wonder, too, then that survey polls last month showed only 27 percent of Americans believe the country is headed in the right direction.

Copyright 2014 Journal Times. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Journal Times said "We have strongly advocated for the Keystone Pipeline approval as a way to increase the nation’s energy independence and boost our national security by relying on a friendly neighbor for energy supplies."

A lot has changed since TransCanada first applied for the Keystone XL.

For starters, our domestic oil boom combined with reduced domestic oil consumption has cut our NET oil imports in HALF, to the point where we now export more oil products than we import oil from all OPEC nations combined.

Username & Password Required!
