
The city of Charleston must address its declining revenue, Mayor Danny Jones said Monday to Charleston Rotarians.

“I don’t know how [the revenue is] going to come, but it’s going to come,” Jones said of the need for more funds.

Jones didn’t issue any definitive strategies, but said Charleston’s fire fee hasn’t been raised since the 1980s and mentioned the possibility of increasing its user fee— a weekly $2 charge to those who work in Charleston.

Jones’ comments came during his “State of the City” address to the Rotary Club of Charleston.

The city has multiple large expenses in 2015, including $400,000 for city elections, $500,000 for uniformed pension plans and $400,000 for its employee health clinic.

Jones later clarified his statement, saying an additional tax or increase in sales tax wouldn’t happen during his current term. The sales tax hike was implemented in October to fund Civic Center upgrades — a project estimated to cost $50 million.

The city decided in March to dip into its stabilization fund to increase projected revenue in 2015. Nearly $1.1 million will act as a cushion to make up for Charleston’s projected $2.9 million shortfall by the end of June, the conclusion of the 2014 fiscal year.

The city last did this in 2013 when it used $1,544,000 from the fund, which holds about $5.2 million in emergency funds for the city. This year’s transfer accounts for about 20 percent of the fund.

“The toothpaste is out of the tube” on fighting the gun bill passed during this year’s legislative session, Jones said.

Under the new law, passed by legislators in March, cities have a say about where guns can and can’t be carried on municipal-owned-and-operated properties, but recreation and community centers aren’t considered such places.

“Rec centers are for the poorest people in our community, especially the King Center,” Jones said of the Martin Luther King Jr. Community Center in downtown Charleston.

Jones hasn’t been quiet about his disapproval of the measure, and the city has filed a request for judicial clarification of the law arguing it conflicts with existing state statute.

The city wants it made clear if an existing law, which prohibits firearms in buildings where educational activities are held, should take precedence over the new law’s provisions. The city also wants the judge to make clear what is considered “storage” and if the city is required to allow a person with a firearm into a facility without “secure lockers or other secure containers.

The King Center houses a HeadStart program, but it’s unclear if such a facility is, in fact, a school.

Jim Withrow, an attorney for Kanawha County Schools, told the Gazette in an earlier interview that the county most likely would have to look into the issue.

State code makes it a felony to carry a firearm onto school property or places used for school-related events and programs.

While it’s true, the city hasn’t yet named any defendant in the case, Kanawha County Circuit Judge Carrie Webster requested in March that the city file a legal memorandum addressing whether there should be a second party named in the city’s filing.

When asked if he would run for re-election, Jones said he hasn’t yet decided.

Sign up for the latest news delivered to your inbox each morning.

Thank you!
