
Kerala's ruling United Democratic Front's (UDF) decent show in the backdrop of Congress party's national rout in the recent Loksabha poll has strengthened Chief Minister Oommen Chandy .  The result is seen as a vote in Chandy's favour though UDF's seats came down from 16 to 12 compared to 2009's polls and Left Democratic Front (LDF) doubled its tally to 8, the fact that Kerala is the only state where the Congress remained on top.  It also helped Chandy win the gamble he played during the campaign by saying that the election would also be a referendum on his 3 year-old government's performance.

The result came as a bailout for Chandy at a time when his personal image was in serious trouble owing to various scams in which members of his personal staff were found involved.  It has also strengthened Chandy's hands against V M Sudheeran, the "Mr Clean" and the new KPCC President appointed by the High Command.  Sudheeran, appointed by Rahul Gandhi in February against Chandy's opposition to his name, has been since involved in putting checks and balances in the state administration to enhance its sullied moral image.  The reports that AICC would ask Congress Chief Ministers to quit if the party was defeated in their respective elections now hold no water after the national rout put Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi themselves in the dock.

Though Chandy's governance was generally found passable, his personal image came under a cloud since last June when as many as five members of his personal staff  were caught in various scams and even cases of sexual harassment.  Chandy's long time personal assistant Teny Joppan was arrested in last June in connection with the sensational "solar" cheating case in which a woman and her partner had duped scores of people offering to set up solar panels etc. A number of Congress leaders including MLAs and ministers both at the state and centre were found to have links with Sarita Nair, the prime accused in the case. Later Chief Minister's official bodyguard Salim Raj was found to be involved in many land scams.  Yet another of his personal staff was caught in a sexual assault case.  The misdeeds of the "Chandy men" were the biggest electoral campaign points for the Opposition Left Democratic Front (LDF) against the UDF.  Chandy was put in further trouble by the High court too during the campaign days when it demanded of the Chief Minister to explain how his office became a "hub of criminal elements".

It was to compensate the damage to Chandy's moral image that AICC appointed  Sudheeran, as the new KPCC President in February.  Sudheeran who does not belong to any factional camps in the state Congress was appointed by Rahul Gandhi, AICC vice president ignoring the opposition from both the rival factions led respectively by Chandy and Ramesh Chennithala, Home Minister. An angry Chandy boycotted Sudheeran's taking over the new charge. This led to the AICC President Sonia Gandhi openly expressing her displeasure to Chandy during her one day campaign tour to Kerala.  She refused to talk to Chandy except exchanging bare pleasantries. Chandy who had expected Sonia to talk to him while in Kerala regarding Sudheeran's appointment was more peeved. He hit back by becoming the first Congress Chief Minister to refuse to be at the airport to either receive or see off AICC President.  He was sour at not being even informed about Sudheeran's appointment before it came in the media.  On his part, Sudheeran has been initiating steps to put checks and balances for Chandy and the government ever since he took over.  Sudheeran firmly opposed Chandy going ahead with permitting a controversial new private international airport at Aranmula despite opposition from local farmers.  Sudheeran is now involved in an open war with Chandy on the renewal of the licenses to 418 bars.  The UDF government denied renewal f these licenses on March 31 leading to the bar closure citing lack of the legally mandatory amenities.  This decision was taken with an eye on women votes in the Loksabha election which was only 10 days away, besides placating the Catholic church that led the state's anti-liquor lobby.  But once the polling was over, Chandy and his loyalist Excise Minister K Babu called for renewing the licenses saying the bars should be given time to set up the  mandatory amenities.  Though Chandy found support from a majority in the KPCC, Sudheeran did not relent and almost led a solitary campaign against renewing the licenses.  This has made the decision on the issue hanging fire for more than a month now.  The LDF too, though is for renewing the licenses, accused Chandy of having accepted huge funds during the election campaign from the bar lobby.

Emboldened by the electoral result, Chandy is expected now to go ahead with his agenda which includes renewal of bar licenses and also a reconstitution of the ministry.  Chandy is unlikely to face any serious obstacle as Sudheeran is now constrained by a hugely weakened Rahul Gandhi and High Command.

Chandy's first plan is to carry out the promise he gave to R Balakrishna Pillai, Kerala Congress (B) chairman, to re-induct the latter's son K B Ganesh Kumar in his cabinet. Kumar, a film actor-turned-politician, was the Forest Minister in Chandy cabinet until he stepped down last April when his estranged wife filed a case against him for domestic violence.  But on the eve of elections, Chandy met Pillai and offered to take back Kumar in return for helping Kodikkunnil Suresh, Union Minister of State for Labour Kodikunnil Suresh and candidate from Mavelikkara.  Suresh also was alleged to have links with the accused in solar scam.  But the I faction led by Chennithala is not keen to re-induct Kumar as it fears one of its own nominees in the 21 member-ministry may be asked to step down to make way for the new face.  Sudheeran also is not too happy to re-induct Kumar on account of the charges of domestic violence against him.  Sudheeran has now called for a reconstitution of the party organization from below to see that the present power equations inside the party are altered in his favour. Presently the two rival camps led by Chandy and Chennithala dominate the organization.  Both these factions had opposed Sudheeran's appointment.

Though the election campaign did not witness any major showdown within the Congress,  an indication of the differences surfaced between Sudheeran and Congress's prominent woman leader Shanimol Usman.  Sudheeran rebuked Usman, a former AICC secretary and member of Rahul Brigade,  publicly when she called for a probe into the alleged links between Sarita Nair and K C Venugopal, Union Minister of State for Civil Aviation in the UPA cabinet and candidate from Alappuzha.  Usman shot off a protest letter to Sudheeran accusing him of suppressing internal democracy. Though most Congress leaders, irrespective of factional camps, jumped in to slam Usman for "defying" Sudheeran,  Chandy was conspicuously silent triggering suspicions about a secret alliance between the two against their common enemy.
