
A 2ft hole caused traffic chaos in Petts Wood this morning (May 19).

News Shopper previously reported the gap to be 4ft, but after we measured it it's clear the man who phoned in with the information clearly overestimated its size - often the case with the gender.

Queues were stretching back along Queensway, Tudor Way, Ryecroft Road, and Towncourt Lane due to works being carried out at the roundabout where the four meet.

A Thames Water sign has been placed on a bollard noting a completion date later this week – so it looks like delays could go on for some time.

No Thames Water staff were working at the site on Monday and one motorist was particularly upset by the situation.

Christopher Knight, 64, said the fact nobody was there is “beyond comprehension” and feels “the whole country’s out of order”.

The doctor of theology, now retired, told News Shopper: “It’s pandemonium.

“It took me 30 minutes to do a drive that should take 30 seconds.

“It’s all because of a small hole. I’ve been told it (project) started on Saturday but there’s nobody there now.

“The traffic was going back miles, at an absolute standstill – it’ll probably be all the way to Chislehurst by lunch time.

Dr Knight added the heat made sitting in his car, going nowhere, added to the stress of it all.

Today the Petts Wood Business Association (PWBA) received information from Bromley Council .

The organisation said after talking to the council it can confirm the traffic problems are due to a burst water main.

Thames Water has apparently reported the emergency works will be finished tomorrow (May 20) and temporary traffic lights will be removed then.

A spokeswoman for the company said: "We’re sorry for the disruption caused by our work to repair a valve which began on Saturday.

"The hole is being filled in today (Monday) and we expect the road to be back to normal tomorrow.

"We appreciate it is frustrating for drivers who come across work areas where there is no activity taking place but, in many cases, we wait until after morning rush hour to begin work to avoid causing even more traffic problems."

Oh gawd no.

Righto all those late into the NS office this morning hands up.

Re: Above comments. Snore. Same old whinges.

“It took me 30 minutes to do a drive that should take 30 seconds."

If it only takes 30 seconds to drive, walk!

Who would want to bomb Petts Wood?!

The guy is clearly a sandwich short of a picnic, and News Shopper obviously had nothing better to report.

News Shopper previously reported the gap to be 4ft, but after we measured it it's clear the man who phoned in with the information clearly overestimated its size - often the case with the gender."

If this causes the amount of traffic, think with the fracking how many holes will appear then!

Its going to be a big hole if its a burst pipe!

What is causing the issues is drivers that can't drive!

"Traffic queues for miles in Petts Wood due to 2ft hole and nobody on scene"

"Traffic queues for miles in Petts Wood due to 2ft hole and lazy workers are standing around doing nothing"

Please! Why wasn't the works near me causing chaos Plaistow Lane reported a week or so ago. Ohh I forgot, NS is only able to report what is outside their window.

wouldn't be so bad if  the alternative route from orpington to chistlehurst wasn't undergoing road works with traffic controls on the same day so people were looking for other routes. the lazy contractors could of done what many do now and place a steel plate over the hole until they could fix the massive hole .

We want you to enjoy your visit to our website. That's why we use cookies to enhance your experience.  By staying on our website you agree to our use of cookies. Find out more about the cookies we use .
