
According to the Ohio Education Research Center’s dropout tracking report , dropouts are a big problem for the state’s “Big 8″ urban districts. Northeast Ohio’s a bit unique, in that two of those urban districts–Akron and Cleveland–are only separated by roughly 40 miles.

Both districts are dealing with the issue of students leaving before graduation. Clocking in at 16.5 percent in 2010, Cleveland Metropolitan School District’s dropout rate is the highest in the state. Akron Public Schools’ dropout rate comes in at 6.2 percent.

For many educators, community leaders, and parents, that’s a problem. That’s why WVIZ/PBS and 90.3 WCPN ideastream are hosting Ideas: The Dropout Dilemma , a town hall-style special about the region’s low graduation rates and potential ways to solve the problem.

David James , Superintendent of Akron Public Schools.

The town hall will air at 9 p.m. tonight simultaneously on both WVIZ/PBS and 90.3 WCPN . It goes hand-in-hand with the airing of Facing Forward: A Student’s Story , which chronicles the struggle of urban education through the eyes of one young student as he attends an inner-city Cleveland charter school.

Missing the show? You can still follow along with StateImpact Ohio’s Amy Hansen as she live tweets comments from panelists and audience members during the taping of the special beginning at 5 p.m. tonight. We want to hear what you think about Northeast Ohio’s dropout dilemma–join in on the Twitter conversation by using the hashtag #dropoutdilemma.

StateImpact Ohio is a collaboration among WCPN, WKSU, and WOSU.

Suspension and expulsion of students does not help. The students like going to in school suspension rather than being in my room where they know we expect them to do their work. As educators though our hands are tied. We engage in all kinds of social and emotional learning strategies. We try really hard to engage families and we are creating projects that integrate technology and real life connections. I put in 12-16 hour days and most of my colleagues do as well. The test scores at our school far out pace those of comprehensive high schools around us with similar demographics, but at what cost? I’ve been stabbed in the hand by a pencil this year because I asked a student to take his ear buds out and listen to our OGT prep, cussed out by students who were later arrested for murder, cussed out by caretakers who tell me that their students aren’t late because they drop them off at 8:20 every day when we’ve told them over and over that school starts at 8, cussed out because they don’t have time to deal with the student I’m calling about. That is just this school year. There were no consequences for any of these incidents for students or their families. The two students convicted of murder this year were allowed to remain in our class and wreak as much havoc as they wanted until they were arrested for events outside of school. I’m a Master teacher, but I’m not equipped to deal with some of these issues, and I’m tired of being blamed and beat up by everyone who thinks they know what the fixes are for education even though they have never taught in an urban classroom. Meanwhile, test scores are the entire world of education now, apparently to politicians and having to prep students for tests is the biggest drive away from school I see. They feel hopeless because they are so far behind and the high stakes tests exacerbate those feelings and take time away from the creative learning that could happen more and there’s no room for the specials that kids look forward to like music, gym, and art.

StateImpact Ohio is a collaboration among WCPN , WKSU and WOSU . Reporters  Bill Rice and Amy Hansen travel the state to report on the state of education in Ohio, where it’s heading, and how it affects you. Read their reports on this site and listen to them on public radio stations across Ohio.

Education reporting is supported by the Corporation for Public Broadcasting and its American Graduate Initiative.

Support for StateImpact Ohio and its education programming on 90.3 and online is provided by the Nord Family Foundation and The Nordson Corporation Foundation .

StateImpact seeks to inform and engage local communities with broadcast and online news focused on how state government decisions affect your lives.
