
As the state attorney general's office sues for reimbursement from John J. O'Connor and Susan Bruno for allegedly conspiring to pay her for an alleged no-show job, their attorneys are fighting back with differing defense theories.

Bruno's lawyer, E. Stewart Jones Jr. — who represented her father, former Senate Majority Leader Joseph L. Bruno , in his successful defense of felony fraud charges with the federal government — argues in legal papers that she was entitled to the pay she received at the Research Foundation for the State University of New York .

Jones took over the representation of Susan Bruno from Albany lawyer Stephen Coffey , who had represented her when she and O'Connor were being investigated by the state ethics commission. The ethics commission in 2011 found reasonable cause that O'Connor violated the state's Public Officers Law by giving a no-show Research Foundation job to Bruno. O'Connor's actions were an unwarranted privilege conferred on Bruno, the commission said.

Schneiderman sued last year seeking recovery of $165,000 in payments to Bruno. The attorney general based the case on allegedly false and fraudulent reports, and claimed she was paid for services she did not perform.

The lawyer for O'Connor, Karl J. Sleight , claims the statute of limitations on his client's alleged illegal behavior has lapsed.

The arguments are in legal records in the case that are not in the public file, but were obtained from the attorney general's office through state Freedom of Information Law.

Jones further states that the suit should not be before state Supreme Court in Albany County because the Research Foundation is not a state agency, and therefore the court lacks jurisdiction.

"The defendant performed the services she was required to perform," Jones wrote, adding that Bruno "was entitled to the pay she received." As a special assistant to O'Connor, Bruno was paid $84,120 a year until her departure in March 2009.

O'Connor was president of the Research Foundation from 2000 to 2011. He served during that period as top officer of SUNY and the SUNY board of trustees. He also was officer in charge of the university system during its search for a new chancellor.

Jones said during the senator's trial this month that he didn't think the Susan Bruno case was going anywhere. Schneiderman's office said the case is still in the discovery stage and had no comment. It was filed under the False Claims Act by the attorney general's Public Integrity Bureau .

According to the attorney general's filings, Susan Bruno rarely was seen at work, and an investigation into her activities while on the clock showed she was busy with a Senate fundraiser, waiting for a vet to attend the family's horse, going to the track with family members, doing her father's laundry, working on Senate campaigns and driving her father and his friend Kay Stafford to the airport so they could go to a GOP convention.

Two investigators with the Joint Commission on Public Ethics last week interviewed women who have accused former Assemblyman Dennis Gabryszak of violating state law, according to a person involved in the probe.

The JCOPE team making inquiries includes a female investigator who usually works out of the agency's New York City office, lawyer Pei Pei Cheng-de -Castro, as well as Buffalo-based investigator Peter Smith . Several women have claimed Gabryszak sexually harassed or made improper statements to them during their employment by the Democrat from Depew. He resigned his Assembly seat in January after the claims were made public in December. Gabryszak's lawyer, Terry Connors , said he was unaware of the JCOPE probe.

Meanwhile, JCOPE is without a voice representing Senate Democrats . With a meeting scheduled for May 28, the appointee of former Senate Leader John Sampson said she stepped down because she had served her term. Manhattan lawyer LaShann DeArcy had been a holdover in the post initially filled by Sampson appointee Ravi Batra in September 2012.

Sampson is currently facing federal corruption charges. Current Senate Democratic leader Andrea Stewart-Cousins has not replaced DeArcy, whose term expired in December.
