
JEFFERSON CITY -- Keeping Common Core education standards moving forward in Missouri required compromises from passionate people on both sides of the issue, Senate Education Committee Chairman David Pearce said.

"Both sides are pleased," Pearce said about a minute after the Senate passed the final version of the bill to send to Gov. Jay Nixon.

In the Senate's Pershing Room prior to the vote, Pearce said some lawmakers wanted the issue to go forward without change and others had concerns about how standards developed for kindergarten through 12th-grade students.

The Associated Press reported the legislation would allow parents and educators to write new student achievement benchmarks, potentially paving the way for the state to ditch national education goals.

"Nixon has not said whether he will sign or veto the measure. His office has said the current standards already have been successfully implemented and are 'helping us achieve our goals for student learning.' Missouri students are scheduled to begin taking tests based on Common Core this fall," The AP reported.

The State Board of Education agreed to participate in the Common Core program in 2010.

"The reason for Common Core is to have a common set of expectations for our students," Pearce said.

The idea developed through the National Governors Association to bring commonality to what an education means for students nationwide. For example, if a fourth-grader from Elmendorf Air Force Base in Alaska transferred with his family to Whiteman Air Force Base, then that student should have the same level of expectations as fourth-grader attending Warrensburg's Sterling Elementary School. Pearce said 46 states have agreed to Common Core standards.

Missouri has a tougher set of education standards than some other states, which does not provide for an "apples to apples" comparison of educational achievement among states.

"If you have a Common Core, you have common expectations and a way to assess that. Then you really can compare 'like students' and you can compare states to each other," Pearce said.

At one point, to bring parity to test results, some discussed dummying down Missouri's test to produce a more favorable outcome when comparing Missouri test results against test results from students in other states.

"Really that's not the answer. The answer is to have somewhat common expectations," Pearce said.

Common Core opposition surfaced last year in Missouri and carried into this session. Opponents expressed concern that the public and educators did not have enough involvement in adopting the standards. Education Committee hearings this year on Common Core standards filled the meeting room.

"It was the most packed that I've ever seen," Pearce said. "We had three very, very contentious hearings on Common Core -- both those for and against."

Critics suggested individual students' test results under Common Core might be shared or sold, Pearce said.

"Other criticisms were a dictated curriculum, a dictated textbook, and being told what to do (by the state). That was not the case," he said, but the rumor of losing local control caused concern.

To address such issues, when House Bill 1490 arrived in the Senate, Pearce attached an amendment assuring test results would remain private and could not be sold. He also added language to clarify that the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education could not dictate curriculum or textbook choices to school districts.

"Those would be local board decisions," Pearce said.

"We did have some ... issues dealing with security of students' test scores and their privacy, that that wouldn't be shared or sold," Pearce said.

"It is still in the bill," Emery affirmed.

Pearce added, "Another component dealt with ... not dictating curriculum."

"There are certain things that DESE cannot dictate," Emery said.

Pearce said DESE cannot require "recommended readings."

"So, now, all those will be based on local decisions," Pearce said.

"The unknown is always more frightening than the known," Emery said, commenting on concerns about Common Core standards.

"(We took) a very emotional issue, one that people are very passionate about on both sides, and worked together to come up with a good compromise, one that ... in the long run will be best suited for the state," Pearce said.

Sen. Jason Holsman, D-Kansas City, opposed the compromises as unnecessary.

"National standards are designed to level the playing field for performance when it comes to federal funding, and the allocation of those dollars," Holsman said after the vote. "No one throughout this entire discussion gave me one substantive reason why the Common Core standards were deficient, or what the problem was with the standards themselves."

Criticism focused on how the state adopted the standards rather than on what standards do, Holsman said.

Concern that the standards did not develop openly is not based in fact, he said.

Posted in Top stories on Monday, May 19, 2014 4:08 pm.
