
Mr Robin Swann, the North Antrim Ulster Unionist Party Assembly member and Chairman of the Stormont Employment and Learning Committee, has said he will “keep the pressure on the Sinn Fein education minister to ensure parents get their preferred choice of pre-school places in the Ballycastle area”.

Assemblyman Swann, who is also UUP Chief Whip, issued his statement after receiving two written responses from the schools minister on the issue.

Mr Swann had asked the Minister of Education how many children in the Ballycastle area were not offered a pre-school place in the last round of applications.

The Minister responded to Mr Swann stating: “The North Eastern Education and Library Board has advised that, of the 90 children who applied at stage one of the pre-school application process for a place in a pre-school setting in the Ballycastle area, two remained unplaced at the end of stage one on 4 April.

“Places remain available in the area for stage two of the process and parents of unplaced children were invited to submit further preferences by 30 April.

“For 2012/13 and 2013/14 admissions 99.8% of children whose parents stayed with the process were offered a funded place in a setting they had requested. Letters advising the outcome of stage two will be issued on Friday 30 May 2014,” stated the Minister.

Get your favourite newspaper at a great low price.

Call us on 0844 292 0216 or click here to start your subscription today!

© 2014 Johnston Publishing Ltd.

This website and its associated newspaper adheres to the Press Complaints Commission’s Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion, then contact the Editor by clicking  here .

If you remain dissatisfied with the response provided then you can contact the PCC by clicking here .

Ballymoney and Moyle Times provides news, events and sport features from the Ballymoney area. For the best up to date information relating to Ballymoney and the surrounding areas visit us at Ballymoney and Moyle Times regularly or bookmark this page.

For you to enjoy all the features of this website Ballymoney and Moyle Times requires permission to use cookies.

Cookies are small data files which are sent to your browser (Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome etc) from a website you visit. They are stored on your electronic device.

This is a type of cookie which is collected by Adobe Flash media player (it is also called a Local Shared Object) - a piece of software you may already have on your electronic device to help you watch online videos and listen to podcasts.

Yes there are a number of options available, you can set your browser either to reject all cookies, to allow only "trusted" sites to set them, or to only accept them from the site you are currently on.

However, please note - if you block/delete all cookies, some features of our websites, such as remembering your login details, or the site branding for your local newspaper may not function as a result.

A tool used by some of our advertisers to target adverts to you based on pages you have visited in the past. To opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

Our sites contain advertising from Google; these use cookies to ensure you get adverts relevant to you. You can tailor the type of ads you receive by visiting here or to opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

This is used to help us identify unique visitors to our websites. This data is anonymous and we cannot use this to uniquely identify individuals and their usage of the sites.

This comes from our ad serving technology and is used to track how many times you have seen a particular ad on our sites, so that you don't just see one advert but an even spread. This information is not used by us for any other type of audience recording or monitoring.

ComScore monitor and externally verify our site traffic data for use within the advertising industry. Any data collected is anonymous statistical data and cannot be traced back to an individual.

Our Classified websites (Photos, Motors, Jobs and Property Today) use cookies to ensure you get the correct local newspaper branding and content when you visit them. These cookies store no personally identifiable information.

We use Grapeshot as a contextual targeting technology, allowing us to create custom groups of stories outside out of our usual site navigation. Grapeshot stores the categories of story you have been exposed to. Their privacy policy and opt out option can be accessed here.

Our partner for Newspaper subscriptions online stores data from the forms you complete in these to increase the usability of the site and enhance user experience.

Add This provides the social networking widget found in many of our pages. This widget gives you the tools to bookmark our websites, blog, share, tweet and email our content to a friend.
