
The girls went to school, and for that they were kidnapped.

The world has seen the unforgettably depressing images of those Nigerian students, humiliated and forced to wear hijabs by Islamic extremists who see smart women as a threat. Education, after all, is power.

But here's another image, one that's a rebuke to Boko Haram and other woman-hating fanatics: Temitope Omoladun striding across the stage Sunday to accept her University at Albany diploma.

Omoladun, you see, was born in Nigeria but raised mostly in the United States. The extremists were powerless to stop her education, but when she looks at the images of the kidnapped girls, she still thinks "I'm no different than them. That could have been me."

"Or it could have been one of my sisters," Omoladun said. "It could have been anyone."

I met Omoladun on a gray and humid day last week on the UAlbany campus, just hours before she took the last of her final exams before graduation. She told me about a remarkable journey that had her arriving in New York City as a 9-year old.

In some ways, the move wasn't as much of a culture shock as you might expect. She'd lived in Lagos, a city that now has 21 million people.

But life in New York meant consistent electricity and not having to go to a well for water, luxuries that the young Omoladun thought were pretty cool.

And, of course, New York had profoundly different attitudes about the education of women, a contrast Omoladun couldn't fully appreciate until she was older.

Still, even within her own family, Omoladun fought for the education she'll celebrate Sunday: Her parents initially insisted she settle for a lesser college near home, but she was emphatic about going to a school like UAlbany.

"I wanted to push myself," she said. "I know what I'm capable of."

She certainly succeeded in Albany. She was one of 11 students honored this year with the Chancellor's Award for Student Excellence, and she's also received the President's Award for Leadership.

Take that, Boko Haram.

"These girls are trying to be the future lawyers and future doctors," Omoladun says. "Who are these people to deprive them of their human rights?"

When I met Omoladun, I also met Umaru Barrie , a Sierra Leone native in Sunday's graduating class. Together, Omoladun and Barrie responded to the Nigerian kidnapping by organizing a campus march that, they say, included about 150 students — an effort that was part of the worldwide #BringBackOurGirls campaign.

Barrie said he's heard that kind of criticism from fellow students.

"This is a way of sending a message," Omoladun added, "and to say, 'This is how we want it to be.' "

Guess what? World outrage does seem to be having an effect on the Nigerian government, which initially seemed indifferent to the girls' plight but has finally begun to respond more aggressively.

Omoladun is about to get a closer view of the crisis. She'll travel on Tuesday to Nigeria, where three of her seven siblings still live, for the first time since she left for New York. She admits to worries about whether it's safe to travel in the country.

Yet she refuses to cancel her trip. "You can't let fear consume you," she said.

It isn't fair to expect a graduating senior to know what she wants to do with her life, but Omoladun seems to have her plans set. She'll take a year off for volunteer work, then go to medical school. She expects to one day be a doctor who helps to provide better maternal care in developing countries, including Nigeria.

In short, she'll be doing what Boko Haram believes no woman should do.
