
Company plans move into related categories.

CAPE TOWN - Not content with dominating the food franchise market in South Africa and beyond, Famous Brands management intends on expanding the company into the related leisure sector (hospitality, beverages, FMCG and food retail).

While no acquisitions or green field operations are visible yet, the appointment of Darren Hele as CEO of the company and of Kevin Hedderwick as group CEO (effective March 2014) is indicative of the changes coming. Hele will be responsible for the operational management of the group while Hedderwick is now free to focus on strategy, acquisitions and growth.

To some extent this mirrors Brian Joffe’s model. In the days when Bidvest was a small food service supplier called Chipkins, Joffe used the company’s core competencies and strong balance sheet to build a conglomerate. “I’m not saying we are that ambitious, but we do want to continue to create value for our shareholders,” Hedderwick says.

Value is certainly one thing Famous Brands has delivered. In the 20 years since the company was listed (initially as Steers) it has delivered compound annual growth in revenue and operating profit of 22% and 25.2% respectively. In 1994 the share was R1.45 and the market capitalisation was R36 million. Today the share trades at R110/share while the market capitalisation is R10.9 billion.

Cash generated by operations, after changes in working capital, increased by 23% to a healthy R594 million. The group is ungeared and has net cash on hand of R26 million.

The South African franchising division grew revenue by 13% to R538 million while the margin inched up to 60.4% from 60.1%. System-wide sales, including new restaurants opened, increased 11.4%, while like-on-like sales grew 5.8%.

This looks pedestrian when compared with the rest of Africa division, which reported an increase in system-wide sales of 32.5%, while like-on-like sales grew 17.9%.

The UK business continues to limp along, but conditions are improving and the operation delivered one of its best ever results. Revenue in Sterling decreased by 6%, but improved 11% in rand terms to R92 million. Operating profit rose to R13 million as no repeat impairment of the UK goodwill was required. The operating profit margin grew strongly to 14.0% from 6.5% in the prior year.

During the period the group opened its first Steers UK restaurant, situated in Clapham, London. Three restaurants were also added to the Wimpy network during the year.

Though Famous Brands has always longed to compete seriously in chicken, for the first time, he says, pizza is starting to erode chicken as a category.

There are 440 Debonaires Pizza outlets; another 60 will be added this year, taking the number to 500.

A final gross dividend of 170 cents per share (2013: 142 cents) has been declared. This brings the total cash dividends to 300 cents per share for the 2014 financial year, an increase of 20%.

BIO: Sasha Planting is Moneyweb’s eyes and ears in the Western Cape. Sasha is one of the premier writers on retail, pharmaceuticals and healthcare.

No final dividend declared.

No final dividend declared.

Price and trade data source: JSE Ltd.

All other statistics calculated by Profile Data.
