
Global futurist and trends expert Jack Uldrich to deliver keynote at the Utility and Supply Management Association (USMA) Educational Conference in Nashville, TN. Uldrich will join Richard Clarke - Former White House Counter Terrorism Czar, among others, as one of USMA's highlighted speakers.

Learning to unlearn is critical to our success, my job as futurist and change-agent is give audiences insights on how to do that.

On May 19, in Nashville, TN, global futurist Jack Uldrich will join Richard Clarke, former National Coordinator for Security, Infrastructure Protection and Counter-Terrorism, among others, as one of USMA's 2014 Educational Conference highlighted speakers.

The USMA is a multi-national association of individuals serving the electric, gas and water utilities. The role of the USMA is to understand the sophisticated workings of the supply chain to provide its customers (utilities, suppliers, manufacturers, etc.) with skills and tools to realize profit opportunities in the supply chain.

Hailed as the " Chief Unlearning Officer" , Uldrich's talk will focus on the conference's mission of providing exposure to latest technology and upcoming trends, as well as learning how to embrace those trends and “unlearning” old habits in order to future-proof their businesses.

Uldrich has addressed hundreds of business groups around the world, including delivering customized keynote presentations to the Idaho Technology Council, Invensys, United Healthcare, Bausch and Lomb, Boston Scientific, Fiatech, Eaton, the European Association of International Educators, the Council for Advancement and Support of Education, the AMA, the Million Dollar Round Table and scores of other corporations, associations, and private organizations.

Parties interested in learning more about Jack Uldrich, his books, his daily blog or his speaking availability are encouraged to visit his School of Unlearning website. Media wishing to know more about either the event or interviewing Jack can contact Amy Tomczyk at (651) 343.0660.
