
More than 130 middle and high school girls from schools around the state traveled to the Connecticut Convention Center in Hartford to participate in "Making It Real: Girls & Manufacturing Summit," hosted by Connecticut. Dream It. Do It. in partnership with SME at SME's Mfg4 Conference on Thursday, May 8.

Part of a three-day Mfg4 student program, the Summit tapped into today's leading women in manufacturing to inspire the next generation of leadership and talent. Lieutenant Governor Nancy Wyman, The Manufacturing Institute President Jennifer McNelly, CT Commissioner of DECD Catherine Smith, and CT Commissioner of Labor Sharon Palmer set the stage with personal stories about their careers and opportunities in manufacturing for young women today.

Other leading practitioners from the field talked about their roles in manufacturing and the skills needed to be successful.

Students were introduced to manufacturing through team-based activities that replicated the manufacturing process from concept to design to fabrication to quality control. They saw 3-D printing in action, and learned about rapid advances in manufacturing technology and future career opportunities.

Launched in December 2010 by the Connecticut Center for Advanced Technology, Inc. (CCAT), Connecticut. Dream It. Do It. is part of a nationwide career awareness and recruitment program focused on creating a positive image of 21st century manufacturing.

"Manufacturing is facing a skills gap, and part of that is the underrepresentation of women in the industry," said Susan Palisano, CCAT's director of Education & Workforce Development. "Sparking interest in future careers among girls is a priority to assure that the region's manufacturers can attract, retain and advance women in skilled positions."

School districts represented at the Summit were Hartford, East Hartford, Manchester, Middletown, Bristol, Naugatuck, Plainville, and Torrington.

As a nonprofit organization, SME has served practitioners, companies, educators, government and communities across the manufacturing spectrum for more than 80 years. Through its strategic areas of events, media, membership, training and development, and the SME Education Foundation, SME is uniquely dedicated to advancing manufacturing by addressing both knowledge and skill needs for the industry. Follow @smemfg on Twitter or facebook.com/smemfg.
