
The wealth of a country should not only be determined by ‘gross domestic    product’ but should include other factors such as birdsong, sleep levels and    access to lollipops, a United Nations advisor has claimed.

Governments should look beyond monetary wealth and take into account benefits    which are less tangible, such as forests, a good night’s sleep, and being    able to wash clothes in a washing machine.

Professor Anantha Duraiappah, Director of the UN University’s International    Human Dimensions Programme on Global Environmental Change,  said    policymakers were ‘missing some of the most meaningful and simple signs’ of    successful societies.

He argues that the presence of teenage schoolgirls on a city street, as birds    chirrup in the background is an important sign of a wealthy nation.

In poorer countries young girls are often forced out of education at a young    age, while overcrowded and polluted cities discourage wildlife.

“New research has begun to show that people often value non-material wealth    just as highly, if not more, than monetary wealth,” said Prof Duraiappah.

“When you wake up to the sound of chirping birds, you are listening to one of    the simplest indicators of local environmental health.

“More sleep has been proven to lead to better interpersonal relationships,    emotional intelligence and empathy toward others.

GDP is one of the primary indicators used to gauge the health of a country’s    economy. It measures the value of goods and services that Britain produces    during a given period.

But Prof Duraiappah believes that social and environmental well-being is as    important to society as economic production and income.

He suggests monitoring smiles, random acts of kindness and access to    lollipops; washing machines and spectacles.

“Without glasses, school kids miss out on their potential to learn, and adults    are unable to make the best of their most productive years,” he added.

“A man pulling his laundry from a washing machine is more well-off than a big    portion of the world population: only 2 of 7 billion have access to a washer.

Cambridge University economist Sir Partha Dasgupta said governments need to    change how they quantify ‘investment’ when calculating GDP.

He argues that policymakers should start appreciating the value of allowing    green areas to flourish for future generations to enjoy.

“To leave a forest unmolested would be to invest in the forest; to allow a    fishery to restock under natural conditions would be to invest in the    fishery; and so on,” he said.

Zakri Abdul Hamid, a member of the UN Secretary-General's Scientific Advisory    Board, said adding new indicators did not mean eliminating GDP altogether.

“GDP provides valuable information about a country's production, expenditure,    and income streams, as well as the flow of goods across borders,” he said.

"But the world's perspective on progress needs to be enlarged, balanced and    integrated with social and environmental indicators.

“Only in this way can we respond to the unprecedented opportunities and    challenges facing us in the 21st Century."
