
ESOL aide Nancy Perez Rivera, right, 22, assists students in the English Language Learners class, including Adriana Avila-Diaz, 11, at Williston Middle School in Williston, Fla., Friday, May 16, 2014.

Last Modified: Sunday, May 18, 2014 at 7:10 p.m.

If signed into law as expected, a bill that cleared the Florida Legislature earlier this month could make college affordable for thousands of young people in Florida who are living in the United States illegally.

Florida is the 21st state to allow in-state tuition for students living in the country illegally.

To qualify for the in-state waiver, a student must have attended high school in Florida for three consecutive years before graduating and apply for a Florida institution of higher learning within two years of graduating.

Santa Fe College President Jackson Sasser has previously expressed support for the measure, which, at most recent count, would affect 13 current SF College students.

The college enrolls about 24,000 students annually.

SF College communications director Dave Houder said the admissions department may see the number of unauthorized students increase because some may have been falsifying information previously that they no longer need to, but he estimated it is only going to be a few people.

"The impact there, I don't necessarily think will be felt on the bottom line, but we'll have better record keeping," Houder said.

The bill is a victory for many, to be sure, but not for Nancy Perez, 22, who hasn't been able to afford tuition at Santa Fe College since she graduated from high school — in 2010.

Perez's parents brought her to the U.S. from Mexico in 1999, when she was 8 years old.

She excelled in school and graduated fifth in her class at Williston High.

She qualified for the Florida Bright Futures Scholarship, but couldn't collect it because her unauthorized status didn't allow her to receive financial aid from the government.

"I really wanted to go to college, but of course I couldn't, because I couldn't afford it," she said.

Unauthorized students can attend Florida colleges, but they must pay out-of-state tuition, which is three to four times the price of in-state tuition.

At SF College, Florida residents pay $76 per credit hour, while the out-of-state rate is $230 per credit.

Perez's status prevented her from getting a job or a driver's license, so she was forced to sit back and watch as her high school friends started college and moved away.

"I wasn't doing anything," she said. "I was at my house, depressed most of the time." Then, in 2012, the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals act gave the children of unauthorized immigrants an opportunity to temporarily avoid deportation, get jobs and driver's licenses, and, in some states, pay in-state college tuition.

Perez applied and received a DACA card, but still couldn't afford college.

Now, having been out of high school for four years, she's disappointed.

She hopes lawmakers and education officials will decide to grant in-state tuition waivers to students who fall outside the two-year window.

"I always had the dream of being a Florida Gator and going to UF, but it all depends on what they want to do with this bill," she said.
