
Donald Macintyre writes political sketches for The Independent, having been Jerusalem correspondent since 2004, covering Israel and the Occupied Territories, as well as travelling for the paper to Iraq, Turkey, Jordan, Libya and Egypt. As Political Editor and then Chief Political Commentator, he previously covered the John Major and early Tony Blair era. He has written for the Daily Express, Sunday Times, Times and Sunday Telegraph, and Sunday Correspondent. He is the author of Mandelson and the Making of New Labour (2000).

“I don’t mind eels,” wrote the American poet Ogden Nash, “except as meals/and the way they feels.” The Tory MP Zac Goldsmith is made of sterner stuff.

Not that he was actually eating them on Monday – in contrast to their many fans who still devour them jellied, smoked or fried with scrambled eggs.

Those who assume that Tory MPs have nothing to do in the longish break ordered by David Cameron to stop them plotting after the European elections would have been surprised to see Goldsmith midstream on a boat with Andrew Kerr, chairman of the Sustainable Eel Group, delicately unloading 10,000 of the wriggly creatures, two or three inches long, into their hospitable new river habitat.

As we watched this solemn undertaking from a nearby vessel, however, it was clear that the real heroes were not the environmentalist Goldsmith – or Kerr, a former cavalry officer it would be a wild understatement to describe as passionate about the species – but the eels themselves.

Here, in one of the planet’s most mysterious life cycles, they grow – for a decade in the British climate – to as much as 3ft before returning across the ocean to breed and die. Or at least that’s the theory, since no one has seen it happen.

But in contrast to most of the last 100 million years this has been going on, the hardy minority who get through now face obstacles in their upstream freshwater journey– flood defences, weirs, hydro power stations – which have seriously endangered the species. And would still be doing  if volunteers weren’t relocating them from overcrowded western habitats to less eel-populous easterly ones where there is more for them to eat.

He was surprised they were not as “slippery as I expected”.

The Richmond MP, not known for excessive subservience to the party whips, added thoughtfully, with a nod across to the Commons, “not as slippery as they are over there”.
