
Parents and teachers want to meet Education Minister Ruairi Quinn over concerns about how special needs assistants (SNAs) are allocated to pupils with care needs.

The Special Needs Parents Association (SNPA) is particularly concerned that a circular governing the operation of the SNA scheme, sent to schools by his department last month, could mean children with behaviour-related care needs must wait until all other interventions are tried in schools before SNA support is provided.

She said there was no mention of individual education plans, as provided for in the 2004 Education for Persons with Special Educational Needs (EPSEN) Act, but not yet a statutory requirement, under which the State would have to provide resources recommended by professionals for each child. Instead, from next year, applications for SNA support must include a personal pupil plan, outlining a child’s needs and how a SNA would be used to help. This was also flagged by the INTO which wants talks with the department about resources to support principals in this and other work now being required of schools.

“The INTO is gravely concerned that the circular may place a significant barrier in the way of schools accessing supports for special needs pupils with emotional and behavioural difficulties at the beginning of primary education,” it said.

The Department of Education said SNA posts are not being reduced by the circular letter and they are at their highest number yet, currently at 10,656, and have been increased in response to growing pupil numbers and demand. It said the letter makes clear   SNA supports will continue to be provided for pupils with ongoing care needs, but supports may be reduced to ensure pupils with diminishing care needs can be afforded an opportunity to develop independent living skills.

The department said the letter does not mean there may be non-provision of SNA support for a pupils until after they have started post-primary school. It said most schools use some form of personalised planning and the letter gives references and links to further information, guidance and sample personal plan templates.

Irish Examiner live news app for smartphones lets you quickly access breaking news, sport, business, entertainment and weather.
