
Banded Peak School in Bragg Creek will be saying goodbye to their ineffective wastewater lagoon and hello to a new pump-out tank thanks to a decision made by Rocky View Schools (RVS) board of trustees on May 15.

The current lagoon at the school was designed to work as an evaporative lagoon but unfortunately does not function as one due to a design flaw that means the water just sits in the lagoon without evaporating. The liquid in the lagoon has to be pumped a few times each year and trucked to a sewage treatment plant in Cochrane for disposal. The lagoon also accumulates a significant amount of additional moisture from rain and snowfall, which greatly adds to the amount of fluid that needs to be trucked away, according to RVS administration.

The annual cost to transport and treat the wastewater is about $105,000 per year, depending on water usage in the school and precipitation levels.

As such Darrell Couture, RVS associate superintendent of business and operations, recommended the board approve $589,440 to decommission the lagoon.

“If we’re not using the lagoon as a way to treat sewage, we really should reclaim the lagoon and create a new system,” Couture said.

In its place a new pump-out tank will be installed at an estimated cost of $629,041, however, the RVS Maintenance Department suggests this cost will be substantially reduced by about $200,000 by utilizing the in-house personnel for some of the construction.

The board approved an expenditure of up to $1.1 million from the division’s cash-in-lieu fund for the project, which will allow for a cushion if the project requires more than the estimated $900,000 total project cost.

The new tank will include a future planning option that will allow electrical lines to be more easily run to the tank so the water can be directly sent to the water treatment plant in Bragg Creek.

For now, the water from the tank will still have to be trucked to Cochrane but at a much-reduced cost to that of the lagoon. It is estimated trucking the water away from the tank will cost between $25,000 and $35,000 per year, which is about $75,000 less than the current cost with the lagoon.

She added the school and community are involved in suggesting a plan of what should be done with the reclaimed lagoon site. Couture noted some suggestions they have heard so far include an amphitheatre and a naturalized area but nothing has been decided.

He said the lagoon will be decommissioned and the tank will be installed this summer, but work on backfilling the lagoon will likely not be completed until the summer of 2015 after the school design of the area has been decided. However, $100,000 has been included in the $1.1-million expenditure to complete the backfilling.

The motion to accept the recommendation was made by Clease and was approved unanimously.

The Rocky View Weekly welcomes your opinions and comments. We do not allow personal attacks, offensive language or unsubstantiated allegations. We reserve the right to delete comments deemed inappropriate. We reserve the right to close the comments thread for stories that are deemed especially sensitive. For further information, please contact the editor or publisher.

All comments are moderated, and if approved could take up to 48 hours to appear on the website.
