
Tricia Moses, a special-needs teacher, won last year's Hometown Heroes in Education award for putting off a lifesaving lung transplant to prepare her students for state exams. She and other education leaders are encouraging parents, students and school workers to nominate an educator for this year's award, which is put on by the Daily News.

Leaders in education praised the Daily News’ Hometown Heroes in Education series and called on parents, students and school staffers to nominate exceptional educators for the 2014 awards.

“It’s a huge honor to be recognized as a Hometown Hero,” said Brooklyn special-needs teacher Tricia Moses, who won a Hometown Heroes award last year after she put off a lifesaving lung transplant in order to prepare her students for state exams.

Now back home in Brooklyn and slowly recovering with a new set of lungs, Moses said that those whose lives are enriched by the city’s heroic educators should take a moment to nominate a great teacher.

“It makes us teachers feel thanks for the job we do. It’s a hard job, and it’s a great feeling to know somebody cares,” Moses, 39, said.

The veteran teacher, who has 13 years on the job, hopes to be back in the classroom by January.

New York Daily News Want to nominate an educator? Here's how to do it.

“I encourage parents and co-workers to nominate,” she said.

The News is working with the Education Department and the unions that represent teachers and principals to recognize school workers who display generosity, compassion, dedication, selflessness and ingenuity.

Nominees can include teachers, administrators or other educators who’ve distinguished themselves by helping students facing difficult challenges, creating innovative programs or making outstanding contributions to the community.

Michael Herringer for NY Daily News/Michael Herringer Tricia Moses holds the Hometown Heroes award that she won last year.

Winners will be honored as Hometown Heroes in September.

“All too often, we forget to celebrate just how important teachers are,” said Merryl Tisch, chancellor of New York’s Board of Regents.

“I applaud the Daily News for celebrating the greatness that the teaching force of the city represents,” said Tisch, who served as a judge in last year’s awards.

Mona Davids, president of the New York City Parents Union, was also a judge last year.

She said she was “shocked” by the stories of dedication — particularly Moses’ decision to put off her lung transplant.

“She put her life at risk to be there for her students. That’s pretty amazing!” said Davids.

Winners of this year's awards will be announced in September.

“It was fantastic, even for me, to hear about the incredible dedication from so many teachers,” she added.

Davids said the Hometown Heroes awards made more parents aware of the ways teachers go above and beyond for their students.

Schools Chancellor Carmen Fariña has also encouraged parents, students and school staffers to nominate deserving educators in their lives for awards.

Education expert David Bloomfield, an instructor at Brooklyn College and the CUNY Grad Center, said teachers are the bedrock of a good education.

© Copyright 2014 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.
