
By using this website, you consent to our use of cookies. For more information on cookies see our Cookie Policy .

How can you engage children with art? And does it even matter what they think of paintings? Eina McHugh, director of The Ark, the cultural centre for children based in Dublin’s Temple Bar, sees a bigger picture. She says arts education is not only crucial for a healthy functioning economy, it is a basic human right.

It’s now over a year since the Arts in Education Charter was launched to great fanfare by the Minister for Education Ruairí Quinn and the Minister for Arts Jimmy Deenihan .

The plan, for the first time, put arts education at the forefront of learning. It promised the creation of arts-rich schools, €5 concert and theatre tickets for schoolchildren, and an aim for every pupil to visit a national cultural institution at least once in secondary school. More controversially, it declared that artists in receipt of public funding or tax exemptions were obliged to donate time and skills to a local school.

The foundations for this ambitious plan have now been laid by an implementation group led by NUI emeritus professor John Coolahan , and it is expected to begin making an impact from this autumn and into 2015. But there have been few practical examples of how the charter could work.

Until now. The Ark may have found a model that could transform how we approach the visual arts in education. Last year, it began a project, Ark 1x1, to   bring  art to primary schools around county Cavan . The idea is straightforward: 13 artworks by well-known Irish artists visit a Cavan school for three weeks at a time and are then rotated with a different picture. The exhibition includes 10 pictures from The Ark’s own collection and three on loan from the Arts Council’s collection. The children can explore the art at their own pace and have their own take on what the linking theme is.

“For some of the children, this is their first engagement with an original work of art, not a computer generated image,” says McHugh.

Some teachers were initially daunted by the project, but many say they have learnt new skills and garnered insights from the reaction of the children.

The Arts in Education Charter aspires to place creativity at the heart of our future as a country. McHugh says that it is important to develop new, non-Dublin centric models of arts education.

We reserve the right to remove any content at any time from this Community, including without limitation if it violates the Community Standards . We ask that you report content that you in good faith believe violates the above rules by clicking the Flag link next to the offending comment or by filling out this form . New comments are only accepted for 3 days from the date of publication.
