
Merging more than 300 schools in Limpopo has hit the a brick wall with some communities, school governing bodies (SGBs) and a teacher union up in arms.

“Some communities and SGBs of identified schools refuse to merge their schools despite valid reasons advanced,” education spokesperson Jake Mokobi said.

“Consultation with relevant stakeholders is still continuing and there are deadlocks that still have to be broken. Not all schools are at the same level of readiness to merge,” he said.

The difficulties were exacerbated by a labour matter involving principals who were likely to lose their positions.

“Some principals remain concerned that they may find themselves under the leadership of their former subordinates.

“A few traditional leaders feel that since the schools were named after them, the mergers may erode their dignity, power and status in their communities.

South African Democratic Teachers Union (Sadtu) said the process to merge schools was illegal as the MEC for education Dikeledi Magadzi did not consult with teacher unions.

“All what we know is that there is no process to merge schools. If there is any merging of schools going on, then to us it is an illegal process.

“The principals affected should contact us,” Sadtu provincial secretary Matome Raphasha said.

He said the agreement reached with authorities was of the schools merger process that happened in about 2010.

“In the 2013-14 financial year, the MEC (Magadzi) stated her intention to merge some schools but did not consult with the unions.

There might be some schools that were merged but this remains illegal,” Raphasha said.

But Mokobi said there was a guideline agreed with unions on how principals of schools that were merging ought to be redeployed.

“For instance, an interim SGB determines the new principals of the merging schools according to qualification, experience and seniority,” he said.

“There are instances where both principals can be appointed in the same merged school – the one being principal and the other a head of department depending on their current posts.

“In instances where they cannot be accommodated in the same school, the displaced principal becomes the responsibility of the circuit, district and provincial deployment committee.

The committee looks at other possible vacancies, sometimes even beyond teaching and principal posts,” Mokobi said.

Authorities launched an investigation into the viability of schools in the province as required by the SA Schools Act.

It was found that 308 schools needed to be merged. The merger process would affect 1500 teachers and 53000 pupils. So far, 40 schools have been merged.
