
They described the issue as symbolic but important.

In 2015, both holidays will fall on Wednesday, Sept. 23, but a calendar draft does not give them the same weight. Yom Kippur — for which county schools will be closed — is listed beside the date. The Muslim holiday is included in a parenthetical notation: Eid al-Adha also falls on this date.

Muslim leader Saqib Ali asked at a school board meeting this week that the calendar be changed to say: Yom Kippur/Eid al-Adha.

Muslim leaders in Montgomery County are asking county schools officials to give equal billing to an Islamic holiday as it does to Yom Kippur on a school calendar for the 2015-2016 school year. Read it.

The calendar question comes after Muslim leaders have repeatedly asked that at least one of the two major Muslim holidays be recognized with a day off school in Montgomery. Muslim students are granted excused absences to celebrate their holidays , but Muslim leaders argue that students should not be forced to choose between religion and instruction.

Past decisions to close school for Jewish and Christian holidays have been based on state law or student and staff absenteeism, not to honor a particular religion or ethnic or cultural group, Montgomery officials have said. Absences on the Muslim holidays have not been excessive, according to Montgomery officials.

Ali, a former state lawmaker who is co-chair of the Equality for Eid Coalition, said the district has not yet defined what level of absenteeism would be needed for granting a school closing on a Muslim holiday.

This week’s calendar request, signed by six other leaders of the Eid coalition, “is a very, very minimal request,” Ali said. He said the convergence of the two holidays is a “happy coincidence” for Muslim families, but more is needed.

“If MCPS can’t list the holidays equally, if they won’t even grant that, then I think people are going to start asking questions about MCPS’s general attitude toward the Muslim community,” he said.

Board Member Christopher Barclay asked district staff to look into the request. He also said he believes a standard is needed for school closings.

Montgomery schools spokesman Dana Tofig said Thursday the draft calendar document was an informational item given to board members, not a proposed calendar format. The issue is expected to come before the board in November.

Donna St. George writes about education, with an emphasis on Montgomery County schools.

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
