
Colombo Fort Magistrate Thilina Gamage today criticised the police on their definition of ‘minimum force’ and said minimum force did not mean assaulting someone till his or her eyes popped out.

He advised the police to be more responsible and restrained when handling situations such as students’ protests.

The Magistrate expressed these views when the police said it had used ‘minimum force’ in the arrest of 13 students belonging to the Inter University Students Federation (IUSF) during a protest rally on Friday.

The police arrested 13 protesters on charges of obstructing police officers from arresting a student who had allegedly violated a court order.

Please do not disgrace the dogs. Dogs are very intelligent, obedient and humble animals. The police are an undesirable breed of its own.

Strange the students were not take by police to show the hidden weapons.

If he does this, his days as a Magistrate would be numbered or perhaps even his life shortened. This is how the laws of the land is applied allegedly equally to us all.

These all add up for the International Human Rights violation probe.

And you fast asleep to understand what he is implying by that statement given to understand the culture of Sri Lanka's notorious police force and the habit of extra judicial killings.

police is at the same level as dogs. I think the current rule is forcing police to maintain this level to cover up many other things.

This is a sad state of affairs and shows why students protest.

They stood shivering at Hambanthota but are brave to assault students mercilessly.

Terrorism can create by politician . Forces cant stop only politician can do it .

these protesting guys are a waste of our tax money.

Charge for education. then it will all be solved.

Just one week after holding World youth conference Drama in Democratic Socialist Banana Republic.

Just one week after holding World youth conference Drama in Democratic Socialist Banana Republic.

The Youth Conference was for the rest of the World, Not for Sri Lankan Youth!

Katuwa visikarana ewunta naguta wanana sunakayin apey kosuralala. No sympathy at all in their hearts.

Minimum force of Police department means just like giving the shaving blade to the Monkey.

Copyright © 2012 Wijeya Newspapers Ltd.
