
John Kerry slams climate change critics in graduation speech: 'We are risking nothing less than the future of the entire planet'

Kerry told the graduating class of his alma mater that climate change is an 'immediate threat to your job, your communities or your families'

Secretary of State John Kerry warned graduates of Boston College on Monday that they have doom and destruction to look forward to if they don't take climate change more seriously than previous generations.

'And I know its hard to feel the urgency as we sit here on an absolutely beautiful morning in Boston,' Kerry said, 'you might not see climate change as an immediate threat to your job, your communities or your families.

'But let me tell you, it is.'

If the U.S. does not act, 'and it turns out that the critics and the naysayers and the members of the Flat Earth Society - if it turns out that they're wrong, then we are risking nothing less than the future of the entire planet,' Kerry told graduates of the Massachusetts college and their families.

Kerry told BC's graduating class that climate change is 'an immediate threat to your job, your communities or your families'

Also receiving an honorary degree from the college was Boston Celtics alum Bob Cousy.

Kerry spoke at both his alma maters' graduation ceremonies this year.

Over the weekend he gave the commencement speech at Yale, from where he graduated in 1966 with a degree in political science.

'Today I promise you that is one of the greatest challenges of America's foreign policy - ensuring that even when its not popular, even when it's not easy, America still lives up to our ideals and our responsibilities to lead,' Kerry told attendees of BC's commencement ceremony on Monday morning.

What makes America different from other countries, he said, is the belief that everyone is created equally and with inalienable rights.

Kerry told graduates that being a citizen of the United States comes with 'profound responsibility, and in a shrinking world, we can't measure our success just by what we achieve as Americans for Americans, but also by the security and shared prosperity that we build with our partners all over the world.'

'In times of crisis, violence, strife, epidemic, inability, believe me, the world still looks to the United States of America as a partner of first resort, ' Kerry said.

'People aren't worried about our presence, they're worried about our leaving, ' he said, citing the U.S.' humanitarian work in the Philippines, Democratic Republic of Congo and Ethiopia as examples.

The successful work America has done abroad, he said, should give graduates the courage take on other global challenges such as climate change.

'If we're going to live up to our values, this is a test that we have to meet,' he said, touting his own efforts as a Massachusetts Senator to get legislation passed that addressed the issue.

He reminded students of two recent studies completed by the U.N. and retired U.S. military leaders that warned he world of the consequences it will face if countries do not move more quickly to reduce human contributions to climate change.

Kerry said that 97 percent of scientists say climate change is 'urgent' because it will lead to food and water insecurity, and 'things will change in a hurry. And they will change for the worse.'

Scarcity of resources due to climate change is 'directly' linked to greater conflict and instability throughout the world, the Secretary of State said.

'What's frustrating is that this challenge is not without a solution,' he continued. 'The solution is actually starring us in the face: It is energy policy.'

'Make the right energy policy choices, and America can lead a six trillion dollar market with four billion users today, and grow it to nine billion users in the next 50 years,' he claimed.

'We put millions of people to work transitioning our energy, creating new and renewable and alternatives? We make life healthier because we have less particulates in the air and cleaner air and more health? We give ourselves greater security through greater energy independence? That's the downside.'

Kerry told the audience to applause that, 'This is not a matter of politics or partisanship. It's a matter of science and stewardship.'

'And it's not a matter of capacity, its a matter of will power,' he added.

It's up to the young people sitting in the audience, he said, to save the world from itself.

'This is not a hard choice frankly, but still let me tell you, we need the help of every single one of you to make it,' Kerry said.

The comments below have not been moderated.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
