
A recent interview reminded us that attitude and drive win the game.

By Mila Koumpilova, Pioneer Press, St. Paul, Minn.

was a humanities major with no formal computer training. Yet eventually, he took the top information technology job in the Minnesota State Colleges and Universities system.

earlier this month during a trip with his travel companion and wife of four decades, Andrea. He was 61.

He is remembered as a skilled, visionary manager who oversaw the state's first paperless system for tracking unemployment benefits in the late 1980s. He was a Renaissance man who loved opera and architecture and once designed and built a major addition to his home from scratch.

, where they played clarinet side by side in the school band.

. He gradually worked his way to the post of chief information officer.

"He was a really hard worker,"

said. "He would always take a risk and aim for the next level up."

met Niemi when Samargia took over as commissioner of jobs and training in the mid-1980s. At the time,

received a federal grant to launch an online unemployment insurance system.

The early work on the project was plagued by problems Samargia compares to the recent troubled launch of the federal online health insurance marketplaces.

Samargia wanted a new manager to step in, and he zeroed in on Niemi, "a diamond in the rough." He says Niemi was reluctant to take the job because it meant leapfrogging over several more-senior IT staffers.

"I kept badgering him until he agreed to do it," Samargia recalled.

By turning the project around, Samargia said, Niemi won his respect.

In 1998, Niemi left the department to serve as vice chancellor for information technology for the Minnesota State Colleges and Universities system, or MnSCU. He retired in 2009 and more recently worked as a consultant.

The Niemis have a son, Nathaniel, who attended arts school and also went on to work in IT.

Away from the office,

says, her husband kept up a love for the arts and travel.

and was distraught over the recent musicians strike. He called MinnOrch board members and other leaders, repeatedly urging them to reach a contract settlement.

He was also known for often finding parallels between real-life situations and episodes of "The Andy Griffith Show."

because it was the only state Niemi had not visited.

, two days before their 40th wedding anniversary.

"He died doing what he loved best, which was traveling the world,"
