
A grand jury in the Western District of Pennsylvania has indicted five Chinese military personnel for computer hacking, economic espionage and other offenses directed at six American victims in the US nuclear power, metals and solar products industries, the US Justice Department said Monday.

The indictment alleges the defendants conspired to hack into American entities, to maintain unauthorized access to their computers and to steal information from those entities that would be useful to their competitors in China, including state-owned enterprises (SOEs).

In some cases, the conspirators allegedly stole trade secrets that would have been particularly beneficial to Chinese companies at the time they were stolen.  In other cases, the conspirators also stole sensitive, internal communications that would provide a competitor, or an adversary in litigation, with insight into the strategy and vulnerabilities of the American entity.

The victims of the alleged hacking were identified as Westinghouse Electric Co., US subsidiaries of SolarWorld AG, United States Steel Corp., Allegheny Technologies Inc., the United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, Allied Industrial and Service Workers International Union and Alcoa Inc.

The accused were indicted on thirty-one counts, including conspiring to commit computer fraud and abuse, and accessing (or attempting to access) a protected computer without authorization to obtain information for the purpose of commercial advantage and private financial gain.

The indictment named Wang Dong, Sun Kailiang, Wen Xinyu, Huang Zhenyu, and Gu Chunhui as the alleged conspirators. It said the defendants were officers in Unit 61398 of the Third Department of the Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA).

The indictment alleged that Wang, Sun, and Wen, among others known and unknown to the grand jury, hacked or attempted to hack into US entities named in the indictment, while Huang and Gu supported their conspiracy by, among other things, managing infrastructure used for hacking.

"This is a case alleging economic espionage by members of the Chinese military and represents the first ever charges against a state actor for this type of hacking," US Attorney General Eric Holder said in a statement.

"The range of trade secrets and other sensitive business information stolen in this case is significant and demands an aggressive response. This Administration will not tolerate actions by any nation that seeks to illegally sabotage American companies and undermine the integrity of fair competition in the operation of the free market," he added.
