
Eligible voters are those living in North Sioux City, Dakota Dunes, McCook Lake and housing developments of Riv-R-Land Estates, Windstone and Deer Run.

Tuesday’s vote will be for general obligation bonds of no more than $27 million to construct a new high school. The issue calls for the bonds to be retired in 25 years.

Dakota Valley Superintendent Al Leber said taxpayers in the area will not see an increase in property taxes. Taxpayers are currently paying $2.25 per $1,000 in valuation for school buildings -- $1.25 on the current high school’s bond and $1 for the elementary school’s bond. The district is scheduled to make the final payment on the current high school bond in June or July this year, and payments on the new bond would begin in January, Leber said.

No organized opposition to the proposition has surfaced.

"I think it's very important the community gives us direction, and the voting process guides us and helps us make decisions," said Dakota Valley High School Principal Jerry Rasmussen.

The issue needs at least 60 percent approval to pass. If the vote fails, Leber said the school board would have to reconsider its options.

If the measure passes, Leber said ground work would begin this fall and construction on the actual building would start in the spring of 2015 and open by the start of the 2016 school year.

Leber said the new facility would be connected to the existing campus and include a larger space for family and consumer science programs, an expanded special education section, a large lab for technology courses, general use classrooms, science labs, an industrial trades facility, storage rooms, a library with a new multimedia center and a gymnasium.

The current high school building was designed to accommodate 300 students. But with 330 high school students this year and possibly 400 students by the 2016 school year, Leber said the growth warranted a new building.

Copyright 2014 Sioux City Journal. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Hint: Enter a keyword that you are looking for like tires, pizza or doctors or browse the full business directory .

Username & Password Required!
