
Foremost Authority on HIV and AIDS in the region says: no published data to substantiate the hypothesis that decriminalising the practice of anal intercourse among consenting adults would lead to a reduction in the incidence rate of HIV infections among men who have sex with men (MSM).

The matter of Professor Brendan Bain, head of the Caribbean HIV/AIDS Regional Training (CHART), makes for compelling reading in the Jamaica press. It has its genesis in a case on the way in Belize where the goodly Professor gave expert testimony in a matter against a Gay Belizean Caleb Orozco. Orozco challenged in September 2010 Section 53 of Belize’s criminal code which states, “every person who has carnal intercourse against the order of nature with any person or animal shall be liable to imprisonment for 10 years“. The gist of which he argues that, “the code violates his right to the recognition of human dignity, to personal privacy and the privacy of the home guaranteed by the Belize constitution”.

At a point in the case Professor Bain, regarded as an expert in clinical infections and an authority on HIV/AIDS in the Caribbean, gave expert testimony which has resulted in calls for his dismissal from the UWI by Gay advocates.  Part of Bain’s testimony which has created a furor is quoted in the Jamaica Observer article.

BU’s interest in the case will be to observe how the privilege accorded to Academicians by the University of the West Indies is weighed against the strident LGBT lobby.

You seem to know a heck of a lot of the characteristics of “bullers”! I often have to wonder why peeps like you would know so much about them.

Hazard guesses and cut and paste and believe HEARSAY which is never accepted in any proper court of law.

This situation (i.e TB) may make a mockery of the claim that our “private” behaviour does not have public consequences.

Perhaps you would have seen in one of my earlier posts where I categorically destroyed his credibility as a material witness because of his use of completely false information to present his point. Whatever he says from now on I would have to take with lots of salt to help season his “facts”.

I proved he was (i can’t say LIAR, but I would say) a stranger to the truth when he claimed that I told him that you had gone to take your medication last night when in truth and FACT what I said to him was that you had gone to watch the newscast.

…..only because they are spiritually blinded by the nasty, wicked, unrighteousness that we have instituted throughout our various societies…..

Yes Ping, it is all related….

….You institutionalize unrighteousness….you will get spiritual diseases like homosexual tendencies in the society.

…..society ends up with both spiritual and physical diseases.

Perhaps it makes more sense now why the bible may have taken such a strong stand against the practice…….

Doc I was just about to go watch some Bill Cosby on TV but it seem I would be saving some electricity if I stayed here as it seems that Balaam’s ass is putting on some stand up comedy here all for free. So I’ll stay on here and enjoy some of the free comedy he puts on.

Many thanks for the fantastic power point presentation on TB,  Doc. Your efforts are greatly appreciated in helping us lesser mortals understand the nature  of the curse of the disease that we may have to deal with soon here in Barbados. Keep up the good work.

The Jamaican Bar Association says the firing of former director of the Caribbean HIV/AIDS Resource Training Network (CHART), Professor Brendan Bain may be viewed as an act of contempt of court.

Professor Bain provided expert testimony in a case brought by a gay man who is challenging Belize’s anti-sodomy law.

Last week, the University of the West Indies terminated Professor Bain’s contract following complaints by some 35 advocacy groups which said they had lost confidence in him as a result of his testimony.

However, the Jamaican Bar Association president, Donovan Walker, believes Professor Bain’s dismissal could be considered as a wrongful interference in a judicial process.

The bar association believes Professor Bain is being treated unfairly.

Walker says Professor Bain made it clear in his written statement that the opinions expressed in the Report were in a personal capacity and should not be attributed to any institution to which he is associated.

Walker further says Professor Bain is an expert in his field and persons are free to agree or disagree with his opinion.

I put that ppt together for an online Microb course I teach.

I just  sent it to David from my database.

I .

I think it should far above your status to think thar you have to defend your medical training and professional level to anyone here on BU especially when it is someone like Balaam’s ass. I believe most folk on BU are satisfied with your obvious knowledge of the field of medicine and realise that you are obviously qualified in the field. Perhaps you need to apply your own advice to me and just ignore him. He seems to be a total jackass of the dumbest order trying to impress with unnecessary long words which he probably lifts directly out of some dictionary whether online or elsewhere.

Additionally he seems to be somewhat dyslexic to me as he displays very poor reading and comprehension skills.

Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.

For the cause that lacks assistance, The wrong that needs resistance, For the future in the distance, And the good that I [BU] can do.

Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
