
Welcome Back!

Thanks for being a frequent visitor to globegazette.com . You have now viewed of your FREE premium pages this 30-day period. After you have viewed FREE pages, we will ask you to purchase a subscription.

FOREST CITY | Doug Price had his mother's piano loaded on his truck, ready to go the landfill.

"She didn't want it anymore. We tried to sell it and couldn't find any takers," said Price, a city employee in Forest City.

"So I was planning to go to the landfill with it when I picked up the Globe Gazette and read about the piano that was destroyed by a vandal," he said.

Price said the timing was perfect. He called his mother and told her he wanted to donate the piano to the folks in Mason City. "She said, 'It was meant to be.' So I'll bring it to Mason City after work tomorrow."

The piano that was vandalized is one of four that a group of high school students placed in the downtown area as a community service project to highlight Mason City's musical heritage. It was in the Federal Avenue plaza.

A vandal knocked it over early Sunday morning, less than 48 hours after it had been placed, damaging it beyond repair.

Robin Anderson, executive director of the Chamber of Commerce, who worked with the high school students on the project, said she received many phone calls from sympathetic citizens Monday, offering help in numerous ways.

Roger Schinagel has offered to put a plywood back on the new piano. He is the grandfather of Jahnya Schinagel, a student at the Alternative High School, who was part of the group involved in the piano placement project.

Also, said Anderson, Pat Galasso of Ge-Jo's restaurant in Clear Lake, posted a Facebook message offering $200 toward a replacement piano.

"We may take her up on that because we may need to get a new piano dolly and a vinyl cover if the ones from the wrecked piano don't work," said Anderson. "We also have to figure out how to get the wrecked piano to the landfill."

Anderson, who said Sunday she was disheartened by the vandalism, had her mood obviously brightened Monday by the community response.

Coltin Schupbach, 21, of Des Moines, has been charged with public intoxication and third-degree criminal mischief, an aggravated misdemeanor, in connection with the vandalism.

Anderson said students who helped place the pianos were in a YIELD program (Youths Investing Energy in Leadership Development) which involves teens in community projects. The teens chose the piano project because of Mason City's musical heritage. They called it "Tunes for the Town."

The pianos were placed in the Federal Avenue plaza, in Central Park, near the new KCMR studio and in The Music Man Square.

Copyright 2014 Mason City Globe Gazette. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Keep it clean. Avoid language that is obscene, vulgar, lewd or sexually-oriented. If you can't control yourself, don't post it.

Don't threaten to hurt or kill anyone.

Be truthful.Don't lie about anyone or anything.

Be nice. No racism, sexism or any other sort of -ism that degrades another person. PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK, and forgive people their spelling errors.

Let us know if it's getting out of hand. If you see offensive comments, don't quote or respond to them. Please use the "Report Abuse" button to bring it to our attention.

Stay focused, and ask questions. Keep on the story's topic.

Login here with a previously connected Facebook account.

Username & Password Required!
