
Julián Castro is set to enter the Obama administration as a rising Democratic star, gambling that he isn’t hit by the Cabinet curse and that his political future doesn’t turn into Texas toast when his term is up.

The likely pick to be the next Housing and Urban Development secretary stands to gain a lot from the experience. But he’d better hope it goes better than it did for Kathleen Sebelius, the outgoing Health and Human Services chief whose role in the botched Obamacare rollout has limited her own aspirations for future elected office.

The challenges of serving in a president’s Cabinet couldn’t be clearer in the rise of Castro and the fall of Sebelius. Sure, the kind of high-profile exposure that comes from serving at the president’s pleasure has its benefits with voters — a certain mayor from Chicago can attest to that, as can New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo, who ran HUD in the Clinton years.

But Castro also can be sure that Republicans will be watching closely for any failures — and anything that does go wrong could stick to him. And for every Cuomo or Rahm Emanuel, there are many more promising party overachievers who saw their stars diminished or explode entirely, tarnished by an unpopular president or dulled by a lackluster Cabinet post.

Castro’s supporters aren’t worried about a flameout. If anything, leaving San Antonio’s city hall for Washington promises to expose him to the capital city’s movers and shakers, including Democratic power brokers and media. And it allows the 39-year-old a chance to build himself a national profile on critical issues for voters around the country and back in Texas, all amid talk that he could be part of a dream ticket in 2016 with Hillary Clinton.

“Doing a good job at this for the next two years while Texas is going through the political fever that it is in … I don’t think it hurts to be away from that, doing substantive work that gets you executive experience, helps you age on the job,” said Henry Cisneros, a former Clinton administration HUD secretary who also served as San Antonio’s mayor.

“It’s the kind of progression that enabled George Bush to be selected by President [Ronald] Reagan,” he added.

There’s no such speculation surrounding Sebelius, a former Kansas governor who joined President Barack Obama in 2009 with her own rising national reputation. Fairly or not, she exits in 2014 carrying enough baggage from the clumsy health care launch that she didn’t even make a serious move to run back home against Sen. Pat Roberts.

One reason: She had already been poll-tested against the three-term Republican, and she did poorly. In a Public Policy Polling survey taken in February, she trailed Roberts 52 percent to 38 percent.

So when Sebelius officially steps down within the next few weeks, probably as soon as the Senate confirms Sylvia Mathews Burwell to take her place, she isn’t expected to jump into any political races. More likely, Sebelius will head home to Kansas for a while, spend some time with her family, celebrate her son’s upcoming wedding at the end of the month, and ponder her next move — which could include a lucrative role with one of the big lobbying or consulting firms that would love to have her services.

Sebelius’s experience is hardly the only cautionary tale as Castro prepares to make his move.

Former Obama Energy Secretary Steven Chu, a Nobel laureate who battled questions of political tone deafness during the Solyndra saga, has returned to Stanford University, where he’s a professor of physics and molecular and cellular physiology. Also teaching at Stanford: Condoleezza Rice, the former secretary of state who has made lots of GOP presidential and vice presidential wish lists over the years but had to cancel her commencement address at Rutgers University because of student protests over the Iraq War and interrogation tactics.

John Ashcroft, a former Missouri senator who lost his reelection race, became so identified with the controversies over the PATRIOT Act that he would have had a tough time with another political race after he was Bush’s attorney general.

And Christine Todd Whitman, who was a popular New Jersey GOP governor before she was Bush’s first Environmental Protection Agency administrator, said that if she had wanted to run for office again (she didn’t), she would have been dogged by the controversies over the EPA’s statements that the air in New York was safe to breathe after the Sept. 11 attacks — just as Sebelius would have to overcome all of the criticism of her management of the Obamacare website launch.

There are plenty of counterexamples, of course, and Hillary Clinton could be seen as the strongest — her term as secretary of state doesn’t seem to be hurting her 2016 prospects. But politically, the former New York senator and first lady is also in a league of her own. And even then, Clinton would probably be just as happy not to have Benghazi hanging around her neck.

But by the nature of the job, anyone who agrees to serve in the Cabinet runs the risk that scandals or controversies will stick to them — sometimes because of situations of their own making, but sometimes because of policies and decisions that are completely out of their control.

Friends E-mail(s) Separate emails with a comma. Maximum of 5 emails allowed.
