
Maselli said she didn't have a date for the Newington High School prom and thought maybe the Vice President of the United States might be available.

"Most girls invite their celebrity crushes and stuff and I don't have a celebrity crush," Maselli said. "But Joe Biden cracks me up so I thought he'd be a good person to ask."

She crafted an official invitation.

She even joked that if the VP rejected her request, "I have to invite (House) Speaker John Boehner and we can't have that now can we?"

Last September, she mailed the letter and waited.

"When I sent it, I thought there's no way it's going to get through to him," Maselli said. "No one is going to show this to him."

It turns out that Biden did get the letter. Eight months later, he ordered a special surprise from Kim's Flower Shop in Wethersfield for the occasion.

Kim Notaro, who is the owner of Kim's Flower Shop said he ordered "white roses and a red, white and blue ribbon."

"Dear Talia. Thank you for your lovely invitation to be your escort for your prom. I'm flattered, but my schedule will not permit me to be in Connecticut on Friday evening," the letter read.

"I would now like for you to be my guest to the West Wing as soon as you are available, if you're willing," Maselli said.

It didn't take her long to say yes to the man of many chuckles.

Talia said she plans to visit the West Wing in July, Right before she starts as a technical theatre major at Central Connecticut State University.

Sadly, Talia said she opted to skip the prom.

Copyright 2014 WFSB (Meredith Corporation). All rights reserved.

An 88-year-old woman from Hamden was seriously injured after she let in an uninvited visitor Sunday night.

The Connecticut Lottery said someone won the second prize in its "Lucky for Life" drawing back on Feb. 27, but did not come forward until last week.

Fort Lee officials say a soldier has died after she likely shot herself at the post Monday morning.

A crash briefly shut down the southbound side of the Merritt Parkway near Exit 51 in Trumbull on Monday afternoon, police said.

In less than a minute the officers knew they had the wrong car.

The lead up to this year's VMAs has proven particularly dangerous. Suge Knight was shot, Iggy Azalea fell off stage and a snake bit a Nicki Minaj back-up dancer.

All content © 2014, WFSB; Hartford, CT. (A Meredith Corporation Station) and WorldNow. All Rights Reserved.
