
Fairport teen battles brain cancer.

Hundreds turn out to celebrate the life of Fairport High School Junior Hannah Metzler who died of cancer.

Hundreds turned out to pay tribute to a Fairport High School Junior who died of brain cancer about a month and a half ago.  One month after celebrating sweet 16, Hannah Metzler was diagnosed with  brain cancer.

"I don't think I've ever heard Hannah complain once throughout everything she's been through.  She was really strong and extremely generous," said Melia Gasbarre, Fairport High School Junior.

Despite numerous treatments for her disease, Hannah died this past March. Family, friends, and Hannah's Fairport school community honored her life and all that she gave to others.

"She was just such a genuinely kind person.  Someone who really had a lot of room in her heart for everyone.  And she valued her friends and her family above all.  And I've never met someone as loving as her, and I'm not sure I will again," said Luke Metzler, Hannah's brother.

While battling her own disease, Hannah raised more than $30,000 for other children and teens with her "Crush Cancer" concerts.

"I think her positivity is definitely something that I was inspired by.  I still try to see the silver lining in her death and everything," said Meg Beiter, Fairport High School Junior.

Hannah's father said tonight was time to say "Thank You" to his daughter.

"We'd just like to remember her as a kind soul.  She really was, and in particular during this ordeal, she really was giving to others and deflecting attention away from herself.  And we've come to realize that's the way she lived her life," said Mike Metzler, Hannah's father.

Her initials sit atop the hill at Fairport High, a permanent memorial is in the making.

Hannah's father says they will continue to raise money for causes close to Hannah's heart through the newly created "Hannah Metzler Fund."  Mike Metzler called on everyone to pay it forward in his daughter's honor.

Copyright 2014 Nexstar Broadcasting, Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.

Ontario County Sheriff Phil Povero updates News 8 on the investigation into the death of Kevin Ward Jr. Ward was killed after being struck by a car being driven by NASCAR champion Tony Stewart.
