
very, very happy and excited to be back here.

Assuming his duties April 1, Howington oversees the operations of various venues, including Red Top Mountain, Etowah Indian Mounds State Historic Site, Allatoona Pass Battlefield and Pickett’s Mill Battlefield State Historic Site.

“He won the interview process,” said Joe Yeager, region manager for Georgia State Parks & Historic Sites. “He had related experience. He had group camp experience. He had local knowledge, having worked in the area with the camp on Lake Allatoona, had some experience working with the Corps and had related experience to being a park manager.

The majority of Howington’s experience is in nonprofit work, specifically camp programs. Along with his most recent position as the director of Clemson University’s R.M. Cooper 4-H Leadership Center in Summerton, S.C., he also served as the executive director at the Cherokee Retreat Center in White; executive director of Burnamwood Camp & Conference Center in Irvine, Ky.; and interim director for Camp Buc in Sapphire, N.C.

“I just always had in the back of my head that [this] would be a fun direction to go. It would be a challenge,” Howington said, referring to working for Georgia State Parks & Historic Sites. “It would be something new, something that I had not done before. When the position came open, because this was my hometown, I decided I should put my name in the hat.

With this being his professional introduction to Georgia State Parks & Historic Sites, Howington is looking forward to learning more about the venues’ operations, specifically delving into the system’s business plans for each park, known as Direction 2015.

“I’m learning a lot about what [Georgia Department of Natural Resources] has already organized and what their goals are for the parks system,” Howington said. “They’ve done a lot of work with the recent business plans. There’s a set of business plans that’s posted that they’ve done for each of the parks. So I’m learning those.
