
May 19, 2014 12:00 p.m.

Any resemblance between corporate board elections and actual democracy is often purely coincidental. If shareholders don't like the list of potential directors presented to them by management, they are typically out of luck. If they protest by withholding their votes against an incumbent board member or company nominee, that person usually will be seated anyway.

But now there's a possibility that there will be some real choices for shareholders at Verizon Communications, thanks to the efforts of a hardworking group of retirees.

Here's the scoop: At Verizon's annual meeting earlier this month, a whopping 95% of votes cast favored a proposal to allow shareholders to band together and nominate board members—candidates who would be voted on alongside management's. Verizon vigorously opposed this idea last year when it was put forward by the Association of BellTel Retirees, but after the proposal won 53% of investors' votes, the telecommunications giant changed its mind.

Under the new rules, investors who have owned at least 3% of Verizon shares for at least three years can nominate up to 20% of directors. The list of alternative candidates will be included in the ballots distributed by the company to shareholders. Today, only a handful of firms, including Hewlett-Packard and Western Union, allow shareholders what's known as "proxy access."

That said, Verizon is a long way from actually having a competitive board election. Larry Hamermesh, a professor at the Widener University School of Law in Delaware, noted it would be expensive to build investor support for an alternative candidate. But now that a blue-chip outfit like Verizon has decided it can live with competitive elections, look for investors to press for them elsewhere. At Walgreen Co., a proxy-access resolution got 43% of the vote earlier this year, for instance.

Bill Jones, the 75-year-old president of the Verizon retirees' group, said his association will reach out to the company's largest shareholders to see if they can help identify potential board nominees. He said the group might seek to unseat incumbent directors who serve on numerous boards, figuring their time and attention may be stretched too thin for them to serve Verizon well.

Mr. Jones said he understands it will be an uphill battle to win big investors' support for board candidates not of Verizon's choosing. Still, he can tap into a network of 128,000 former line workers, back-office employees and others from Nynex and Bell Atlantic ready to mobilize. "We're used to the uphill thing," he said.

A version of this article appears in the May 19, 2014, print issue of Crain's New York Business.
