
The price taggers wear masks instead of hoods, but their nocturnal raids are reminiscent of the Ku Klux Klan’s efforts in America to intimate not only innocent civilians, but the government whose job it is to protect them.

But they are nothing of the kind. These raids are unprovoked. The price taggers wear masks instead of hoods, but their nocturnal raids are reminiscent of the Ku Klux Klan’s efforts in America to intimate not only innocent civilians, but the government whose job it is to protect them.

A year ago, following an especially vicious episode, he declared that he would use “all legal means” at his disposal to end the vigilante raids.

Instead, price tagging has escalated. Raids are no longer confined to the West Bank or aimed only at its Palestinian residents. Recently, Israeli-Arab towns and neighborhoods have been hit.

Israeli Army reservists sent to keep the peace have been spat upon and harassed. In Jerusalem, anti-Christian slogans (“Jesus is garbage”) have been spray-painted on the doors of churches.

With Pope Francis due to visit on May 25, these graffiti attacks have the feel of a rehearsal.

The Shin Bet, Israel’s internal security agency, estimates 100 are active at any time, drawn from a pool of perhaps 3,000, most of them from settlements in the West Bank. Increasingly, people are demanding to know why they are still at large.

Carmi Gillon is a former chief of the Shin Bet. Shabtai Shavit is the former head of the Mossad, Israel’s CIA. Earlier this month, at a public meeting, they addressed this question.

The assassination was preceded by months of incitement and wild demonstrations against Rabin, whose “crime” was agreeing to the Oslo Accords. The leader of the opposition at the time was Netanyahu, who took part in the demonstrations and did nothing to dampen the volatile atmosphere.

Before Rabin was murdered, people – including Netanyahu – dismissed the wildest of the demonstrators as impressionable youngsters under the influence of extremist rabbis who were all yarmulke and no cattle. Until Amir pulled the trigger.

This is not merely an epithet. Under Israeli law, terrorism is a much more serious crime than vandalism or racism. Under this designation, the police and Shin Bet can use stringent emergency measures, including aggressive interrogation and detention without trial, to break up the price tag movement.

As price tags go, this one would be would be worth paying.

Zev Chafets is a Fox News contributor.
