
-- Jay Leno drives the McLaren P1, because he just bought a McLaren P1 . It's the first one in America. He's already put 2,000 miles on it in two weeks, because Leno is a cool guy. "The turbos … sound like some animal breathing down your neck," he says. It's like a liger , which Leno once had on his show. "It put a paw on my shoulder and went, prrrruurrrr, and it sounded just like this turbo." Then, he got passed by a Prius . Los Angeles traffic is the great equalizer.

-- Imagine a time when so many things were made in America that the label "Made in USA" was redundant. So redundant, in fact, that American manufacturers put down the exact municipalities they were made in. This needs to come back , says David Kennedy of Hot Rod magazine. Take pride in your location! You can get stuff that was " Made in Detroit ," but what about " Made in Toledo " or " Hecho en Hermosillo " (that's right, Mexico and Canada deserve to get in on this too)? Imagine buying a Spruce Goose that was made in Culver City, Calif. , with pride! For the record, this post was made in a studio apartment near Santa Monica, Calif., but only because we couldn't afford the fancy zip code.

-- Kumar Patel is fighting hard to preserve a piece of American history . Six years ago, he gave up a cushy accounting job to take over the Wigwam Motel in San Bernardino -- the teepee-shaped collection of rooms on Route 66 and the inspiration for "Cars'" Cozy Cone Motel . The slices of American kitsch along the famed road are being overlooked by young people and their caretakers are struggling to reinvent themselves. Do kids like cars anymore? asks the tired narrative. Perhaps the better question is "do they like road trips? American cultural pastiches? Bobby Troup?"

-- A meeting of the Mustang Club of Iran might look different from one in Las Vegas -- there's less Bud Light, we'd assume -- but the cars are just as Mustang-y as ever: everything from 1964 (and a half) to the "Gone in 60 Seconds"-vintage 1973s were represented at the Azadi racetrack in Tehran, as they have for years . A Mach 1 with Arabic license plates still speaks the same language as one from Venice Beach .
