
While prime minister-elect Narendra Modi juggled portfolios and maintained a suspense-laden silence on who all he would include in his Cabinet, senior BJP leaders and party MPs made a beeline for Keshav Kunj — the RSS headquarters in Delhi.

Modi's close aide Amit Shah and Arun Jaitley met top RSS functionaries on Monday. Newly-elected BJP MPs, including former home secretary RK Singh, Delhi MPs Udit Raj, Manoj Tiwari, senior UP leader Vinay Katiyar and party national spokesperson Prakash Javadekar did the same.

However, Modi has kept everyone guessing, even veterans like LK Advani and Dr Murli Manohar Joshi who had long discussions with Modi are not sure what they are going to get.

Barring Nitin Gadkari, who is holidaying in Leh, senior leaders like Sushma Swaraj and Jaitley also held parleys with party chief Rajnath Singh to not only scout out ideal portfolios for themselves, but also their allies. Jaitley not only has to bat for himself, but also for his supporters like Hamirpur MP Anurag Thakur. Sushma may similarly feel the need to fight for her backers like Darjeeling MP SS Alhuwalia and Shahnawaz Hussain to be included in the government.

For Jaitley, who is close to Modi and has been regularly confabulating with the future PM, the chances of getting the finance ministry portfolio have taken a beating ever since he lost the Amritsar seat by over 1 lakh votes. Though everyone in BJP and RSS are playing down his defeat, Arun Shourie is being tipped as the dark horse who will end up as finance minister. Jaitley may most likely end up as foreign minister, Swaraj could get defence ministry, with Rajnath Singh getting the home portfolio, say sources.

Despite the meetings, the RSS resolutely maintained that it had no say in the making of Modi's cabinet. "This is not the first time individual leaders are coming to the RSS office. There is no BJP-RSS meeting. Jaitleyji is a very senior leader. He does not need support or lobbying to be included in the government," said RSS functionary Ram Madhav. As for Jaitley's Lok Sabha defeat, the Sangh functionary said it should not matter at all.

Party sources in Maharashtra said the BJP may just put Gadkari in the government and allow Gopinath Munde to focus on the state where elections are due in October. As for the Shiv Sena, it may get to include Anant Geete and even Sanjay Raut, who wrote the anti-Gujarati edit in the Saamna, in the goverment.

YSR Cong to give issue-based support to Modi govt: Jagan YSR Congress chief Jaganmohan Reddy on Monday said his party will give issue-based support to the NDA government at the Centre. Reddy met Modi and said, "Andhra Pradesh requires him (Modi)."
