
The BJP’s wish to rope in more allies other than the existing 25 NDA partners appears to be taking shape as the YSR Congress on Monday reached out to Prime Minister-in-waiting Narendra Modi offering “issue based” backing to the alliance that will form the government at the Centre.

Overlooking the fact that arch rival TDP in Seemandhra is already an NDA ally, YSR Congress move to stitch a working relationship is suspected to be born out of fear that law enforcement agencies may begin to trouble him again in corruption cases. TDP is going to rule the residual AP state.

After meeting Modi at Gujarat Bhawan, YSR Congress chief Jaganmohan Reddy, who was leading a party delegation, told reporters that “Andhra Pradesh requires him (Modi)” but was also aware of the reality unfolded by the phenomenal mandate that “BJP does not require the support of any political party”.

“The fact is that they already have 282 MPs and they don’t need the support of any of us. Andhra Pradesh wants him (Modi),” Reddy said. He also handed over a letter to the BJP leader emphasising the need for fast paced development, given his apprehension that “It will take our state at least 50 years to reach the same level of development as Hyderabad Metropolitan Development area”. In united Andhra Pradesh, out of 42 parliamentary constituencies, YSR Congress got 9 seats while TDP got 16, BJP got three, TRS 11, Congress 2 and All India Majlis-E-Ittehadul Muslimeen 1.

Modi is also sending feelers to West Bengal Chief Minister  Mamata Banerjee as in an interview to a vernacular paper he reiterated his desire for a better centre-state equation despite knowing very well her apathy towards the BJP. The TMC won from 34 LS constituencies in the polls.

The PM candidate’s overtures days before occupying Raisina Hill is not only aimed at filling up the number deficit in the Rajya Sabha, a must to get legislations passed by Parliament, but also to reinforce that he does not believe in discriminating against non-BJP ruled states, explained a party leader. While NDA has 336 MPs in the Lok Sabha, its strength in the 240-member upper house is merely 64, which reduced them to a minority.

Other regional parties such as Tamil Nadu’s ruling party AIADMK has already warmed up to the BJP and even Odisha Chief Minister Navin Patnaik is not averse to shaking hands with Modi.
