
In a brief statement made soon after it was clear that they had led the Congress to its worst defeat in history, Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi said they accepted responsibility for it. Smiling broadly, Rahul Gandhi said: “I hold myself responsible for the debacle”. He did not appear to mean it. Sonia said the same, but added a defiant line that the Congress would not sacrifice its principles even in defeat.

Neither of them stayed long enough to elaborate or answer questions. Neither of them could bring themselves to utter the name of the man who defeated them. They were too arrogant to even acknowledge him.

This suggests two things: the Dynasty remains as unaccountable as before to public opinion despite formal statements of accepting responsibility. And two, they still think their “principles” are beyond reproach. Since they didn’t elaborate on what these principles were, there was clearly a tinge of arrogance in the statement - as was their refusal to acknowledge that man who will be our next PM.

So, one has to doubt if any lessons will be learnt from the defeat.

There are already murmurs about the need for a Priyanka Gandhi to take the reins of the party. Forlorn crowds outside the Congress office in Delhi even brought up anti-Rahul and pro-Priyanka chants soon after defeat was writ large on TV screens.

The Congress is clearly going to go through another painful period of self-deception where defeat will be attributed to bad allies or bad communication or just bad karma. It will not focus on the issue that actually matters: the relevance of the Gandhi family to the party’s fortunes. After 10 years of UPA rule, after passing every possible populist legislation in the name of the Dynasty, India has handed the worst defeat to the party. This is essentially a slap in the face of the Gandhi family from the voter.

This spells out the difference between the BJP and the Congress: consider what would have happened in the BJP if Modi had led the party to this kind of rout? The knives would be out, and Modi’s rivals would have replaced him as leader in no time a tall. The chances are if he had lost the battle for Delhi, his position in Gujarat would also have been under threat as the central party leadership asserted itself.

This is what happens in any normal political party. After defeat, the leader loses his post, assuming he does not himself offer to resign.

But what do we see here? A complete denial that Dynasty had anything to do with the Congress’ defeat. There is a presumption, even naïve hope, that Nehru-Gandhi charisma is enough to overcome the party’s long-term decline.

Consider what the Congress’ problems are – and why trying another member of the Dynasty is not the answer to the failure of Rahul.

#1: The Congress party’s main problem is that it has very few regional leaders worth the name. It concentrates all power in the family. If you leave out Karnataka, Himachal, Kerala and Assam, no state has a worthwhile regional leader. The party has tasted defeat in three of these states in this election. The right remedy is to strengthen regional leadership so that they can withstand national waves, but for this the Gandhis have to accept that they cannot be the last word in leader selection. Shuffling one Dynast for another is no way to deal with this issue. It is not going to fundamentally make Congress a democratic party, when leaders have to be developed from the ground up, rather than imposed top-down.

#2: Dynasty is the antithesis of aspirational politics and empowerment. To stay in power, a Dynast prefers doles to real empowerment and aspiration. This is why the Congress went the whole hog with rights- and entitlements-based legislation. In its 10 years in power, I have calculated that Dynasty has imposed dole/spending costs of over Rs 12 lakh crore on the country (Read here ). When the state arrogates to itself the power to provide for people from cradle to grave, it essentially puts itself in the place of benefactor – and the people as supplicants. A new and confident India may happily swallow doles and freebies, but does not take kindly to pretensions of Dynastic benevolence. The poorest of the poor and the lowest of castes today seek a life with dignity. They don’t want their leaders to adopt patronising attitudes, or become feudal lords. This is one reason why the Congress lost despite years of high growth and providing for every possible freebie, and promising the rest if re-elected.

#4: Should loyalty and patronage always score over merit? The rise of ‘chaiwala’ Narendra Modi posed a strong, psychological challenge to the Dynasty’s claims to omnipotence. Modi showed that merit ultimately matters more than just the accident of high birth. Even though the media chose to focus on his strong words against the Dynasty (maa-beta ki sarkar, Shehzada, etc), Modi sowed real seeds of doubt about the Dynasty’s real intentions about inclusiveness. Mani Shankar Aiyar’s arrogant dismissal of Modi’s chaiwala status was an important turning point – the point at which people got the message that the Congress was about privilege and patronage, not true inclusiveness. Aiyar is the ultimate supporter of Dynasty.

The 2014 elections are probably a turning point in the voter’s understanding of the limitations of staying with feudal leaders. If a leader is someone who needs to connect with people, the Gandhi family possibly provides the worst kind of leader. They descend from their mountain redoubts once in a blue moon to give their subjects their pronouncements and decisions – and disappear. This is what Sonia and Rahul did today. Why would Priyanka be different? She landed up with a pink-trousered hubby on the day of voting, and descended on Amethi only it seemed her brother would lose.

If they have, they will not opt for chimerical solutions like bringing in Priyanka to replace Rahul. Tweedledum is usually not different from Tweedledee, even with a gender change.
