
Canines having 220 million olfactory cells when compared with 50 million in humans can provide inputs to the doctors in detecting some cancers including prostate cancer.

According to University of Pennsylvania researchers, Tsunami, a dog with alert eyes is more than 90 percent effective in recognizing the odor of ovarian cancer in some tissue samples, thus providing some inputs on an ailment that kills around 14,000 Americans every year. However, when detected early, the survival rate goes up to 90 percent with a 5-year grace period.

The largest research ever conducted on cancer-sniffing canines has discovered that they can perceive prostate cancer by smelling samples of urine with 98 percent precision. Moreover, there is one application doing the rounds of U.S. approval of a gear utilizing breath samples to detect breast cancer.

Earlier, smaller researches have demonstrated that dogs can smell a range of diseases, however the main question is that whether canines can be utilized on an extensive scale to detect ailment has actually drawn uncertainty.

Moreover, there are some unsolved questions as how to schematize the financial feasibility and use of any such method, and whether one breed of dog is better at sniffing diseases than another. Consequently, most of the current studies tend to look at how to replicate the dog's ability to sniff disease either with a chemical test or equipment.

Taverna, who is the head of urology pathology at Istituto Clinico Humanitas in Italy, tested the capability of two trained explosive-detection dogs, Liu and Zoe, in 677 different cases to assess their precision.

According to Taverna, the next step will be to spread the research into urological malignancies and prostate-cancer subcategories. The results might one day be utilized to assist in producing an electronic nose that can follow nature's lead in how a dog's nose works.

The findings have come at a crucial time when use of customary PSA testing for detection of prostate cancer is actually being debated as not precise enough, with incorrect positives leading to unneeded treatment.

The Preventive Services Task Force (PSTF), which prepares medical reports on different issues and submits to U.S. Congress, in 2012, suggested that healthy men should not be tested for prostate cancer utilizing PSA tests after a research revealed that wrong positive rates of men might be as high as 80 percent. Moreover, the test evaluates a protein created by prostate cells named prostate-specific antigen.

When canines start to sniff for cancer, they are actually detecting the chemicals that are discharged by a tumor. The discharged chemicals are known as volatile organic compounds (VOCs). They have been detected in the urine of prostate-cancer patients, breath of colon-cancer and lung-cancer patients.

The recent findings have generated interest and curiosity in canine cancer-detection research, involving efforts to develop equipment that can replicate the animal's olfactory system.

Dina Zaphiris, who works with dogs on funded researches in detecting early cancer in human beings, and is a recognized dog trainer, is heading the charge of a system for U.S. Food and Drug Administration clearance that would utilize the distinctive olfactory abilities of dogs in detecting cancer.

Zaphiris, who has 25 years' experience as a dog trainer, and an education in biology, started the InSitu Foundation in 2009, a nonprofit association that provides professional training to cancer-sniffing dogs and engages in various researches in this field.

The InSitu Foundation has prepared an application and is in the process of submitting the same for an authorization of a dog medical scent-detection gear. With the help of the kit, people with cancer exhale through a pipe onto a cloth that captures VOCs of a malignancy. Then, the trained dogs smell the cloths for the presence of VOCs.

According to Zaphiris, the dog screening method will be an "early warning test" used probably in relevance with a mammogram for studying results before moving to a biopsy.
