
NEW DELHI: Indian markets are expected to open higher on Tuesday tracking positive trend seen in other Asian markets and SGX Nifty.

Extending their previous session's jubilation, the benchmarks indices closed on firm note on Monday amidst intraday volatility . Some support also came in after Industry body CII expressed hopes that the economic reforms agenda can be taken forward with a stable political environment.

"For fresh buying, one should give preference to quality Midcap and Smallcap stocks but avoid IT and Pharma," he added.

Jaiprakash Power Ventures Ltd: Jaiprakash Power Ventures Ltd plans to raise up to 30 billion rupees ($508 million) in new debt and equity to fund future projects and pay down its debts, the company said on Monday, sending its shares up 30 percent.

JSW Steel Ltd: JSW Steel today reported a 14 per cent rise in its crude steel production for the month of April at 9.9 lakh tonnes (LT).

DLF Ltd: DLF today said on Monday that it will move Supreme Court against the Competition Appellate Tribunal (Compat) ruling that has upheld the CCI order imposing Rs 630 crore penalty on the country's largest realty firm for unfair business practices.

Wipro Ltd: Wipro has won an over $400 million (Rs 2,400 crore) deal from Takeda Pharma under which the former will develop and support IT requirements of the largest Japanese pharmaceutical company.

United Bank of India: Kolkata-based United Bank of India plans to raise Rs.1,000 crore through a public issue, QIP or a rights issue and an additional Rs.300 crore through a preferential allotment to the government and Life Insurance Corp. of India (LIC), the bank said in a notification to the stock exchanges, said media reports.

Reliance Power & Reliance Infrastructure Ltd: Anil Ambani-led Reliance Infrastructure (R-Infra) and Reliance Power (R-Power) reported weak fourth-quarter results on Monday. While R-Infra, with metro rail lines, cement plants and roads under it, reported 14 per cent dip in net profit versus a year ago. R-Power had a near flat profit, said media reports.

SKS Microfinance Ltd: SKS Microfinance Ltd is getting ready to rise about Rs 400 crore through Qualified Institutional placement (QIP). As part for the preparatory work, the trading window for SKS Microfinance board members, designated employees and their dependent family members would be closed during May 19-28.

Tata Communications Ltd: Tata Communications Ltd has sealed an all-cash deal to sell its 67 per cent stake in South African telecommunications unit, Neotel Pty., to an arm of Vodafone Group for about $680 million (Rs3978 crore), people familiar with the matter said Monday.

Tata Global Beverages Ltd: Tata Global Beverages, Tata Group's multinational beverages arm, on Monday said it has acquired Australian coffee company Bronski Eleven for an undisclosed amount.
