
In the world of defense spending, and defense investing, everything old is becoming new again — aircraft carriers especially.

Asked to comment on Iran’s new boat in March, when it was still under construction in the Gachin shipyard near Bandar Abbas seaport in the Persian Gulf, U.S. Navy Cmdr. Jason Salata dismissed the vessel as “a large barge built to look like an aircraft carrier” — nothing more.

Iranian media appear to agree, with local newspapers still characterizing the vessel as a movie set-piece for a propaganda film telling the tale of Iran Air Flight 655, which was shot down by the U.S. during the Iran-Iraq War in 1988. But this seems unlikely. After all, IAF 655 was shot down by the U.S. guided missile cruiser USS Vincennes — not by the Nimitz. In fact, at the time IAF 655 was shot down, the Nimitz wasn’t even in the Gulf — it was back in its home port in Washington state.

But that doesn’t necessarily mean the U.S. should rest easy.

But as it turns out, they could still use some practice.

Three guesses which “mock-up” that might be.

Simply this: At the same time that countries like India, Singapore, Japan, and China are intent on investing billions of dollars in building aircraft carriers, other countries such as Iran are just as eager to spend “utterly ridiculous” amounts of money on finding ways to sink aircraft carriers. So long as the U.S. Navy’s blue-water fleet hews to a policy centered on aircraft carriers, you can expect the Pentagon to spend a fair amount of its own money on finding ways to protect its flat-tops.

An increased threat from small boats might also argue in favor of accelerating deployment of Raytheon‘s (NYSE: RTN) new Griffin surface-to-surface “mini-missile” , which recently achieved “initial operational capability”. Designed specifically to improve naval warships’ defenses against threats from small, fast attack boats (which Iran might use to “swarm” U.S. carriers), the Griffin boasts a 33-pound warhead capable of disabling such small boats, combined with a three-mile range that’s roughly twice as far as standard-issue shipborne MK 38 “chain guns” can shoot.

Long story short, even if Iran’s new “aircraft carrier” is probably a fake, the threat it represents is real.
