
India is the world's largest democracy. The great Indian people in large numbers voted for Modi and his ideas. This is hard to swallow for the islamic states and their supporters like Putin in Russia and the Chinese. Interestingly, the opposition to India and its great democracy comes from non-democrattic islamist states and their dictators allies like Putin and his Chinese counter-part.

Modi has realized that India and Israel are natural allies because they are threatened by the same enemies.  The enemies of India should take the strong signal sent by the Indian people and change their policies relative to this great nation. We all need India to succeed, for the sake of democracy, civilization and peace.

watch how the 'great Indian people' and their 'largest democracy' will behave toward at least three separate wars that are ongoing in their country, especially the one in Kashmir.

Ms/Mr Nilou: please refer to the news and the number of votes cast for the new government in India. I am not surprised that the folks who support the islamic regime are the ones who do not appreciate what democracy is.

The same folks who oppose India are the ones who support islamist Pakistan, Putin's dictatorship in Russia, and of-course the criminal regime of the mullahs.

We have to understand what democracy is and start appreciating it. Especially if we live in the West and benefit from the freedom of expression available here.

"Corruption in business life" in India? That's news to me!

When I read that Modi won election I thought he’s appointed as the New Manager of Phallological Museum of Lord Shiva Temple in Varanasi.

May 2014 election ain’t but dog and pony show played by the best Kingmakers; Rahul and Kejriwal to get Modi decolonize India.

Hindus are waiting for this for 700 years give ‘em a break.

My condolence goes to all those Pisaparast Anglosexual Geographical Muslims who will creep to hold Modi’s dhoti.

Due to inactivity you will be logged out in seconds.
