
KOLKATA: Whenever Enforcement Directorate tries to question Saradha mastermind Sudipta Sen in Alipore jail, the law is held up as a barrier. But there seems to be no such barrier for the Shyamal Sen Commission, which can get Sen to dispose whenever it wants.

His lawyer Samir Das said, "Whenever directed, Sen has complied with the commission's orders." ED has now written to the state, questioning why "laws are being bent" for it to question Sen. Sources say the state legal department is examining the legalities involved in the seemingly dual stance towards ED and the commission.

ED was desperate to cross-examine Sen when it had his wife Piyali and son Subhojit in custody. Between April 19 and April 23, it wrote to the state thrice seeking to question Sen. The state replied twice, asking ED that to get a "proper court order". The state claims its hands are legally tied in such cases.

ED responded by citing a Calcutta high court order of February 2014, which orders the state agency to "render all necessary assistance, including allowing the enforcement agency to interrogate the accused".

Justice Sen said, "For production of Sudipta Sen before the commission, we write to the state government. They get the necessary approvals for it." Usually, commission secretary Mihir Bhattacharya writes to the state-appointed Special Investigation Team, which forwards it to Alipore jail, say sources.

The Sen panel was formed under the Commission of Inquires Act, 1952, which gives it powers of a civil court, not criminal. Senior lawyer Shaktinath Mukhopadhyay feels the commission is only a fact-finding body, which can make recommendations to the state. "All its powers are to facilitate this singular objective," he felt. The Act under which the Sen Commission was formed empowers it summon and enforce attendance of any person from any part of India and examine him under oath. The problem is that it refers to the civil and not the criminal procedure code.

Section 267 CrPC says that a criminal court can direct any jail to produce a prisoner. ED is broadly covered under Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002, which allows it to summon anyone for questioning.

Senior lawyer Milon Mukherjee advises that ED would do well to get court clearance. "The HC has overriding powers but not in this case. Instead of flaunting an HC order, ED should get an appropriate order from the relevant court if they seek to question an accused. Nothing stops them from doing it."

Mukherjee, however, feels that given the backdrop, the manner in which the commission is questioning Sen is debatable. Senior lawyer Bikash Bhattacharya said: "The manner in which the commission is questioning Sen is illegal. I have been raising this question for some time." Lawyer Subrata Mukhopadhyay said he will move HC challenging the commission's powers.

With CBI beginning the Saradha probe on Monday on a Supreme Court order, it remains to be seen how it will cross this barrier. An ED spokesperson refused to comment on the controversy.
