
The future of a number of children in the City, selected for admission in various private schools under the 25 per cent quota of the Right to Free and Compulsory Education (RTE) Act, looks extremely bleak.

The schools concerned have refused to admit these children claiming minority status and the matter is pending before the Karnataka High Court. With the new academic year all set to begin, most of the children might end up losing a year.

Azmath Khan was elated when his child got an LKG seat under the RTE quota at Vibgyor High School, Somasandrapalya. However, his happiness was shortlived as the school management refused to admit his daughter.

“The school has received as many as 25 applications for its 85 RTE quota seats; however, they have refused admission to students claiming that they are a minority school. I have not applied anywhere else. I only hope that the matter will be sorted soon,” he said.

Azmath, along with 180 other parents, have been running from pillar to post for the past few months to achieve some breakthrough on the issue. The parents have even lodged a complaint at the Karnataka State Commission for Protection of Child Rights. All these efforts have failed to yield the desired result so far.

Narayan B, another parent, has done the rounds of various offices despite a handicap in his leg, pushing the case of his daughter who got a seat at Baldwin’s School. “The Director of Primary Education K Anand has spoken to the DDPI concerned and said that they will help us in the matter. If our children do not get admission, then we will all take them to the department” he said.

The minority status of schools had been challenged in the court by a number of educational institutions. The private institutions have claimed that they have been coerced by the Education Department to admit children under the RTE, despite their application for the status pending before the government. The High Court, in turn, asked the department not to force schools to admit children under the RTE until they came out with a list of such minority schools.

The Supreme Court in its judgement on May 6 had put aided and unaided schools out of the purview of the RTE Act. This seems to have strengthened the resolve of the private schools.
