
The Mahindra S101 has been spotted by IndianAutosBlog.com reader Mr. Naveen Raman in Ooty, Tamil Nadu. The trials have advanced to a new stage with prototypes sporting more complete body work and features.

The S101 is Mahindra’s entry-level crossover that will take aim at the Ford EcoSport and the Maruti XA Alpha. Mahindra’s smallest offering in the personal vehicle space, as per reports, would be manufactured at its new facility in Cheyyar, Tamil Nadu in the next financial year.

The Mahindra S101 comes out next year to take on the Ford EcoSport or the upcoming Maruti XA Alpha.

The test mule has gotten new body parts such as headlights, bumpers and a complete tailgate. A mounting bracket appears to be placed at the rear, likely to carry the external spare wheel. Few other parts like the rear combination lamps are still to be seen in production form.

Like the XUV500, the headlamps are quite large, and cut into the sides of the car. Previous spyshots showed a thin line of LED infused into the base of the cluster.

The S101 would become Mahindra’s second monocoque chassis model. It is based on a newly developed platform and would get driven by a 1.2-liter three-cylinder petrol engine, besides a sub-1,500 cc diesel engine. Shown on the Quanto at the Auto Expo, an AMT option could also cascade into the smaller S101, for a better powertrain mix.

Expect the S101 on the market in 2015.

Consider writing your thoughts in the comment box below.

Like this kind of content? Subscribe via Email or Twitter to get our updates everyday!

I'm Shrawan, an automobile engineer who began IAB in 2008, which today is rated as a Top 10 global automotive website by Technorati, and among the top 15,000 websites on the internet, according to Alexa.

I have closely watched this vehicle nearby mettupalayam. I have seen some oval structure in steering centre like fords one.I have doubt whether it could be ford one.

I agree mr.rakesh thoughts. Based on the size of the car, it should 4.3m length to attack C segment sedans like XUV did in the D segment.

its not s101. it looks above 4m lenght. I think it is s102 competitor of duster& terrano.  below 4m such type of design is not possible. do not design it like xuv. use new body panel.
