
"Even Newt Gingrich Is Jumping On The Iran Nuclear Talks Bandwagon Now"

And despite the opening given to him, Gingrich did not outright endorse the view of many hardliners that any nuclear deal with Iran has to include a total freeze of uranium enrichment. “I think that [former Iranian president Mahmoud] Ahmadinejad made it very hard to apply a reasonable standard because of the intensity and harshness of his language,” Gingrich said, according to the Tehran Times, on the Iranian stance that enrichment is a right. “And I think when people think you might be very aggressive, they incline to be much more strict about what they are going to let you do.” Experts and Obama administration officials have repeatedly indicated that allowing some low-level enrichment may likely be part of any final agreement, though not as much as Iran is claiming that it needs.

“I would much prefer to get to a peaceful solution [to the nuclear issue], and I hope that Secretary of State Kerry’s optimism is justified,” he said. If this support seems tepid, compare the level tone Gingrich presented in the interview with the Tehran Times to his views when the interim deal was first inked in November. Then, Gingrich told his co-host and guests on CNN’s Crossfire : “My view is very simple. This is surrender to the Iranians. It’s an exact parallel to what happened with North Korea when the State Department team was duped, patted themselves on the back all the way to the Koreans’ nuclear explosion.” He also at the time told a Kansas audience , “This is the Munich of the Middle East,” referring to the deal allowing Nazi Germany to annex Czechoslovakia.

In the past, Gingrich has been even more skeptical of the prospects of even negotiating with Iran, frequently threatening to use force against Tehran over its nuclear program and advocating regime change as the end goal for any military strike. Experts have frequently commented on the inefficacy of a military strike in halting Iran’s nuclear program in comparison to diplomacy. Back in 2009, soon after Obama’s inauguration, Gingrich even compared negotiating with Iran’s leaders to negotiating with Adolf Hitler . And one of Gingrich’s largest donors during his failed presidential bid in 2012 not only expressed skepticism over the talks, but suggested the use of a nuclear weapon against Iran.
