
Judge Eugene O'Kelly said it was a 'potentially very dangerous act'

A MAN who assaulted a security guard by throwing a cooked chicken at him has been ordered to stay away from the supermarket where the incident happened.

John McNamara, aged 51, of Chardonnay, Old Singland Road had denied assaulting Marius Pogonowski, 35, on February 3, 2013.

During a contested hearing, Judge Eugene O’Kelly was told the incident happened at around 1.30pm at Eurospar, Watch House Cross.

The Court heard as Mr Pogonowski was talking with Mr McNamara’s daughter and her partner at the checkout, the defendant approached him and became aggressive.

“He was shouting and roaring and he threw a hot chicken at me,” he said adding that it struck him on the leg.

Mr Pogonowski said tensions then escalated in the store as a number of other people became involved. At one point, he said, he grabbed a shopping basket to defend himself as he “felt in jeopardy”.

Another employee - Beata Kaccewsta Wozny - said she was alerted when she heard shouting and roaring.

“There was a big fight in the shop, people were screaming and pushing,” she said adding that she saw the defendant throwing the cooked chicken at Mr Pogonowski.

In CCTV footage of the incident, which was shown to the court, Mr McNamara can be seen flinging the chicken while being restrained by members of his family.

In his direct evidence he denied deliberately throwing it at Mr Pogonowski but being cross examined by Inspector Seamus Ruane, he agreed he had been a “small bit aggressive” and had thrown the chicken in a fit of temper.

Convicting the accused, Judge O’Kelly said it was a “potentially very dangerous act” as the bag containing the chicken could have burst causing Mr Pogonowski to be scalded by the hot grease.

He imposed a four month prison sentence, suspending it for two years.

Mr McNamara was also banned from the store.

Create your own advertisement or send someone a special message.

© 2014 Johnston Publishing Ltd.

Limerick Leader provides news, events and sport features from the Limerick area. For the best up to date information relating to Limerick and the surrounding areas visit us at Limerick Leader regularly or bookmark this page.

For you to enjoy all the features of this website Limerick Leader requires permission to use cookies.

Cookies are small data files which are sent to your browser (Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome etc) from a website you visit. They are stored on your electronic device.

This is a type of cookie which is collected by Adobe Flash media player (it is also called a Local Shared Object) - a piece of software you may already have on your electronic device to help you watch online videos and listen to podcasts.

Yes there are a number of options available, you can set your browser either to reject all cookies, to allow only "trusted" sites to set them, or to only accept them from the site you are currently on.

However, please note - if you block/delete all cookies, some features of our websites, such as remembering your login details, or the site branding for your local newspaper may not function as a result.

A tool used by some of our advertisers to target adverts to you based on pages you have visited in the past. To opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

Our sites contain advertising from Google; these use cookies to ensure you get adverts relevant to you. You can tailor the type of ads you receive by visiting here or to opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

This is used to help us identify unique visitors to our websites. This data is anonymous and we cannot use this to uniquely identify individuals and their usage of the sites.

This comes from our ad serving technology and is used to track how many times you have seen a particular ad on our sites, so that you don't just see one advert but an even spread. This information is not used by us for any other type of audience recording or monitoring.

ComScore monitor and externally verify our site traffic data for use within the advertising industry. Any data collected is anonymous statistical data and cannot be traced back to an individual.

Our Classified websites (Photos, Motors, Jobs and Property Today) use cookies to ensure you get the correct local newspaper branding and content when you visit them. These cookies store no personally identifiable information.

We use Grapeshot as a contextual targeting technology, allowing us to create custom groups of stories outside out of our usual site navigation. Grapeshot stores the categories of story you have been exposed to. Their privacy policy and opt out option can be accessed here.

Our partner for Newspaper subscriptions online stores data from the forms you complete in these to increase the usability of the site and enhance user experience.

Add This provides the social networking widget found in many of our pages. This widget gives you the tools to bookmark our websites, blog, share, tweet and email our content to a friend.
