
Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki’s Shiite Muslim coalition won a majority in national elections and is set to stay in government in OPEC’s No. 2 oil producer, according to a lawmaker from the alliance.

The National Alliance, including Maliki’s State of Law parliamentary bloc, won more than 170 of parliament’s 328 seats in the April 30 balloting, lawmaker Khalid al-Asadi said in a telephone interview. State of Law has chosen Maliki to remain as prime minister in the new government, he said.

Maliki, 63, has governed the nation of 33 million people since 2006. Iraq is seeking to maintain the growth in oil output that’s seen it overtake Iran as OPEC’s second-biggest producer, and halt a resurgence of sectarian violence in the past year.

State of Law won 92 seats, the largest number of any parliamentary bloc, and was followed by two Shiite factions, the Sadrists with 33 seats and the Islamic Supreme Council in Iraq with 29 seats, according to results released today by the Independent High Electoral Commission.

Maliki himself won more than 721,000 votes, the most of any candidate, according to state-run Iraqiya television. Twenty-two women were elected.

The new parliament will choose a successor to President Jalal Talabani, who has been receiving medical treatment in Germany since suffering a stroke in December 2012.

The sectarian violence that Maliki’s government succeeded in curbing in 2008 has flared again, aggravated by the civil war in neighboring Syria. A total of 3,015 civilians were killed in the first three months of this year, according to the unofficial Iraq Body Count website, more than three times as many as a year earlier.

Maliki’s relations with Sunnis and the Kurds who run northern Iraq have become more strained. A dispute with the central government led Kurdish authorities to suspend oil exports through the national pipeline in December 2012.

Oil wealth has buoyed the economy, which the International Monetary Fund forecasts to expand by 5.9 percent this year. The government plans a record $145.9 billion budget for 2014, up from $119 billion in 2013.

Businessweek.com, on behalf of itself and select partners, may send me offers and promotions.

Bloomberg, on behalf of itself and select partners, may send me offers and promotions.

Thank you for subscribing to our Daily Newsletter. You will receive a confirmation email shortly at .
