
There was a time when there was scarcely a town or village in the country where a guard wasn’t from time to time, transferred to the outback merely for doing his duty - like raiding a local pub thriving on an after-hours trade, and summonsing the revellers hiding under the stairs or in the back yard. No-one would even think of giving the unfortunate guard a good send-off to his new post - not to talk of questioning his removal - and why we bothered with licensing laws at all when we were opposed to their imposition, baffles me to this very day.

Those garda transfers were usually accomplished with the connivance of the local TD who knew where his bread and butter came from. Heaven only knows how many brown envelopes changed hands in the transfer of unfortunate gardai to remote stations in places that were universally regarded as being only slightly more salubrious than Siberia.

It wasn’t only the unwelcome interference with our drinking culture that saw enthusiastic gardai sent into exile. I recall back in the 1970’s reporting on a court case where a high ranking legal eagle employed by the State was summonsed before the local district court for failing to tax his car. He got the benefit of the Probation Act – fair enough – but when he realised that the case was going to appear in the local press he asked the editor to include the line “The case was brought by Garda X who has since been transferred from Nenagh.” He wanted to brag about it, if you don’t mind. The editor, to his eternal credit, refused to add anything that wasn’t mentioned in the court itself.

Those days are gone. But even though we may, to some extent anyway, have cleansed ourselves of our post colonial ambivalence to the law, I don’t know why we were so shocked to learn that rogue elements might still be lurking in the force, since we were the original rogues ourselves. It’s the amnesia, I presume. None of us can be too righteous. I tried to get a parking fine quashed myself once on the grounds that Penney’s clock was  half an hour slow that day – which was a fact – but I was given the bum’s rush when I contacted someone I knew in the Corporation. I didn’t even get to tell him that my great grandfather was a Fenian and my father was a volunteer in the fight for Irish freedom.

That tendency to forget how we treated the forces of law and order in the past was, however, only one of the many bizarre aspects of the dramatic events of last week which included the resignation of the bête noir of all our nightmares, Alan Shatter. Mr Shatter’s biggest crime - according to numerous press reports - was not so much his failure to properly investigate the claims of the whistle-blowers, but his complete indifference as to whether we loved him or not.

Now granted we don’t always love our politicians, but we do expect them to feel the need for our adulation. It’s completely different to unrequited love, by the way. We look for a people pleaser on the ballot paper and anything less is a sign of reprehensible arrogance on the part of the elected one. Mr Shatter didn’t even try to court us. He supposedly couldn’t care less what we thought about him, which certainly didn’t endear him to us. I couldn’t even picture him canvassing for a vote, but he must have asked some people at some time.

I read one report in the aftermath of his resignation which suggested that his undoubted intelligence was of little use to him without empathy, of which his successor, Frances Fitzgerald is said to have buckets. I don’t know which of them should feel more insulted. Personally, I think that he should have ignored his legal brain and looked into his heart, like de Valera, and he’d have seen what was best for the Irish people - or at least he’d have seen what was best for himself.

Create your own advertisement or send someone a special message.

© 2014 Johnston Publishing Ltd.

Limerick Leader provides news, events and sport features from the Limerick area. For the best up to date information relating to Limerick and the surrounding areas visit us at Limerick Leader regularly or bookmark this page.

For you to enjoy all the features of this website Limerick Leader requires permission to use cookies.

Cookies are small data files which are sent to your browser (Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome etc) from a website you visit. They are stored on your electronic device.

This is a type of cookie which is collected by Adobe Flash media player (it is also called a Local Shared Object) - a piece of software you may already have on your electronic device to help you watch online videos and listen to podcasts.

Yes there are a number of options available, you can set your browser either to reject all cookies, to allow only "trusted" sites to set them, or to only accept them from the site you are currently on.

However, please note - if you block/delete all cookies, some features of our websites, such as remembering your login details, or the site branding for your local newspaper may not function as a result.

A tool used by some of our advertisers to target adverts to you based on pages you have visited in the past. To opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

Our sites contain advertising from Google; these use cookies to ensure you get adverts relevant to you. You can tailor the type of ads you receive by visiting here or to opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

This is used to help us identify unique visitors to our websites. This data is anonymous and we cannot use this to uniquely identify individuals and their usage of the sites.

This comes from our ad serving technology and is used to track how many times you have seen a particular ad on our sites, so that you don't just see one advert but an even spread. This information is not used by us for any other type of audience recording or monitoring.

ComScore monitor and externally verify our site traffic data for use within the advertising industry. Any data collected is anonymous statistical data and cannot be traced back to an individual.

Our Classified websites (Photos, Motors, Jobs and Property Today) use cookies to ensure you get the correct local newspaper branding and content when you visit them. These cookies store no personally identifiable information.

We use Grapeshot as a contextual targeting technology, allowing us to create custom groups of stories outside out of our usual site navigation. Grapeshot stores the categories of story you have been exposed to. Their privacy policy and opt out option can be accessed here.

Our partner for Newspaper subscriptions online stores data from the forms you complete in these to increase the usability of the site and enhance user experience.

Add This provides the social networking widget found in many of our pages. This widget gives you the tools to bookmark our websites, blog, share, tweet and email our content to a friend.
