
JERUSALEM (AP) — With the collapse of peace talks between Israel and the Palestinians, hundreds of thousands of young people across the Middle East are talking reconciliation online, a former Israeli peace negotiator and founder of the movement said Monday.

Uri Savir, himself an ex-peace negotiator between Israel and the Palestinians and founder of "Yala Young Leaders," said the size and scope of his group shows that young people in the Middle East want peace. "The peace process continues online," he said.

The Facebook group, which has backing from celebrities including Bill Clinton, Tony Blair and Sharon Stone, has attracted almost 500,000 followers from around the region, including youths in the Palestinian territories, Egypt and Muslim countries that have no relations with Israel.

The group will hold an annual virtual peace conference on Sunday that will include video presentations by Nobel Peace laureates Israeli President Shimon Peres and Desmond Tutu as well as senior EU, US and Palestinian officials. Letters written by Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas and former U.S. President Bill Clinton will be published on the site.

Savir served as an Israeli negotiator in peace talks with the Palestinians in the 1990's known as the Oslo Accords, after the secret talks in Norway that preceded them, which created the Palestinian Authority and set up autonomous zones for the Palestinians.

The landmark talks ultimately failed to yield a final peace agreement. Two decades and several rounds of violence later, peace remains elusive and U.S.-brokered peace talks between Israel and the Palestinians broke down last month.

"The young generation in the Middle East is sick of the decisions of their leaders and are very disappointed that the talks stopped," Savir said. "They have a say in this because it is the young people who are sent to the front lines if there is a war," he said.

"Young people in the Middle East want peace talks to succeed," Savir added. He said his site is a "very innovative public diplomacy tool that will in time influence governments."

Let the rain come and wash away the ancient grudges, the bitter hatreds held and nurtured over generations. Let the rain wash away the memory of the hurt, the neglect. Then let the sun come out and fill the sky with rainbows. Let the warmth of the sun heal us wherever we are broken. Let it burn away the fog so that we can see each other clearly. So that we can see beyond labels, beyond accents, gender or skin color. Let the warmth and brightness of the sun melt our selfishness. So that we can share the joys and feel the sorrows of our neighbors. And let the light of the sun be so strong that we will see all people as our neighbors. Let the earth, nourished by rain, bring forth flowers to surround us with beauty. And let the mountains teach our hearts to reach upward to heaven.  Amen.

Come, Spirit, make me docile to your voice. Help me debate angels. Let your will be done in me even if it means misunderstanding, rejection, scandal. Give me wisdom to find you in the irrational: heavens gone awry, astrologers’ predictions, songs in the night. Give me such hospitality of heart that family, foreign seers, poor shepherds and animals find a home in my presence. Let me protect innocent children from oppressive power. Make me fearless of foreign lands and unknown journeys. When I cannot find you do not let me rest until I search home, highway, and temple. Let me always insist on miracles to celebrate love. And when all I love on earth lies lifeless in my arms let me offer it to you with such freedom of heart that I am swept up into the heavens. Amen.

We interrupt this war for doctors to heal, teachers to teach, and students to learn.  We interrupt this war to marvel at sunsets, listen to music, and to laugh.  We interrupt this war for poets to rhyme, sculptors to chisel, and writers to paint pictures with words.  We interrupt this war to plant tomatoes, mow the grass, and to smell the roses.  We interrupt this war to feed the hungry, build new schools, and to stamp out ignorance.  We interrupt this war to clean up the air, save the whales and to find a cure for cancer.  We interrupt this war to rebuild New Orleans, tickle babies and for world peace.  We interrupt this war for PTA meetings, band concerts, and high school graduations.  We interrupt this war for Girl Scout Cookies, church bake sales, and the Special Olympics.  We interrupt this war for Disneyland, the World Series, and the Super Bowl.  We interrupt this war for Halloween candy, Thanksgiving Turkey, and 4th of July fireworks.  We interrupt this war for Hanukkah, Christmas and Kwanza.  We interrupt this war to bring sons, daughters, sisters and brothers home.  We interrupt this war to hear a message from Our Sponsor: THOU SHALT NOT KILL.

Refuse to fall down. If you cannot refuse to fall down, refuse to stay down. If you cannot refuse to stay down lift your heart toward heaven and like a hungry beggar, ask that it be filled, and it will be filled. You may be pushed down. You may be kept from rising. But no one can keep you from lifting your heart toward heaven — only you. It is in the midst of misery that so much becomes clear. The one who says nothing good came of this, is not yet listening.

Father, Mother, God, Thank you for your presence during the hard and mean days. For then we have you to lean upon. Thank you for your presence during the bright and sunny days, for then we can share that which we have with those who have less. And thank you for your presence during the Holy Days, for then we are able to celebrate you and our families and our friends. For those who have no voice, we ask you to speak. For those who feel unworthy, we ask you to pour your love out in waterfalls of tenderness. For those who live in pain, we ask you to bathe them in the river of your healing. For those who are lonely, we ask you to keep them company. For those who are depressed, we ask you to shower upon them the light of hope. Dear Creator, You, the borderless sea of substance, we ask you to give to all the world that which we need most—Peace.

Wage peace with your breath.  Breathe in firemen and rubble, breathe out whole buildings and flocks of red wing blackbirds.  Breathe in terrorists and breathe out sleeping children and freshly mown fields.  Breathe in confusion and breathe out maple trees.  Breathe in the fallen and breathe out lifelong friendships intact.  Wage peace with your listening: hearing sirens, pray loud.  Remember your tools: flower seeds, clothes pins, clean rivers.  Make soup.  Play music, memorize the words for thank you in three languages.  Learn to knit, and make a hat.  Think of chaos as dancing raspberries, imagine grief as the outbreath of beauty or the gesture of fish.  Swim for the other side.  Wage peace.  Never has the world seemed so fresh and precious:  Have a cup of tea and rejoice.  Act as if armistice has already arrived. Celebrate today.

Pray to whoever you kneel down to: Jesus nailed to his wooden or marble or plastic cross, his suffering face bent to kiss you, Buddha still under the Bo tree in scorching heat, Adonai, Allah, raise your arms to Mary that she may lay her palm on our brows, to Shekinhah, Queen of Heaven and Earth, to Inanna in her stripped descent.  Hawk or Wolf, or the Great Whale, Record Keeper of time before, time now, time ahead, pray. Bow down to terriers and shepherds and siamese cats. Fields of artichokes and elegant strawberries.  Pray to the bus driver who takes you to work, pray on the bus, pray for everyone riding that bus and for everyone riding buses all over the world. If you haven't been on a bus in a long time, climb the few steps, drop some silver, and pray.  Waiting in line for the movies, for the ATM, for your latté and croissant, offer your plea. Make your eating and drinking a supplication. Make your slicing of carrots a holy act, each translucent layer of the onion, a deeper prayer.  Make the brushing of your hair a prayer, every strand its own voice, singing in the choir on your head. As you wash your face, the water slipping through your fingers, a prayer: Water, softest thing on earth, gentleness that wears away rock.  Making love, of course, is already a prayer. Skin and open mouths worshipping that skin, the fragile case we are poured into, each caress a season of peace.  If you're hungry, pray. If you're tired. Pray to Gandhi and Dorothy Day. Shakespeare. Sappho. Sojourner Truth. Pray to the angels and the ghost of your grandfather.  When you walk to your car, to the mailbox, to the video store, let each step be a prayer that we all keep our legs, that we do not blow off anyone else's legs. Or crush their skulls. And if you are riding on a bicycle or a skateboard, in a wheel chair, each revolution of the wheels a prayer that as the earth revolves we will do less harm, less harm, less harm.  And as you work, typing with a new manicure, a tiny palm tree painted on one pearlescent nail or delivering soda or drawing good blood into rubber-capped vials, writing on a blackboard with yellow chalk, twirling pizzas, pray for peace.  With each breath in, take in the faith of those who have believed when belief seemed foolish, who persevered. With each breath out, cherish.  Pull weeds for peace, turn over in your sleep for peace, feed the birds for peace, each shiny seed that spills onto the earth, another second of peace. Wash your dishes, call your mother, drink wine.  Shovel leaves or snow or trash from your sidewalk. Make a path. Fold a photo of a dead child around your VISA card. Gnaw your crust of prayer, scoop your prayer water from the gutter. Mumble along like a crazy person, stumbling your prayer through the streets.

Children, everybody, here's what to do during war:  In a time of destruction, create something. A poem. A parade. A community. A school. A vow. A moral principle. One peaceful moment.

We pray to the great Spiritual Power in which we live and move and have our being. We pray that we may at all times keep our minds open to new ideas and shun dogma; that we may grow in our understanding of the nature of all living beings and our connectedness with the natural world; that we may become ever more filled with generosity of spirit and true compassion and love for all life; that we may strive to heal the hurts that we have inflicted on nature and control our greed for material things, knowing that our actions are harming our natural world and the future of our children; that we may value each and every human being for who he is, for who she is, reaching to the spirit that is within, knowing the power of each individual to change the world.  We pray for social justice, for the alleviation of the crippling poverty that condemns millions of people around the world to lives of misery - hungry, sick, and utterly without hope. We pray for the children who are starving, who are condemned to homelessness, slave labor, and prostitution, and especially for those forced to fight, to kill and torture even members of their own family. We pray for the victims of violence and war, for those wounded in body and for those wounded in mind. We pray for the multitudes of refugees, forced from their homes to alien places through war or through the utter destruction of their environment.  We pray for suffering animals everywhere, for an end to the pain caused by scientific experimentation, intensive farming, fur farming, shooting, trapping, training for entertainment, abusive pet owners, and all other forms of exploitation such as overloading and overworking pack animals, bull fighting, badger baiting, dog and cock fighting and so many more.  We pray for an end to cruelty, whether to humans or other animals, for an end to bullying, and torture in all its forms. We pray that we may learn the peace that comes with forgiving and the strength we gain in loving; that we may learn to take nothing for granted in this life; that we may learn to see and understand with our hearts; that we may learn to rejoice in our being.  We pray for these things with humility; We pray because of the hope that is within us, and because of a faith in the ultimate triumph of the human spirit; We pray because of our love for Creation, and because of our trust in God. We pray, above all, for peace throughout the world.

Do everything with a mind that lets go. Do not expect any praise or reward. If you let go a little, you will have a little peace. If you let go a lot, you will have a lot of peace. If you let go completely, you will know complete peace and freedom. Your struggles with the world will have come to an end.

Something new is upon us, and yet nothing is ever new.  We are alive in a fearsome time, and we have been given new things to fear.  We've been delivered huge blows but also huge opportunities to reinforce or reinvent our will, depending on where we look for honor and how we name our enemies.  The easiest thing is to think of returning the blows. But there are other things we must think about as well, other dangers we face.  A careless way of sauntering across the earth and breaking open its treasures, a terrible dependency on sucking out the world's best juices for ourselves—these may also be our enemies.  The changes we dread most may contain our salvation.

"... Move beyond any attachment to names." Every war  and every conflict between human beings has happened because of some disagreement about  names. It's such an unnecessary foolishness, because just beyond the arguing there's a long  table of companionship, set and waiting for us to sit down.  What is praised is one, so the praise is one too, many jugs being poured  into a huge basin. All religions, all this singing, one song.  The differences are just illusion and vanity. Sunlight looks slightly different  on this wall than it does on that wall and a lot different on this other one, but  it is still one light. We have borrowed these clothes, these time-and-space personalities,  from a light, and when we praise, we pour them back in.

Have mercy, dear G-d.  Draw Your peace into the world  and let it spread  among all Your people.  Take away all forms of conflict,  for You know how much evil and sorrow it creates.  Show us Your compassion  and cool Your anger.  Send me and all of Israel  Love, life and peace, always.

May we love ever more. May we motivate ourselves to committed love in Action. May we motivate ourselves to live the life we wish to see in the world. May we be the transformation we wish to see in the world. From the inside out . . . From the roots branching upwards . . . From the heart to thought to word to action. Through life's trials and hardships we can arise beautiful and free.

Lord, make me an instrument of Thy peace; where there is hatred, let me sow love; where there is injury, pardon; where there is doubt, faith; where there is despair, hope; where there is darkness, light; and where there is sadness, joy.  O Divine Master, grant that I may not so much seek to be consoled as to console; to be understood, as to understand; to be loved, as to love; for it is in giving that we receive, it is in pardoning that we are pardoned, and it is in dying that we are born to eternal life.  Amen.

If there is to be peace in the world, There must be peace in the nations.  If there is to be peace in the nations, There must be peace in the cities.  If there is to be peace in the cities, There must be peace between neighbors.  If there is to be peace between neighbors, There must be peace in the home.  If there is to be peace in the home, There must be peace in the heart.

Blessed are the poor in spirit: for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.  Blessed are they that mourn: for they shall be comforted.  Blessed are the meek: for they shall inherit the earth.  Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness: for they shall be filled.  Blessed are the merciful: for they shall obtain mercy.  Blessed are the pure in heart: for they shall see God.  Blessed are the peacemakers: for they shall be called the children of God.  Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake: for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.

When I despair, I remember that all through history the ways of truth and love have always won. There have been tyrants, and murderers, and for a time they can seem invincible, but in the end they always fall.  Think of it - always.

Send Thy peace O Lord, which is perfect and everlasting, that our souls may radiate peace.  Send Thy peace O Lord, that we may think, act and speak harmoniously.  Send Thy peace O Lord, that we may be contented and thankful for Thy bountiful gifts.  Send Thy peace O Lord, that amidst our worldly strife, we may enjoy Thy bliss.  Send Thy peace O Lord, that we may endure all, tolerate all, in the thought of Thy grace and mercy.  Send Thy peace O Lord, that our lives may become a Divine vision and in Thy light, all darkness may vanish.  Send Thy peace O Lord, our Father and Mother, that we Thy children on Earth may all unite in one family.

We repent, O God most merciful, for all our sins; for every thought that was false or unjust or unclean; for every word spoken that ought not to have been spoken; and for every deed done that ought not to have been done;  We repent for every deed and word and thought inspired by selfishness, and for every deed and word and thought inspired by hatred. We repent most specially for every lustful thought and every lustful action; for every lie; for all hypocrisy; for every promise given but not fulfilled, and for all slander and backbiting.  Most specially also, we repent for every action that has brought ruin to others, for every word and deed that has given others pain; and for every wish that pain should befall others.  In Your unbounded mercy, we ask you to forgive us, O God, for all these sins committed by us, and to forgive us for our constant failures to think and speak and act according to Your will.

Creator, open our hearts to peace and healing between all people.  Creator, open our hearts to provide and protect for all children of the earth.  Creator, open our hearts to respect for the earth, and all the gifts of the earth.  Creator, open our hearts to end exclusion, violence, and fear among all.  Thank-you for the gifts of this day and every day.

O Lord, since first the blood of Abel cried to thee from the ground that drank it, this earth of thine has been defiled with the blood of humanity shed by the hands of sisters and brothers, and the centuries sob with the ceaseless horror of war. Ever the pride of kings and the covetousness of the strong has driven peaceful nations to slaughter. Ever the songs of the past and the pomp of armies have been used to inflame the passions of the people.  Our spirit cries out to thee in revolt against it, and we know that our righteous anger is answered by thy holy wrath. Break thou the spell of the enchantments that make the nations drunk with the lust of battle and draw them on as willing tools of death. Grant us a quiet and steadfast mind when our own nation clamors for vengeance or aggression. Strengthen our sense of justice and our regard for the equal worth of other peoples and races. Grant to the rulers of nations faith in the possibilities of peace through justice, and grant to the common people a new and stern enthusiasm for the cause of peace.  Bless our soldiers and sailors for their swift obedience and their willingness to answer to the call of duty, but inspire them none the less with a hatred of war, and may they never for love of private glory or advancement provoke its coming. May our young men and women still rejoice to die for their country with the valor of their fathers and mothers, but teach our age nobler methods of matching our strength and more effective ways of giving our life for the flag.  O thou strong God of all the nations, draw all thy great family together with an increasing sense of our common blood and destiny, that peace may come on earth at last, and thy sun may shed its light rejoicing on a holy unity of all people. Amen.

Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day..

Use this form to alert a HuffPost editor about a factual or typographical error in this story.

Thank you!
