
A green sea turtle who lost two of its fins to a fisherman's net can now swim at ease again, thanks to a brand-new prosthetic fin designed by an industrial design student at Jerusalem's Hadassah College.

According to Irish Independent , the green sea turtle, named Hofesh, the Hebrew word for "freedom" was injured when it was caught in a fishing net off Israel's Mediterranean coast in 2009.

The unfortunate incident badly wounded Hofesh's two left flippers, leaving rescuers no other choice but to amputate the amphibian. With only a pair of stumps left, Hofesh had difficulty swimming.

In an attempt to help the turtle properly swim again, Yaniv Levy, director of Israel's Sea Turtle Rescue Centre , said Hofesh was initially fitted with a diver's fin, but it did not totally alleviate the turtle's difficulty in maneuvering underwater, as the amphibian only ended up bumping into things every time he tried to swim.

Hofesh's heartbreaking condition spread on social media and caught the attention of Shlomi Gez, an industrial design student at Jerusalem's Hadassah College.

With his strong drive to help the turtle, Gez designed a prosthetics modeled after a fish's dorsal fin. It was much better than a diver's fin, but Hofesh still had difficulty breathing and rising to the surface.

Despite the failure, Gez did not lose hope. He then designed a prosthetic fin inspired by the wings of US fighter jet Lockheed Martin F-22 Raptor .

The prosthetic fin was strapped onto Hofesh's back Thursday, March 15, and it now allows the turtle to swim easily around his tank.

"I discovered it worked better than one fin on the back," Gez explained to Irish Independent. "With two fins, he keeps relatively balanced, even above the water."

Though Hofesh can now swim swiftly, Levy said that the turtle will never be able to return to the wild.

Hofesh shares a tank with a blind female turtle named Tsurit, and researchers are hopeful the two will mate.

© 2014 FashionTimes.com All rights reserved. Do not reproduce without permission.

The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Fashion Times.
