
The launch follows criticism of the Government’s approach to SME grants and funding.

The tool is being launched by Finance Minister Michael Noonan in Limerick this morning.

It covers a total of 80 government supports for small and medium enterprises (SMEs), with a total budget of around €2 billion between them.

The tool is going live today, having been announced in Budget 2014 last year. It will be available at the localenterprise.ie website .

It follows criticism from several small and medium enterprise industry groups over the structure and organisation of government support schemes for SMEs.

In particular, the Employment and Investment Incentive Scheme and the Microfinance Ireland funding package have attracted the ire of organisations like ISME and the Small Firms Association.

At the launch this morning, Noonan said that the tool is a “vital” part of an information campaign o increase the level of information available to SMEs.

There are some 188,600 SMEs in Ireland, but 98 per cent of owners surveyed had little awareness of public supports available to them.

Get breaking news from TheJournal.ie via Facebook.

Just click Like.

Email “Noonan: online tool will unlock €2 billion in funding for small business”.

Feedback on “Noonan: online tool will unlock €2 billion in funding for small business”.

Content copyright © Journal Media Ltd. 2014 Registered in Dublin, registration number: 483623.                 Registered office: 3rd floor, Latin Hall, Golden Lane, Dublin 8.

Please note that TheJournal.ie uses cookies to improve your experience and to provide services and advertising. For more information on cookies please refer to our cookies policy .

News images provided by Press Association and Photocall Ireland unless otherwise stated. Irish sport images provided by Inpho Photography unless otherwise stated. Wire service provided by Associated Press .

Journal Media does not control and is not responsible for user created content, posts, comments, submissions or preferences. Users are reminded that they are fully responsible for their own created content and their own posts, comments and submissions and fully and effectively warrant and indemnify Journal Media in relation to such content and their ability to make such content, posts, comments and submissions available. Journal Media does not control and is not responsible for the content of external websites.
