
Indore: The city celebrated ‘Foundation Day’ on Sunday. Various social and cultural programmes were organized by both the government agencies and private sector to mark the day and important city monuments were decked up for the occasion.

On the occasion of ‘Foundation Day’, if one evaluates where we are and what we have achieved, one is likely to be disappointed. The five basic needs of the city still remain unresolved till date. Granted that the city has increased in size, glittering malls dot the city and almost all main roads of the city are in excellent condition, but the five basic needs still need to be addressed.

This was and still is a major problem for the city. The older part of the city has drainage system that belongs to Holkar era while the newer part of the city has a drainage system that is going nowhere. There is no structured plan for drainage system. The result is often drainage system chokes up and flows onto roads and sometimes into residences. The corporation dugs up ditches, lays the pipeline and connects the residences to it, but no one knows where the flow should go where it is treated before letting out in open. Some areas in the city do not have drainage system at all and still use sump system. Moreover the system which does exist is simply unable to cope with demands of increasing population.

Water is one of most essential and basic requirements of a citizen and sadly to this day since the day of establishment the water supply is anything but erratic. Various experiments have been undertaken by the corporation but water problem remains unsolved. The Narmada Phase III water is so expensive that the corporation simply cannot afford to sustain it and it cannot charge the citizen either because the citizen would not be able to afford it. Some areas have more than adequate water supply while some have less the adequate water supply and yet some areas do not have any supply at all and depend on bore wells. Corporation claims to have built overhead tanks, but households have not been connected to these tanks via distribution lines and therefore are useless.

Sanitation is also a sore point of the city. The IMC has experimented with a number of systems, be it collecting from household or even going to the extent of outsourcing the garbage collection to private company, but one can still see piles of rotting garbage in many parts of the city. Also many of the equipments, including trucks etc have remained unused and reduced to scrap which is sheer waste of public money.

Once city’s pride, the Khan River is reduced to being sewage channel in which city’s sewage is dumped indiscriminately. Successive governments and city corporations have vowed to restore the river to its formal glory and even spent a chunk of public money to no avail. Even the pipeline laid by IDA under ODA project, with Rs 9 crore assistance from the UK, has gone to waste and the project file is gathering dust at IDA office.

Lastly the less is said about the city traffic the better. Every resident of city is aware of city traffic system. The much hyped BRTS Corridor has created more traffic chaos. Though ACTSL bus service has been proven successful it is inadequate to serve the city’s burgeoning population. There are no plans to replace the old buses which have been reduced to scrap but still managing to ply on city roads. The traffic police force sanction was adequate for the city some years ago, but now it is simply not adequate.  Of a particular note is the fact that the problems have become so acute that the State High Court has to intervene and issue directions in this regard from time to time but situation has not improved any. But anyway cheer up and Happy Establishment Day and we hope the State Government, city administration, IMC and IDA and other agencies wake up and address these problems.
