
Interfax says Kremlin orders soldiers back but NATO says it sees no sign of Russian troops returning.

Russian President Vladimir Putin has ordered troops deployed in regions near Ukraine to return to their home bases, the Kremlin said Monday.

The move appears to indicate Putin's intention to de-escalate the crisis over Ukraine, the worst in Russia's relations with the West since the end of the Cold War.

Meanwhile, NATO sees no sign of Russian troops returning to bases after drills near the Ukraine border, a NATO military officer said on Monday, contradicting a report from a Russian news agency.

"We haven't seen any movement to validate (the report)," the officer, speaking on condition of anonymity, said.

The West has protested the deployment of 40,000 Russian troops near the border with Ukraine, seeing it as a possible preparation for grabbing more land after the annexation of Crimea in March.

Putin has previously said he has ordered troops to return from the area near the Ukraine border, but the United States and NATO have said they see no sign of a pullout and have threatened more sanctions if Russia tries to derail Ukraine's presidential vote set for Sunday.

The Russian Defense Ministry insisted there were no buildup near the border, saying that the troops in the regions in western Russia are involved in regular training.

Putin went one step further Monday, ordering Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu to pull out forces involved in such training in the Rostov, Belgorod and Bryansk regions, according to a statement released by the Kremlin.

Putin also voiced support for round tables in Ukraine, which were held last week under a peace plan brokered by Switzerland, which currently chairs the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe.

He urged the Ukrainian authorities to immediately end a military operation in eastern Ukraine. The Ukrainian army and police have sought to put down a pro-Russian rebellion in the east.

Your talkback has been submitted successfully.

If selected for publication, it will appear as soon as possible on Haaretz.com.

Haaretz.com, the online edition of Haaretz Newspaper in Israel, and analysis from Israel and the Middle East.  Haaretz.com provides extensive and in-depth coverage of Israel, the Jewish World and the Middle East, including defense, diplomacy, the Arab-Israeli conflict,  the peace process, Israeli politics, Jerusalem affairs, international relations, Iran, Iraq, Syria, Lebanon, the Palestinian Authority, the West Bank and the Gaza Strip,  the Israeli business world and Jewish life in Israel and the Diaspora.
