
Have an opinion? Express it and get the Wordsmith badge for posting relevant comments on articles and photos.

Make Timesofindia.com your news hotspot. Visit the site regularly earn this badge.

Your opinion matters! Get the influencer badge when other people Recommend or Agree with your comments on Timesofindia.com.

Top Headlines in your inbox!  Subscribe to the TimesofIndia.com. newsletters and become an Inboxer.

Members are registered users on Timesofindia.com. Only they are qualified to earn badges and points for their activities. So register and get a badge right away!

Grow your network; get people to follow you to earn the Networker badge on Timesofindia.com.

Share and recommend the articles, photos and videos you like on Timesofindia.com; earn the Sharekhaan badge!

You can earn the Well Connected badge by linking your Facebook and Twitter accounts to your Times profile. Remember to add both your ids to get the badge!

Watch a movie and become a critic! Review and rate a movie on TimesofIndia.com to earn a Movie Buff Badge!

NEW DELHI: The-long pending issue of raising the foreign direct investment cap in the crucial insurance sector to 49% from 26% is back on the agenda of the new government, which is expected to assume office later this month.

The issue will be prominently flagged as part of the reforms agenda that the government is expected to embark on after it assumes office. The new administration under Narendra Modi is keen to kick-start the reforms process and financial sector revamp is being readied as a key area for him. The BJP had opposed any move to raise the cap in the insurance sector and had blocked the UPA's ability to move ahead with this vital reform. But, after the decisive mandate there is a view that the government should signal its commitment to reforms and press ahead with decisions, which can be approved in Parliament without much difficulty. Although the NDA may not have a majority in the Rajya Sabha, the Congress may not block the passage of the proposal, which it had staunchly backed.

"The bill is ready and we will take it to the new finance minister. If it is approved we will seek Cabinet approval. But it's a political call," said a senior government official, who did not wish to be identified.

Foreign investors are keenly awaiting the reforms path of the Modi government and the passage of the insurance bill should come as a major signal of the government's commitment. The new government will also be briefed about the need of banks to raise capital and the issue of merger of public sector banks may also figure during discussions.

The issue is significant as an RBI-appointed panel under former Axis Bank chief P J Nayak in its draft report has suggested that government cut its stake in staterun banks below 51%. The move will help free capital that can be deployed in social sector schemes. In fact, it was one of the reforms that the NDA government had sought to push through during its last term but had to back off due to opposition from the Congress.

"We will have a five-year road map as per Basel III requirements and then look at each bank and their requirement on an annual basis. It is dynamic and depends on how the economy performs," said a senior government official, involved in the framing of the financial sector reforms agenda for the Narendra Modi-led government.

The issue of dealing with non-performing assets or bad loans will also form a key element of the government's revamp agenda. "There are multiple laws and there is a need to plug loopholes. All these issues would be discussed to draw up a framework for dealing with wilful defaulters," said the official.

Foreign investors are keenly awaiting the reforms path of the Modi government and the passage of the insurance bill should come as a major signal of the government's commitment.

Non logged-in comments will go through a                                                                                                         verification process for security reasons.

Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community. Help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive. Let's work together to keep the conversation civil.

We encourage you to register/login and proceed.

However, if you choose to remain                                                                                     non-loggedin, you are required to fill up the form below and verify                                                                                     your email address before we can publish your comment.

That way, we                                                                                     can verify that the email address doesn't belong to someone else.

We encourage you to register/login and proceed.

However, if you choose to remain non-loggedin, you are required to fill up the form below and verify                                                                                     your email address before we can publish your comment.

That way, we                                                                                     can verify that the email address doesn't belong to someone else.

Foreign investors are keenly awaiting the reforms path of the&#160;Modi&#160;government and the passage of the insurance bill should come as a major signal of the government&#8217;s commitment.&#160;

Your Reason has been Submitted to the admin.
