
NEW DELHI: The Narendra Modi government is expected to make the anti-terror law 'stronger' and ensure an enhanced special package for Seemandhra , where ally TDP would be heading the first government of the truncated state.

They could be the major decisions by the Home Ministry under the new dispensation, a set of authoritative sources have told ET. Though there is speculation that the Home Ministry may be split, with its internal security division brought under the Prime Minister's Office, sources say there is "no concrete thought" on this yet.

But a new anti-terror law is a strong possibility under the new government which could yet again make confessions before a senior police officer legally admissible, ensure the presumption of guilt on part of the accused and make bail for the terror accused difficult, according to sources.

The first job of the new home minister would be to oversee bifurcation of Andhra Pradesh as the appointed date for formation of Telangana is June 2. The home ministry is racing against time, dividing IAS and IPS cadre between both the states and preparing a special package for Seemandhara. Sources say the Modi government would bring an enhanced package for Seemandhara as Chandrababu Naidu is its ally.

This "pressing issue" is believed to have figured in a 30-minute long meeting between Narendra Modi and Home Secretary Anil Goswami on Monday.

Gujarat's proposed anti-terror law awaits the Centre's assent since 2003 as UPA wanted Gujarat to remove certain provisions from it. The NDA government's Prevention of Terrorism Act (POTA) was scrapped by the UPA government in 2004 and replaced by the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act. Sources say the Modi government could reintroduce new provisions in a central statute which figure in the Gujarat bill with "proper safeguards" and ensure its applicability on Naxalites and terrorists.

The new law is also expected to factor in newer forms of security threats such as cyber-attacks, narco-terrorism and terror-financing. "The Union government is quick enough to recognise the need for a dedicated law for tackling the menace of match fixing in sports, but the same government fails to see the need for a dedicated law against terrorism. I firmly believe that we will not be able to fight the menace of terrorism and Left-wing extremism without an anti-terror law.

Unfortunately, we are not going to have such an anti-terror law, till we learn to put national security issues above political considerations dictated by vote bank politics," Modi had said at the Conference of Chief Ministers in Delhi last June.
