
Tuesday, May 20, 2014 - IRAN has demanded expulsion of its nationals who have taken refuge in Iraq saying they are criminals and involved in murder of thousands of people. Iranian Judiciary Chief Ayatollah Sadeq Larijani asked his Iraqi counterpart to return the members of Iranian Peoples’ Mujahideen Organisation who are based on a former military camp near Baghdad airport.

In our view it is legitimate demand of Iran and should be responded positively by Iraq as the two countries now enjoy cordial relations. In fact world over, there should be an understanding that dissidents, corrupts, terrorists and most wanted criminals who take shelter in any country should be extradited to their mother countries to meet the demand of justice. It is now a common practice that leaders of dissident groups flee to other countries after committing crimes but they continue to supervise anti-national activities from abroad. Similar is the situation in Pakistan as many anti-national elements have gone abroad and with the financial and intelligence backing of inimical forces, are directing terror activities. While the US and western countries are demanding and acting for the elimination of Al-Qaeda and other  terrorists’ groups, they should also take into account the groups who are involved in secessionist activities or behind acts of terrorism in other countries. Turning back to Iranian demand, former Iraqi President Saddam Hussain exploited the Iranian dissidents, gave them a base in Iraq and extended support to wage attacks inside Iran and provide intelligence. That was an open interference in the internal affairs of the neighbouring country. This practice is also going on, world over, as intelligence agencies finance and arm groups for the attainment of their objectives. For world peace, it is necessary that nations should give up extending refuge to those who have background of armed resistance or acts of terrorism in their own country. Though Interpol is there to get criminals extradited but it has also become toothless. Time has come that international community should devise a mechanism that gangsters, criminals and terrorists working against humanity are denied refuge and they are extradited to their mother countries to face the law of the land for their illegal acts.
