
TEHRAN (FNA)- Astana's Ambassador to Tehran Amreev Bagdat Kultaevich said the Iran-Kazakhstan relations carry strategic importance, and called for widening cooperation between the two states in various economic sectors, transit and transportation in particular.

He made the remarks during a meeting with Iran's Minister of Communications and Information Technology Mahmoud Vaezi in Tehran on Sunday.

Kultaevich welcomed cooperation with Iran in carrying out economic development projects, including renovation of transport and transit routes, railway networks and infrastructure in Kazakhstan.

The Iranian minister, for his part, called for expansion of bilateral relations with Astana.

Elsewhere in the meeting, the Kazakh envoy hailed Iran's logical stance in the nuclear talks with the Group 5+1 (the five permanent UN Security Council members plus Germany), saying his country supports Iran's nuclear rights, and hoped that illegal sanctions on Iran would be removed as soon as possible.

In recent years, Iran has striven to expand its ties and cooperation with the regional states, specially those in the Central Asia.

Iranian Deputy Industry, Mines and Trade Minister Mojtaba Khosrotaj and his Kazakh counterpart in a meeting in Tehran in April conferred on ways to expand transportation and transit relations between the two countries.

During the meeting, Khosrotaj referred to the new policies proclaimed by Supreme Leader of the Islamic Revolution Ayatollah Seyed Ali Khamenei for the consolidation of the relations with the neighboring states, and said, "In this directive the issue of transit has come under notice; therefore, we are studying the transit potentials of Kazakhstan's Inche- Boroun and (Iran's) Sarakhs regions. "

The Kazakh official, for his part, announced Astana's readiness to increase the volume of wheat and metals exports to Iran, and expressed the hope that launching Kazakhstan's railway would link his country to Iran's port city of Bandar Abbas on the rims of the Persian Gulf, and that container transportation between the two countries would increase.

Also in March, Kazakh, Turkmen and Iranian officials in a meeting discussed ways to implement a joint railway project.

Representatives of the three Economic Cooperation Organization (ECO) member states reviewed the latest developments regarding the implementation of the railway project.

Kazakhstan-Turkmenistan-Iran railway is a part of the North-South international transport corridor.

It is assumed that the railroad would create additional routes linking Kazakhstan, the central regions of Russia and Turkmenistan, Iran, Persian Gulf countries, South and Southeast Asia and will increase transit freight and passenger traffic, reduce transport costs, save time for travel and cause economic growth in the regions through which the railway will run.
