
Going on four years as the top Republican state office-holder -- with 16 years overall in the Connecticut General Assembly and a family legacy of public service to Fairfield County -- buys currency in the GOP.

Now it is measurable for John McKinney.

Empathetic Republicans, realizing McKinney was preoccupied for months by his mother's cancer diagnosis and recent death, as well as his responsibilities as state Senate minority leader, rescued his gubernatorial aspirations by the slimmest of margins Saturday at the state party's nominating convention.

The beneficiary of a series of last-minute switches by delegates from Bridgeport, Stamford, Shelton and Newtown, which are parts of his district, McKinney spent Monday thanking GOP delegates for helping him qualify for an August primary.

He will face Tom Foley , of Greenwich, former U.S. ambassador to Ireland, who is looking to repeat as the party's gubernatorial nominee, and Danbury Mayor Mark Boughton .

"I needed some help to get there, and they wanted to help me," McKinney, 50, told Hearst Connecticut Media on Monday. "We deserved a shot."

On Tuesday in Fairfield, McKinney will lay to rest his mother, Lucie C. McKinney, the popular widow of U.S. Rep. Stewart B. McKinney who was civically active in her own right. She died May 10 at age 80.

"Look: It's true that I had other obligations and things to do with Mom that kept me from the campaign trail more than I wanted to be," McKinney said.

GOP factions that flipped into McKinney's victory column said they were motivated to create parity.

"If we had the perfect candidate, we would take Mr. Foley's business experience, Mr. McKinney's legislative experience and Mayor Boughton's municipal experience," said Eva Maldonado , chairwoman of the Stamford Republican Town Committee . "Maybe you guys could give us the magic wand so we could pick."

Democrats , however, attributed McKinney's revival to Foley's campaign.

"Foley thinks his best shot is to win a three-way primary and was a afraid of going up against Mark Boughton, one-on-one," said Roy Occhiogrosso , a Democratic political consultant to Gov. Dannel P. Malloy . "It suggests there's some inherent weakness in the Foley campaign."

Foley campaign spokesman Chris Cooper dismissed claims that McKinney was kept in the race to negate Boughton.

"The only thing on Tom Foley's mind, and the only consideration driving his decisions, is to save the citizens of Connecticut from four more years under Gov.Malloy," Cooper said.

Stalled at 13 percent of the delegates when he needed 15 percent to qualify for a primary, McKinney picked up 18 Stamford delegates through last-minute switches at the convention. Sixteen of them had been committed to Foley and two had been for Boughton. Maldonado switched from Foley to McKinney, who finished with just under 18 percent of the delegates.

"He had so much on his plate," Maldonado said of outside factors for McKinney.

McKinney's fiancee, Kristin Fox , who gave one of two nominating speeches on his behalf at the convention, offered a context.

"The last few weeks have been a tumultuous time in John's life," Fox said, calling it a "confluence of events that might have buckled the mightiest of men."

Shelton Mayor Mark Lauretti , a late entrant to the governor's race who had success in fundraising but not delegates, is being widely credited for throwing crucial delegates in his city and nearby Bridgeport to McKinney.

"I knew going into the convention it was going to be a tough road for me," Lauretti said. "Why get behind the loser? I get all that."

All but one of Shelton's 17 delegates switched from Lauretti to McKinney.

"I've known Mark (Lauretti) for a long time," McKinney said. "I really like him. I think he likes me."

McKinney picked up eight delegates for Lauretti in Bridgeport during final switches, claiming all nine from the city.

"We felt it was very important for the (primary) voters to have just as wide of a selection as we did as delegates," said John Slater, Bridgeport's RTC chairman. "Delegates shouldn't always have the advantage."

Connecticut GOP boss Jerry Labriola Jr. said there is room for McKinney's voice.

"John's goal coming into the convention was to qualify for a primary, and he accomplished that goal," Labriola said. "I am pleased that he has pledged to me that he will wage the primary in a positive manner, based on the issues. Regardless of the outcome, John McKinney has a bright future in our party."

Since his mother's death, McKinney said, the outpouring from fellow Republicans, even those supporting his rivals, has been heartwarming.

"If all of them who shared some condolences or shook my hand voted for me, I would be the nominee," McKinney said. "They were able to separate the two."
