
The beauty of an electoral verdict is that we can read all kinds of things into it, depending on where we come from. But if we were to take a bird’s-eye view, here are some thoughts on what the electorate’s decision to give the BJP a majority of its own - and the NDA a super-majority - could mean.

First, it is a mandate to deliver results. It is not about right-wing ideology or anything else. The campaign was on governance and development, and the electorate has offered Narendra Modi this bargain: you need a majority, you have it. Now, give us growth and governance.

Second, it is a mandate against false identity politics. But it is not a mandate for majoritarianism or exclusion. Even though Muslims may have voted against the BJP in many places, the people who did vote for it – except for some marginal fringe elements - did not do so to bring in sectarian politics. A decade of strong growth has made all communities aspirational. They know that sectarianism will kill growth.

Third, it is mandate against dynasty politics. The fact that the only non-BJP victors in Uttar Pradesh are all Gandhi or Mulayam family members should shame both these families. When the electorate rejects all their candidates but themselves, the only thing it proves is that there is still a feudal vestige left in some places. But every other member of these parties must be wondering if they are in the right place. The only parties to receive thumping mandates of their own – Mamata in West Bengal, Jayalalithaa in Tamil Nadu, and Naveen Patnaik in Odisha – are all non-dynastic. Patnaik is an exception, but he is a bachelor, and has no family axe to grind in Odisha.

Fourth, the mandate is for restoring the prestige of the Prime Minister’s Office. The last 10 years of the UPA left the office debased, thanks to the excessive meekness of Manmohan Singh , and the Dynasty’s deliberate efforts to hold on to the reins of power indirectly. This is what made the choice of Modi – the ultimate non-dynast, who is no one’s idea of anybody’s lackey – obvious to the electorate.

Fifth, this is a decisive vote for change cutting across classes: the upper classes want growth, the middle classes want jobs and higher salaries, and the lower classes want inclusion with dignity, not patronising doles. This is why a government that enabled the biggest redistributive effort ever was booted out of office ignominiously. Modi represents growth with dignity.

Sixth, this is a mandate for a responsive governance. The people are fed up with governments that seem remote. The rise of the Aam Aadmi Party in Delhi – before Arvind Kejriwal screwed up - is because the people saw a leader responding to their needs. Modi epitomises responsive leadership of a different kind: he talks to the people directly and in their lingo without the need for middlemen. His office finds a way to give ordinary people access by being responsive to their emails or grievances. That’s one reason why Modi scored.

Seventh, this is not quite a mandate against corruption. Despite the entry of BS Yeddyurappa in Karnataka, the BJP won. But it is a mandate to make corruption less all-pervasive. No one wants corruption to become a huge impediment to getting things done. Modi’s appeal is that he has steadily whittled down the need for people to interact with venal government officials in Gujarat – so most things can get done without much hassle. Gujarat can hardly claim to be a corruption-free state, but systemic corruption is reducing steadily and transparency increasing.

Eighth, this is a mandate from the rest of India to tame Delhi; it is a revolt against the domination of the Delhi political and social elite in Indian politics. This is why they chose a rank outsider to Delhi and gave him a massive mandate. Modi represents the regional anger with Delhi’s dominance in the national discourse. The states want Modi to tame Delhi. The emphatic wins of Mamata , Jayalalithaa and Naveen Patnaik also emphasise the anti-Delhi nature of the mandate. Remember, all three have been mentioned as potential prime ministers.

Ninth, the mandate shows that the nation is speaking more or less with one voice. This is a fervent plea from all Indians that we need to make India great again. Different Indians may want different things from India, but this is as close to a national consensus vote as there is likely to be. Nothing epitomises this more than the sad defeat - zero MPs - of the BSP. The Dalits are joining the mainstream.

The bottomline message from the voter is this: give us a government that works, not a government that gives us excuses for non-performance. It is a mandate to change Indian politics and governance for the better.
