
Petrol prices may fall to the lowest in one year on I-Day as state oil firms plan to cut fuel's rate by Rs 2.50 a litre, biggest fall in many months .

Have an opinion? Express it and get the Wordsmith badge for posting relevant comments on articles and photos.

Make Timesofindia.com your news hotspot. Visit the site regularly earn this badge.

Your opinion matters! Get the influencer badge when other people Recommend or Agree with your comments on Timesofindia.com.

Top Headlines in your inbox!  Subscribe to the TimesofIndia.com. newsletters and become an Inboxer.

Members are registered users on Timesofindia.com. Only they are qualified to earn badges and points for their activities. So register and get a badge right away!

Grow your network; get people to follow you to earn the Networker badge on Timesofindia.com.

Share and recommend the articles, photos and videos you like on Timesofindia.com; earn the Sharekhaan badge!

You can earn the Well Connected badge by linking your Facebook and Twitter accounts to your Times profile. Remember to add both your ids to get the badge!

Watch a movie and become a critic! Review and rate a movie on TimesofIndia.com to earn a Movie Buff Badge!

NEW DELHI: B Narsing Rao is set to step down as chairman of the world's largest coal miner, Coal India, and move to India's newest state — Telangana — as chief minister-elect K Chandrasekhar Rao's principal secretary.

A 1986-batch IAS officer of the Andhra Pradesh cadre, Rao became chairman of Coal India in April 2012. Before that, he headed Singareni Collieries, jointly owned by the Andhra and central governments. Rao declined to comment but sources close to him said he is all set to move. "The new job would be a 'quasi-political' position and pose a big challenge and bring responsibility that comes from being part of a team that would build up the new state," a source said.

Finding Rao's successor would be the first big-ticket appointment for the Modi government.

Non logged-in comments will go through a                                                                                                         verification process for security reasons.

Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community. Help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive. Let's work together to keep the conversation civil.

We encourage you to register/login and proceed.

However, if you choose to remain                                                                                     non-loggedin, you are required to fill up the form below and verify                                                                                     your email address before we can publish your comment.

That way, we can verify that the email address doesn't belong to someone else.

We encourage you to register/login and proceed.

However, if you choose to remain                                                                                     non-loggedin, you are required to fill up the form below and verify                                                                                     your email address before we can publish your comment.

That way, we                                                                                     can verify that the email address doesn't belong to someone else.

Your Reason has been Submitted to the admin.
