
Welcome to Palestine Today, a service of the International Middle East Media Center, www.imemc.org, for Monday May 19th, 2014.

Israeli troops injure a Palestinian worker in Gaza and uproot trees in in the West Bank. These stories, and more, coming up, stay tuned.

A Palestinian man was shot and injured by Israeli troops on Monday near the Erez crossing at the borders with Gaza.

The 20 year old was collecting construction materials when troops stationed near the borders shot him in his abdomen, local sources reported.

The young man is the second Palestinian to be shot in the same area by Israeli troops in less than 24 hours. On Sunday a 20 year old worker was hurt by Israeli army gunfire near the Erez crossing.

Israeli soldiers and tanks stationed at the borders open fire frequently at Palestinian workers and farmers causing injuries to some of them, local sources added.

Elsewhere in Jerusalem, 15 Palestinian residents were rendered homeless after Israeli army bulldozers leveled their tents near the areas of E1 close to the illegal settlement of Ma’ala Adomim.

According to the owners the army gave them no warning before leveling the structures. The Israeli government plans to bulled more settlements in the E1 area after removing the Palestinian residents.

All Israeli settlements in the West Bank and Jerusalem, home to half a million settlers, area illegal according international law.

In related news, Israeli soldiers uprooted hundreds of trees that belong to members of various families of Nahhalin village, west of the West Bank city of Bethlehem.

According to residents the attack is part of ongoing Israeli military violations, and repeated attacks carried out by extremist Israeli settlers.

Earlier on Monday Israeli soldiers kidnapped four Palestinians during a number of military invasions into Palestinian communities in the West Bank districts of Bethlehem and Hebron, while one resident was ordered to head to a military base for interrogation.

And that’s all for today from the IMEMC News; this was the Monday May 19th, 2014 news round-up from the Occupied Palestinian Territories. For more news and updates please visit our websiteatwww.imemc.org. Today’s report has been brought to you by George Rishmawi and me Ghassan Bannoura.
