
Speaking to a crowd of 700 at the Champions of Jewish Values International Awards Gala in New York on May 18, New Jersey Governor Chris Christie (shown) called for a more aggressive, interventionist U.S. foreign policy.

Christie insisted that America's leaders must send “clear and consistent signals” to those nations it supports and those it doesn’t while promoting America’s values.

Given the venue, observers interpreted “those nations it supports” to include Israel, but he did not mention the Jewish state by name.

He expressed dismay that “even the thought” exists of Iran building a nuclear weapon. He also criticized Obama for saying he’d draw a “red line” warning Assad not to use chemical weapons, but not intervening when alleged evidence of such attacks was presented.

“Once you draw that red line you enforce it, because if you don’t, America’s credibility will be at stake,” Christie asserted.

The issue of how the United States should respond to a possible Iranian nuclear weapons program — a theoretical argument, since no evidence of such a program had, or has since, been found — was a major issue in the 2012 Republican presidential candidates’ foreign policy debate held in South Carolina in November 2011. During that debate, candidate Herman Cain proposed using economic sanctions and aid to the Iranian opposition to pressure the government. “The only way we can stop them is through economic means,” he said. Cain added that he did not believe that the United States should take military action to prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear device and said he would “not at this time” consider military assistance to the Iranian opposition.

The only candidate in the debate who took exception to intervening against Iran was Rep. Ron Paul, (R-Texas), who said that he was concerned that such intervention would repeat the use of exaggerated and false threats that led to the Iraq war. “I’m afraid what’s going on right now is similar to the war propaganda that went on against Iraq,” he said.

As a strict constitutionalist, Paul was always opposed, as a congressman, to any action not specifically authorized by the Constitution. And though his anti-interventionism was often tarred with the “isolationist” label, his stand was actually more in sync with the foreign policy advocated by America’s early leaders than that of any of the other candidates. For example, James Madison, said on April 20, 1795,

Of all the enemies to public liberty, war is, perhaps, the most to be dreaded, because it comprises and develops the germ of every other. War is the parent of armies; from these proceed debts and taxes; and armies, and debts, and taxes are the known instruments for bringing the many under the domination of the few.... No nation could reserve its freedom in the midst of continual warfare.

Sympathy for the favorite nation, facilitating the illusion of an imaginary common interest in cases where no real common interest exists, and infusing into one the enmities of the other, betrays the former into a participation in the quarrels and wars of the latter without adequate inducement or justification.

Christie might also want to consider the words of Secretary of State John Quincy Adams, who in his historic address on U.S. foreign policy delivered on July 4, 1821, said, after reading the full text of the Declaration of Independence,

Wherever the standard of freedom and independence has been or shall be unfurled, there will [America’s] heart, her benedictions and her prayers be. But she goes not abroad in search of monsters to destroy. She is the well-wisher to the freedom and independence of all. She is the champion and vindicator only of her own.

Who’s out there that you will nominate to make sure that justice is done around the world, that lives are protected and that liberty and freedom is not only protected where it is but is pushed forward in places where people merely dream of it? In the last 240 years it has been America that has pushed for those values, fought for those values and led.

If Christie wants to review U.S. foreign policy for the past 240 years, he should read the quotes we supplied above, and others. After Christie has now displayed his interventionist colors, those who do not want to see the United States go “abroad in search of monsters to destroy” will look elsewhere when searching for a presidential candidate whose priority is to make sure that “justice is done” not around the world, but here at home, as our Constitution demands and our nation’s Founders wished.

Christie appears to be nothing more than another John Bolton, State Department warmonger. His cries against the unproven Iranian nuclear program is a clear intent of his foreign policy ambitions which has only proved to be considerably damaging to this nation with debt and military weakness it has brought. Besides, a quick-study into both the Indian & Pakistani nuclear development programs is evidence of the enormous costs involved. With 25 years invested to complete such projects, it devastated the Pakistani economy leaving them in poverty shambles. And also consider the technical science involved along with the qualified personnel necessary for such tasks ... especially given the Iranians couldn't hold a candle in comparison to the Indian capabilities with not only the scientific needs, but the funding, essential tools and materials required as well.

If "Governor" Christie wants  a more "interventionist" U.S. policy, then HE can go intervene.
