
JPost reports that the P 5+1 negotiations are not going well, and with two months remaining to the self-imposed July 20 deadline for reaching a deal, there is not one word on paper .

“The goal wasn’t to agree on  draft language per se,” a State  Department official told the Post.

“As we know, this is the hardest part and  will take time,” the official added.

At  the beginning of negotiations in  January, members of the US delegation  acknowledged that the legal process of  drafting, independent of the  diplomacy required to reach agreement on core  issues, could take months  to complete.

The parties are attempting to  forge a comprehensive  agreement to a decades-long impasse with Iran over its  nuclear work.  Western governments, their allies and the United Nations’ nuclear   watchdog detect possible military elements to the program.

One of  Iran’s  chief nuclear negotiators acknowledged the development. “We have  not reached the  point to start drafting the final agreement,” Abbas  Araghchi said, after the  fourth round of talks in Austria ended on a  blue note on Friday.

An  interim nuclear agreement reached last  year in Geneva grants negotiators the  ability to extend the talks up to  six months from July 20.

Over the  weekend, Iranian officials  suggested missing the July deadline would not be a  “tragedy;” but US  officials fear an extension would politically complicate the  talks.

Negotiations are scheduled to resume on June 16 in  Vienna.

For those who haven't figured it out yet, the real time pressure on these negotiations is the US mid-term elections in November. Standing to lose both houses of Congress, the Obama administration is desperately in need of a foreign policy 'achievement.'

The  two primary issues appear to be the number and quality of  centrifuges Iran will  be allowed to maintain and operate under a deal,  and Iran’s retention of a  high-powered, heavy-water plutonium reactor  in Arak, which could provide the  regime with a second path to a nuclear  warhead.

“It is ridiculous that  the power of the [Arak] reactor  would be cut from 40 megawatts to 10 megawatts”,  Araghchi said,  according to IRNA news agency – an official Iranian  outlet.

If  operating optimally, Arak could produce about nine kg. of  plutonium  annually, enough for about two atom bombs, the US Institute for  Science  and International Security said.

Iran’s atomic energy   organization chief said in February that Tehran was prepared to modify  Arak,  while insisting that Western concerns over Arak were a ploy to  apply pressure o  n Tehran .

Speaking anonymously, in order to  keep the focus of talks on  the diplomatic process, one US official  warned against politicizing the moment when so few might be left.

By the way, Monday is a travel day for me.... Heading back to Israel.
