
I am writing in support of candidate for Sheriff of San Joaquin County, and my uncle and godfather, Sgt. Pat Withrow.

I am writing in support of candidate for Sheriff of San Joaquin County, and my uncle and godfather, Sgt. Pat Withrow.

I am a Federal Law Enforcement Officer, and have served in a variety of dangerous postings throughout the world, including Iraq, Saudi Arabia, Libya, Pakistan, and others. My desire to serve my country in law enforcement was inspired by watching my uncle's bravery, dedication, integrity, and leadership as he worked as a Deputy Sheriff to keep the citizens of San Joaquin County safe.

Through my tours of duty, I've seen firsthand the importance of having true leaders with recent and real-world experience, not politicians, in the right position to make decisions when people's safety and security are on the line.

My Uncle Pat has been working to keep citizens of San Joaquin County safe and secure for nearly three decades. He's been in shootouts, arrested countless criminals, worked as a SWAT and K-9 officer, participated in interagency investigative task forces, and managed important public safety programs; all while earning the near universal respect from citizens and colleagues.

His example as a law-enforcement officer, and man, is one I strive to emulate. The sheriff is the county's chief law-enforcement officer and is therefore directly responsible for the safety and security of all its citizens.

Sgt. Pat Withrow is the only candidate with the leadership skills and real-world experience that should be trusted with this responsibility.

Fairfax, Va.

Having served under four Sheriffs in my 34 years in the San Joaquin Sheriff's Office, I always dreaded election time. It is a period when the rank-and-file pay the greatest price for the unrest and animosity that occurs during this season. This election has been no different.

The voters have a choice. Steve Moore, who has served with distinction as our sheriff for the last 8 years or Sgt. Pat Withrow, hired as a deputy sheriff in 1987, and promoted to sergeant in 2005.

Moore's detractors call him a "micro manager." It seems to be a common trait with these chief county law officers. Our citizens should feel secure in his strong and unwavering commitment for the public safety.

Withrow has made numerous misstatements of fact during his campaign to become sheriff. He has complained of the felons who are escaping from the "minimum security" Honor Farm. These are the same pretrial felons who were being released in accordance with the Superior Court population cap.

Withrow is proposing renovating an old barracks at the Honor Farm to house pretrial inmates It is an old, tired idea that resurfaces every election and is not a viable option for housing pretrial felons.

Please don't fall for the rhetoric on how simple it would be for a "new" sheriff to solve these problems.

Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.
