
New Jersey governor Chris Christie continued to gear up for his as of yet unannounced presidential run on Sunday, speaking at the Champions of Jewish Values International awards gala. The governor’s keynote is being read as a pitch for more aggressive foreign policy, though, of course, it’s short on specifics ways America can move forward in the situations Christie identifies as problems.

The event was hosted by This World: The Values Network, an organization with a mealy-mouthed name run by celebrity Rabbi Shmuley Boteach. It makes sense that Christie would opt for platitudes over specific action lines, because the governor’s Sunday appearance was really just about trying to clean up the mess he made in March , when he referred to Palestine as “the occupied territories” in front of the Republican Jewish Conference in Las Vegas.

Christie’s gaffe (or moment of clarity) occurred at what was dubbed the “Adelson Primary”—essentially an audition for Christie, Jeb Bush, Wisconsin governor Scott Walker, and Ohio governor John Kasich, all of whom eagerly flew to Sin City for a chance to impress Sheldon Adelson, a billionaire G.O.P. donor known for his particularly hawkish obsession with Israel. Adelson was also present at Sunday's gala, seated at the same table as Christie.

To focus too narrowly on Christie’s efforts to woo the right-wing Jewish donor base would be unfair. Earlier this month, Kentucky senator Rand Paul failed miserably at doing the same when he introduced a bill that would cut off all aid to the Palestinian Authority and remove executive discretion from the process. The failed bill even came with a lofty title: the Stand with Israel Act of 2014. After critics noted that such an act would also end America’s aid to Palestine’s security forces and endanger security efforts between Israel and the P.A. , Paul was left with nothing to do but express incredulity that even the American Israel Public Affairs Committee (AIPAC) came out in opposition to his craven attempt at flashing his pro-Israel credentials.

This is our modern American democratic process—elected officials run painfully obvious yet unofficial campaigns more than two years out from an election, traversing the nation and speaking at one gala and donor conference after another, offering nothing but vague calls for action (Christie: “We must lead”) and oblique criticisms of their predecessors (“Unfortunately, today, in my opinion, America is disappointing”). By this point, this must be business as usual to the politicians speaking at posh restaurants and the billionaires listening in the audience. The business, that is, of making it explicit that they think their votes should count for more than yours.

Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement (Effectve January 2, 2014) and Privacy Policy (Effectve January 2, 2014).

Vanity Fair © Condé Nast Digital. Your California Privacy Rights . The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used,

except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast Digital.
