
By using this website, you consent to our use of cookies. For more information on cookies see our Cookie Policy .

The electorate is feeling disrespected as the local and European elections approach, and Government politicians repeating the mantra that the state of Ireland Inc is improving greatly does not help matters.

The implication is that if your personal situation has not picked up then somehow you are to blame.

There have been anecdotal reports that canvassing candidates from the governing parties seem to want only to shake hands in passing or slip leaflets through the doors, rather than actually engage with prospective voters on the street or in their homes.

Labour’s Pat Rabbitte, Minister for Communications, has been one of the few Government representatives to articulate understanding of how “austerity fatigue” has affected his constituents in Dublin South-West and elsewhere.

Significantly, he also acknowledged that austerity policies had affected some more than others and pain had not been evenly distributed. “I know it’s been difficult. I know there’s been a lot of hardship, especially hardship imposed on some people”.

However, he refused to accept what the most recent opinion polls appear to be saying: that the electorate is ready to embrace Sinn Féin and may have forgiven Fianna Fáil.

The proposition that the beneficiaries of the Labour Party’s unpopularity should be the two largest Opposition parties - “One of whom wrecked the economy and the other would wreck the economy if they got the opportunity” - was outrageous, he seemed to suggest.

He insisted the Government would succeed in eventually convincing voters “that their own personal family circumstances they can see the change that has taken place in the last three years”.

We reserve the right to remove any content at any time from this Community, including without limitation if it violates the Community Standards . We ask that you report content that you in good faith believe violates the above rules by clicking the Flag link next to the offending comment or by filling out this form . New comments are only accepted for 3 days from the date of publication.
