
The European Business Angel Congress 2014 started this morning in Dublin, with a superb panel of international and Irish investors, business angels and entrepreneurs.  The event has been totally sold out and 350 delegates will attend this two day conference in the stunning surrounds of Dublin Castle. This year’s congress is being staged by the Halo Business Angel Network with the support of InterTrade Ireland, Enterprise Ireland and Eversheds law firm.

New York is well represented on the speaker roster with super angel David S. Rose, founder of New York Angels and founder of Gust, a platform for connecting entrepreneurs with investors. Also speaking at the conference is Loretta McCarthy, CEO of Goldenseeds, a New York based angel investor group that only invest in gender diverse management teams. Goldenseeds are the most active angel investment group in the US.

The conference will explore syndication and co-investment by angel investors and seed venture capital, the world of crowdfunding, early stage investors and business incubators as well as a host of other topics. Other highlights of the conference include Duŝan Stojanović, the 2013 European Business Angel of the year who is renowned for having three exits in one week and Ciaran O'Connell of DecaWave who have a  record number of angel investors invested in their company.

  The Halo Business Angel Network (HBAN) ,is the all-island umbrella group responsible for stimulating angel investment and is dedicated to the promotion of angel investment and supporting the early stage entrepreneurial community in Ireland. HBAN works regionally in partnership with the Dublin, Cork, Waterford, and Galway Business Innovation Centres (BICs) and Halo Northern Ireland, who each run local angel networks. Collectively HBAN actively works to increase the number of angel investors involved in investing in early stage companies and supports the formation of new and existing angel networks, both regionally and internationally, and within industry sectors. HBAN, which is a joint initiative of InterTradeIreland and Enterprise Ireland, also acts as a voice to Government, stakeholders, business and the media to promote the interests and needs of the angel investment community.

 The EBAN Congress 2014 is being supported by Eversheds law firm, Enterprise Ireland , Ireland’s Government organisation that works in partnership with Irish enterprises to help them start, grow, innovate and win export sales on global markets.and InterTradeIreland,

InterTradeIreland is the only organisation which has responsibility to boost North /South economic co-operation to the mutual benefit of Northern Ireland and Ireland. $100 million worth of trade and business development has been generated along with the creation of 3,000 new jobs to date.

 The Irish Business Innovation Centres (BICs), Invest Northern Ireland, Wayra and Fáilte Ireland are also supporting this important event for Business Angel investment.

By clicking above you are indicating that you have read & agree to our Terms and Privacy Policy .

By clicking above you are indicating that you have read & agree to our Terms and Privacy Policy .

You already have an account on IrishCentral! Please confirm you're the owner.
