
Rukia Nakadama, the minister of state for Gender and Cultural Affairs.

THE youth should exploit business opportunities presented by culture to create wealth and alleviate unemployment, Rukia Nakadama, the minister of state for Gender and Cultural Affairs has said.

“Culture has the potential to create employment because it is rich in areas like digital animation, fashion, video games, film festivals, fork art, music, books, performing arts, cuisine, and crafts and architectural that has not been fully tapped,” said Nakadama.

Speaking during a press conference at Media Centre in Kampala, Nakadama said unemployment is still a challenge in Uganda and yet there are many employment opportunities in the culture sector that unemployed youth could take advantage of.

She was announcing activities to be undertaken in a run up to this year’s World Culture day slated for May 21. The occasion will be held under the theme: “Culture, Its role in development; bridging the gap.” The main celebrations shall be held at Jinja Secondary School.

“But, if Ugandans, especially unemployed youth gave the culture sector more priority and participated in it vigorously, the unemployment vice could be alleviated,” she reiterated.

Nakadama pointed out that, in 2013, the ministry in conjunction with the Uganda Bureau of Statistics and the ministry of East African Community Affairs carried out a mapping study of the culture and creative industries in Uganda and proved that these industries were thriving.

They employ over 250, 000 people with the book and press industry accounting for the highest percentage of employment compared to other domains.

Workshops and debates aimed at enlightening the youth about the potential of culture to create employment will be held in Kampala at National Theatre, Nommo Gallery and in Jinja district respectively.

Nakadama also said she has invited Indians, Iranians, and Pakistanis to showcase their cultural products during the exhibitions so that the Ugandans can learn from them.

The statements, comments, or opinions expressed through the use of New Vision Online are those of their respective authors, who are solely responsible for them, and do not necessarily represent the views held by the staff and management of New Vision Online.
