
Clare County Fire and Rescue Service last week joined 31 private and public sector organisations from across Ireland to receive service quality awards from the Minister of State for Small Business, Mr John Perry T.D.

Among those who travelled to the awards ceremony in Dublin to accept the OHSAS 18001:2007 certification, the only auditable international standard for health and safety, were Cllr. Joe Arkins (Mayor of Clare), Adrian Kelly (Clare Chief Fire Officer) and Ger Hartnett (Senior Executive Health & Safety Officer, Clare County Council).

The “Occupational Health and Safety Management Systems’ standard was first published by the National Standards Authority of Ireland (NSAI) in 2007. The standard sets out a preventative and proactive approach to identifying workplace hazards and assessing and controlling risk.

“I want to commend all Clare County Fire & Rescue Service personnel for their planning, organisation and hard work in providing a quality, year-round service to those who live in, work in and visit Clare,” added the Mayor.

The awarding of OHSAS 18001:2007 certification follows just 6 months after Clare County Council received the overall Local Authority Award in the 22nd Annual National Safety Awards scheme, hosted by the National Irish Safety Organisation (NISO) and Northern Ireland Safety Group (NISG).

“In the Fire Service, the management of Health & Safety of personnel is a top priority for all employees. The certification to OHSAS 18001 by the NSAI is an acknowledgement that the way that we are managing in health and safety is to the highest recognised standards,” explained Adrian Kelly, Chief Fire Officer.

Other companies and organisations presented with awards included Dulux Paints Ireland Ltd., Dawn Meats, Datapac, Irish Air Corps, Fitzsimons Insulation, ESB Corporate Centre, and Carlow Fire and Rescue Service.

“The small business sector is central to economic recovery, job creation and the further development of the Irish economy. Certification to standards helps businesses to be innovative, allowing SMEs to compete with much larger companies, attract new customers, and access global markets,” commented Maurice Buckley, CEO, NSAI.

Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
