
But Iran may hope the energy offer will add incentives for lifting the international sanctions as Tehran and world powers hold talks in Vienna this week aimed at solving the nuclear crisis.

On May 14, Iranian Deputy Oil Minister for International and Trade Affairs Ali Majedi suggested Europe could import Iranian gas by pipeline through Turkey and that the level of exports could range from 4 million cubic meters per day to 50.

The one major, glaring caveat to Iran’s pointed suggestions is that Iran actually isn’t technically “ready” to supply natural gas to Europe. Iran has been closed off over the years from a lot of the type of foreign investments that would allow it to update and expand its currently underdeveloped energy production to the necessary degree. Even if every economic sanction was lifted tomorrow, the capital, infrastructure, and technology they would need to start exporting natural gas to Europe could take just as long if not longer than the investments Europe needs to make to frack their own shale reserves and to import from the United States, Australia, and others — but Europe does want to diversify its supplies, and Iran definitely wants the cash.

Note from Hot Air management: This section is for comments from Hot Air's community of registered readers. Please don't assume that Hot Air management agrees with or otherwise endorses any particular comment just because we let it stand. A reminder: Anyone who fails to comply with our terms of use may lose their posting privilege.

Making new friends. It’s gonna be a great caliphe when the dust all settles.

So, the Europeans can give their money to the Soviet Union Russians (their future invaders), the Muzzies (their current invaders) or America (their ally and protector for at least seven decades).

Iran, with its huge energy reserves, just cannot go on without its “peaceful nuclear energy” program.

This is pretty confusing, especially since I haven’t heard any Russian response on this.

Absolutely. Buy the gas from Iran. Sanctions haven’t worked except to make poor people poorer.  Sanctions have never worked and yet the US keeps trying those failed policies.

…not sure what happened to pedophile. An accusation he still has not publically denied.

Whoever came up with the idea of sanctions was smoking the 80′s crack pipe. There used to be a clearly bipolar political world, in which our side was (allegedly) “the good guys” and (definitely) “the smart and rich guys”. In that world, sanctions meant termination of access to money and modern technologies. Today, both can and will be happily supplied by Russians, Chinese, Muzzies, or anyone else with desire to trade and just enough independence to erect a middle finger in our general direction. If Iran is to be treated as an enemy, just turn those camel jockeys into a self-illuminated parking lot; the “progressive humankind” will groan and grumble and huff but then eventually accept the reality, just like are accepting the latest Russian conquest.

If we had a president, the USA would see this opportunity.

…it’s settled then!….they’ll get it from Iran!

…it’s settled then!….they’ll get it from Iran!

There will be EU countries that will take this seriously, and we have only our own lack of leadership to blame for that.

And, much as Obama has put us on the krazy-kar down the track to the splashdown at the end of the ride where we’re nothing but a laughingstock, it was the last guy who got us in line for the ride with his ten-year war-to-nowhere.

If you’re going to fight a war for dubious reasons with meaningless goals you’ve got to get it over in a year, eighteen months at the outside.

Bush screwed up the wars, the current guy took over and screwed up everything else.

They eat a lot of hummus in old persia don’t they? Gas a-plenty.

Maybe there was a sudden fatwa allowing farting into pipelines…..

Actually, that is not a bad idea.   Investors are rather savvy in their business dealings, and despite some private energy firms getting a haircut in Venezuela, lessons were learned.

Given Western government never seem to accept any responsibility for failures, small or epic, there is never a need to actually do the right thing.  Yet, businesses either have to produce or die.   If investors were to build up the infrastructure in Iran and the nations between Iran and Europe, it would be a sign that Iran isn’t the country that ideologues in either party tell us they are.   Furthermore, we know that businesses have enormous influence on government, and why that mechanism would cease to exist or work at all in Iran is beyond me to understand.

I submit that if the West really wanted to stabilize Iran, it will be through the power of smart money and investors (corrupt or not) rather then feckless governments that can’t decide from day to day who their friends and who their enemies are.

If Iran really is a basket case, then there really wouldn’t be much development or investment in Iran (other than perhaps China) and so the point is moot.

You must be logged in and have JavaScript enabled to post a comment.
