
Imphal, May 19 2014 : Prof Gangmumei Kamei, who contested the Parliamentary election in Outer Manipur parliamentary constituency as BJP nominee suggested that Naga people's Front leaders accept defeat of its candidate Soso Lorho in a gracious manner even as former Minister Dr Khasim Ruivah claimed that NSCN-IM activists tried to force him join the NPF in the run-up to the parliamentary polls.

Former Nagaland Chief Minister Neiphiu Rio stating that Soso Lorho lost in the Outer MPC poll due to division of votes amongst the three Naga candidates is not only ridiculous but most outrageous and beyond comprehension of democratic principles, said Prof Gangmumei while speaking to newspersons at the Nityaipat Chuthek office of the BJP Manipur Pradesh today.

"The wild allegation of Mr Neiphiu rio, the outgoing Chief Minister of Nagaland that defeat of NPF in the Outer Manipur Parliamentary Constituency was due to the fielding of two candidates, Prof Gangmumei Kamei and Mani Charenamei, is most deplorable and contemptuous statement," said Prof Gangmumei adding "it is widely known that NSCN-IM armed cadres captured more than 120 polling stations on behalf of NPF candidate Soso Lorho in the Naga dominated districts" .

Pointing out that despite armed cadres of NSCN-IM indulging in democratic blasphemy enough votes could not be accumulated to ensure victory of the NPF nominee, he said 'failure of the NPF in this election is due to the failure of NSCN-IM cadres to completely control polling in the constituency' .

Mr Rio should blame neither Prof Gangmumei nor Mani Charenamei for the defeat of NPF, rather he should blame his mentor in the underground setup for his failure to capture votes for his party, maintained Prof Gangmumei.

Further highlighting that former Minister and senior BJP leader Dr Khasim Ruivah was detained by the NSCN-IM activists at Ukhrul and subsequently put under house arrest at his Somdal village home during the polls, the BJP candidate also revealed that chief election agent of BJP candidate PA Thekho was abducted and subjected to interrogation at an unknown place in senapati district.

Stating that several BJP party workers, including women leaders, were detained in addition to physically assaulting party's political workers in Phungyar assembly constituency in Ukhrul district and Chandel town in the run-up to the democratic exercise, he said such illegal activities of the rebel group were already highlighted to the Election Commission of India and the Government of Manipur.

These anti-BJP activities of NSCN-IM exposed the nexus between NSCN-IM and NPF, their leaders, particularly Neiphiu Rio and Soso Lorho, claimed Prof Gangmumei while asserting that 'their activities are illegal and anti-national' as well as complete denial of the democratic right of the people to chose their own representative to the Parliament in the largest democracy of the world.

Construing that Neiphiu Rio blaming the two candidates for the defeat of NPF is merely an attempt to cover up NPF's futile endeavour to capture power through unfair means, he said people of Manipur have shown their verdict that they do not accept the aim and objective of NPF to destroy the entity of Manipur.

"Therefore, it is childish to blame the cause of the defeat of NPF on the two Naga candidates who have complete fundamental freedom to express the opinion and contest in the election in a democracy" .

Further, the nefarious role of Neiphiu Rio in the internal politics of Manipur by playing up ethnic Naga card is simply anti-national and communal.

It is funny that such a leader who tries to destroy BJP organisation in a neighbouring state is lobbying to get a berth in Shri Narendra Modiji's cabinet of the NDA government, said Prof Gangmumei contending that NPF is not a pre-poll ally of NDA or BJP.

"Such a person should not be given any berth in the BJP led ministry" .

"The election result clearly shows that the dictate of Mr.Rio and NPF have not been accepted by the Nagas of Manipur.

The people of Manipur irrespective of party affiliation should remain very alert of this dangerous party and their leaders," he said while asserting that the election result has shown that the ideology and objectives of the BJP are acceptable both to the people of hills and plains of Manipur.

Joining the media briefing, Dr Khasim Ruivah claimed that he and his son were confined in the custody of the NSCN-IM ahead of the Parliamentary elections and asked to sign for formal declaration of joining the NPF.

Contending that Soso Lorho was the projected candidate of the NSCN-IM in the Outer MPC, Dr Khasim said despite intense pressure from the rebel outfit he declined to accept the diktat for he was already committed to BJP's principle and cause.

Consequently the IM activists are said to have restricted Dr Khasim's movement and kept him under virtual house arrest in Ukhrul.

He also claimed that two NSCN-IM cadres remained outside polling stations while two others repeatedly pressed a particular button on the EVMs in Ukhrul district.

* This news is as published by respected news daily at Imphal, whose name is duly marked as 'Source'.  E-Pao.net is not responsible for it's sanctity & originality.

* Comments posted by users in this discussion thread and other parts of this site are opinions of the individuals posting them (whose user ID is displayed alongside) and not the views of e-pao.net. We strongly recommend that users exercise responsibility, sensitivity and caution over language while writing your opinions which will be seen and read by other users. Please read a complete Guideline on using comments on this website.
