
Pamela Geller, a political activist known mainly for her criticism of Islam and President of the American Freedom Defense Initiative (AFDI), has approved the AFDI's latest ad campaign, which sees twenty Washington D.C. Metrobuses brandishing the face of Adolf Hitler accompanied by a message: Stop Racism. End All Aid to Islamic Countries.

The controversial ad was paid for by the ADFI as a direct response to  anti-Israel ads that ran on twenty MetroBuses in the area last month, ordered by the Illinois-based group, American Muslims for Palestine.

That ad reads: Stop US Aid to Israel's Occupation!

“Our ads are in response to the vicious Jew-hating ads … unleashed on Washington DC Metro buses last month,” stated AFDI via its official website.

"My intent is to leapfrog over a media that is not even-handed, that is advancing the propaganda against the Jewish state," added Geller.

The new ADFI ad, approximately 15 feet long, debuted last week. It depicts the infamous Nazi dictator meeting with Haj Amin al-Husseini, the Palestinian nationalist and grant mufti of Jerusalem, who became Hitler's ally before World War II began.

Husseini was known to promote propaganda for the Nazis and backed Hitler's plan to exterminate the Jewish people.

Pamela Geller is known to be a controversial figure, with the ADFI being labelled as an anti-Muslim hate group by the Southern Poverty Law Center, an organization that monitors for extremist activity.

Regardless, for the residents of Washington DC, be prepared to face some offensive material throughout the months of May and June. While Geller says she's received hundreds of emails supporting the ad, many bus riders have already claimed that the ad is "outrageous" and "racist."

They do make a valid point, and even if its in response to an equally outrageous and offensive ad, two wrongs certainly don't make a right.

The Orthodox Jewish actress is nominated for her role on 'The Big Bang Theory'

Shalom Life launched in 2009 and has become Canada's largest independent Jewish news source dedicated to covering culture, arts, society, technology, business, and general news, both locally and internationally.

Shalom Life's content has also been syndicated on some of the world's top publications including Macleans, National Post, ABC News, Ynet, Forbes, USA Today and many more, helping expand it's reach to millions of other readers.

Shalom Life's head office is in Toronto, Canada. Shalom Life has recently expanded into Los Angeles, with plans of opening offices across the United States.
