
Hey all, sorry it's been so long since checking in. The last week has been a blur...in a good way. It looks like my Cinque Terre and Tuscany blog got erased, but the pictures are still there though. I last left off deciding what to do with our extra time. We ended up going back to Siena for two more days. Siena was a lot of fun. Lots of cool sights and amazing food. We found several local restaurants off the beaten path that were very good. All of the food was made with care and the meals took about two hours to enjoy. After Siena, we grabbed a train to Rome.

. We visited the Colosseum and the Roman Forum (Where Rome began), and walked on stone paths that Ceasar himself likely walked on. One thing I really liked about Rome was all of the ancient ruins laying around the city. It definitely motivated me to learn a bit more about that time of history and especially learn about their aqueducts that they built and are still using to deliver water to the city. The water is so good, even the Pope drinks from the water fountains...no need to ask, they will tell you. Every Roman will brag about how good their water is as much or more than a Seattleite will about their local coffee spot or how their shiny electric car is saving the planet.

. I saw a few of the Pope's tombs including Pope John Paul II and even some of their actual bodies. I got to pray at the spot where Peter was crucified and look at his tomb underneath the church where most of the former Pope's tombs are. I was in awe of all of the artwork from the kings of art such as Michelangelo and Bernini. We even climbed the 551 steps to the top of the dome Michelangelo designed. My favorite sculpture I saw was Michelangelo's "Pieta". It's of Mary holding Jesus' limp body after his death. He carved it out if one block of marble at the age of 24. It was his first sculpture he made in Rome. He was famous in Florence, but no one had heard of him in Rome. From what I hear, no one believed he made it, he was pissed about that, so he went back and chiseled his name across Mary's chest. It was his only sculpture that he ever signed. The detail is amazing and very lifelike. It is the most amazing piece of art that I have seen. It puts David and all of the others I have seen at a distant second place. I was able to snap a picture of it, but nothing compares to seeing it in real life. I must have just stared at it for about 15 minutes. Rome was cool, we saw a lot,  and I will definitely go back. After 3 days in Rome, we went to Napoli for 2 days.

. I have no idea why, but a good majority of the people here are overweight. Especially the kids. I think Napoli translates to "City where groups of fat 14 year-old girls walk around in clothing for 12 year-old skinny kids." My Italian isn't great, so I could be off on a few words. From my short time here I have discovered most of the guys here are mamas boys and the half of the population look like the people from Jersey Shore Show. Other Italians joke that Jesus was from Napoli because he lived with his mother into his 30's, she though he was God, and he thought she was a virgin. Pretty much sums it up! The people here are very colorful and most are nice if you engage them. There aren't tons of tourists here and that is a big plus. We also went on an underground tour of the city that was at once an aqueduct and then a bomb shelter during WWII. Napoli was one of the heaviest bombed Italian cities during the war. They also say that they were the first Italian city to liberate themselves from the Nazi occupation.
