
New Delhi: The Congress Working Committee on Monday rejected party President Sonia Gandhi and Vice-President Rahul Gandhi's offer to resign. Senior journalists like N Ram of 'The Hindu' say the party has missed a great opportunity to end dynasty rule by not accepting Sonia and Rahul's resignations.

"The outcome of the CWC meeting is awful, pathetic. Why would you offer to resign if you are not serious? If at the drop of the hat you'll take it back and gloss over it," N Ram said.

The Congress continues to remain in denial despite the drubbing it received in the Lok Sabha elections. Rejecting Sonia and Rahul's offer to quit, the CWC passed a unanimous resolution expressing full faith in its leadership.

It was supposed to be a meeting for serious introspection leading to a major revamp. But it seems the only purpose was to endorse the leadership of the Gandhis, who remain at the Congress's helm.

Ironically, it was Rahul Gandhi who led the party's dismal poll campaign, who raised the issue of lack of accountability in the Congress.

Once again the party has turned to Sonia Gandhi in its hour of crisis. The CWC has authorised her to make any changes she deems fit in the party structure.

In this so called crucial meeting, many leaders spoke about how the party failed to communicate and reach out to the voter. There is a likelihood that a committee will be formed to look into all aspects of the Congress's defeat. But the fact is that many of these introspection sessions and committees have been seen earlier as well. Whether the party is actually going to change itself this time around, remains to be seen.

CNN name, logo and all associated elements ® and © 2013 Cable News Network LP, LLLP. A Time Warner Company. All rights reserved. CNN and the CNN logo are registered marks of Cable News Network, LP LLLP,

displayed with permission. Use of the CNN name and/or logo on or as part of CNN-IBN does not derogate from the intellectual property rights of Cable News Network in respect of them.
