
Israel Chemicals criticizes second Sheshinski committee's recommendation to impose 42% surtax on exploitation of natural resources • "This is an economic and social mistake that will force ICL to go back on its investments in Israel," company says.

Israel Chemicals Ltd. announced Sunday that it has suspended its plans to invest over $1 billion in Israel, following the second Sheshinski committee's recommendation to impose a 42 percent surtax on companies mining and selling Israel's natural resources.

The second Sheshinski committee, headed by Prof. Eytan Sheshinski, was tasked with reviewing the state's royalty policies regarding the commercial licensing of natural resources, excluding natural gas and oil, whose royalty policies were set by the first Sheshinski committee in 2010.

ICL and several of its subsidiaries, including Dead Sea Works, Bromine Compounds and Rotem Amfert Negev, are expected to bear the brunt of the new tax. ICL is currently subjected to two tax brackets, the first of 5% of its overall revenue, and the second on revenue pertaining to resource exploitation that exceeds 1.5 tons of potassium a year, or 10% of its revenue.

The 42% surtax recommendation stated that tax rate should be calculated according to a model based on revenue exceeding an 11% return on a company's assets, and is in line with model commonly used by other Western countries.

The second Sheshinski committee report hedged that the change in royalty policies would yield the state an additional 500 million shekels ($144.5 million) a year in revenue until 2030, when the policies would be reviewed once more.

The committee noted that the public's portion of the profits derived from the mining of natural resources in Israel, which currently stands at 23%, would rise to between 46% and 57%.

Should the government accept the recommendations, they would come into effect in 2017.

A statement posted on the ICL website following the release of the committee's report read: "The interim recommendations of the Sheshinski committee are an economic and social mistake that will practically force ICL to go back on most of its investments in Israel, focus on optimization and cost cutting and drive ICL out of Israel.

"If implemented, the recommendations will create a further significant competitive disadvantage of ICL’s Israeli assets in comparison with nearly all of its international competitors, which pay much lower tax rates. The competitive advantage of the potash and bromine operations in the Dead Sea will be eliminated and the already weak competitive position of the phosphate business in the Negev will be further worsened.

"The meaning of all this is reduced operations in Israel and severe impact on employment of 30,000 families in the Negev," the company's statement warned.

"The adoption of the Sheshinski committee recommendations will constitute a breach of both the concession agreement and the harvest and the 2012 royalties-increase agreement. ICL intends to exercise all of its legal rights to that end. From an initial reading, it appears that the interim report contains inaccuracies and errors -- both on a factual level and on an economic level.

"ICL hopes that reason and logic will prevail in the discussions that will ensure in the next months, so that the best decision is taken for Israel and ICL’s employees and business partners," the company said.

"Out of responsibility for the future of the company, ICL announced today that it freezes its investments plan in Israel totaling in excess of $1 billion until the interim conclusions are examined and understood. ICL will also explore additional cost-cutting measures as a consequence of reduced investments and to mitigate the impact of the proposed cash pay-out."
