
Sadiq al-Sadiq was returned to Israel earlier this month after finding himself being sent — against his will — back to Sudan, from where he fled persecution and genocide. Sadiq is just one of hundreds or thousands of Sudanese who have been pressured to leave Israel. Interior Minister Gideon Sa’ar, who is responsible for the asylum seeker population in Israel, has made it clear that he intends to empty the country of African asylum seekers. “If we treat this [problem] like liberals, we’ll lose the country,” he has said in the past. Earlier this month, one Israeli activist confronted Sa’ar outside his home.

Lia Tarachansky is an Israeli-Canadian filmmaker and journalist with the  The Real News Network .

Yawn. As per the convention (which its clear she hasn’t read), punative measures can be taken against those passing into a country from a country under which they are not under an article 1 threat. The infiltrators entered through Egypt. They were not under an Article 1 threat there. Therefore, Israel can most certainly deport them.

Yes, Israel can deport him back to Egypt (assuming that he would be safe from persecution there) but not Sudan. 1951 Convention relating to the Status of Refugees Article 33 (1).

And Israel did not send him to Sudan. A third party did and there is no evidence that this third party was acting under Israel’s orders.

Please.

Welcome to the +972 Magazine general blog, where we post breaking news, live blogs, videos, photos and contributions from guest writers.

RT @dancohen3000: Israel has threatened to destroy another building called the Italy Compound in Gaza City. Residents are evacuating now.

+972 is an independent, blog-based web magazine. It was launched in August 2010, resulting from a merger of a number of popular English-language blogs dealing with life and politics in Israel and Palestine.

+972 is an independent, blog-based web magazine. It was launched in August 2010, resulting from a merger of a number of popular English-language blogs dealing with life and politics in Israel and Palestine.
