
The Pope's plan hold mass in a Jerusalem room believed have hosted Jesus' Last Supper has caused an ugly rift between Israel and Vatican, with conspiracy theories swirling around the visit.

The Cenacle is a room on the top floor of medieval building of great significance to Christians, but also to Jews as the supposed burial place of King David, and to Muslims, as the building was a mosque for four centuries.

The planned mass appears to contravene an agreement, in place since the British Mandate, that states all faiths must be allowed access to the site, but cannot hold religious rituals there.

Rabbi Yitzhak Goldstein, head of a yeshiva, a place of study for Jewish men, located on the site, said it was "an aggressive change of the British status quo,” according to the FT.

And Muslims share the fears of some Jews that Israel is preparing to offer the building to the Vatican, according to Mohammad Dajani Daoudi, a professor at Jerusalem’s al-Quds university.

Rumours have swirled in the religious and right-wing press that the deal will be done to give the Church authority at the site, in exchange for a tax deal on exemptions for Christian sites, which had been at a stalemate.

The Israeli government has repeatedly denied that it will cede control of the site, but one report suggested the the Vatican was set to trade a Jewish heirloom, a candelabrum from the Second Temple, in exchange.

“The State of Israel has no intention to transfer to the Vatican sovereignty or ownership of the Cenacle or any other part of the compound on Mount Zion,” Israel's envoy to the Holy See Zion Evrony told Haaretz.

Authorities already have their work cut out calming tensions ahead of the visit and have vowed a crackdown on racist vandalism.

Papal Nuncio Archbishop Giuseppe Lazzarotto said the Vatican was optimistic and would not "over-estimate" the threat.

"Who am I to judge a gay person of goodwill who seeks the Lord? You can't marginalize these people."

“We cannot insist only on issues related to abortion, gay marriage and the use of contraceptive methods. This is not possible. I have not spoken much about these things, and I was reprimanded for that. But when we speak about these issues, we have to talk about them in a context. The teaching of the church, for that matter, is clear and I am a son of the church, but it is not necessary to talk about these issues all the time."

Speaking on economic progress, the pope called for "the legitimate redistribution of economic benefits by the state, as well as indispensable cooperation between the private sector and civil society."

"I believe in God, not in a Catholic God, there is no Catholic God, there is God and I believe in Jesus Christ, his incarnation. Jesus is my teacher and my pastor, but God, the Father, Abba, is the light and the Creator. This is my Being."

"War never again! Never again war!"

"Today the choir will sing, but the most beautiful choir of all is the choir of the infants who will make a noise. Some will cry because they are not comfortable or because they are hungry. If they are hungry, mothers, feed them, without thinking twice. Because they are the most important people here."

"With utmost firmness I condemn the use of chemical weapons."

"Proselytism is solemn nonsense, it makes no sense. We need to get to know each other, listen to each other and improve our knowledge of the world around us."

Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day..

Use this form to alert a HuffPost editor about a factual or typographical error in this story.

Thank you!
