
NEW DELHI: The BJP leadership made some progress in settling top slots in government with party chief Rajnath Singh tipped to be the home minister while senior leader Arun Jaitley could be the next finance minister.

While a degree of clarity is emerging on ministry formation, the BJP is yet to resolve its dilemma over veteran leader L K Advani as the leader's apparent inclination to be Lok Sabha Speaker is not finding many takers.

The hunt for a suitably distinguished post for Advani has not met with much success and the party leadership is unclear how to define the saffron elder's role and work out an arrangement where he can be a mentor.

With Rajnath and Jaitley expected to occupy two key slots in the cabinet committee on security (CCS), PM-designate Narendra Modi is still left with the tough task of filling the two other CCS slots, external affairs and defence.

Sushma Swaraj, who was Leader of Opposition in the 15th Lok Sabha, is keen on a CCS berth, but there are doubts if Modi will be keen to accommodate her.

Though Swaraj is certain to be offered an important portfolio — HRD and health were referred to — her lack of enthusiasm for Modi's PM candidature may have weakened her claim to a seat at the ministerial highest table.

Swaraj met Modi on Monday in what was seen more as a formality than a political gesture. In a tweet on May 16, Swaraj gave credit for the BJP's win to the labour of party workers, blessings of RSS and Modi's able leadership.

Among allies, LJP leader Ramvilas Paswan is certain to get an important portfolio, keeping in mind the assessment that the alliance helped the BJP gain a solid edge over rival RJD-Congress and JD(U).

It is not certain if Paswan will get railways, a portfolio he has held before, as the ministry needs urgent attention as its finances are suffering and customer service is deteriorating. The ministry is also related to tourism - an area that the Modi government is likely to focus on.

But Paswan is almost certain to get a prize infrastructure or natural resource related ministry as the BJP eyes the possibility of a state election in Bihar, possibly at short notice.

Modi held substantial discussions with Jaitley and BJP general secretary Amit Shah in Gujarat Bhawan where he is staying. He will be formally elected leader by the BJP parliamentary party on Tuesday.

Though Shah is not expected to join the government, he is likely to play a very major role in the new government's political management while also being a major influence in the BJP organization.

The problem of a thin bench could be hampering Modi and BJP's top leaders in arriving at a decision on who should be external affairs and defence ministers.

While the external affairs portfolio is closely aligned with PMO, defence needs a minister capable of rebooting stalled modernization plans and also displaying an appetite for strategic planning and geo-politics.

There could, however, be a new element in Modi's approach to external affairs as he seems keen to reduce its bureaucratization and increase the trade and commerce element in foreign policy.

Other senior leaders who seem certain ministerial picks, but who's portfolio allocations are not clear, include Ravi Shankar Prasad, Ananth Kumar, Gopinath Munde, Piyush Goel, Rajiv Rudy, Ramesh Bais, Vidyasagar Rao, Harsh Vardhan, Varun Gandhi, Kirit Somaiyya and Jual Oram.

Among allies, LJP leader Ramvilas Paswan, Harsimrat Kaur, Anant Geete, Upendra Kushwaha and Anupriya Patel are in the reckoning for ministerial positions.

We encourage you to log in and comment. Non-logged-in comments will go through a verification process for security reasons.

Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community. Help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive. Let's work together to keep the conversation civil.

We encourage you to register/login and proceed.

However, if you choose to remain                                                                                  non-loggedin, you are required to fill up the form below and verify                                                                                  your email address before we can publish your comment.

That way, we                                                                                  can verify that the email address doesn't belong to someone else.

We encourage you to register/login and proceed.

However, if you choose to remain                                                                                  non-loggedin, you are required to fill up the form below and verify                                                                                  your email address before we can publish your comment.

That way, we                                                                                  can verify that the email address doesn't belong to someone else.

Your Reason has been Submitted to the admin.
