
Kharod, a nondescript village in Mehsana district in north Gujarat, is 60 km and an hour’s car ride from the state capital of Gandhinagar. Anandiben Patel, born in the village, would marvel that it has taken her 57 years to bridge the distance. The political journey of Patel took a new turn on Friday, when the elections results of the 16th Lok Sabha elections were announced. Narendra Modi will vacate the chief minister’s office in Gandhinagar and move to New Delhi at the head of the National Democratic Alliance, and Patel is the frontrunner to take over Modi’s mantle.

What makes 72-year-old Patel’s power journey all the more interesting is that she was initially hesitant to tread the political path. Today, she holds the revenue, urban development and urban housing, road and building, disaster management and capital projects portfolios.

She married Mafatlal Patel in 1962, and they moved to Ahmedabad four years later, where she continued her studies. She earned her master’s degree in science. At Gujarat Vidyapith, where she pursued a master’s degree in education, she bagged a gold medal, which propelled her to a teaching career with Mohinaba Kanya Vidyalaya, a school for girls, located on Ashram Road in Ahmedabad.

Bhailal Patel, her close associate in the Bharatiya Janata Party, recalls another incident in which she saved the lives of two girl students near Navagam reservoir. On a picnic there, the two students were sitting near the lake’s banks when they were pulled in by the currents. “She grabbed the hair of one of the girls and dragged her out of the water. This girl, in turn, held on to the other girl,” he says.

Participation in such activities and her organisational capabilities catapulted her to the Rajya Sabha in 1994. She resigned from the Upper House in 1998 after BJP decided to field her from the Mandal constituency for the state assembly. She won and went on to become education minister in the Keshubhai Patel government. She hasn’t looked back since and remains the only woman in Gujarat to be elected an MLA for four consecutive terms.

Once, as chairman of the Ahmedabad district primary education committee, he transferred 27 newly appointed women teachers because he felt they could not adjust to the place where they were posted. “But, when the file reached the education ministry, the decision was overturned because transfer rules had not been followed,” he says. The minister then was, of course, his wife.

Patel has shared a good rapport with Modi. The fact that both Modi and the party considered her important for the government became evident in the 2012 assembly polls when she was shifted from the Patan constituency to the Ghatlodia seat in Ahmedabad city. They did not want to take chances with any electoral surprises due to the constituency delimitation carried out earlier. And she didn’t disappoint. She thumped her nearest rival by 1,10,395 votes, a victory margin bigger than even Modi’s.

There naturally is great curiosity about how she will respond to an elevation if she is chosen to succeed Modi. She says that regardless of who is selected to head the state government, everyone must cooperate and run the state properly. Among others who can claim the top post is industries minister and a close aide of Modi, Saurabh Patel. He too had similarly been shifted from Botad to Akota in the 2012 elections to ensure his victory.
