
The New Jersey governor delivers a dour speech to a Jewish group without mentioning the word Israel.

Keynote speaker New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie addresses attendees at the Second Annual Champions of Jewish Values Awards Gala on Sunday, May 18, 2014, in New York.

But the Republican governor of New Jersey never uttered the word Israel in his 18-minute address to the Jewish Values Awards Gala here Sunday night. Instead, he turned inward, delivering a gloomy, sobering address on what he views as the disappointing state of the union.

Christie’s view of America at the moment is one harboring a dysfunctional government paralyzed at home and disrespected abroad: The shining city on a hill has been reduced to a dull flicker on the ground. The once indispensable nation, now hobbled by an inconsistent and at times, incoherent foreign policy.

This was not an optimistic, uplifting speech.

The message Christie sent, in a subdued but relaxed fashion, is that the United States isn’t as great as its politicians would like you to think it is. In fact, it’s treading water and it’s time to get real about it.

“Regrettable as it is, sad as it is. It is the truth and we need to speak that truth loudly and clearly,” he said.

At the root of the country’s ailments, according to Christie, is the inability to accomplish meaningful goals at home.

If the two parties can’t figure out how to come together on overhauling the tax code or revamping immigration laws, how could the United States think it would be able to shape events on the ground in the Ukraine or the Middle East?, Christie posited.

“The failure of domestic tranquility in governance leads to the diminishment of America’s role in the world,” he said.

Christie specifically cited President Barack Obama’s now infamous “red line” remark about Syria, when the United States failed to act after issuing a clear and direct threat to a foreign leader about the use of chemical weapons.

Though he never mentioned Obama by name, his speech was clearly an indictment of the current administration. He warned that a continued vacuum of leadership would almost certainly be filled by “evil” global actors.

But Christie also steered clear of specific prescriptions in this venue. While at several points he mentioned a set of common values shared by those in the room – a gathering of elite Jewish religious leaders, fundraisers and socialites from both parties – he spent little time detailing exactly what those were and how they would apply to his own foreign policy doctrine.

Yet in a subtle nod to highlight his own strength, he called for more political courage in a political culture tethered to public opinion polls.

Toward the end of his speech, he asked attendees who they would “nominate to make sure that justice is done around the world” – a striking choice of words that piqued the interest of the political reporters present given Christie’s obvious interest in becoming the GOP nominee for president.

Christie, though, wasn’t the only potential 2016 aspirant present. He shared a table with Gov. Rick Perry, R-Texas, who took the stage later in the evening to bestow an award to Miriam and Sheldon Adelson, the billionaire casino magnate and Republican mega donor.

In brief remarks, Perry gave the speech everyone expected Christie to give – a punchy, full-throated defense of Israel that hailed its strategic partnership with the United States.

He peppered his lines with details meant to demonstrate geographic and historical heft on the topic.

In making a direct appeal to his audience’s sweet spot, he was rewarded with one of the biggest applause outbursts of the night.

“It’s time for this country to end the policy of calculated ambivalence and renew our commitment to a strong Israel. America must be clear. Israel has the right to exist as a Jewish state,” Perry said to thunderous approval.

For whatever reason, Christie declined to take that approach.

He didn’t pander, he didn’t prescribe. He pronounced a sad state of America, perhaps attempting to paint a situation so dire that those listening would be convinced he is the only one – warts and all – with the means and muscle to save a country teetering on the brink.

Sign up to receive The Run 2016 in your inbox.

Copyright 2014 © U.S. News & World Report LP.
