
(CNN) -- A newly disclosed CIA policy mandates that it won't use vaccination programs as part of its operations, according to the Obama administration.

The directive by CIA Director John Brennan, made nine months ago but only coming to light now, followed concerns raised by leaders of a dozen U.S. public health schools in a letter to President Barack Obama.

They spoke out following revelations the CIA had enlisted a doctor to oversee a false immunization campaign in Pakistan ahead of the 2011 raid that killed al Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden in Abbottabad.

The campaign's true purpose was to collect information on the residents of the compound, and attempt to confirm DNA matches to bin Laden or relatives.

The public health programs reached out to Obama after the organization Save the Children was forced to "withdraw all foreign national staff" from Pakistan as a "result of a CIA sham vaccination campaign."

Save the Children was in the midst of a campaign to administer the polio vaccination in Pakistan, one of the few places left in the world where the virus is still prevalent.

In their letter to the White House in January 2013, the deans also alleged that "seven or more United Nations health workers who were vaccinating Pakistani children against polio were gunned down in unforgivable acts of terrorism" as a result of the CIA effort.

In a letter dated May 16 and obtained by CNN on Monday, Lisa Monaco, the top White House adviser on homeland security and counterterrorism, told the health school deans that Brennan had "directed in August 2013 that the agency make no operational use of vaccination programs, which includes vaccination workers.

"Similarly, the agency will not seek to obtain or exploit DNA or other genetic material acquired through such programs," the letter said.

CIA spokesman Dean Boyd told CNN on Monday that Brennan established the policy "after carefully considering a variety of views, including those from outside the agency. He took seriously the concerns raised by the public health community, examined them closely, and took decisive action."

Boyd also said it "is important to note that militant groups have a long history of attacking humanitarian aid workers in Pakistan and those attacks began years before the raid against the bin Laden compound."

By publicizing the policy, he said the CIA hopes to "dispel one canard that militant groups have used as justification for cowardly attacks against vaccination providers," noting that the agency "has great respect for the vital work that vaccination workers perform around the globe."

National Security Council spokeswoman Caitlin Hayden confirmed Monaco's letter to the school deans and its contents.

CNN's Jim Acosta contributed to this report.

An ISIS attack against the United States or Europe is a question of timing -- "not of inevitably, not of intent," says a former head of the CIA.

A young boy kicks off his vacation by dipping his toes in the ocean and makes a startling find.

Investigators now believe there are two masked ISIS fighters in the James Foley execution video -- one who made the speech and one who killed him.

Facebook has announced that they'll be cracking down on the sharing of "clickbait" content. CNN's Brian Stelter explains.

Michael Brown's family and friends ask for a day of silence and peace as they lay the teen to rest.

James Dawes: Evil is the strongest word we have to prepare ourselves to kill others.

Acclaimed actor-director Richard Attenborough has died at 90, the actor's agent said.

The Ebola outbreak causes fear and violence among the poor in Liberia. CNN's Isha Sesay reports.

Spooks have left their mark on a once-divided city still thought to be an espionage hotbed.

China's ancient capital of Nanjing has been the birthplace of many of the country's most intriguing traditional arts.
