
An alarming number of young people in Northern Ireland could be suffering with mental health issues in silence, a new report has suggested.

Researchers at Queen's University and the University of Ulster polled 1,367 16-year-olds in the country as part of the annual Young Life and Times (YLT) survey and found that one in ten has considered self-harm or taking an overdose.

Twenty-eight per cent had experienced serious personal, emotional or mental health problems within the past year, but only just over a third had sought help.

Furthermore, 13 per cent of respondents admitted they had already self-harmed, with eight per cent doing so more than once. The most likely reason given for this was self-punishment.

When the same study was carried out in 2008, a similar 26 per cent of respondents had experienced serious mental health problems.

Lead author of the report Dr Dirk Schubotz said: "These findings show that despite the investment in mental health services in Northern Ireland compared to five years ago, there has been virtually no change with regard to young people's experiences of stress and mental health problems."

The British Psychological Society supports MindEd – a programme that provides electronic learning materials covering the breadth of children and young people’s mental health for both the healthcare and non-healthcare workforces.

The MindEd website provides free online education to help adults to identify and understand children and young people with mental health issues. There is a suite of e-learning resources, including assessment and outcome evaluation aids.

Want to comment on this news story? Then sign in to our website to submit a comment. All comments are submitted for moderation.

Anyone can join the BPS, from just £10 a year. Our members and subscribers enjoy a range of benefits such as the Society's monthly magazine, The Psychologist ; opportunities to influence and engage with the profession by joining a committee or taking part in consultations; online access to our journals; reduced rates at conferences and events; and on CPD courses and books; and access to a range of work and lifestyle benefits.

Once you have joined the Society, you can access our professional and membership groups. These groups are a great opportunity to network and communicate with like-minded people with similar interests.

As part of EU Law, we'd like to get your consent for you to browse the web like you have always done - by using cookies.  What are cookies? Cookies allow us to personalise your experience on our site and it's likely that you have always had them on your computer.

We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue without changing your settings, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies from our website. If you want, you can change your cookie settings at any time.

The British Psychological Society is a charity registered in England and Wales, Registration Number: 229642 and a charity registered in Scotland, Registration Number: SC039452,
