
Don't miss stories. Follow Vox!

The revelation in 2011 that the CIA used a fake Hepatitis B vaccination program as part of its hunt for Osama bin Laden has often been cited as one reason that governments and parents are refusing vaccines in parts of Pakistan and Afghanistan.

Now the Obama administration has promised never to run a fake CIA vaccination campaign again.

The director of the CIA has ordered the agency to "make no operational use of vaccination programs, which includes vaccination workers," according to a letter obtained by Yahoo News.

As I covered extensively in a  previous post , the fate of polio hinges largely on Pakistan. And recent increase of polio cases in the region — caused, in part, by a lack of vaccinations — led the World Health Organization to declare polio a public health emergency earlier this month. The CIA rumors were one obstacle here — though far from the only one.

A lack of security can seriously complicate vaccination efforts in the Karachi metropolitan area, in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (formerly known as the North-West Frontier Province), and in the semi-autonomous Federally Administered Tribal Areas (where many 2014 polio cases are occurring).

The Taliban has a strong presence in these areas, and vaccine workers have been targets of violence — dozens have been killed in targeted attacks.

Public-health officials  have cited the lack of vaccinations as one reason why polio cases are rising sharply in Pakistan.

There are all sorts of rumors in Pakistan, public-health experts say, that vaccinations are some kind of Western plot to gather intelligence or sterilize children — or that they violate Islamic law.

"People are really accepting of the concept of vaccination,"  Sherine Guirguis, UNICEF's senior communication manager for development for polio, told me. She's in charge of understanding communities' demands and perceptions about polio vaccinations. But, she says, "It can be tipped the other way if we don't keep our eye on it.

Vaccine workers can't operate within some of these areas for political reasons, but they have been working around that to make vaccines available. For example, about 40 percent of families in North and South Waziristan also have homes in other districts.

So health workers have been offering vaccines at strategic transit points. They've been making sure that health care centers outside of these areas are fully stocked with polio vaccines. And there's also a huge effort to give vaccines to children crossing the Pakistan/Afghanistan border.

As part of the new Vox launch, prior users will need to choose a permanent username, along with a new password.

Your username will be used to login to Vox going forward.

Please login to your Vox Media account.  This account will be linked to your previously existing Eater account.

As part of the new Vox launch, prior MT authors will need to choose a new username and password.

Your username will be used to login to Vox going forward.

We'll email you a reset link.

If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.

Almost done,

By becoming a registered user, you are also agreeing to our Terms and confirming that           you have read our Privacy Policy .

Great!

Choose an available username to complete sign up.

In order to provide our users with a better overall experience, we ask for more information from Facebook when using it to login so that we can learn more about our audience and provide you with the best possible experience. We do not store specific user data and the sharing of it is not required to login with Facebook.
