
NEW DELHI, (Reuters) – More legislators charged with crimes will sit in India’s new parliament than previously, a democracy watchdog said on Sunday, in a reminder that crime still pays in the world’s largest democracy.

Prime minister-elect Narendra Modi, who made fighting graft a central plank of his victorious campaign, won a stunning mandate to govern India by claiming the first clear majority in three decades.

But many of his Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) colleagues elected to the new parliament faces serious criminal charges. Four out of the nine legislators who face murder cases come from his party.

Thirty-four percent of the winners in India’s election have criminal cases pending against them, four percentage points more than in 2009, analysis of the candidates affidavits by the Association for Democratic Reforms found.

Of that, 21 percent were charged with serious crimes such as murder, kidnapping and sexual assault, up from 15 percent in the last election, the group said.

In India, political parties are more likely to field criminals who are able to pay their own way. Election expenses have soared, with as much as $5 billion estimated to have been spent in this election.

Moreover, criminals are often winners, with voters choosing candidates they think will take care of their parochial interests when the state isn’t able to, analysts say.

Criminals who have easy access to liquid forms of financing can see politics as a lucrative career.

“Many of these deep-pocketed candidates view the money they must spend on elections … as a down payment on an investment that offers serious returns,” Milan Vaishnav of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace wrote in a recent commentary.

After you comment, click Post. If you're not already logged in you will be asked to log in or register.

The Comments section is intended to provide a forum for reasoned and reasonable debate on the newspaper's content and is an extension of the newspaper and what it has become well known for over its history: accuracy, balance and fairness.  We reserve the right to edit/delete comments which contain attacks on other users, slander, coarse language and profanity, and gratuitous and incendiary references to race and ethnicity.  We moderate ALL comments, so your comment will not be published until it has been reviewed by a moderator.

Enter your email address to receive news headlines, sent every morning.

© 2014 Stabroek News . All rights reserved.

Published by Guyana Publications Inc.
