
The company appointed Dan Miller as managing director, head of equities sales trading for Hong Kong, China and ASEAN (the Association of Southeast Asian Nations). Miller was most recently with BNP Paribas Securities Asia, a unit of BNP Paribas Group where he served as global head of execution sales, Asia Pacific.

The currency trading platform appointed former Thomson Reuters executive Paul Allmark as head of global e-commerce, an important role in a market struggling with falling volumes and a row over alleged manipulation of benchmarks. ICAP-owned EBS, the major venue for trade by banks and other major institutions in dollars, yen, euros and Swiss francs, has seen volumes in its core currency trading business collapse this year.

The chief executive of the Qatari lender resigned for personal reasons, the bank said. Robin McCall would remain in position until a replacement was found and the appointment approved by Qatar's regulator, the lender said in the bourse filing.

The new Milan-based unit of independent financial advisory firm Rothschild Group hired eight employees from Morgan Stanley . Among them, Paolo Lenzi and Gabriele D'Agosta join as co-heads of private clients, Andrea Battilani as branch manager and chief operating officer and Francesca Speroni as senior client adviser.

The accountancy and business advisory firm appointed Chris Bellairs as partner within its financial services practice. Bellairs comes from PricewaterhouseCoopers, where he led the insurance and investment management internal audit advisory service, and acted as senior statutory auditor on a number of external audits in the fund management sector.

The Singapore-based financial services group said Eng-Kwok Seat Moey will succeed capital markets head Eric Ang, effective June 1. Moey has been serving as deputy head of capital markets since March last year.

The Hamburg-based investment and private bank appointed Tony Sofroniou as director in its London office. Sofroniou comes from HSBC Holdings Plc.

The unit of reinsurer Swiss Re AG appointed Jeff Summerville as head of financial and professional services, North America, effective Monday. Summerville worked most recently with Endurance Specialty Holdings.

This discussion is now closed. We welcome comments on our articles for a limited period after their publication.
