
Russian President Vladimir Putin has ordered military forces to return to their permanent bases after drills in three regions bordering Ukraine, the Kremlin said on Monday.

Putin's office said he had issued the  order because the spring maneuvers were over. The move could also be intended to  ease tension in Russia's standoff with the West over Ukraine before Kiev holds a  presidential election on Sunday.

In Brussels, however, a NATO  military officer said the military alliance had seen no sign of the Russian  troops returning to their bases.

"We haven't seen any movement to  validate (the report)," the officer, speaking on condition of anonymity,  said.

The Kremlin said in a statement that Putin had ordered his  defense chief to return troops that had been involved in exercises in the border  provinces of Rostov, Bryansk and Belgorod to their "places of permanent  deployment".

NATO has said Russia has amassed some 40,000 troops near  the border with Ukraine, and Putin has reserved the right to send forces in to  protect Russian-speakers if necessary.

Their presence on the border  increased tension after Russia's annexation of Crimea in March and raised fears  in the West that Moscow could invade to support pro-Moscow  separatists.

It was not immediately clear how many soldiers would be  moved away from border regions as a result of Putin's order. After Putin also  said on May 7 that forces had been withdrawn from the frontier, but NATO and the  United States said there were no signs of reductions.

In another  conciliatory signal, Putin welcomed what the Kremlin said were initial contacts  between the Ukrainian government and "supporters of federalization" who want  more power for largely Russian-speaking regions in eastern Ukraine. Russia wants  Kiev to speak directly to the separatists.

Any unauthorised use or reproduction of bdnews24.com content for commercial purposes is strictly prohibited and constitutes copyright infringement liable to legal action.
