
Highest decision-making body of India's oldest party deliberates on reasons of poll rout at hands of opposition BJP.

India's Congress party has met in the capital, New Delhi, in the wake of the party's worst-ever performance in the recently concluded parliamentary elections.

The party, which led a coalition government for the last 10 years, suffered defeat at the hands of the right-wing opposition Bharatiya Janata Party led by Narendra Modi.

"Resignations and knee jerk reactions, I do not think are a solution to the problem. There is a need to go into things at great depth so allow the Congress Working Committee to come to certain conclusions and then we would take it from there," said a leader of Congress party, Manish Tewari.

Both party chief Sonia Gandhi and her son and heir apparent, Rahul, have accepted responsibility for the loss. They said on Friday that the mandate in the Lok Sabha polls was clearly against the Congress and the party had a lot to think about.

In the election, Modi's BJP won 282 seats in parliament, 10 more than the majority required to rule, and with allied parties had a tally of 336 - the clearest result since the 1984 assassination of former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi propelled her son Rajiv to office.

The Congress party won only 44 seats in the 543-member lower house of parliament – less than the one-tenth required to be recognised as the main opposition group.

The dynasty has been the mainstay of the Congress party since Jawaharlal Nehru led India to independence in 1947 and stayed on as prime minister until he died in 1964. Nehru's daughter, Indira Gandhi, and her son, Rajiv, both served as prime ministers and were assassinated, seven years apart.

Sonia Gandhi is Rajiv's widow and Rahul their son.

The few Congress party members who have previously raised the banner of revolt against the family have been hounded out. Some others who left the party have quietly returned.

The Congress rout, worse than opinion polls predicted, has deepened doubts about the leadership of Rahul, who is seen to have run a lacklustre campaign that failed to connect with voters, especially the young, where opposition leader and prime minister-to-be Modi succeeded.

Both Sonia and her son won their seats in the northern state of Uttar Pradesh; Rahul with a vastly reduced majority.

Congress leaders sought to shift the blame to Gandhi's advisers. "It was a complete failure of our communication strategy, our media strategy," said Ashwani Kumar, a former federal minister.

While the party bosses were closing ranks behind Rahul, some Congressmen lower down revived the call for a greater role for his sister Priyanka, seen as a more natural politician.

to fully embrace Congress politics.

Priyanka, a year younger than her brother, campaigned in the family's home districts mounting an aggressive challenge to Modi's high-decibel show that took the country by storm.

More than one-quarter of Gaza's population has been displaced, causing a humanitarian crisis.

Italy struggles to deal with growing flood of migrants willing to risk their lives to reach the nearest European shores.

Content on this website is for general information purposes only.   Your comments are provided by your own free will and you take sole responsibility for any direct or indirect   liability. You hereby provide us with an irrevocable, unlimited, and global license for no consideration to   use, reuse, delete or publish comments, in accordance with Community   Rules & Guidelines  and  Terms and   Conditions .
