
THE IRISH PENAL Reform Trust (IPRT) has said that Travellers coming from prison need a dedicated strategy to stop them re-offending.

The IPRT says in a new report, Travellers in the Irish Prison System: A qualitative study, that effective ethnic monitoring in prisons, a dedicated strategy for Travellers in the criminal justice system, and targeted reintegration supports are needed to support Traveller prisoners to escape the cycle of exclusion and offending behaviour.

The report finds that Travellers are disproportionately represented in the Irish prison system, a trend found in other countries with an indigenous minority ethnic population.

Underlying factors, the report says, include poverty; social and educational disadvantage; racial discrimination; literacy problems; mental health problems; and drug and alcohol dependency.

Discrimination carries on into prisons, the report found, where staff and other prisoners compound problems with literacy and mental health.

On release, Travellers experience problems in accessing housing and estrangement from their communities.

Deirdre Malone, Executive Director of IPRT said that the report was “overdue”.

One of the key recommendations to emerge from our research is for the Irish Prison Service to develop an equality policy for all minority groups in prison, including Travellers, and to put in place a dedicated strategy for Travellers to ensure that prison does not further compound the social marginalisation that is often at the root of offending behaviour.

Get breaking news from TheJournal.ie via Facebook.

Just click Like.

Email “Prison body wants a dedicated strategy for Travellers leaving prisons”.

Feedback on “Prison body wants a dedicated strategy for Travellers leaving prisons”.

Content copyright © Journal Media Ltd. 2014 Registered in Dublin, registration number: 483623.                 Registered office: 3rd floor, Latin Hall, Golden Lane, Dublin 8.

Please note that TheJournal.ie uses cookies to improve your experience and to provide services and advertising. For more information on cookies please refer to our cookies policy .

News images provided by Press Association and Photocall Ireland unless otherwise stated. Irish sport images provided by Inpho Photography unless otherwise stated. Wire service provided by Associated Press .

Journal Media does not control and is not responsible for user created content, posts, comments, submissions or preferences. Users are reminded that they are fully responsible for their own created content and their own posts, comments and submissions and fully and effectively warrant and indemnify Journal Media in relation to such content and their ability to make such content, posts, comments and submissions available. Journal Media does not control and is not responsible for the content of external websites.
