
Share This Story!

The nation's third reported case of the MERS virus underscores how little is known about the illness that first emerged in Saudi Arabia in 2012.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

This undated electron microscope image from the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases shows novel coronavirus particles, also known as the MERS virus, colorized in yellow.

The nation's third reported case of the MERS virus underscores how little is known about the illness that first emerged in Saudi Arabia in 2012.

"We don't know what proportion of infected people are asymptomatic, what proportion of people are symptomatic and what proportion of people have severe disease," said David Swerdlow, incident manager for MERS response activities at Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta.

The latest case was first reported Saturday. Tests show that an Illinois man, who'd had two short business meetings with an infected Indiana man, had contracted the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome virus.

The Illinois man, whom health officials are not naming, did not get sick and was not hospitalized. However, blood tests completed Friday showed he had been infected with the MERS virus, Swerdlow said.

Technically the Illinois man can't be counted as an official case of MERS because under World Health Organization guidelines, only tests from an active infection count. In this case, antibodies in the man's blood showed he had been infected and fought the infection off, Swerdlow said.

CDC teams have tested everyone the Illinois man came into contact with and so far all tests "have come back without signs of active infection," Swerdlow said.

That suggests "this is not an easily passed infection," said Leonard Krilov, chief of pediatric infectious diseases at Winthrop University Hospital in Mineola, N.Y.

Research at the Center for Infectious Disease Research and Policy at the University of Minnesota appears to show that some individuals can transmit the virus more easily than others.

"We don't know what the risk is. Any one individual's chance of transmitting is probably fairly low, but we have no idea right now what makes a person more likely to transmit the virus," said Michael Osterholm, who directs the center.

MERS first showed up in Saudi Arabia in 2012. As of May 9, 536 confirmed cases of the disease have been reported worldwide, mostly in the Middle East, according to the World Health Organization.

About 27% of those infected with the virus die, according to WHO.

The first confirmed case of MERS in a U.S. resident came on April 27. An Indiana man who had been working in Saudi Arabia flew home and was admitted to a local hospital. Lab tests confirmed he had MERS. He has since fully recovered.

The second U.S. case was a Saudi Arabian health care worker who was traveling to the United States and fell ill in Orlando on May 9 but has since recovered.

The virus in the Middle East appears to originate in animals, especially camels, Swerdlow said.

"What we don't know is what proportion of people have had contact with camels, and we don't know what other animals could be reservoirs," he said.

Middle East Respiratory Syndrome is viral respiratory illness first reported in Saudi Arabia in 2012. It is caused by a corona virus believed to originate in camels and possibly other animals. So far most cases have occurred in the Arabian Peninsula.
