
Manama: Saudi nationals have welcomed the decision by the authorities to exclude Dutch companies from future projects due to virulent anti-Islam campaign stickers by a populist politician, saying that the next move should be recalling the Saudi ambassador from Amsterdam.

On Friday, Saudi daily Al Eqtisadiya said that the kingdom was looking into suspending trade delegations between the two countries, banning all Dutch companies from taking part, whether directly or through subcontracting, in any future projects and reducing the number of visas granted to Dutch companies and investors who are not part of vital projects in the country.

The Saudi decision was taken in response to stickers printed by far-right politician Geert Wilders that display slogans in green and white script with a sword in the image of the Saudi flag denigrating Islam, Prophet Mohammad (PBUH) and the Quran.

Abu Rayyan, a blogger, said that Saudi Arabia needed to live up to its reputation as the country that defends Islam and Muslims from all forms of abuses.

“What needs to be done now is to sever all ties with a country that cannot respect us,” he said.

“We wish such a decision had been taken a long time ago because we should not allow the abuse of our religion and Prophet in any form,” Al Shammari, a blogger, said.

Al Sharari, another commenter, said that respect for religion and national values was more important than business ties, regardless of their importance.

“We can have business deals with other countries, if need be,” he said.

In Bahrain, Jaber Mohammad, an analyst, said that he supported the decision.

“We welcome the decision by the Saudi authorities as it sets the record straight,” he said.

However, Kaabool, another commenter, said that he was concerned the situation would take larger dimensions.

“We expect the European Union to stand with The Netherlands, and this could aggravate the situation between the two regions,” he posted.

The Netherlands is one of the top ten trade partners with Saudi Arabia and has investments worth $3 billion (Dh11 billion) in the Saudi kingdom, Al Eqtisadiya said.

Saudi Arabia imports mainly technology products and chemicals from The Netherlands and exports oil and by-products. The Saudis also use the port of Rotterdam extensively, the daily said. There are around 30 joint companies, it added.

Bilateral trade between the countries was nearly $5 billion in 2010 and the Netherlands is one of the largest investors in Saudi Arabia, making up nearly 4 per cent of foreign direct investment that year, the Dutch government said.

In addition to trade in oil and gas, the Netherlands exports a wide range of products and technology in the agriculture, machinery, chemical and petrochemical sectors in Saudi Arabia.

Dutch exports to Saudi Arabia amounted to €2.3 billion (Dh11.56 billion) in 2013, according to the Dutch statistics bureau CBS, as reported by Bloomberg. That is 0.5 per cent of total exports of €433.8 billion.
