
The report, "Polyvinyl Chloride (PVC) Market by Raw Material (EDC & Acetylene), Polymerization Process, Product, End User Industry (Construction, Automotive, Electrical, Packaging, Footwear), Type of Application, & Geography – Trends and Forecasts to 2018", defines and segments the PVC market with the analysis and forecasting of the consumption volume and value.

Early buyers will receive 10% customization of report.

Asia-Pacific is the major PVC market, accounting for more than 50.00% of the total global demand in 2012. The region is further expected to show a very high growth in the future, mainly due to high growth potential of building and construction industry. In 2012, China was the major consumer of PVC in Asia-Pacific, accounting for more than 65.00% of the total regional consumption. Rigid applications of PVC hold a major share in the Asia-Pacific market, but significant investments in phthalate as well as non-phthalate plasticizers indicate a considerable growth for flexible PVC applications in the region. Indian PVC market is the second biggest in the region and is driven by price competent nature of the countrys market. The PVC demand is expected to show a very high growth rate during the forecasted period.

"Rigid applications dominate the PVC market"

The demand for PVC is strong, which is through the manufacturers of pipes, fittings, profiles, and tubes that account for more than 60.0% of the total global consumption. The PVC pipes are widely used in building, construction, chemical, energy, and other industrial applications. The construction industry was the major end user industry using PVC products, accounting for more than 65.00% of the total global PVC consumption. The consumption of PVC for the manufacturing of profile & tubes and pipe &fittings is expected to grow at the highest CAGR of about 5.34% and 5.15% from 2013 to 2018. The increasing demand of electric vehicles, wood plastic composites, and innovation of bio-based additives for the improvement of recycled PVC encloses major opportunities in the PVC market.

MarketsandMarkets is a global market research and consulting company based in the U.S. We publish strategically analyzed market research reports and serve as a business intelligence partner to Fortune 500 companies across the world.

MarketsandMarkets also provides multi-client reports, company profiles, databases, and custom research services. MarketsandMarkets covers thirteen industry verticals, including advanced materials, automotive and transportation, banking and financial services, biotechnology, chemicals, consumer goods, energy and power, food and beverages, industrial automation, medical devices, pharmaceuticals, semiconductor and electronics, and telecommunications and IT.

We at MarketsandMarkets are inspired to help our clients grow by providing apt business insight with our huge market intelligence repository.
