
The second most popular high next to cannabis among young people in many countries, amphetamine use is today a major public health threat.

The synthetic drug methamphetamine, which is highly addictive, is obtained through a simple chemical process and often referred to as speed, crank, meth, crystal meth in the west, yaba (literally "crazy med" in Thai) and shabu in Asia. Amphetamine is also at the core of popular party drug MDMA (methylenedioxy-methylamphetamine) better known as ecstasy.

Commonly precursors such as ephedrine and pseudoephedrine are contained in common cold preparations and though these have recently been banned in Thailand, they continue to be available on the black market, making for a cheap high among kids as young as 12.

According to the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction, an estimated 5 per cent of young adults (15 to 34 year-olds) across Europe have used ecstasy.

In Asia, methamphetamine is likely the main agent used. Statistics from the Thailand Office of the Narcotics Control board showed that 82 per cent of drug related cases in 2011 had involved methamphetamine making ya ba the most prevalent drug and clearly demonstrating its availability to people of any age.

An additional health hazard with illegal drugs is the variability of its active principle concentration or its purity. Amphetamine purity varies even from the same source of supply. In Europe, the retail purity of methamphetamines seized in 2011 ranged from 16 to 82 per cent. In addition, producers often add "cutting agents" to their formula (caffeine, ephedrine or ketamine) as a way to make more profitable products. Mixed cocktails combining methamphetamines with MDMA are also sold as plain ecstasy.

As with any illegal substances, amphetamine consumers may unexpectedly suffer from higher toxic effects including potentially life-threatening intoxication.

Amphetamines are usually absorbed orally as tablets or snorted (inhaled through the nose) and to a lesser extent, injected or smoked in the case of methamphetamine. Amphetamine derivatives are all potent stimulants of the central nervous system and highly addictive. Initial oral intake produces short-term euphoria, renewed energy and "socialising" effects, which appear within 30 minutes and last for at least 8 hours. The stimulating effect leads to the release of several brain neurotransmitters that also increase blood pressure and heartbeat, suppress fatigue and appetite - making amphetamines popular with figure conscious girls - and causing insomnia and sometimes hallucinations. Parents, teachers and friends need to be aware of the early signs of addiction, which include dilated pupils, unusual and inappropriate behaviour, poor performance in school or at work, hyperactivity followed by long period of sleep, weight loss, tooth decay and mouth sores.

Addicts soon face damage to the brain function known as neurotoxicity. People experience mood instability, depression, a marked deficit in memory and frequent inability to make rational decisions, which further aggravates their quality of life and increases the risk of sustained consumption.

Detoxification is the core and only rational approach to amphetamine abuse. Stopping the drug's use inevitably leads to withdrawal symptoms that require specialised care in a rehab centre together with the support of family members. These symptoms can be intense with various behavioural disorders and possible suicidal ideas, which need to be alleviated with both medications and psychotherapy to also address the underlying psychological reasons of the drug abuse.

Yet even with adequate care, the outcome is uncertain because amphetamine derivatives (Meth and MDMA) have one of the highest relapse rates of any drug.

Prevention relies on heightened awareness of the dangers of psychotropic drugs among children and adolescents, parents and school personnel. At any rate, young individuals at risk will benefit from strengthening protective factors in their lives such as enhancing personal and social skills and reinforcing connections with family members, school and the community.

Dr Gerard Lalande is Managing Director of CEO-Health, which provides medical referrals for expatriates and customised executive medical check-ups in Thailand. He can be contacted at gerard.lalande@ceo-health.com.

Users are solely responsible for their comments.We reserve the right to remove any comment and revoke posting rights for any reason withou prior notice.

GrabTaxi’s drivers and executives participate in the Ice Bucket..

1858/129 Floor 32  Bangna-Trat Road, Bangna, Bangkok 10260 Thailand.

Operation Hours : Monday to Saturday at 8.00 am. to 5.00 pm and Sunday at 8.00 am. to 12.00 am.
