
The supermodel show was to celebrate the anniversary of Sapphire-models , Slovakia. Sapphire-models is an international agency specialized in the search, management and development of Models. It devotes itself to offering new faces and professionalism to its customers. As a sponsor for the show, RELLECIGA provided various fashionable swimsuits needed.

In the model show, these alluring supermodels dressed up in various RELLECIGA bikinis, which helped release their glamour fully and fabulously! The V Wire styles from Retro Style Collection made the pretty supermodels felt more confident and awesome. The lace collection added an oh-so-sweet touch and an even more irresistible sense. The colorful Dream Floral styles created a naturally fresh silhouette.

First of all, high quality fabric makes RELLECIGA definitely outstanding. As swimwears are close to our skin, their softness is extremely important. RELLECIGA always sticks to selecting natural fiber as the material of the linings for its swimwears, which highly ensures comfortableness and softness.

Besides, RELLECIGA's chic and various styles can nearly satisfy every woman's need in swimwear. Designers of RIDI (RELLECIGA Industry Design Institute) in Paris devoted themselves to developing fashionable styles. There are so many swimwear collections of RELLECIGA, including Marianne, Digital Printing, Bronze, Rikini, OZ, Retro Style, Kaleidoscope, Lace Collection and so on. Among all these collections, you can surely find your favorite style!

There is no doubt that good service is part of a good product. With several years' efforts, RELLECIGA has not only developed its main online shops, such as Amazon, eBay, Lightinthebox, Aliexpress, Dealextreme, but also established a retail outlet in Houston to provide better experiences for its users. As a result, customers can touch and feel RELLECIGA products as well as buy them online conveniently at any time and at any place.

With perfect combination of high quality fabric, chic styles and considerate service, no wonder RELLECIGA became more and more popular. With the dream of making the sexiest women wear the sexiest bikini, RELLECIGA will create more surprises for fashion lovers!

RELLECIGA, a professional bikini manufacturer, keeps on optimizing its products and services. For more information, please go to the official site: www.relleciga.com , or you can also follow on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.
