
With malnutrition and conflict stalking the youngest and most vulnerable citizens of South Sudan, the United Nations has warned that hundreds of thousands of children in the country's most crisis-torn areas are at imminent risk of death and disease, including the threat of cholera.

"The dream of a safe and peaceful South Sudan is becoming a living nightmare for its children," said Yoka Brandt, Deputy Executive Director of the United Nations Children's Agency (UNICEF) said in a statement ahead of the UN-backed Oslo Humanitarian Pledging Conference, set to begin in the Norwegian capital on Tuesday.

Five months into the conflict, around 80 percent of children under of the age of five in the three most conflict-affected states - Jonglei, Upper Nile and Unity - are at heightened risk of disease and death, the UN agency said.

Despite 80,000 people having been fully vaccinated against cholera, the South Sudanese Ministry of Health has confirmed a cholera outbreak in Juba. The cholera caseload is doubling every day, providing troubling proof that the deadly disease is spreading.

"Right now, the children of South Sudan need humanitarian assistance; they need their leaders to protect their lives, their rights, and their futures; and they need the world to listen - and demand action on their behalf," Brandt said.

The world's youngest nation has been enmeshed in a crisis which began in mid-December 2013 as a political dispute between President Salva Kiir and his former deputy president, Riek Machar, who had been forced from office earlier that year.

The infighting erupted into a full-fledged conflict, believed to have left thousands of people dead and forced tens of thousands more to seek refuge at UN bases around the country. The political rivals signed an accord two weeks ago on ending the fighting, but accusations of breaches of the ceasefire continue.

UNICEF warned that across the country, as many as 50,000 children could die from malnutrition and 740,000 children under the age of five at high risk of food insecurity. Many are already resorting to eating wild foods such as bulbs and grasses.

"UNICEF repeats its call for all parties to provide unhindered and safe access for humanitarian assistance; and to respect their own agreements to stop the violence against children, sexual and gender-based violence, and the recruitment of children," the UN agency said.
