
Speaker Nabih Berri called on Monday for a parliamentary session to tackle a message sent by President Michel Suleiman to the parliament regarding the presidential elections.

The session is set to be held on Wednesday at noon.

Suleiman's message last week urged the parliament to act in accordance with the Constitution to avert the dangers that could arise from the failure to elect a new head of state by May 25.

There are fears that the vacuum in the country's top Christian post would affect Lebanon's power-sharing agreement under which the president should be a Maronite, the premier a Sunni and the speaker a Shiite.

The president's message has only a moral value isn't binding, however, the speaker is obliged to read it at the parliament in accordance with the authorities given to the head of state by clause 10 of article 53 of the Constitution.

Parliament has so far failed to elect a new president over differences between the March 8 and 14 alliances.

A fifth round of polls is scheduled to be held Thursday, two days before the expiry of Suleiman's six-year tenure.

The message is the third of-its-kind handed over to the parliament since the adoption of the Taif accord.

Lebanon's First Post-War President Elias Hrawi had urged the parliament in his message to approve civil marriage in the country and to establish the “National Authority for the abolition of political sectarianism,” and former President Emile Lahoud dispatched a message regarding the electoral law.

Hizbullah chief Sayyed Hassan Nasrallah stated that there are “no red lines” in the “security war” with Israel, reported al-Akhbar newspaper.

Speaker Nabih Berri has said that his rejection to extend parliament's term should be used as a “pressure card” to speed up the election of a new president.

Al-Mustaqbal movement leader ex-PM Saad Hariri made on Friday a surprise return to Beirut and met with Premier Tammam Salam at the Grand Serail.

(CNN) -- Comedic actor Robin Williams died at his Northern California home Monday, law enforcement officials said. Williams was 63.

(CNN) -- The face of 15-year-old Aziza says it all.

This is a brutal example of how far the struggle between Muslims and Catholics in Nigeria has reached.

The Church of England overcame bitter divisions Monday to vote in favor of allowing female bishops for the first time in its nearly 500-year history.

Two nuns and three orphans were freed on Monday in Iraq's Islamist militant-held second city Mosul, the country's top Catholic leader said.

William Hague's surprise resignation as Britain's foreign secretary is the latest twist in a political career that has seen soaring highs and deep lows.
