
FAIRFAX, VA and NEW YORK, NY--(Marketwired - May 19, 2014) - Invincea, Inc., the market leader in the use of secure virtual containers for user protection against advanced cybersecurity threats, today announced the availability of Invincea Research Edition -- a free malware discovery and analysis solution for the Data Forensics and Incident Response (DF/IR) community. Joining Invincea in this announcement is ThreatGRID , provider of the first unified malware analysis and threat intelligence solution that is revolutionizing how organizations use accurate and context-rich intelligence to defend against advanced cyber-attacks.

Participants will also benefit from the community and body of threat research work of other researchers around the world contributed with identities anonymized. One-click integration with ThreatGRID provides deeper contextual analysis by allowing participants to chart the origins of the thwarted attack, conduct advanced search, pivoting and correlation with any and all analyzed artifacts against the entire ThreatGRID database, understand past uses of identified command and control infrastructure and more. The Invincea Research Edition release also includes CrowdSource, a tool for malware analysis developed by Invincea Labs presented at BlackHat 2013. CrowdSource is a command line tool for rapid and scalable malware analysis requiring no expertise in malware analysis. Given an arbitrary executable, CrowdSource will tell you the capabilities of that executable within seconds via a command line utility. It leverages web-sourced annotations of code and machine learning to predict capabilities within code-based on the wisdom of crowds in natural language form. In short, it makes high volume triage of malware executables scalable with minimal DF/IR expertise required.

"We're excited to participate with Invincea in the roll-out of Invincea Research Edition," said Dov Yoran, Co-Founder and CEO of ThreatGRID. "This collaboration will extend our rich global and historical context that we provide to SOC analysts, threat intelligence analysts, incident responders and reverse engineers, empowering them with deep, accurate knowledge on threats to speed up investigations, proactively defend against advanced threats and maximize the value of their existing investments."

Invincea's software is now deployed in more than 15,000 organizations worldwide -- protecting dozens of industry verticals such as financial services, retail, energy, oil & gas, high tech, healthcare, retail, transportation, defense industrial, federal and state government agencies and companies. In June 2013, Invincea became the first advanced malware threat protection technology to ship straight from the factory on all Dell commercial devices under the brand name of Dell Data Protection | Protected Workspace. These machines include: Precision, Latitude, and Optiplex machines. The OEM deal announced by Dell is now shipping Invincea on more than 60 million devices globally over the next three years.

Invincea is the premier innovator in advanced malware threat detection, breach prevention and forensic threat intelligence. Invincea is the market-leading solution that provides organizations of all sizes -- enterprises to small-medium businesses -- with coverage against the largest attack surface for cyber-breach attacks aimed at end-users in the form of spear-phishing, drive-by download exploits, poisoned search results and user-initiated infections. Invincea's platform seamlessly moves the browser, PDF reader, Java, and Microsoft Office suite from the native operating system into secure virtualized environments without altering the user experience.

About ThreatGRID, Inc.

ThreatGRID is the first unified malware analysis and threat intelligence solution that is revolutionizing how organizations use accurate and context-rich intelligence to defend against advanced cyber attacks. ThreatGRID customers include large organizations across a number of verticals such as financial services, government, healthcare, energy, manufacturing and more. ThreatGRID securely crowdsources large volumes of malware and performs advanced analysis in the cloud, to identify key behavioral indicators enabling near real-time remediation. ThreatGRID empowers security teams with continuous real-time threat intelligence, enriched by global and historical context, to prevent future attacks. ThreatGRID's API simplifies sample submission and intelligence integration with other security products to maximize the effectiveness of existing investments. Founded by entrepreneurs with deep security expertise, ThreatGRID is privately held and is based in New York City. For more information, visit www.threatgrid.com , read our blog , follow us on Twitter @ThreatGRID and LinkedIn .

© Copyright Marketwire L.P. All rights reserved.
