
Shaaban Steel is a major steel supplier in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. In recent years its expansion has been rapid but this meant that the business outgrew the ERP system it was using. It resulted in  stock keeping issues which in turn impacted on financial reporting. Consequently, the company implemented Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R2 and is no benefiting from far more accurate supply chain management and more accurate business decision making.

Shaaban Steel is a long-established supplier of special steels and metals in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. For over 50 years it has been one of the key suppliers for the national economy enabling the construction of many high-profile building projects. It supplies  flat products (stainless steel, aluminum & copper-alloys) and long products (special steel alloys & non-ferrous alloys). It also specializes in round steel ranging from 6mm in diameter up to 850mm in diameter, vital in all forms of construction. The company  has five branches, three in Jeddah, one in Dammam, and while its business has traditionally been in the western region of Saudi Arabia, it has recently expanded into the central region with a newly opened branch in Riyadh.

Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R2 is making a very big and positive difference to the company in managing inventory, and other areas, on a weekly and daily basis.

This expansion has been quite rapid in the past few years and, while clearly healthy for the business, it also brought in its wake operational problems which complicated the management and supply of steel. Its existing ERP system, a locally developed system,  was no longer able to cope with the growth in business. As a result, the business was experiencing problems with inventory control, finding it difficult to control and track round steel sales and inventory.

It also meant that much stock was left unsold as it was difficult to determine precisely what was in the inventory. There was also an impact on financial and accounting practices. The company accepts discount requests from its customers to meet market price  volatility. However, calculating the discounts was an onerous task given that it was analyzed manually, while sales and financial reporting was not only equally time consuming and complex, but often inaccurate.

Consequently the company evaluated a number of ERP platform options which included both Oracle and Microsoft. “Oracle was very expensive and also had a level of complexity that was beyond our needs. But Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R2 seemed like a really good  fit. It had a number of modules that we were interested in: financial management, trade and logistics, HR & payroll and production management,” adds Waleed.

The company then charged Sermon Arabia Business Solutions, a Microsoft partner and IT systems integrator with implementing Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R2. “They are the most professional company for these implementations with a good track record in Microsoft  ERP and were able to offer high-quality and sustained support which is clearly important for these types of implementations,” said Waleed.

“…Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R2 seemed like a really good fit. It had a number of modules that we were interested in: financial management, trade and logistics, HR & payroll and production management.

Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R2 was implemented within one year with all modules running live. Sermon also carried out some module customization to dovetail and automate business processes with its inventory management. Given that Shaaban Steel turnovers huge  quantities of steel each year, this is expected to result in considerable cost savings each year.

The system is being used by approximately 55 Shaaban Steel employees across all modules including procurement, financial management, sales and HR & payroll and the most important module of all, production. In summary, the company is benefiting from business  process automation across stock control, financial control and HR management while providing real time inquiries into business operations whenever required.

This case study is for informational purposes only. MICROSOFT MAKES NO WARRANTIES, EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, IN THIS SUMMARY.
