
Police investigate the scene where a 22-year-old man died after being shot while walking along the 300 block of Newhope Street in Santa Ana about 2:35 a.m. Sunday morning, police said.

Published: May 18, 2014 Updated: May 20, 2014  6:53 a.m.

SANTA ANA – A 22-year-old man died after being shot while walking along a street early Sunday – the third fatal shooting in the city this month, police said.

Leonicio Banuelos was walking south on the 200 block of Newhope Street when a silver sport utility vehicle stopped and fired several shots, Santa Ana police Cpl. Anthony Bertagna said. At least one of the rounds hit Banuelos, who was believed to have walked back to his nearby apartment and called police, Bertagna said.

Banuelos was taken to UCI Medical Center in Orange, where he later died, police said.

Banuelos’ death was the fifth known shooting this month in Santa Ana and the third fatality. The recent violence is an “anomaly and isn’t characteristic of Santa Ana,” Councilman David Benavides said.

With more than 332,000 residents, Santa Ana reported eight slayings last year, up from six in 2012, according to the most recent figures provided in the FBI’s annual crime report. Santa Ana police officials did not immediately provide the Register with the the number of fatal shootings reported this year.

Councilman Sal Tinajero said that gang violence in Santa Ana has “significantly” dropped since the 1980s and 1990s, but he noted that “there is always room for improvement.” Specifically, Tinajero said that providing additional after-school programs would help keep kids off the streets and out of trouble, leading to a reduction in violence.

Banuelos’ death came a little more than 24 hours after 17-year-old Janet Jimenez was found dead just before midnight Friday inside a car parked at a Circle K gas station on Edinger Avenue. The teen was shot in the upper torso in what police believe was a drive-by shooting.

Vidal Quevada was shot at an apartment complex in the 2900 block of North Bristol Street around 2:30 a.m. on May 6. The 27-year-old man was taken to UCI Medical Center, where he later died from his injuries. Family members said they did not know what Quevedo was doing outside at that time.

And, two men were wounded during a drive-by shooting in the 4700 block of West Oakfield Avenue on May 10. The driver of a gray pickup truck asked the men where they were from and fired eight to nine shots with a handgun before speeding off.

Keep it civil and stay on topic. No profanity, vulgarity, racial slurs or personal attacks. People who harass others or joke about tragedies will be blocked. By posting your comment, you agree to allow Orange County Register Communications, Inc. the right to republish your name and comment in additional Register publications without any notification or payment.
