
Sign up now for our News Alert emails and the latest breaking news plus new features.

Thailand's government was not consulted ahead of the imposition of martial law by the military, the caretaker PM's aide has told CNN.

ARMY CHIEF Prayuth Chan-ocha appeared on all of Thailand's television channels in the middle of the night to declare martial law in an intervention that follows six months of street protests, rallies and sporadic violence.

Bangkok's police have been ordered to return to their local stations. The Army already mans 178 street-corner outposts throughout the central area of Thailand's capital.

It's believed the order also applies to Phuket and other parts of Thailand, too.

The move appears aimed at heading off a potential confrontation between anti-government street protesters determined to end the Thaksin Shinawatra era and the former Prime Minister's so-called ''Red'' supporters.

All Thai TV stations are being guarded by the military, Thai public television announced, showing pictures of soldiers and armored vehicles taking positions outside broadcast facilities in Bangkok.

Most of the movement on Bangkok's streets appeared aimed at isolating the two groups in advance of what street protest leader Suthep Thaugsuban hopes will be a final few days of rallies aimed at forcing the introduction of an appointed neutral Prime Minister.

Khun Suthep, whose nightly televised speeches have for weeks offered direction to the protesters and driven the course of developments, has said he will surrender to answer a charge of treason on May 27.

As part of a last-ditch effort to bring down the vestiges of the Thaksin-controlled Pheu Thai party, which Thaksin's sister Yingluck led until removed for abuses of power by the Constitutional Court earlier this month, Khun Suthep has appealed to all government workers, provincial governors and vice governors to join him in the streets this week.

The six months of protests have gradually eroded the Shinawatra government but not dismantled it completely.

Khun Suthep, a former Democrat Party deputy Prime Minister, abandoned politics to lead the street uprising against what he described as a ''family business'' aimed at running Thailand for the benefit of a few.

General Prayuth urged people to continue going to work or school as normal in Bangkok and throughout the country today.

''Now we have launched this action,'' he said, ''because the stability of the country has been put at risk. We must make sure everything is in order and restore people for everyone.

''Other law enforcement officers are ordered back to their stations, except for the Army, Navy and Air Force.''

Facebook photographs posted yesterday showed Red leaders carrying large basket-loads of cash which were believed to be destined to be handed out to supporters.

There's a deep division in Thailand between the ''Yellow'' supporters of Khun Suthep who want reforms aimed at ending corruption and the ''Reds'' who benefited from populist government policies before PM Thaksin was deposed and became a fugitive in voluntary exile.

An attempt to hold a national election before reforms were introduced was made on February 2 but nullified when protesters prevented a ballot taking place on Phuket and across most of the south, as well as in parts of Bangkok.  A second national election scheduled for July 20 also seems unlikely to proceed.

The stalemate has divided families and brought incidents in Bangkok where guns and grenades have been used by radicals, mostly against Khun Suthep's protesters.

Such is the gap between the two colors that even a beauty quest cannot be held without politics. In a glitzy ceremony in Bangkok's upmarket Paragon shopping mall on Saturday night, Weluree Ditsayabut, 22, was picked to represent Thailand in the international Miss Universe pageant later this year.

However, when her tweets and postings were revealed, there was an outcry that she should be removed.

A passionate opponent of the government and Red shirts, she wrote last November: ''You red-shirt bastards, get out of here. Thailand is contaminated by people like you who want to overthrow the monarchy.

''You're wicked - you won't die peacefully in your beds," she wrote, ''I'm not neutral. I'm siding with the king. You red-shirt leaders should all be executed.''

With such passion being publicly expressed on both sides, and with a climax on the streets predicted this week, little wonder the Army has intervened.

''If the situation turns more violent, it could lead to riots,'' General Prayuth Chan-ocha said in a national address last week. ''The Army will have to use military forces to resolve the situation for peace and order.''

Want an avatar for your comments? Register with Gravatar .

Do not enter anything in this text box otherwise your message will not be sent!

The general says it's not a coup; arthur says it is. Who are we to believe? No point in expressing a view unless you have factual information. Rumors and gossip are no use and can do great harm.

WOW...CANT BELIEVE THIS IS HAPPENING IN THAILAND HOPE THIS ENDS SOON AND NO MORE DEATHS OCCUR.

It's actually happening in upper and lower case, Fred.

Most people - especially those who have already paid - will keep coming. Everybody else will think twice. In reality, Thailand's beach destinations remain as appealing as ever. Bangkok? Well, perhaps not just now.

Sorry Ed but no matter what the General says if it looks like a duck, walks like a duck and sounds like a duck it is most likely a duck.

Subtlety and points of difference are clearly not your strong suit, arthur. It's not a coup, it doesn't appear to be a coup, and the authorities are saying it's not a coup. The government is not affected. Guess all you like, but it ain't a coup.

it was the BIB directing traffic at tesco lotus intersection this morning.. haven't seen any signs of military movement in kathu so far.. much the same as the coup (8 years ago?), i expect most attention will be paid to the streets of the capital..

The never ending story has to end and hopefully with a good result for a peacful and prosperous future for my beloved Thailand. Still a happy country surrounded by unlucky ones. But working hard to join the others.

Now offer an amnesty, ban all the culprits off public offices whatsoever, then go mad on corruption and nepotism.

Every poor Thai is a lost potential to make business with. Every uneducated Thai is a lost potential to create and offer stuff. Do not make debt for buying rice but for sending bright students - maybe even the kids of the farmers - abroad, to America and China, to Europe on scholarships. Tutor poor villages by flourishing ones. Make landownership clear and transparent. Let the rich enrich Thailand by letting them help with taxes or if they want by giving to causes. Make it a one Thailand again. Were corruption is bad, paying taxes makes you a respected person and people spending other peoples money aka the taxes do it for not egomanic reasons.

Democracy is by default the rule of the majority - I cannot believe the Thai people still fight over this. It comes out as stupidity and lack of education how Thailand seems to be handling rather simple issue of inequality.

The Scandinavian countries rank at the top for every possible metric and what we do is sharing wealth, listening to people and overall respect of the democratic ways.

As long as income transfers are considered "populistic" i.e. bad, Thailand will go nowhere.

However corrupt Thaksin's rule may be, the "Thaksinomics" he implemented to support rural north have improved the life of them. Non democratic ways lead to totalitarism and that has never benefitted anyone but the elite and corrupt.

It's the underlying values that make democracies work, not the election of the people with the majority. Remember Ferdinand Marcos? How could the Philippines ever forget him? Pork barreling fiefdoms and populism for political gain can be the biggest handicaps and set back for decades developing countries with the prospect to be prosperous - if good people with good intentions are in charge. Once corruption sets in permanently, it's game over, majority vote ''democracy'' or not.
