
Puma Energy is taking over Chevron Swaziland’s business.

MBABANE – Chevron is selling its shareholding from Chevron Swaziland to Puma Energy, management has informed its business partners.

In a letter dated May 16, 2014 which the Times Business Desk is in possession of, Chevron’s Senior Manager Retail Douglas Nkambwe Mutimba wrote to Chevron business partners notifying them that they had made a difficult decision to exit the Downstream market in Swaziland, with the exception of the Lubricants Market where Chevron will continue to be represented by way of an independent distributor.

The oil and gas industry is usually divided into three major sectors: upstream, midstream and downstream. The downstream sector commonly refers to the refining of petroleum crude oil and the processing and purifying of raw natural gas, as well as the marketing and distribution of products derived from crude oil and natural gas. The downstream sector touches consumers through products such as gasoline or petrol, kerosene, jet fuel, diesel oil, heating oil, fuel oils, lubricants, waxes, asphalt, natural gas, and liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) as well as hundreds of petrochemicals.

With the above description of the downstream sector, this means Chevron will cease trading in the country.

“I am writing to inform you that Chevron has signed an initial sale agreement with Puma Energy for its shareholding in Chevron Swaziland. The proposed transaction is expected to close once the required local regulatory and government approvals have been received. This process may take six months,” Mutimba wrote.

In the meantime, Mutimba said there are no anticipated significant changes or immediate effects on the business of Chevron Swaziland. He said the management’s focus is to continue to operate on a ‘business as usual’ basis delivering high quality products to their customers safely, reliably and efficiently.

“Moving forward, we will work with Puma Energy in our endeavour to ensure a smooth transition in order to minimise any impact on you as valued business partners,” further reads the letter.

In 2010, Chevron International withdrew its operations from14 countries and cited difficult trading conditions. It said as a result, operating expenditure had been cut by approximately E2.96 billion (US$400 million) and in the process, the group shed 1 500 workers.

The company further assured that its operations in South Africa were being retained, together with operations in North America, Asia, Australia and Britain, as part of its strategic portfolio. In South Africa, Chevron’s operations include the Cape Town refinery, Milnerton refinery as well as the countrywide network of Caltex filling stations.

Puma Energy is an Australian originating company and a rapidly growing, global energy company. In Australia it has acquired Ausfuel Gull, CCG, Matilda and Neumann Petroleum and continues with significant ongoing infrastructure investment in key locations.

Puma Energy has a retail footprint of over 270 service stations and unmanned sites throughout Australia, including an extensive 24-hour diesel network and fuel card offering.

Puma Energy sites are currently operated under a variety of brands including Puma, Matilda, Gull, Choice Petroleum and Peak.
