
The army orders censorship of the media and bans protest as it seeks to restore "peace" after months of political upheaval.

Armed troops and military vehicles topped with machine guns have taken up positions in central Bangkok after the army declared martial law across Thailand.

Soldiers have been seen in the city's retail and hotel district, and the army commandeered television stations to broadcast their message to the nation.

They also surrounded the national police headquarters in Bangkok and banned protest marches.

Military chiefs have denied staging a coup and claim the army is trying to restore order after six months of political unrest that has left Thailand without a fully functioning government.

Soldiers are taking charge of public security to protect against any more violent street protests, said army chief General Prayuth Chan-ocha.

Hundreds of people have been injured and 28 have died in clashes over the last six months.

General Prayuth said: "We are concerned this violence could harm the country's security in general. Then, in order to restore law and order to the country, we have declared martial law.

"I'm asking all those activist groups to stop all activities and cooperate with us in seeking a way out of this crisis."

Protesters have been told to stay where they are and the country's media will also be censored, said the army, who told the Thai people not to panic.

Thailand's interim government, which had not been informed of the military plan, is to hold an emergency meeting at a safe house to discuss the crisis.

Sky's Jonathan Samuels said: "The army believes the police can no longer handle the security so now we are seeing plenty of soldiers on the streets.

"It said it’s come in to stop any more bloodshed, but of course there are many that say it may have the opposite effect."

Thailand has been in a state of upheaval since 2006, but the latest unrest began in November when anti-government protesters tried to oust former prime minister Yingluck Shinawatra.

The protesters railed against a government amnesty bill they said was designed to help former leader Thaksin Shinawatra - Yingluck's brother - avoid being jailed for corruption.

Yingluck Shinawatra was finally removed earlier this month for abuse of power - along with nine ministers.

 TYingluck YYYYYUYYYYYYYYYYYYHowever, the move has done little to dampen disquiet against the caretaker government.

The army's surprise announcement comes a day after acting prime minister Niwattumrong Boonsongpaisan refused to step down.

Regional neighbours have already expressed concern at the army's seizing of power, with Japan "strongly urging" self-restraint and calling for "sincere negotiations".

Thailand's powerful army has declared martial law, deploying troops into the heart of Bangkok.

A morning commuter passes a machine gun on a military vehicle.

Life in the vast skyscraper-strewn city remained largely unaffected, with schools, businesses and tourist sites open and traffic flowing as usual.

The surprise operation places the army in charge of public security nationwide.

Thai soldiers stand in front of the Army Club in Bangkok.

Soldiers entered multiple television stations to broadcast the army message.

Thai soldiers man a checkpoint near the site where pro-government Red Shirt supporters have been gathering in the suburbs of Bangkok. Click through for more pictures of Bangkok.

Thailand has a long history of political unrest with the army staging at least 11 coups since the end of the absolute monarchy in 1932.

The latest crisis has its roots in the 2006 military overthrow of prime minister Thaksin Shinawatra, who was embroiled in a telecoms corruption scandal.

September 2006: Thailand's armed forces oust Thaksin in a bloodless coup and impose martial law.

December 2007: The People Power Party made up of Thaksin's allies, wins elections and forms a coalition government.

May 2008: Royalist anti-Thaksin Yellow Shirts relaunch street protests that led to the 2006 coup.

September 2008: State of emergency declared after clashes between pro and anti-government groups leave one person dead and dozens wounded.

Constitutional Court strips Thaksin-allied prime minister Samak Sundaravej of his powers, ruling he illegally accepted payments for hosting TV cooking shows. Thaksin's brother-in-law Somchai Wongsawat takes his place.

October 2008: Clashes between police and demonstrators leave two people dead and nearly 500 wounded.

Court sentences Thaksin in his absence to two years in jail for corruption after he flees the country.

November-December, 2008: Thousands of Yellow Shirts blockade Bangkok's airports. State of emergency imposed for nearly two weeks.

December 2008: Constitutional Court dissolves Somchai's party, forcing him from office. British-born Abhisit Vejjajiva of the Democrats becomes premier in a parliamentary vote with army backing.

January-March 2009: Red Shirts loyal to Thaksin stage mass protests in the capital against Abhisit's government.

April 2009: Red Shirts storm an Asian summit in the beach resort of Pattaya, forcing the evacuation of regional leaders. Riots and a 12-day state of emergency in Bangkok ensue, leaving two people dead.

March 2010: Tens of thousands of Red Shirts begin rolling demonstrations calling for Abhisit's government to step down, saying it is elitist and undemocratic.

April-May 2010: Street clashes between Red Shirt protesters and armed troops leave more than 90 people dead, mostly civilians, in the country's worst civil unrest in decades.

July 3 2011: Thaksin's allies sweep to power in elections on a wave of support from their Red Shirt followers.

August 2011: Parliament elects Thaksin's youngest sister Yingluck Shinawatra as Thailand's first female prime minister.

November 2012: Police fire tear gas at demonstrators as clashes erupt at the first major street protests against Ms Yingluck's government.

October 2013: Protests break out against an amnesty bill which critics say is aimed at allowing Thaksin - who went into self-imposed exile to avoid jail for a corruption conviction - to return home and escape prison.

November 2013: Opposition protesters occupy the finance and foreign ministries demanding Ms Yingluck resign.

December 2013: Police use water cannon and tear gas on protesters who storm the government and police headquarters. Opposition politicians resign en masse from parliament.

Ms Yingluck calls early elections as demonstrators return to the streets. Opposition announces a poll boycott.

February 2, 2014: Opposition demonstrators prevent 10,000 polling stations from opening for the election.

March 21, 2014: Constitutional Court declares February elections invalid.

April 30, 2014: Government announces new elections for July 20.

May 7, 2014: Constitutional Court removes Ms Yingluck and several cabinet ministers from office. New caretaker premier Niwattumrong Boonsongpaisan appointed by remainder of cabinet.

May 15, 2014: The Election Commission says a general election scheduled for July 20 is "no longer possible" as polls cannot be held without the support of the protesters.

May 20, 2014: Army declares martial law, stressing the move "is not a coup".

May 22, 2014:  The country's armed forces announce a military coup.

May 26, 2014: General Prayuth formally appointed to lead the nation.

Yingluck Shinawatra - Thaksin's sister became Thailand's Prime Minister in July 2011. She was dismissed by a court on 7th May.

Thai acting caretaker Prime Minister Niwattumrong Boonsongpaisan replaced Yingluck Shinawatra after she was removed from office. He is pictured at meetings with the election commission in May 2014, which failed to stop the military coup.

King Bhumibol Adulyadej, who celebrated his 86th birthday in December, is treated as a near-deity by many in Thailand.
