
Several months of rain coming down hard in only a few days sparked what is considered as the worst and deadliest floods in the Balkans in more than a century.

Communities in Serbia and Bosnia battled to protect towns and power plants on Monday from rising flood waters and landslides that have devastated swathes of both countries and killed dozens of people.

"The consequences of the floods are terrifying," Bosnian Foreign Minister Zlatko Lagumdzija told a news conference. "The physical destruction is not less than the destruction caused by the war." He said more than 100,000 houses and other buildings were no longer usable. "During the war, many people lost everything," he said. "Today, again they have nothing."

More than a million people in Bosnia were been cut off from clean water supplies, Lagumdzija said, after torrential rains caused rivers to burst their banks and triggered more than 2,000 landslides.

Receding waters in some of the areas worst-hit by the heaviest rainfall in the Balkans since records began 120 years ago revealed scenes of devastation - twisted homes, fallen trees and rotting animals.

Authorities in Bosnia estimated some 500,000 people had been evacuated or left their homes, the kind of human displacement not seen since the country's 1992-95 war. The discovery of a body in the north of the country on Monday raised the regional death toll to at least 38.

At least 25,000 people have been evacuated in Serbia.

In addition, the floods have forced Bosnia to deal with its own landmines, a legacy of the 1992-95 Bosnian war which killed about 100,000 people.

“A vast number of landslides have worsened the situation[…], and there are reports that landmines buried during the conflict, and not yet removed, are in some instances being shifted with the landslides adding danger for people living in the areas as well as for rescuers,” the Red Cross said in a statement on Sunday.

More than 500,000 people of Bosnia-Herzegovina’s population of almost four million live in areas littered with mines left over from the 1992-95 Bosnian war and face the risk of being blown up on a daily basis.

About 220,000 mines are still lying beneath the ground across the country, according to the country’s de-mining center.

The River Sava, swollen by a new flood wave from Croatia a day after the rain finally stopped, continued to threaten parts of northern Bosnia and western Serbia, including Serbia's biggest power plant 30 km (18 miles) southwest of the capital, Belgrade.

Soldiers and energy workers worked through the night to build barriers of sandbags to keep the water back from the site and from a second complex, the Kostolac coal-fired plant, east of Belgrade.

Hundreds of volunteers in the capital filled sandbags and stacked them along the banks of Sava. Police issued an appeal for more bags.

Djina Trisovic, a union spokeswoman at Serbia's EPS power utility, said some workers at the Nikola Tesla plant had worked three days with barely a break because their relief teams could not reach the plant.

"The plant should be safe now," she told Reuters. "We've done all we could. Now it's in the hands of God."

At least 38 people have drowned or been killed by landslides mainly in Serbia and Bosnia, as waters submerged towns and swept away roads and bridges. Tens of thousands of people have been displaced and swathes of agricultural land devastated.

'THE MOUNTAIN HAS STARTED TO SLIDE'

The plant covers roughly half of Serbia 's electricity needs. Parts were already shut down as a precaution, and it would have to be powered down completely if the waters breached the defences.

Other EPS officials also said they believed the plant was out of danger, but there was concern for the Kolubara coal mine that supplies it.

Hundreds of landslides have caused havoc, particularly in mountainous Bosnia, where the Sava has devastated farmland that is a mainstay of the economy.

The river continued to overwhelm ad hoc flood defences both there and in Serbia .

In the northern Bosnian region of Tuzla, mayor Jasmin Imamovic said volunteers and emergency services were digging channels to divert water that had formed small lakes and triggered landslides, burying at least 15 houses and threatening others.

Seven tonnes of rotting livestock were removed from the central Serbian town of Svilajnac , state news agency Tanjug reported.

On the Serbian-Bosnian border, the town of Mali Zvornik on the River Drina was also in danger.

"The mountain has practically started to slide into the Drina," Predrag Maric , the Serbian police 's head of emergency situations, told Radio B92, "with the potential to create a natural dam that would divert the Drina towards Mali Zvornik and flood it."

An estimated 300,000 people in Serbia and an additional 50,000 in Bosnia are without access to electricity or drinking water, as some are living in unsafe and unsanitary conditions.

As rescue coordinators appeal for food, water and essential needs to help those affected, humanitarian support has streamed from across the world.

Turkey’s Cooperation and Coordination Agency continued delivering cans of tinned food, flour, oil, boots and hygiene supplies to devastated areas on Sunday, as requested by PM Recep Tayyip Erdogan, said Dr. Zulkuf Oruc, the agency’s coordinator for the Sarajevo region.

Turkey has also sent aid to several cities where shortages of medical supplies were particularly acute, which triggered fears of epidemics.

Turkish Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu, in a phone conversation with Chairman of the Bosnian Presidential Council Bakir Izetbegovic, promised additional aid.

© 2006 All Rights Reserved.

Copyright, trade marks and other intellectual property rights in this website can not be reproduced without the prior permission.
