
Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan PM of Turkey said that I am absolutely appalled by the most tragic coal mining accident in Turkish history, which occurred this week in Soma, a small town in western Anatolia.

The number of miners who lost their lives in this “work-crime” had reached 284 by yesterday morning. The previous death record was 263 in Kozlu, on the coast of the Black Sea, in 1992.

Unfortunately the number of victims may increase by dozens, since we do not know how many miners are still trapped in the depths of the mine. The private company that operates the mine is simply unable to tell us how many miners were in the shafts when an explosion caused a vast fire in the mine. This is absolutely scandalous, but this is not a unique scandal in this tragedy.

He was even more explicit four years ago, when 30 miners lost their lives in Zonguldak, saying that “The people of this region are familiar with these kinds of accidents. This is the destiny of this profession” (Sabah, May 19, 2010). Miners' accidental deaths are certainly not destiny. Most of them are the consequence of the erroneous policies of successive governments. But the current government of the Justice and Development Party is particularly responsible for this work-crime, since it has ruled Turkey for more than 10 years and has done nothing to improve working conditions in the mines or reinforce safety regulations or emergency measures in the case of an accident.

He said that I was absolutely shocked when I learned that safety rooms, where miners can take refuge in an accident, are not a legal requirement in Turkish mines. Needless to say, the Soma mine did not possess such facilities. I hoped naively that a number of miners could have found refuge in such safety rooms and that they could have been rescued, as was the case some years ago in Chile, where scores of miners were saved a month after the accident, thanks to a safety room.

This tragic accident has reminded us of how Turkey lacks strict safety regulations in its mines, how the AKP government has neglected this problem. Let me start by underlining that Turkey has not signed the International Labour Organization (ILO) Safety and Health in Mines Convention that was adopted in 1995 and entered into force in 1998.

The AKP was not in power at that time, but it has had enough time to adopt the ILO convention. On the contrary, the AKP government partly deregulated the sector when a number of coal mines belonging to the public Turkish Coal Enterprises (TK?) were privatized.

He added that if the ILO convention had been adopted and its rules properly enforced, the Soma accident might not have happened, and if it were unavoidable in any case, the number of victims might have not been so high. Allow me to mention a few stipulations from the ILO convention.

And according to Article 10, employers must ensure that “a system is established so that the names of all persons who are underground can be accurately known at any time, as well as their probable location.” If this convention had been adopted, we could at least know the number and names of the miners who are still in the shafts.

Given the pitiful state of mining in Turkey, we should not be surprised to discover that Turkey has a record number of miners getting killed in mine accidents.

A report from think tank the Economic Policy Research Foundation of Turkey (TEPAV), published in 2010, revealed that Turkey has the highest number of deaths in mining accidents per 1 million tonne of coal extracted. Following the Soma tragedy, we will certainly have broken a new record.

Copyright © 2012 Coal Guru. All Rights Reserved.
