
Subscribe and get the best from the week.

Get the latest news and opportunities in tech each week.

It's no mystery that sales is a dog-eat-dog, hyper-competitive profession. And if it wasn’t already hard enough, buyers are now more informed and harder to reach than ever. As a result, sales reps crave new insights into the mind and heart of the buyer.

Sales professionals wish they had a crystal ball or sixth sense for the ideal time and message to break through all the noise and capture the buyer’s attention. We don’t have supernatural powers but we now have Big Data, the massive amount of information published every day about companies and individuals. In that data, we can find sales rep gold.

What gold? Buying signals! Sales reps can drill in on news and events that indicate when a company is ripe for the products or services a sales rep is offering. According to Craig Elias , author of Trigger Event Selling, using buying signals in the sales process can increase response rates by up to 32%.

1. Job postings. New hires mean larger and more complex teams, as well as new executives. New executives are always looking to make an impact quickly with fresh ideas and strategies. Companies experiencing organizational growing pains are more willing to entertain different solutions.

2. Expansion. Moving into new, larger offices or new markets is generally a growth indicator. These companies will be receptive to solutions that scale the business more efficiently, such as HR offerings, software, office supplies and travel logistics.

3. Financial results. Monitor quarterly reports. Companies decreasing spending are looking to correct inefficiencies, while companies increasing spending want to optimize and scale.

It's possible to analyze large information sets to boost product quality, improve marketing and further customer relationships -- all without a huge price tag,

New Orleans-based meal-experience company Dinner Lab depends on participants giving their honest feedback on every course.
