
Chennai-based Vasan Healthcare has raised US$ 50 million in new growth capital from existing institutional investors.  These investors are Singapore’s GIC Private Limited, WestBridge Capital and Sequoia Capital.  Vasan Healthcare runs eye care and dental hospitals across India.  Singapore’s sovereign wealth fund had already invested US$ 100 million in Vasan Healthcare, while WestBridge Capital and Sequoia Capital invested US$ 50 million together in three rounds of funding.

Vasan Healthcare may go for an initial public offering by 2015.

Increasingly, institutional investors are investing in Indian healthcare companies.  The International Finance Corporation (IFC) and ICICI Venture are in key negotiations to acquire a 35% stake in Hyderabad-based Krishna Institute of Medical Sciences.

© 2008-2014 Sovereign Wealth Fund Institute. All Rights Reserved.  Sovereign Wealth Fund Institute ® and SWFI® are registered trademarks of the Sovereign Wealth Fund Institute. Other logos are owned by their perspective entities.  All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws.  Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our terms of use agreement .

The Sovereign Wealth Fund Institute is a global organization designed to study sovereign wealth funds, public pensions, superannuation funds, central banks and other long-term public investors in the areas of investing, asset allocation, risk, governance, economics, policy, trade and other relevant issues.  We provide specialized services such as research and consulting to various corporations, funds and governments. The Sovereign Wealth Fund Institute delivers information and insights on current issues and trends related to sovereign wealth. Our flagship publication, the Sovereign Wealth Quarterly is the premier publication on sovereign wealth and other long-term public investors. In addition, the Sovereign Wealth Fund Institute facilitates sovereign fund, public pension, superannuation fund and central bank events around the world.
