
LEXINGTON — Eric McCain will have to wait until August to get a hearing on vacating his life sentence for killing an officer.

McCain was convicted of first degree murder and sentenced to life in prison without parole Oct.16, 1990 in the killing of a Gothenburg police officer. McCain was 17 at the time.

In 2010, the U.S. Supreme Court found that it was unconstitutional to sentence a minor to life without the possibility of parole, but the court failed to stipulate if the ruling was retroactive.

In 2013, the Nebraska Legislature passed a bill changing the sentencing requirements in such cases to 40 years to life, to comply with the Supreme Court’s decision.

McCain was sentenced under the old law and has served 23 years. With credit for good time, McCain could be released from prison under Nebraska’s good time sentencing provisions.

The Nebraska Public Advocacy Commission filed for post-conviction relief for McCain.

On July 2, 1990, McCain entered the Gothenburg police station with a rifle and shot and killed Gothenburg Police Department Sgt. Glenn Haas.

Dawson County Attorney Liz Waterman said after the hearing Friday, “This is a huge deal. It’s not just one guy’s concern,” referring to the families affected by the officer’s death. She likened the delay to picking a scab.

Any views or opinions presented below are solely those of the author and do not represent those of the Kearney Hub. We reserve the right to remove comments and or (if necessary) ban users that repeatedly fail to abide by the following rules. PLEASE NOTE: All discussions are closed automatically after 7 days.

Keep it clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language.

Disagree respectfully and stay on topic.

Don't threaten or abuse. Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated. AND PLEASE TURN OFF CAPS LOCK.

Be truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.

Be nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.

Advertising is not free. Do not use comments as a means to promote your website or business.

Be proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.

Share with us. We'd love to hear eyewitness accounts, the history behind an article.

Users will receive one warning.

Any offense thereafter will result in a ban.

© Copyright 2014, Kearney Hub , Kearney, NE. BH Media Group Holdings, Inc |  13 East 22nd Street, Kearney, NE 68848; 308-237-2152.
