
Last Modified: Monday, May 19, 2014 at 5:58 p.m.

It now appears between 40 and 50 homes were destroyed when an EF3 tornado hit April 29 in the Smith Institute community of Etowah County.

Michael Amberson, in charge of planning with the Gadsden/Etowah County Emergency Management Agency, told members of the Long-Term Recovery Committee for disasters that preliminary assessments first showed about 30 homes destroyed, but the number has increased because more damage is realized. He said between 100 and 150 homes have major damage.

Amberson said it appears that half of those were not insured.

But even some of the storm victims who have insurance will need assistance to help rebuild and put their lives back together. That’s where the Long-Term Recovery Committee comes in.

Long before many residents are ready to begin building, basic needs still have to be met.

The committee hopes to provide food, not only to those who have been victims of the storm, but to families or friends who are preparing their meals and feeding them in their time of need, Joanne Hightower of United Way said.

Only a small amount of food has been donated and more is needed, Susan Carter, executive director for First Call For Help, said.

Following the April 27, 2011, storms, when about 10 homes were affected in Etowah County, there was a warehouse of donated non-perishable food items, Carter said.

Now only a small of food has been donated, and more is needed.

Federal Emergency Management Agency representatives already are in the Smith Institute community and are set up at Sardis City Hall to assist those affected by the storms.

But after insurance, FEMA assistance and other help, Hightower said, there will be many unmet needs.

“It’s going to take 18 months to get all the victims living in a home somewhere,” she said.

Organizations like United Way, American Red Cross, Etowah County Health Department, Catholic Center for Concern, RSVP, Etowah Baptist Association, CED Mental Health, Salvation Army, IRS and FEMA and other service agencies will work together to meet the long-term needs.

Smith Institute is a small, rural community in northern Etowah County, and a lot of people not affected are unaware of the damage.

“We’ve got to keep this in our community’s mind,” Hightower said.

People who need assistance such as help from volunteers or want to volunteer are asked to dial 211. That puts them in touch with First Call For Help, which is coordinating volunteers and needs.

Donations are being accepted at Cross Point Community Church, 2730 Wills Creek Road, Gadsden, AL 35904. The hours are 9 a.m. to noon Tuesday and Thursday, and 2 p.m. to 7 p.m. Wednesday.
