
Swathes of the Balkans are under water and hundreds of thousands of people    have been displaced as three months’ rain fell in three days, causing floods    in Serbia, Croatia and Bosnia, which Sarajevo said was more damaging than    the 1990s civil war.

Tens of thousands of people were mobilised and equipped with sandbags and    barricades to defend Belgrade and a power station in a nearby satellite    town, Serbia’s largest, against the rising waters of the Sava river, which    have killed 47 people so far. Tens of thousands more were evacuated to    emergency shelters.

Authorities believe the worst could be yet to come when on Wednesday morning    the flood crest of the Sava joins the Danube.

Following estimates that a quarter of the population of Bosnia and Herzegovina    had been affected, Bakir Izetbegovic, the country’spresident, declared that    it would take years to recover from the tragedy.

Aleksandar Vucic, the Serbian prime minister, ordered the evacuation of the 70,000-strong population of Obrenovac, a historic town near the coal-fired    Nikola Tesla power plant.

Parts of the plant and a nearby mine that provides its fuel are under water.    Damage to the mine alone is estimated to be more than €100 million (£88    million). “We expect huge support, because not many countries have    experienced such a catastrophe,” Mr Vucic said.

A day after Novak Djokovic, the Serbian tennis champion, dedicated his win and    winnings at the Italian Open to his native land, his foundation spearheaded    a social media campaign to raise international donations for the victims.

The 2,100 landslides that have affected hilly Bosnia alone are of particular    concern as authorities fear that minefields marked out after the civil war    may have been washed downstream, which could damage hydroelectric    infrastructure and could even migrate into neighbouring countries.

Bosnian officials said as many as 500,000 people had left their homes of their    own accord so far and that more than 100,000 houses and other buildings in    Bosnia were no longer fit to use. The exodus was greater in scale than at    the height of ethnic cleansing in the 1990s – more than 35,000 people had    been evacuated by helicopter, boat and truck.

From the air, the north-eastern third of Bosnia resembled a huge muddy lake,    with houses, roads and rail lines submerged.
