
The Turkish subsidiary of Deutsche Messe based in Hannover, Germany launches a new trade fair in Turkey dedicated to machine-made carpets.

The new show will be held in Gaziantep from on May 26-29, 2014 as the DOMOTEX Gaziantep Machine-Made Carpet Fair, in affiliation with the DOMOTEX parent event held annually in Hannover.

Gaziantep and the Gaziantep Ortadoğu Fair Center venue were chosen due to the city's role as a major Near East exportation hub for machine-made carpets. Exhibitors will have the opportunity to showcase their products on approximately 29,000 square meters of gross floor space.

Alexander Kühnel, General Manager of Hannover Fairs Turkey, pointed out that Gaziantep serves as a major carpet trading hub with a long tradition and a prime location thanks to its close proximity to the Arab world.

"Gaziantep has become a major center for the production and global distribution of machine-made carpets. We at the Hannover Fairs Turkey team are very pleased to stage the DOMOTEX Gaziantep Machine-Made Carpet Fair at the heart of the Turkish carpet scene. We constantly strive to identify the needs and expectations of exhibitors and visitors, also by means of market research conducted together with related associations and partners. As a result of these efforts, we decided to bring the machine-made carpet sector together this year at the Gaziantep Ortadoğu Fair Center, and we believe that this will lead to a very satisfactory outcome for all concerned. The DOMOTEX Gaziantep Machine-Made Carpet Fair is being organized in collaboration with the Gaziantep Chamber of Commerce," Kühnel said.

The DOMOTEX Gaziantep Machine-Made Carpet Fair gives exhibiting firms the perfect opportunity to establish or further develop business relations with Turkey and the Middle East.

The event aims to boost the sector's trade volume by putting all the right buyers in touch with all the right sellers - all at one convenient time and place.

The 2014 fair will also feature a special program targeting Anatolian Delegations, thus attracting a select group of sector professionals from various regions of Turkey. For even greater attendance, the fair is being promoted in Turkey and the Middle East in close cooperation with international TV broadcasters and radio channels, newspapers, websites and other relevant media.

As a subsidiary of Deutsche Messe, Hannover Fairs Turkey Fuarcılık A.Ş. is also promoting the fair via Deutsche Messe's international representatives, and sending invitations to major buyers and procurement agencies in the Middle East.

DOMOTEX Gaziantep 2014 is focused on machine-made carpets from the region. As of 2015, the show will be staged as DOMOTEX Turkey, in a September/October timeslot. The new DOMOTEX Turkey will then cover the sum total of everything on display so far at DOMOTEX Middle East and DOMOTEX Gaziantep. In this way, Turkey will boast an outstanding international showcase for carpets, floor coverings and related goods and services.

Deutsche Messe Group of companies is the organizer of four DOMOTEX events worldwide.
