
Sign up now for our News Alert emails and the latest breaking news plus new features.

BOTH pro-government and anti-government protests are to be allowed to continue in Bangkok, the Army announced soon after 9am, but within strictly confined spaces.

BANGKOK:  Soldiers isolated and contained the Red rally site in Bangkok in the first obvious action after military law throughout Thailand was imposed early today.

The Reds, supporters of Thaksin Shinawatra and his sister, Yingluck, both deposed former Prime Ministers, had planned a protest march through the streets of the Thai capital today.

However, both ends of the Red protest in the capital's Aksa Road were blocked by soldiers before first light today. New arrivals were not being allowed in and traffic was being diverted around the site.

Photographs posted on Facebook yesterday showed Red leaders carrying basketloads of money for distribution to supporters.

A spokesman for the Reds, officially the National United Front of Democracy Against Dictatorship (UDD), spoke on the ''Yellow'' television channel, T News.  Jatuporn Prompan said he had urged the Red supporters to stay calm and behave normally.

He said the group hoped to continue with its plans for a protest today. An announcement would be made at 10am, he added.

A spokesperson for the People's Democratic Reform Committee (PDRC) went on the same channel at 8am and told the main anti-government rally site in central Bangkok that today's rally had been cancelled.

However, the protest would continue, said. Sathit Wongnongtoey, a former member of Parliament for the Democrat Party.

''Do not follow social networks,'' he said. ''Follow information direct from the televised rallies.''

He said the protesters had called off a plan for ''mobile groups'' to track down present caretaker government ministers to get their signatures standing aside from their roles.

The Army had been in touch with the anti-government rally leaders, he said.

Protesters interviewed for television said they felt ''more safe'' with the Army's presence. At least 29 deaths have been attributed to violent reactions to the protests since November.

Want an avatar for your comments? Register with Gravatar .

Do not enter anything in this text box otherwise your message will not be sent!

And here we see the first clues for which side will feel the tightest controls in Martial law.. The side thats disrupted bangkok for the last 6 months, ruined and election, and threatening to ruin another ?? Or the pro government camp.

Wrong. As I said, rumor and gossip are not welcome anytime, but especially now. Speculation is always worthless. But go right ahead, it's a free country . . . the Army is clearly on the streets because of the danger of violence. It's the anti-government protesters who have been dying in numbers and who need protection.
