
Britain summons the Sudanese Chargé d'Affaires over a death sentence given to a Christian woman for "forsaking Islam".

If your country's laws are rooted solidly in the 6th century of the Common Era, then you will get legal rulings based on that era even though we now live in the 21st century.

If you accept the rationality, and validity, of those laws, for that country, then you can accept that hanging a woman after having whipped her is the correct response to her allegedly renouncing Islam.

If you do not, then you might see such a sentence as having no place in a modern civilised society.

Some people accept the former. The British Government takes the latter view and has just summoned the Sudanese Chargé d'Affaires to the Foreign Office to be informed of that opinion.

That is the background and debate surrounding the death sentence handed to a woman in Sudan.

Mariam Yaha Ibrahim was born to a Muslim father but raised by her Christian mother.

She grew up a Christian, fell in love with a Christian and married a Christian man called Daniel Wani.

The debate is because just as Judaism believes that your religion is passed down through the female line, so Islam says you are a Muslim if your father is a Muslim. The  idea of choice is not acceptable.

Sudanese law is based in Sharia and the courts state Mariam is a Muslim. A judge has therefore drawn two conclusions.

Firstly, she must renounce her Christian beliefs and if she does not she must die.

Secondly, after recovering from the imminent birth of her second child, she should be whipped 100 times.

Her due date is June 1 and she is currently in prison with her son Martin.

The death sentence will be deferred for two years to allow her to nurse the new born child.

The logic on both sentences appears to stem from the 14th Hadith of the Prophet Mohammed - sayings passed down orally and then written down.

It reads: "It is not permissible to spill the blood of a Muslim except in three [instances] - a life for a life; a married person who commits adultery; and one who forsakes his religion and separates from the community."

Against that it is possible to quote from the Koran which states clearly that "there should be no compulsion in religion".

However, that line is usually said to be about the problems of forcing someone to accept Islam, not about leaving it.

It is tasked, via diplomacy, with promoting the UK and to a lesser extent promoting the values of the UK around the world.

The Sudanese government and legal system is at liberty to ignore the UK and the UK is at liberty to factor that into its view of what sort of relationship it wants with Sudan.

That is less complicated. We are human beings and so is Mariam.
