
SHARPE SECURITY is entering the ballistic backpack business with unique designs.

Similar to other ballistic backpack designs, a NIJ IIIA ballistic panel inserted into a SHARPE ballistic everyday backpack is required to provide appropriate protection from bullets. However, this ballistic panel is also designed to fit in a SHARPE ballistic vest carrier as the ballistic vest back panel. This feature makes SHARPE backpacks suitable for secret agents, law enforcement officials, body guards, security guards, common people, etc. to carry when performing undercover tasks or in everyday lives without compromising comfort and agility. When gun threats are assumed or foreseen and wearing a ballistic vest is mandatory, this backpack ballistic panel can be removed from the SHARPE backpack and put into the SHARPE ballistic vest carrier to become the back panel of the SHARPE ballistic vest. If someone has a SHARPE backpack and he or she also has a demand for a ballistic vest, he or she just needs to buy a ballistic vest carrier and a ballistic vest front panel. It gives cost-effectiveness.

Besides the unique design mentioned previously, Sharpe also implements another unprecedented ballistic pull-down/drop-down defense (P.D.D./D.D.D.) mechanism which offers additionally expanded protection as an option. This feature allows a user to instantly expand the bullet resistant coverage as much as twice the original coverage. The P.D.D./D.D.D. mechanism can have a SHARPE soft ballistic panel fitted in for NIJ IIIA or a hard ballistic panel to reach NIJ III protection depending on backpack models. They are also designed to be used independently and separately as a hand bag or a handheld ballistic shield.

Furthermore, an additionally internal compartment has been designed for optionally putting in a SHARPE stab/spike resistant panel which further makes SHARPE backpacks both bullet resistant and stab/spike resistant.

SHARPE ballistic backpacks are designed for the general public who thinks gun/knife threats protection can be the additional features for their backpacks or the special task personnel who thinks besides gun/knife threat protection, comfort, easy to use, easy to carry, and multi-functions are needed.

SHARPE offers not only ballistic backpacks but also other bullet-resistant products such as ballistic helmets, vests and shields; electroshock products such as stun guns and stun batons; personal pepper spray with or without the alarm function. They offer OEM/ODM services of these kinds of products to clients as a preferred cooperation model. Said by their general manager, Mr. Michael Wang, "Our goal is to provide all of our loved ones a better prevention and protection from unexpected gun/knife threats."

SHARPE is a brand created in 2013 by two companies, Yungyi International Merchandise Co., Ltd. and Global Merchandise Link Inc., to provide defense and security related products to worldwide customers. Before SHARPE was created, Yungyi Int'l's general manager Michael Wang has been studying and working on related fields for more than 2 years.
