
The first thing you need to do is choose a news reader, if you already don't have one. This is a piece of software that checks feeds you have requested and lets you read any new articles that have been added. There are various types of news reader. You should choose one that will work with your computer’s operating system.

Alternatively, you can paste one of the BBN RSS URLs into a new feed in your news reader.

Turkey is currently trying to dress the wounds of the most devastating mine accident in its history. While experts investigate the causes of the accident, coal mines and coal power plants are back at the top of the agenda. In the 1980s, Turgut Özal, who was the prime minister at the time, intended to close down coal mines, regarding them as uneconomic and unsafe. Despite his best intentions, the mines remained open due to pressure from the opposition parties. The mindset of Özal might find itself reappearing after the disaster in Soma, while the energy sector in Turkey may go in search of alternatives, including nuclear energy.

Former Expert Inspector of Nuclear Safety at International Atomic Energy Agency (UAEA) Necmi Dayday, who achieved significant successes in İstanbul Küçükçekmece Nuclear Research Center, spoke to Daily Sabah about coal mines, the future of coal power plants and the steps Turkey took in the area of nuclearenergy. Dayday explained that Turkey's coal mining industry currently holds one of the worst fatality rates in the world. "It is obvious that there is a serious safety problem. Reduction of costs $123 dollars to $24 is presented as if it was a success - Alp Gürkan, owner of the Soma Mining Inc., stated during an interview in 2013 that his company reduced the costs of coal production from $123 to $24-. This is similar to bragging about providing cheap housings by constructing decaying buildings. "When compared to reserves in Europe, the coal mined in Turkey has much lower calories and efficiency. Technologies in coal power plants are remarkably out of date. If calculated, it is absolutely not economic. " he said.
