
The official death toll of the mine explosion and collapse stood at 301 when the Turkish government officially called off the search for more survivors.

SOMA, Turkey, May 19 (UPI) -- Turkish police have arrested 25 people as part of the investigation into the mine explosion and collapse that killed hundreds.

The mining company claims the mine overheated and the company was not at fault or negligent. Despite these claims, the mine manager Ramazan Dogru was taken into custody Sunday. Akin Celik, the mine's operations manager was taken into custody as well.

The mine collapse ignited protests in the country already roiled with unrest towards its government. Protests in Soma ended after police launched tear gas and water cannons into the crowds. The city has since banned protests.

Muzaffer Yildirim, the brother of a miner who died, told the BBC that the managers should be held responsible for the tragedy and "should be punished."

The search for bodies was called off after two more bodies were pulled to the surface Saturday. Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan has been criticized for being insensitive, uncaring, and slow-moving in response to the disaster. Multiple countries offered to send help in the rescue and recovery efforts, but Turkey declined all offers.

UPI licenses content directly to print outlets, online media and institutions of all types. In addition, UPI's distribution partners provide our content to thousands of businesses, policy groups and academic institutions worldwide. Our audience consists of millions of decision-makers who depend on UPI's insightful and analytical stories to make better business or policy decisions.

In the year of our 107th anniversary, our company strives to continue being a leading and trusted source for news, analysis and insight for readers around the world.

© 2014 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

UPI.com is your trusted source for world news, top news, science news, health news and current events.

We thank you for visiting us and we hope that we will be your daily stop for news updates.
