
Plans to enhance the Ukraine Navy's vessel interception and boarding capabilities through the procurement of up to five new rigid-hull inflatable boats (RHIBs) have been impacted by the continuing crisis in the east of the country.

US-based boatbuilder Willard Marine announced on 3 February 2014 that it had received an order, under a US Foreign Military Sales (FMS) agreement, to supply to Ukraine two Sea Force 11 m RHIBs and two Sea Force 7 m RHIBs, with an option for a third 7 m boat.

Three months later, however, the company is still awaiting delivery instructions for the craft.

"Due to the current political situation, we are awaiting direction from the US Navy FMS office as to when and where we are to deliver these boats," Willard Marine's marketing director, Karen Jacquelin, told IHS Jane's on 13 May.

The RHIBs are intended to provide Ukraine's few serviceable warships with a visit, board, search, and seizure (VBSS) capability, particularly in the counter-piracy role. Coincidentally, the prominent return of Ukraine's naval flagship, the Krivak III-class Project 1135.1 frigate Hetman Sagaidachny , to Odessa in March 2014 as pro-Russian forces were annexing the Crimean peninsula came at the end of a deployment supporting counter-piracy operations off the Horn of Africa.

The 11 m RHIBs are powered by 380 hp Cummins QSB5.9 inboard diesel engines and HamiltonJet HJ292 waterjets. The 7 m boats have a 230 hp inboard engine coupled to a Mercruiser sterndrive. Willard Marine will also provide comprehensive training in the RHIBs' design, operation, maintenance, and repair.

The deal is Willard's third FMS contract with Ukraine. The first saw the delivery of three 5.4 m Sea Force RHIBs, fitted with outboard engines, to prove the concept of embarking boats for VBSS tasks.

"Then we received an order for three Sea Force 7 m RHIBs and two 11 m RHIBs specifically to be installed aboard Ukrainian navy ships for anti-piracy operations," said Jacquelin. Vessels for this second order were delivered in 2010.

In a related development, Russian news agency RIA Novosti reported recently that Moscow had returned five more naval vessels seized during the annexation to Ukraine. In total, 33 have now been handed back, said the agency.
