
ROME: Novak Djokovic fought back to stun defending champion and seven-time winner Rafael Nadal to claim the Rome Masters 4-6, 6-3, 6-3 on Sunday.

Serbia´s world number two Djokovic claimed his third title on the red clay of Rome, having won in 2008 and 2011, the latter with victory over his Spanish rival.

Sunday´s win was also Djokovic´s 19th career Masters title and his 19th win against Nadal in 41 meetings.

Djokovic came to Rome having missed out on the Madrid Open as he continued his recovery from a wrist injury that he suffered at the Monte Carlo Masters.But the Serb showed no signs of pain as he dispatched Philipp Kohlschreiber in straight sets before battling to three-set victories over Spain´s David Ferrer and hard-hitting Canadian Milos Raonic.

Djokovic, claiming his fourth consecutive win over Nadal on all surfaces -- although three of them came on hard court -- will now head to the French Open which begins next week with renewed confidence that he can claim a maiden title on the red clay of Roland Garros.

Nadal had been looking to stretch his record of seven titles in the Italian capital. But despite a dominant first-set display the world number one allowed unforced errors to creep into his game as Djokovic launched a valiant fightback to put himself in pole position to win a first title at the forthcoming French Open.

Nadal had won at the Foro Italico every year since 2005 except in 2008 and 2011.It certainly seemed it would be Nadal´s day when he broke the Serb twice on his way to a quick 4-1 lead in the opening set, which he went on to win 6-4 as Djokovic made a series of unforced errors.

Djokovic, however, broke Nadal´s serve early in the second set as he "stuck to his gameplan".

Although Nadal defiantly broke back to 3-2 in the second, Djokovic went on to level the contest, taking the second set 6-3.

Djokovic had hit eight forehand and four backhand winners to Nadal´s one in the second set, and the Serb carried the momentum into the deciding set, breaking Nadal early for a 2-0 lead.
