
Skanderbeg: Hailed as a national hero in Albania, Skanderbeg was one among the military rulers who successfully ousted the Ottoman Turks from his native land for over two decades, halting Turkey's efforts to spread Islam through an area mostly dominated by Roman Catholic Western Europe.

Kidnapped by the Ottoman Turks at a very young age,

this Albanian freedom fighter was raised under Islam and trained as a general within the ranks of the Turkish military. As commander of Albania's warlords, he sparked a national revolt in 1444 and held off numerous efforts by the Ottomans to take back Albania and bring that country once again under Muslim rule.

Attila The Hun: 5th century king of the Hunnic Empire, Attila The Hun is one of the most successful barbarian rulers of the Hunnic Empire. He united the tribes of the Hun kingdom and was said to be a just ruler to his own people. Attila was also known as an aggressive and ruthless leader. He expanded the rule of the Huns to include many Germanic tribes and attacked the Eastern Roman Empire in wars of extraction, devastating lands from the Black Sea to the Mediterranean, and inspiring fear throughout the late Roman Empire. He was never successful in invading Constantinople or Rome, and left a divided family following his death in 453.

1: Shaka should be on this list. He totally transformed warfare in southern African. The tactics he developed, and the weapons, logistics and training programs he conceived and implemented enabled the amaZulu, a small tribe numbering at most a few thousand people to become, witihn 10 years the largest Bantu nation in southern Africa, and the region's pre-eminent power. Under his command Zulu armies conquered a vast empire. His legacy was so enduring that under his nephew Ceteshwayo, the Zulu inflicted the worst defeat the British ever suffered from a non-European enemy. He was also a great political strategist, who understood that in order to avoid domination by Whites, all the tribes of southern AFrica from the Cape to the Zambezi needed to form a united federation. Had he not been assassinated following his breakdown caused by grief over losing his beloved mother, he probaly would have succeeded, as he had already begun talks with the Xhosa, his fellow Ngunis (includes the Zulu, Xhosa, Swazi and Shangane nations) the only nation that could seriously rival the Zulus in terms of both size and military capabilities.
