
At least 160,000 people and counting have been killed in Syria's bloody civil war, a human rights group warned today.

The harrowing claim was made by the Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, which says it is the true death toll for the three-year conflict.

The group said it has documented 162,402 deaths since the uprising against President Bashar Assad's government began in March 2011.

The figure includes civilians, rebels and  members of the Syrian military, the Observatory said.

It also includes  militiamen, such as Lebanese Hezbollah members, who have been fighting  alongside Assad's forces, and foreign fighters battling with the rebels  for Assad's ouster.

The U.N. has stopped updating its own tally of the Syrian dead, saying it can no longer verify the sources of information. The world body's last count in late July was 100,000 dead.

The Observatory bases its tally on information it gets from a network of activists on the ground in Syria.

The figures are based on the names of those killed, collected by activists who document the dead in hospitals, morgues and identify them from video materials.

Of the 160,402 people that Observatory  said have died in the conflict so far, about a third — or 53,978 — were  civilians. Those deaths include 8,607 children and 5,586 women.

The uprising has also claimed the lives of 26,858 rebel fighters and 37,685 Syrian soldiers, the Observatory said.

The Syrian government does not publicise the number of its casualties.

In  addition, the Observatory said 25,147 pro-government fighters have also  died on the battlefield, including 438 Hezbollah militants, and 1,224  Shiite foreign fighters and Palestinian militants.

From  among foreign and other fighters who have sided with the rebels, 13,529  were killed, including members of the al-Qaida-linked group and other  hard-line Islamic and Islamic leaning groups.

There are also 2,891 unidentified bodies in the conflict and 2,314 identified bodies of Syrian army troops, who have crossed over to the opposition side to fight the government.

Syria's uprising began with largely peace protests against Assad's rule. It has since then evolved into a civil war with sectarian overtones, pitting predominantly Sunni Muslim rebels against Assad's government that is dominated by Alawites, a sect in Shiite Islam.

On the opposition side, Islamic extremists, including foreign fighters and Syrian rebels who have taken up hard-line al-Qaida-style ideologies, have played an increasingly prominent role among fighters, dampening the West's support for the rebellion to overthrow Assad.

The comments below have not been moderated.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
