
Thailand's army has declared martial law, and while its generals continued to insist they have not staged a coup, they showed they were in control of key levers of power. The army did not inform the caretaker government of its plan to declare martial law. It also ordered 14 TV channels to stop broadcasting and warned Thais not to use social media to incite unrest.

Army chief General Prayuth Chan-ocha said the military had stepped in to restore order and build investor confidence, and warned that troops would take action against anyone who threatened security. At a press conference he said martial law would continue as long as necessary.

The army offered to mediate between pro and anti government protesters after a six months of demonstrations and a stand off between the two sides. "We ask all sides to come and talk to find a way out for the country," General Prayuth said.

Caretaker prime minister, Niwattumrong Boonsongpaisan, who had refused to protesters' demands to step down on Monday, called for an election on 3 August.

He said martial law could help the elections take place and said he was seeking talks with the generals.

Both pro and anti-government protesters have vowed to continue demonstrating. Opposition leader Suthep Thaugsuban greeted army officers with flowers as he handed over control of Government House to the military, after ordering his followers to occupy the building. But he told a rally "we will still keep fighting, we haven't won." The pro-government Red Shirt movement called on the generals to hold elections as soon as possible.

The streets of Bangkok were reported to be relatively calm despite a heavy military presence around the city. Some residents even took selfie photographs of themselves next to soldiers. The UK's foreign office warned tourists to allow extra time for travel in Thailand.

Rights campaigners expressed alarm at the apparent coup. Human Rights Watch said the military should return power to a civilian government immediately. The International Federation of Journalists accused the military of crippling and trying to silence the media.

The US said it was concerned for Thailand's democratic institutions and echoed international calls for restraint. The US embassy in Bangkok said: "We expect the Army to honour its commitment to make this a temporary action to prevent violence, and to not undermine democratic institutions."

Four more TV stations are reported to have been shut down as part of an increasing media crackdown under martial law.

Thailand's caretaker prime minister, Niwatthamrong Boonsongpaisan, has gone as far as saying he backs the imposition of martial law because it will allow elections to take place.

In his press conference since the military's move, Niwatthamrong said it could help the proposed election take place, and added that the government would "engage in reforms before the election", AFP reports.

Anti-government protesters bidding to topple Niwattumrong's government have said there cannot be a new election without loosely-defined reforms targeting the dominance of billionaire former premier Thaksin Shinawatra.

A 2 February poll was annulled by the courts after protesters widely disrupted the voting.

The government and army will hold talks "likely to be this week", added Niwattumrong, who replaced Thaksin's younger sister Yingluck as premier after she was ousted by a controversial court ruling on May 7.

Protesters say the hobbling government lacks legitimacy and are pressing for the upper house of Thailand's parliament, the Senate, to trigger a legal mechanism to wipe out the government and appoint a new premier.

A group of 25 senators on Tuesday sent a petition to the Consitutional Court to rule on the status of the remaining cabinet members.

The Red shirts , who back the interim government, have vowed to continue their protests.

The EU has echoed calls for restraint and backed early elections.

The EU has consistently called for dialogue, a peaceful resolution of the political crisis and respect for democratic principles in Thailand. The priority now is to set a clear timetable for early elections and establish as soon as possible a fully functioning government with democratic legitimacy.

We call upon all parties to exercise restraint and work together in the interest of the country and urge the military to respect international human rights standards, including media freedom.

Thailand's generals are giving briefing to diplomats in Bangkok on why imposed martial law and what will happen next.

Thailand's caretaker prime minister, Niwatthamrong Boonsongpaisan, said he had asked the Election Commission to organise an election for 3 August.

Niwatthamrong also said he would talk to the army chief "as soon as possible" to end the country's political crisis hours after the army declared martial law.

"The government has sent a letter to the Election Commission suggesting that it organise an election on 3 August 3 which we think is suitable. If the commission agrees then next week we can issue a decree," Niwatthamrong told reporters.

Thailand's divisions have been played out in very different reactions to the army's move in Bangkok, from protests on the one hand to coup selfies on the other.

Thailand's army has declared martial law, and while its generals continued to insist they have not staged a coup, they showed they were in control of key levers of power. The army did not inform the caretaker government of its plan to declare martial law. It also ordered 10 TV channels to stop broadcasting.

Army chief General Prayuth Chan-ocha said the military had stepped in to restore order and build investor confidence, and warned that troops would take action against anyone who threatened security. At a press conference he said martial law would continue as long as necessary.

The army offered to mediate between pro and anti government protesters after six months of demonstrations and a stand off between the two sides. "We ask all sides to come and talk to find a way out for the country," General Prayuth said.

Caretaker prime minister, Niwatthumrong Boonsongpaisan, who had refused to protesters' demands to step down on Monday, called for a meeting of his cabinet at an undisclosed location. He also called for the army to be "unbiased", but has little else. The education minister criticised the imposition of martial law, saying it would not solve Thailand's political crisis.

Anti-government protest leaders welcomed the army's intervention. Suthep Thaugsuban greeted army officers with flowers as he handed over control of Government House to the military, after ordering his followers to occupy the building.

The streets of Bangkok were reported to be relatively calm despite a heavy military presence around the city. Some residents even took selfie photographs of themselves next to soldiers. The UK's foreign office warned tourists to allow extra time for travel in Thailand.

The pro-government Red Shirt movement called on the generals to hold elections as soon as possible. The United Front for Democracy against Dictatorship (UDD) also called for the military to free up the TV stations shut down earlier today.

Rights campaigners expressed alarm at the apparent coup. Human Rights Watch said the military should return power to a civilian government immediately. The International Federation of Journalists accused the military of crippling and trying to silence the media.

The US expressed concern for Thailand's democratic institutions and echoed international calls for restraint. The US embassy in Bangkok said: "We expect the Army to honour its commitment to make this a temporary action to prevent violence, and to not undermine democratic institutions."

Caretaker prime minister, Niwattumrong Boonsongpaisan, who had refused to protesters' demands to step down on Monday, has been fairly quiet since military take over.

He called for a meeting of his cabinet at an undisclosed location, and according to the Wall Street Journal issued this statement : “The government wants to see peace as well and any operation undertaken [to restore peace] must be peaceful, nonviolent and unbiased to ensure equality for all sides under the rule of laws."

A smiling anti-government protest leader Suthep Thaugsuban, has handed control of Government House to the army, after ordering his followers to occupy the building on Monday.

Suthep was seen handing bouquet of flowers to army officers taking over the building.

We are aware of reports that Thailand’s army has declared martial law and are monitoring developments closely. We remain very concerned about the deepening political crisis in Thailand and urge all parties to respect democratic principles, including respect for freedom of speech. We understand the Royal Thai Army announced that this martial law declaration is not a coup. We expect the Army to honor its commitment to make this a temporary action to prevent violence, and to not undermine democratic institutions. The United States firmly believes all parties must work together to resolve differences through dialogue and find a way forward. This development underscores the need for elections to determine the will of the Thai people.

Last year Egypt's generals were keen to avoid describing their take over as a military coup for fear of losing US military aid. The same logic applies in Thailand, according to Sam Zarifi, regional director for Asia and Oceania at the International Commission of Jurists.

The generals have issued an ominous warning to the media, according to ABC's Jon Williams.

Thailand's army "prohibits all media outlets from reporting or distribution of any news or photographs detrimental to national security."

Army Chief General Prayuth: Wish to create understanding that Thai people should solve political problem together, we should be colorless.

Army Chief General Prayuth: Government officers and army should continue working as usual.

General Prayuth gave every impression that he and the other army officers were now in charge of Thailand, according to the BBC's Jonathan Head.

When asked about the status of the give Thai army commander Prayuth said "where is the government?" Sounding more like a coup now.

Thailand's army chief, General Prayuth Chan-ocha, is holding a press conference explaining the army's intervention. He appears to be keen to avoid being seen to be taking sides.

Thailand is split between so-called Red Shirts - the rural majority of favour former prime minister Thaksin Shinawatra and the interim government, and Yellow Shirts who back the conservative establishment in Bangkok and the south are against the interim government.

The army has been seen by many as sympathetic to anti-government protesters.

﻿Martial law is intended to impose peace and order, but the key will be the army treatment of the two sides. If the army is seen as favouring one side over the other, then we could see the situation spiral and deteriorate. If the army is seen as even-handed ... we could actually see the situation improving.

Human Rights Watch has condemned Thailand's generals for staging a "de facto coup". Its Asia director, Brad Adams, called for a return to civilian government.

Martial law in #Thailand is a de facto coup. The US and others should demand power returned to civilian govt immediately.

Military in #Thailand pulls 100 year old law off the shelf effectively rendering the executive, legislative and judicial branches powerless.

Education Minister Chaturon Chaisang has criticised the military move.

In a Facebook posting he said the imposition of martial law is not the way out Thailand's political crisis. He said it could "eventually spiral into a situation in which the military has no choice but to stage a coup."

Thailand's problems are "fundamentally political problems that must be solved through political processes under democracy ... not military or security measures," he added.

The Martial Law Act 1914 gives the army "superior power" over civilian institutions in regard to maintaining public order and security.

The army can ban any assembly or meeting and prohibit public movement by land, air or water.

Military authorities have the power to censor or shut down newspapers and broadcasters.

Soldiers are given full powers to search, requisition, ban, seize, inhabit or destroy "any place". This includes body searches as well as vehicle, home and building inspections and scrutiny of printed material.

Army authorities can enlist people to work to help the military andcan requisition vehicles, food, tools and weapons from any person or company at any time.

The military can impose curfews and prohibit access to certain areas.

Authorities can detain anyone it suspects of breaching martial law for up to seven days.

Civilian courts remain operational, but a martial court can be givenauthority to hear criminal trials in cases committed under martiallaw. It can continue to hear cases even after martial law has been revoked.

The Wall Street Journal's Waan Chomchuen records the generals arriving for that meeting with government officials.

There was large uniformed presence in the meeting itself.

Bangkok appears relatively relaxed after the military intervention, according to AFP.

Some snatched selfies with armed soldiers but most passers-by barely blinked as troops and jeeps mounted with machine-guns took to Bangkok's streets early Tuesday, a peculiarly pragmatic Thai response to political upheaval.

Traffic-halting marches, sandbagged bunkers and sporadic violence have become commonplace in a struggle lasting almost seven months to overthrow the government, leaving the majority of Bangkok residents broadly inured to the turmoil.

Three soldiers wearing flak jackets and carrying machine guns stood by a military jeep at one downtown intersection early Tuesday, politely posing for photographs with commuters as news spread of the military's declaration of martial law.

A smattering of bemused tourists peered at the troops at the Ratchaprasong junction, a major shopping district which includes high-end hotels.

It is also a highly symbolic site after a military crackdown on a "Red Shirt" protest in 2010 left scores dead there. Monday was the fourth anniversary of the crackdown.

A man on a motorcycle sped by shouting "Su, Su!" (Fight,Fight!) a Thai phrase of encouragement, in a sign that some welcome the military intervention.

The army has staged 18 coups or attempted coups since 1932 and is seen by some as a stabilising force within the kingdom's febrile politics.

Bangkok has seen several rounds of sometimes bloody protests since a bloodless military coup deposed then-Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra in 2006.

His Red Shirt supporters, who have massed for a rally for several days in a Bangkok suburb, reported Tuesday that soldiers had encircled them.

But there were no immediate reports of tension, although Red Shirt guards thoroughly searched vehicles entering the area.

Instead the day was punctuated by television announcements on all channels by the newly-formed Peace and Order Maintaining Command, with army chief General Prayut Chan-O-Cha as its head.

Several satellite channels were ordered to stop broadcasting - especially the round-the-clock media outlets representing both sides of Thailand's divide.

But with the army denying that its martial law declaration was tantamount to a coup, it was unclear what the hours and days ahead would hold.

"I am not worried but let's wait and see," said Win, a manager for an IT company who gave only one name.

"Now there is deadlock. I'm OK with martial law, it is a way to control the two sides. In a few days, the situation will be clearer."

Justice Minister Chaikasem Nitisiri has confirmed that the army did not consult the Prime Minister Niwattumrong before declaring martial law.

But speaking to AP he played down the move and said the caretaker government was still running the country even though the army was now in charge of security.

"Security matters will be handled solely by the military, and whether the situation intensifies or is resolved is up to them," he said. "There is no cause to panic."

Britain's foreign offices is warning tourists to Thailand to "allow extra time for journeys" after the declaration of martial law.

On the morning of 20 May the Thai Army Chief declared martial law across the whole of Thailand. There is increased military presence in Bangkok and neighbouring provinces with some roadblocks. You should allow extra time for journeys, including to the Bankgok airports.

Political demonstrations continue in and around Bangkok and elsewhere in Thailand. Some of these have been violent, including the use of firearms and grenades, and there have been casualties and deaths. The situation is unpredictable and further protests are expected. You should avoid protest sites.

Protest action in central Bangkok since January 2014 has caused significant disruption to roads in affected areas, with knock-on effects across the city. The main protest site is at Ratchadamnoen Avenue with a smaller protest site at the government complex at Chaeng Watthana. There are also sporadic rallies to government offices and private companies.

There have been indiscriminate attacks involving weapons and explosives at protest sites and at protest marches. Attacks have taken place during the daytime and at night.

You should take extra care and avoid all protests, political gatherings, demonstrations and marches. Monitor local news and social media for developments.

Thai generals are reported to be meeting government officials in Government House.

The officials were invited to attend by army chief General Prayuth Chan-ocha.

"The government doesn't have a problem with this and can govern the country as normal," caretaker Justice Minister Chaikasem Nitisiri, told Reuters.

Meanwhile, it reported that prime minister Niwatthamrong Boonsongphaisan, who refused to stand down on Monday, has summoned a government meeting at an undisclosed location to discuss the situation.

Seasoned observers of Thailand are in no doubt that a coup has take place, despite the spin of the generals.

Thing with the army insisting ”this isn’t a coup” is that history has given a precedent (actually 18) not really to trust them on that!

The international community is responding to events in Thailand with caution.

Australian foreign minister Julie Bishop told media a few moments ago that she has spoken to the Australian ambassador to Thailand, James Wise.

"We're essentially waiting for news on what the army intends to do over coming days," said Bishop.

"The caretaker government is still in place, so we hope there are still moves afoot for there to be a fresh election after the constitutional court replaced the prime minister."

Bishop reiterated caution to travellers in Thailand and urged them to register their presence with the department.

The Philippine government has ordered its military to monitor events on the other side of South China sea.

Sec. Sonny Coloma: PNoy has instructed DFA Sec. del Rosario to monitor state of Filipinos in Thailand after declaration of martial law.

European diplomats in Thailand are preparing a response to the declaration of martial law, according to Britain's ambassador Mark Kent after meeting his EU counterparts in Bangkok.

Sweden's foreign minister Carl Bildt gives a flavour of what they are likely to say.

Thailand must resolve its political conflict by democratic means. We urge full respect for human rights also in today’s difficult situation.

I will hand over to a colleague shortly, who will take you through any further developments. Here is a summary of today's events so far.

In the early hours of Tuesday the Thai military announced a state of emergency and enforced martial law.

The motivations for the military action - according to army spokesmen and General Prayuth Chan-ocha- are to maintain peace and order after months of violent unrest and protests both for and against the government.

They have repeatedly stressed the action is not a coup d'etat, however the government said they had no warning, and an advisor to the prime minister reportedly called the move a "half coup."

On Monday the acting prime minister Niwattumrong Boonsongfpaisan refused to step aside for an interim government. Boonsongfpaisan has been in the position since May 7 when former prime minister Yingluck Shinawatra and nine of her advisors were found guilty of nepotism offences.

Bangkok is largely quiet, with most people going about their business as the military seeks to reassure people the government is still in control. They have however, already enacted several special powers granted by martial law, including forcing 10 television stations off the air.

Troops have also entered government house and taken control of key building previously held by pro-government protesters.

Multiple foreign governments have urged caution and restraint as they monitor the Thai situation closely.

The International Federation of Journalists has condemned the move by the Thai military to censor media outlets.

According to the Nation, General Prayuth has appointed four advisors to his Peace and Order Maintaining Command: the Supreme Commander, Navy, Air Force commanders and national police chief.

Further announcements are expected after a key meeting of government agency chiefs later this afternoon.

The Red Shirt leadership has called on General Prayuth to hold elections as soon as possible, reports the Bangkok Post. The United Front for Democracy against Dictatorship (UDD) also called for the military to free up the TV stations shut down earlier today.

Ousted prime minister Thaksin Shinawatra has taken to social media to comment on the situation.

"The declaration of martial law is expected.... however I hope no party will violate human rights and further destroy democracy," the billionaire tycoon-turned-politician, who was ousted in a coup in 2006, said on Twitter.

Thaksin has lived in self-imposed exile since 2008 to avoid jail for a corruption conviction that he says was politically motivated.

"The numbers at anti-government protest sites in Bangkok's old city have thinned out greatly compared to two months ago. Around 1,000 people still remain at Democracy Monument, and they evidently haven't been scared off by the gunfight and grenade attacks last week that killed two people. Sandbag barricades are still up in the streets in many parts of the old city, but there's no sign of any substantial new army activity in the vicinity. Nearby army posts remain in place, manned by 3-4 soldiers each - but these have been here for a while.

People at the sites have heard of the declaration of martial law but don't seem concerned. One women, Wichada, who's been on the streets for around 200 days now, said she welcomed it: "We're very happy about the army's announcement because it means they are on our side," she told the Guardian.

A man guarding the barricades at the Democracy Monument site, and who declined to give his name, said: "this protest site is under constitutional law, and so the military has no right to crack down. Protest leaders will meet and discuss the next strategy. Under martial law we are allowed to stay here; we're just not allowed to move around or demonstrate."

Residents of Bangkok are going about their daily lives, despite the military presence around the city.

"The Australian Government is aware that the Royal Thai Army has imposed martial law across Thailand. We are seeking further details through the Australian Embassy in Bangkok. We understand the Thai military has said that this not a coup and the caretaker Government is still in office.

We are following these events closely and encourage all parties to resolve their political differences through peaceful democratic processes. Thailand has Australia’s goodwill and support as it tries to find ways to settle its political difficulties.

The Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade today reissued its Travel Advice to Thailand to alert Australian travellers to the imposition of martial law. The Department will continue to assess the implications of this development for Australian travellers and will update the travel advice accordingly.

The below tweet is from the British ambassador to Thailand, Mark Kent.

The US has weighed in on the situation, saying the declaration of martial law must be temporary, and warning the Thai military not to undermine democracy.

"We understand the Royal Thai Army announced that this martial law declaration is not a coup. We expect the Army to honor its commitment to make this a temporary action to prevent violence, and to not undermine democratic institutions," State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki said in a statement.

"The United States firmly believes all parties must work together to resolve differences through dialogue and find a way forward. This development underscores the need for elections to determine the will of the Thai people," she added.

From Reuters: Thailand's caretaker government is to meet at an undisclosed venue today.

"The prime minister has called an emergency cabinet meeting to discuss the situation. The location will be in a safe house and cannot be disclosed," Suranand Vejjajiva, an aide to the prime minister, told reporters.

In what is still definitely "not a coup" according to the army, soldiers have taken over Government House and other buildings previously held by the anti-government people's democratic reform committee (PDRC).

A short time ago I spoke to the Lowy Institute’s Dr Milton Osborne , an expert on politics in Southeast Asia.

I asked him for his analysis of the situation, and in particular what confidence can be held in the military’s reassurance that its actions are not a coup, despite appearances.

You can listen to the five minute interview below (or here if you are viewing on mobile).

“It’s hard to see any resolution to the political crisis in Thailand until there is a readiness on the part of the two confronting sides to find some sort of modus vivendi that meets the interest of both side,” Osbourne told Guardian Australia.

Here is a Guardian report from last week on some of the more recent violence in Thailand which has led to today's events.

Explosions and a shooting attack on anti-government demonstrators in Bangkok killed up to three people on Wednesday night. The country's electoral commission responded to the continuing unrest by calling for a July election rerun to be postponed.

At least 22 people were wounded in the assaults before dawn near the city's Democracy Monument where some protesters are camping out, according to the city's Erawan medical centre, which tracks casualties.

The attack brings the nationwide toll since protests began last November to 27 dead and 800 wounded.

Police Colonel Krailert Buakaew said at least three grenades were detonated and machine guns were fired at protesters in the small encampment. He said the dead included a sleeping protester and a volunteer guard.

The pro-government Red Shirt leadership is holding a press conference. Leader Jatuporn Prompan has urged supporters to remain calm, and reassured people the government is still there.

The events in Thailand are grabbing the attention of neighbouring governments. Earlier we heard from Japan's chief cabinet secretary, and just now Indonesia's foreign minister has expressed his concern to AFP.

"We have been deeply concerned... following the developments in Thailand," Marty Natalegawa said.

"Indonesia has consistently called for respect of constitutional process and democratic principles in order to promote national reconciliation and unity, reflecting the wishes of the Thai people.

"It is our hope that this latest development will not detract from such principles and normalcy can quickly be restored."

MV 5, DNN, UDD, Asia Update, P&P 6, Channel 7, Blue Sky, FMTV, T News , and ASTV.

So far under the newly enacted martial law, the Thai military has made three official orders, exercising their special powers.

The first was to dissolve the Centre for the Administration of Peace and Order (Capo) set up by the government under the Internal Security Act, and replace it with a Peace Keeping Command Centre (PKCC).

This act was closely followed by the army's chief General Prayuth appointing himself director of the PKCC.

The third - and apparently expanding - order was to place restrictions on the media.

There are a raft of powers the military can access under the laws of martial rule. You can read an english translation of them in this document which I also linked to earlier today.

The army is now directing specific TV channels to stop broadcasting, including DNN, ASTV and Blue Sky, most of which are considered highly partisan one way or the other.

That announcement was made during the sixth television broadcast by the military today.

"We have grave concerns about the situation in Thailand," Japan's chief cabinet secretary Yoshihide Suga has told media in Tokyo.

"We once again strongly urge all parties concerned to act in a self-restrained manner without using violence."

"We strongly hope differences among the parties concerned will be settled peacefully through the democratic process."

The meeting of government agency heads that was meant to happen at 9am is now occurring at 2pm local time, according to local media.

There are reports the Thai army is beginning to enact some of their more stringent martial law powers, with an order that all media refrain from disseminating information that could affect national security.

I'll bring more information on this as it comes to hand.

The army is continuing to broadcast messages through the TV stations they took control of this morning.

Army announcement: ”Do not spread news (…)” that can negatively affect security.

That last army announcement (á la ”don’t spread lies”) is so far strongest threat to free speech now - and, y’know, occupying TV stations…!

A televised statement from the army has ordered protest groups from both sides to stand down to prevent any clashes.

While the snap martial law has taken people by surprise, military leaders flagged the possibility of it last week.

"I want to warn every group, especially those using violence and war weapons against innocent civilians, to stop now. If this goes on, the military may be needed to come out to restore peace and order," General Prayuth Chan-ocha said in a statement.

Chan-ocha's statement, reported by the Nation on May 16, did not make reference to the option of declaring martial law, but did say "decisive measures" would be inevitable if citizens were hurt, and any escalation may lead to the army using "full force" to resolve the situation.

Here is an english translation of the Thai legislation covering martial law , which can only be repealed by royal decree. It details the powers of the military under the current situation, including search and seizure and compulsory requisition of labor and materials.

Within the area under the Martial Law, the military authority shall have superior power over the civil authority in regard to military operation, desistence or suppression, or keeping public order. The civil authority shall act in compliance with the requirements of the military authority.

Pro-government protesters say they have been surrounded by soldiers in Bangkok.

"The military is negotiating with the Red Shirts to disperse," Paradorn Pattanatabut, chief security adviser to Prime Minister Niwattumrong Boonsongpaisan, told AFP.

Army Commander-in-Chief Gen Prayuth Chan-ocha has called all heads of government agencies for a meeting in Bangkok at 9am local time (about one hour from now).

The Thai government was given no warning of the military's actions, according to CNN, quoting an aide to the prime minister.

"They took this action unilaterally. The government is having a special meeting regarding this. We have to watch and see if the army chief honours his declaration of impartiality," he said, adding that the action was "half a coup."

Pro-government "Red Shirt" activists say their protests will continue despite martial law.

"We will stay here and continue our protest until the country is back to democratic principles, which will lead to an election and getting a new elected prime minister," Jatuporn Prompan, the leader of the Red Shirts told Reuters.

Some context on the most recent unrest amid eight years of upheaval after the army's 2006 military intervention against former populist former Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra.

On May 7 prime minister Yingluck Shinawatra and nine of her ministers were dismissed on May 7 after a court found them guilt of abuse of power. Acting prime minister Boonsongfpaisan, from the same ruling party, has since taken over but yesterday refused to step down for an interim government as demanded by senators and anti-government protesters.

The Thai military has declared a state of emergency and imposed martial law to "restore peace and order" after six months of violent unrest and anti-government protests, and the refusal of Prime minister Niwattumrong Boonsongfpaisan to step down yesterday.

I'll bring you live updates throughout the day.

An unidentified general told Reuters the army had declared a state of emergency but was not staging a coup.

"Because of the situation, it's not stable, they kill each other every day," he said.

He also said the army seized control of some television stations, but only so they can reassure the Thai population.

"This martial law is just to restore peace and stability. It has nothing to do with the government, the government is still functioning as normal," deputy army spokesman, Colonel Winthai Suvari, told Reuters.
