
Ajman: Dh8.5 million was collected on Monday for the Thamer Salman Fund for Educational Solidarity, which helps students who face hurdles in completing their education at Ajman University of Science and Technology (AUST).

The contributions were made during the “Your Share. Your Care” event, which was organised by AUST’s Thamer fund to renew its commitment to educational solidarity. The event was held under the patronage of Shaikh Rashid Bin Humaid Al Nuaimi, Chairman of Ajman Municipality and Planning Department.

Shaikh Rashid announced a generous contribution by His Highness Shaikh Humaid Bin Rashid Al Nuaimi, Supreme Council Member and Ruler of Ajman, who donated a plot of land and Dh3 million for the development of an endowment fund. He praised the efforts exerted by AUST in establishing the fund and widening its outreach.

Osama Saeed Salman, AUST Vice-President, welcomed the guests and expressed his appreciation for their attendance and received the contributions on behalf of the fund. He also reiterated his dedication to educational solidarity to ensure that AUST students will be able to enjoy a hurdle-free tenure during their academic life.

The guests shared their memories of the late philanthropist Thamer Salman. Among them was researcher Dr Mouza Gobash and renowned Saudi media personalities, including Turki Dukhail and Dr Sulaiman Hatlan.

Abdullah Salman, manager of the Thamer Salman fund, announced the generous contributions. The first was from the family of the late Thamer Salman, with Dh2 million, followed by Ajman University’s contribution of Dh1 million. The total contributions for the Thamer Salman Fund for Educational Solidarity exceeded Dh8.5 million.

Salman expressed his appreciation for the endorsement of the very spirit for which the fund was created.

Salman reiterated the spirit of establishing the fund.

Contributions to the Thamer Salman Fund can be made by bank transfer to the fund’s account number AE390570000017482222023, online via:www.thamerfund.ajman.ac.ae, or by cheque to the Thamer Salman Educational Fund. The website has more details about the fund and its operation.
