
SINGAPORE: Singapore Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong today invited India's Prime Minister-designate Narendra Modi to visit the country and expressed hope of raising the bilateral partnership to new heights.

In a letter to Modi, Lee congratulated him for his win in the recently-concluded Lok Sabha elections.

"On behalf of the Government and people of Singapore, I congratulate you on your election as India's Prime Minister. The BJP's decisive victory reflects the strong support and great hopes that Indian voters have in your leadership and vision," he wrote.

Noting that the two countries cooperate closely to promote regional peace and prosperity through multinational forums, Lee highlighted that next year the two nations will celebrate 50 years of diplomatic relations.

"It is an auspicious milestone which I hope can be a springboard to raise our bilateral partnership to new heights. I look forward to working with you to enhance our bilateral ties and hope that you will visit Singapore at the earliest opportunity," Lee said.

"I wish you every success in your new appointment," he said.

Observing that opportunities for India are "immense", Lee said, "I am confident that you will bring your valuable experience as Chief Minister of Gujarat to bear as you lead India to fulfill its promise."

Stressing on excellent bilateral ties, he said "Our friendship is underpinned by regular high-level exchanges and wide-ranging cooperation in many fields, including trade and investment, defence and cultural exchanges."

Meanwhile, an editorial in the Strait Times today said sky-high expectations will have to be gently brought down to earth as Modi and BJP assume power after a landslide victory.

"Popular expectations are overdone as there are limits to what Mr Modi can do to speedily restore growth, check high inflation , multiply jobs for restless youngsters and fix shoddy infrastructure," it said.

"A rapid re-vitalisation for India is beyond anyone as substantive changes on the ground will take time ?- even with the return of badly needed investment, it will require a gestation period of three to four years to yield sufficient productive capacity," the editorial said citing a former Governor of Reserve Bank of India.
