
While evacuations continue, victims are in need of food, clothing and fresh water.

BELGRADE, Serbia, May 19 (UPI) -- Officials in Bosnia and Serbia, citing the threat of landslides and the deaths of 35 people in recent flooding, have called for international help and aid.

Rescue helicopters from the European Union, Russia and the United States are evacuating victims, and Serbian Prime Minister Aleksandar Vucic said more help -- particularly food, clothing and clean water -- was needed.

About a million people live in the most severely-affected area, and several days of rain prompted the worst flooding since modern record-keeping began. The flooding caused evacuations, about 2,000 landslides in Bosnia, and submerged rail lines. It also prompted fears that land mines -- about 120,000 mines are still in place after Bosnia's 1992-1995 war -- may be dislodged or lose their identification of location.

Serbia is faced with rising river levels, and residents, in riverside cities including Belgrade, spent the weekend piling sandbags. Parts of the coal-fired Tesla power plant and a nearby coal mine in Obrenovac are underwater, and damage to the mine alone has been estimated at over 100 million Euros ($137.7 million).

© 2014 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Any reproduction, republication, redistribution and/or modification of any UPI content is expressly prohibited without UPI's prior written consent.

UPI licenses content directly to print outlets, online media and institutions of all types. In addition, UPI's distribution partners provide our content to thousands of businesses, policy groups and academic institutions worldwide. Our audience consists of millions of decision-makers who depend on UPI's insightful and analytical stories to make better business or policy decisions.

In the year of our 107th anniversary, our company strives to continue being a leading and trusted source for news, analysis and insight for readers around the world.

© 2014 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

UPI.com is your trusted source for world news, top news, science news, health news and current events.

We thank you for visiting us and we hope that we will be your daily stop for news updates.
