
It was not supposed to happen this way. At the end of 1991, Russia was supposed to have thrown off its totalitarian imperialist cloak and joined the happy parade of former communist countries that were embracing democratic capitalism. Its neighbors were hoping to put the past behind them and feel secure in their new-found independence. Instead, 23 years later, Russia appears to be reverting to some of the worst of Soviet-style politics, and the Stalin-like cult of personality around Vladimir Putin is the least of it. Multi-party politics are gone, neo-imperialist foreign policy is back and state corruption governs Moscow. Putin’s notorious security organs have turned Russia into a police state and, as the regime cracks down on anyone opposing Kremlin, the term “liberal” has become a dirty word in Russian.

Putin used to care about his reputation. Moscow once hired Western PR firms to improve the image of the Russian president – glossing over everything from his archetypal KGB bouncer-like body language , to his peace-preaching op-eds in Western media and English-language Kremlin propaganda channels . Thanks to these efforts, Putin’s Russia was labelled a “sovereign” or “managed” democracy or, at worst, an oligarchy – anything but an autocracy or, worse still, a dictatorship.

Today, the Kremlin is beyond the help of any PR. Putin’s Russia has finally “come out” as a traditional autocracy. Since his return to the presidency in 2011, the Russian leader has made clear that he will tolerate no form of opposition. Putin embarked on a crusade to cleanse Russia of what it believed to be treacherous Western-backed NGOs, forcing human rights organizations to register as “foreign agents.” The Kremlin also continued its clamp down on the media – journalism is a dying profession in Russia as only a handful of media outlets that have not been turned into zombifying instruments of Kremlin propaganda remain.

Putin’s Ukraine adventure has only intensified his hunt for dissenters. With Russia in a de facto state of war, public opposition to the Crimean annexation only brings harassment from the authorities. The man who once drew thousands to the streets and even ran for mayor of Moscow – Alexei Navalny, Russia’s most famous blogger – is now under house arrest . The tech nerd who created social media giant Vkontakte, Pavel Durov, has been forced to leave Russia amidst long-going threats from the FSB. And, as Russian propaganda enters the realm of the absurd, so does its crackdown on dissent. Putin called the Internet a “CIA project” before the Kremlin announced that all major servers will be held in “closed cities” (a left-over from the Soviet era). Most recently, Putin’s aggressive deputy Prime Minister Rogozin threatened to ban the use of GPS on Russian territory – allegedly to protect Russians from Washington’s incessant spying.

It is in this context that Putin’s annexation of Crimea and threatening moves towards the rest of Ukraine must be understood. A few Western government officials and journalists have been fooled by Putin’s false pretext of invading Ukraine to protect the rights of ethnic Russians and Russian speakers. But one need only glance at Moscow to see that Putin does not care about the rights of ethnic Russians: He is violating human rights of all kinds inside his own fortress. As we watch the plundering of Ukraine on our television screens, it is vital to remember that Putin is shutting Russia down—and his Ukrainian intervention is serving as convenient excuse to take things even further. Today, when the Kremlin has an ever-tighter grip on what Russians watch , say and even think, there are real fears that Russia, in 2014, is but one small step away from becoming a full-blown dictatorship.

European governments are still shocked by what they perceive as the Kremlin’s sudden return to imperialism abroad and authoritarianism at home. Europeans were stupefied when Putin stepped off the plane in his newly annexed Crimean Kingdom in a veni, vidi, vici moment.

But in reality dictatorship is the logical culmination of Putinism. The Ukrainian revolution only accelerated Russia’s nosedive into autocracy, but such a step was probably inevitable for the regime to survive. Putin’s fear of revolution, hatred of the West, personal greed and somewhat addled Slavophile vision of the future could not endure the kind of public scrutiny and debate that democracy requires.

Ola Cichowlas is a British-Polish journalist writing about Russia and Eastern Europe (@olacicho).
