
The people of South Sudan, already exposed to conflict and hunger, are this week facing a new threat – cholera. The outbreak of the highly contagious disease in Juba ahead of tomorrow’s donor pledging conference in Oslo, organised by Norway and the United Nations, demonstrates how urgently funds are needed to respond to the increasingly dire humanitarian crisis unfolding in the world’s newest nation.

Cholera is spread through contaminated water, human interaction and unclean food, so the often overcrowded urban, camp and settlement areas are most at risk. If untreated, the highly contagious disease can have up to a 50 percent fatality rate, but if treated, this is dramatically reduced to less than 1 percent. Prevention and treatment measures are simple, but with aid budgets for South Sudan already desperately underfunded, lives stand to be lost because responders lack the funds they need to react rapidly to this outbreak.

The UN has revised its appeal for South Sudan, which now stands at 1.8 billion USD (£1.07 billion) until December 2014. Currently, only 515 million USD (£306 million) has been received. The UN has projected that by December, 4 million people will go hungry, 7 million will be in need of some form of humanitarian assistance, 1.5 million will be displaced within South Sudan, and over 850,000 will have fled to neighbouring countries.

In addition to asking donors to to pledge funds at the Oslo conference, Oxfam is calling on the British public to donate generously to its emergency appeal.

The Oslo conference centres around four core areas: humanitarian access, protection of civilians, regional response for refugees, and the resources required to adequately respond. If all four of these areas are not addressed within the coming months, the victims of this conflict risk being pushed into hunger crisis of catastrophic proportions. With the onset of the rainy season, roads and rivers become impassable, making access to affected communities almost impossible and creating perfect conditions for further spread of disease.

Donor countries and regional neighbours must also use their diplomatic channels to ensure the current ceasefire holds, for without an end to the conflict, conditions will only worsen, pushing thousands more from their homes and hindering the provision of life-saving humanitarian aid.

Oxfam has so far helped over 180,000 people in South Sudan and 63,000 in Uganda, working to prevent outbreaks of communicable diseases by providing access to clean water and sanitation, and providing household items such as mosquito nets, blankets, cook stoves and charcoal for cooking. Oxfam also supports peace building initiatives in communities where it is working, both in South Sudan and Uganda. It plans to expand its work to help many more but needs to find the funds to do so.

In response to the cholera outbreak in Juba, Oxfam is building latrines (only 15 percent of people in South Sudan have access to latrines), providing buckets, treating water, mobilising communities to collect garbage and communicating good hygiene practices to these communities to reduce the spread of the disease. With a quick response, it is hoped that the outbreak can be contained.

Oxfam has also launched a public appeal to raise much needed funds for its South Sudan response. People can donate now at oxfam.org.uk/southsudan or text DONATE to 70066 to give £5. SMS texts will cost £5 plus your standard network rates. Helpline: 0300 200 1300. By texting you consent to future telephone contact by Oxfam. If you do not wish to be contacted please send NOINFO to 70066. Registered charity number in England & Wales 202918 and Scotland SC039042.

What that can buy: £25 can help provide a family of six with food for two months. £5 can help provide food for two people for a month.

ReliefWeb has been the leading online source for reliable and timely humanitarian information on global crises and disasters since 1996.

Location Maps - Country maps for your reports and presentations.

Humanitarian Icons - Ready-to-use symbols and icons. Free download.

RSS - Subscribe to information finely tuned to your needs.
