
Q: My mother is 93. Will her age be a problem is she applies for a visitor's visa? My sister and I are from Turkey, but we have been U.S. citizens for many years now. We know that we can petition to bring our mother here as a permanent resident, but for now, she just wants to come to visit. She owns a condominium in Istanbul and plans to return there after her visit.

A: The U.S. consular officer who considers your mother's visitor's visa application may think that because of her age, she is planning to stay with you in the United States.

My guess is that the officer's decision will turn on whether she still has close family in Turkey.

Maurice, Orlando, Fla.

A: Not until the U.S. citizen child turns 21. The notion of “anchor babies” that undocumented immigrants who have babies here automatically qualify for a green card is false.

Having a U.S. citizen child will be a consideration when Immigration decides whether it will deport a parent. If the parent has no criminal record and has never been ordered deported, the danger of deportation for the parent of a U.S. citizen is slim.

In the rare case where the parent has been here for 10 years and can show that the child will suffer exceptional and extremely unusual hardship if the parent is deported, the parent can get a green card.

But for most parents of U.S. citizens, it is a long path from the child’s birth until the parent qualifies for permanent residence through the child.

A: Yes. If she ever gets legal status, your client can collect her retirement benefits. Once she gets her green card, she can get a Social Security number and reconcile the ITIN and the Social Security Number accounts. Then she will get full credit from her contributions and contributions from an employer she might work for using the ITIN. That’s true even if she is employed without immigration authorization. If she does not achieve legal status however, she cannot claim retirement benefits.

© Copyright 2014 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.
