
(ANSAmed) - ROME - Noura Al-Meer, activist and vice president of the opposition Syrian Coalition spoke in Rome at a Syrian crisis meeting at the International Affairs Institute on Monday.

"The Syrian women do not withdraw from the country's civic and political life, but rather make progress. By now, the revolution has broken societal patterns and it is impossible to go back", told Al-Meer to ANSAMed.

Women's contribution in the revolution against Assad is very rarely mentioned, and yet - says Al-Meer- it is a small, silent army. Even Noura, like thousands of civilians was able to "taste" the Syrian prison. In 2012, she was arrested by Regime agents. "Seven months spent in prison in four detention centers between Homs (the activist's city of birth) and Damascus".

While telling her experience, her facial expression, framed by the hijab, is serious and sad at the same time.

Despite telling her story with modesty and without emphasis, al- Ameer chose to continue his battle. And in Montreux and Geneva, at beginning of 2014, she was among the members of the SNC.

After three years of violence and bloodshed, Syria where now it is difficult to make out who are the good guys and bad guys, and where the revolution has been snatched up by civilians, the list of women who try to change Syria is long. Christian, Muslim and Alawite. "Women who have picked up a can to express their dissent through their graffiti, or a pen to write their songs.

Human rights activists, volunteers who from the beginning have led movements and civil activities in favor of the revolution: coordinating actions, events, documenting human rights violations on the ground, carrying medicine and basic needs, working in the field hospitals".

Others, however, have chosen to support the Assad regime: Kalashnikov women, as they were nicknamed. "Even the revolution", remarks Al-Meer,"has its rebels in arms that have been trained and who train other women to defend themselves". What is certain, says Noura, is that on the ground, Sirian women are participating in a lot more than they do on the political level. Out of 122 members of the Coalition are only seven women".

Women helping other women. And those in the Arab world? "We Syrian activists have constant contact with Tunisian and Jordanian activists who have sent their experts to Syria". An assistance that has allowed us to "carry forward campaigns for the creation of a women's leadership in the country. " Up until now, she concludes, "under the regime we were kept away from politics". But now, she says, the direction has changed. (ANSAMed).
