
Guidance  Software , ( GUID ), the World Leader in Digital  Investigations™, announced that CEIC  2014 will spotlight security research by Verizon Enterprise  Solutions and the SANS Institute providing unique insights into cyber  threats to endpoints and their impact on organizations. CEIC brings  together security, e-discovery and forensic investigation professionals  for in-depth discussions on security with industry experts representing  leading government agencies and corporations from around the world. The  event will be held May 19 to 22, at Caesars Palace in Las Vegas.

The Verizon  2014 Data Breach Investigations Report (DBIR) revealed that  although cybercriminals can bypass an organization’s security within  days, it often takes months before hackers are detected. However, for  the first time in the report’s history, internal discoveries  outnumbered external fraud detection. In addition to employees,  unrelated third-parties, like CSIRTs and threat researchers, are  emerging as an invaluable resource on breaches. Guidance Software  contributed to this year’s DBIR and invited Verizon to present  highlights of the report.

In the first-ever SANS  Endpoint Security Survey sponsored by Guidance Software, SANS  surveyed 948 IT Security professionals in the United States to  determine how they monitor, assess, protect and investigate their  endpoints. The survey results demonstrated that more and more attacks  are bypassing perimeter security, despite the fact that the  respondents do not consider the attacks to be sophisticated. Nearly  half of respondents are operating under the assumption they’ve been  compromised; with another 5 percent saying they operate under the  assumption that if they have not already been compromised, they  eventually will be.

When: Monday, 4:30-6:30 p.m.

Based on forensic evidence collected from more than 50 data  contributors, including Guidance Software, as well as Verizon’s  caseload, the 2014 Verizon Data Breach Investigations Report (DBIR)  offers a rare and comprehensive view into the world of cybercrime. This  presentation will discuss the evolution of results over the ten years of  data and delve into the people, methods and motives that drive attackers  today.

When:  Wednesday, 9:30-9:50 a.m.

A majority of organizations are operating under the assumption that  their network has already been compromised, or will be, according to a  survey conducted by the SANS  Institute and sponsored by Guidance Software. More than 940 security  professionals in a variety of industries were surveyed on their  information security challenges and their degree of network endpoint  visibility. This session will focus on highlights from the SANS  survey .

To register to attend CEIC or to view the 2014 agenda, please visit: www.encase.com/ceic .

Follow the CEIC discussion on Twitter at:  www.twitter.com/CEIC_Conf  or  by following  @CEIC_Conf .

About Guidance Software, Inc.

Guidance Software is recognized worldwide as the industry leader in  endpoint investigation solutions for security incident response and  forensic analysis. Its EnCase® Enterprise platform, deployed on an  estimated 20 million endpoints, is used by more than 65 percent of the  Fortune 100 and more than 40 percent of the Fortune 500, and numerous  government agencies, to conduct digital investigations of servers,  laptops, desktops and mobile devices. Built on the EnCase Enterprise  platform are market-leading cyber security and electronic discovery  solutions, EnCase® Cybersecurity, EnCase® Analytics, and EnCase®  eDiscovery. They empower organizations to conduct speedy and thorough  security incident response, reveal previously hidden advanced persistent  threats or malicious insider activity, perform sensitive data discovery  for compliance purposes, and respond to litigation discovery requests.  For more information about Guidance Software, visit www.encase.com .

EnCase®, EnScript®, FastBloc®, EnCE®, EnCEP®, Guidance Software™ and  Tableau™ are registered trademarks or trademarks owned by Guidance  Software in the United States and other jurisdictions and may not be  used without prior written permission. All other trademarks and  copyrights referenced in this press release are the property of their  respective owners.
