
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .

If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .

Video will begin in 5 seconds.

Mexican actress Salma Hayek says she was right to demonstrate on the Cannes Film Festival to highlight the plight of the 200 captive Nigerian school children, despite breaking the rules of the red carpet.

There have been protests, pranks, prawns, umbrella salesmen who have resorted to selling sun hats  and the fashion. Oh the fashion.

But, first.

The actress, who has just topped the London Times' rich list for people in fashion and film, held up a sign to promote the plight of 276 Nigerian schoolgirls who were kidnapped last month.

Although protests are strictly banned from the festival, Hayek defended her sign, which read "#Bringbackourgirls".

"I've always been involved with the cause of fighting for women's rights and I took the opportunity because there were going to be so many photographers to exert pressure and remind them we want these girls back; they have to do something about it," she said.

She was not the only one who took advantage of the opportunity.

The next day, The Expendables 3 cast, including Sylvester Stallone, Mel Gibson, Kellan Lutz and Antonio Banderas held up similar signs on the red carpet.

Their signs, which were without the hashtag however, drew criticism.

"Person one, two, and three made a quick stop at the FedEx Office before the Cannes premiere of somesuch movie about somesuch expending to print out pieces of paper with words, for what? Who knows who cares, no big. Hashtags dropped, meaning lost," Gawker said snarkily.

The actors and their hashtagless antics weren't the only ones who were causing a spectacle on the red carpet.

America Ferrera has recovered after "serial prankster" - AKA pest - Ukrainian journalist Vitalii Sediuk dived under her dress on Friday.

Following the premiere of How To Train Your Dragon 2 she partied into the night with co-stars including Cate Blanchett, who was in fine form at a press interview for the film.

One reporter asked the two-time Oscar winner if she allowed her children play with her trophies.

"Every morning, mommy sits them down, and I get my two Oscars out and I let them stroke them for 15 minutes before they go to school, if they are good," Blanchett quipped.

In response to another reporter who asked: "How was the experience of training your dragon?", Blanchett, who rocked a couple of crustaceans on her ears last week , didn't skip a beat.

"How do I train my dragon?" she repeated. "I don't know if I want to answer that in public."

Meanwhile, back on the red carpet Jessica Chastain was unfazed by the How to Train Your Dragon incident.

When she stepped out for the premiere of The Disappearance of Eleanor Rigby: Them, she expressed disappointment that no pranksters had tried to dive under her royal blue Versace ball gown.

"I could fit five Ukrainian journalists in my dress," she joked.

The 37-year-old star of Zero Dark Thirty also shot the breeze with reporters about the weather.

"What's going on here?" she wondered. "This has been beautiful."

It was a fair question. The festival is renowned for its wild, rainy weather exploited by an abundance of umbrella salesmen who jack up their prices.

With the blinding reflection of all the diamonds on the red carpet, selling sunglasses as well wouldn't be a bad idea.

From Chastain's dripping diamonds to Blanchett's Chopard prawns and Naomi Watt's Bvlgari serpent necklace, bling (and big ball gowns) it seems, are always in.

Unless, that is, you're Elena Lenina.

The Russian TV personality, who you're unlikely to have heard of, is adamant about making a name for herself and doesn't seem to mind how she does it.

Last year she stood out for her Marge-Simpson-style beehive on the red carpet while, this year, she took the message from the bling memo and super sized it, hanging giant silver Christmas baubles around her neck.

While that was one of the few fails on the red carpet so far, there have been plenty of stand-outs.

Hilary Swank was white hot in bridal Ateliere Versace, Frida Pinto was spectacular in coral Oscar De La Renta and again the Aussies have reigned as fashion queens on the red carpet.

Despite dismal reviews for Grace of Monaco, Nicole Kidman was glorious at the premiere in a heavily encrusted Armani evening dress, Watts was also beautiful in blue, wearing Marchesa to the premiere of How to Train Your Dragon 2, while, at the same premiere, Blanchett stunned in reptilian-style, embellished Givenchy.

But, best in show arguably goes to Blake Lively and husband, Ryan Reynolds.

The couple, who celebrate their second wedding anniversary in September, dazzled in matching Gucci monochrome at the premiere of The Captive.

The movie has had pretty lukewarm reviews, but the couple had everyone captive on the fashion front.

And that, along with a little theatre, is what the red carpet is all about.

Good worker bees finish outstanding projects in the next two days. What if yours isn't 'outstanding'? It's okay. You still like what you do.
