
"We make every effort to see that our actions live up to our words and be vigilant with regards to our behavior."

In continuation of its empowerment drive towards peace mothers in the country, Fambul Tok International Sierra Leone with funding from US government and other philanthropists abroad has handed over two brand new rice mill machines to Nimiyama and Gbense chiefdoms in Kono district and another rice mill to Njawa section, Mokorewa in Fakunya chiefdom in Moyamba district.

In addition to the machines, cheques worth over thirty million Leones were also presented to nine peace mothers groups from various sections in Moyamba district.

In his remarks while receiving the rice mill, Abu Ngandi of Nimiyama chiefdom, who had earlier gone to Freetown to train on the use of the machine in a joyous mood said the people of Nimiyama chiefdom are very happy for their dreams have come to reality. He said the chiefdom is very rich in agriculture but what has been a major problem Zwere rice mill facilities.

Chairlady of peace mothers in Bafinfeh section Kumba Yarjah on behalf of her colleagues extended appreciation to Fambul Tok and those that provided the resources to support women in the district. She also promised judicious utilization of the facilities, adding that a committee would be set to manage the entire process.

Chiefdom Speaker of Nimiyama Musa Koroma was full of praise to Fambul Tok, US Government and other philanthropists that continue to support women in Sierra Leone. He said apart from the reconciliation process Fambul Tok continues to empower rural women, urging the organization to keep up the good work.

Section chief of Bayakor, Gbense chiefdom, Mr. Changa, in his remarks on hearing the news that his section had received a dual purpose rice and coffee process mill jumped to his feet. He said peace mothers in the section have always remained together to work even during the time of challenges.

Madam Carthy Changa, Chairlady Peace Mothers in that section could not hold back her tears for the fact that Fambul Tok is the first ever organization that has supported women. She highlighted a number of Fambul Tok interventions such as empowerment of rural women in different areas.

In Mokorewa,Fakunya chiefdom,Moyamba district, Mohamed Navo, who works with peace mothers emphasized the need for women to work together he says the presentation of the rice mill was like a dream for the fact that many organizations have promised the community without fulfillment and Fambul Tok is the first to live by its words. He too extended thanks and appreciation to US Government for supporting rural poor especially peace mothers.

In a short but very impressive presentation ceremony, peace mothers were full of happiness for the boost and promised to do more.

Awoko Newspaper Copyright © 2010-2011. All rights reserved.
