
May 18, 2014 (KHARTOUM) – Sudanese government is resolved to seek a peaceful end to the conflict in South Kordofan and Blue Nile states despite the positions of the rebel Sudan People’s Liberation Movement-North (SPLM-N), stated the government top negotiator.

“The government will not give up in order to find a solution to the issue” of the Two Areas, said the Sudanese presidential assistant and head of Khartoum negotiating delegation Ibrahim Ghandour in a speech delivered before African ambassadors on Saturday.

Ghandour further said that the peace process is complicated, “however, the government will continue to participate in the negotiations, and is now preparing for the eighth round in the coming days”.

Sudanese government and the SPLM-N delegations failed to reach a framework agreement even if they started negotiations  weeks after the eruption of hostilities in South Kordofan states in May 2011.

In the latest meeting, the rebels declined to negotiate a solution for the Tow Aras only and proposed to include Darfur conflict in a process aiming to reach a humanitarian  cessation of hostilities. They also proposed talks with armed movements on war related issues before a national constitution process.

The government adheres to the draft framework agreement, proposed by the mediation, aiming to limit the talks to the two states of southern Sudan. Khartoum also demands a permanent ceasefire and proposes to implement a humanitarian protocol prepared by the UN, African Union and Arab League since last year.

The head of central Africa department at the National Congress Party (NCP) Muhanad Awad told the official news agency SUNA that the ruling party used to organise such briefings to the diplomatic missions in Khartoum .

He added that this is the third briefing on this topic, adding they intend to inform the international community on the political developments in the country.

Comments on the Sudan Tribune website must abide by the following rules. Contravention of these rules will lead to the user losing their Sudan Tribune account with immediate effect.

Due to the unprecedented amount of racist and offensive language on the site, Sudan Tribune tries to vet all comments on the site.

Kind regards,

The following ads are provided by Google. SudanTribune has no authority on it.
