
Forty-eight hours after two persons were killed and five suffered injuries when an under-construction elevator collapsed at Oberoi Springfield Towers in Dindoshi, Aarey police are yet to identify the main accused in the case. Initially, police had booked builders Oberoi Realty and Larsen and Toubro staffers on charges of negligence.

Around 6 pm on Thursday, site supervisor Nitin Azane, 23, and labourer Saiprasad Kate, 37 lost their lives when the cable snapped and sent the elevator car plunging from the 40th floor of the highrise while they were working inside. On its way to the ground floor, it hit another elevator car on the 11th floor and took it along.

Labourers Ashraf Ali, Rajbhavar Tripathi, Munaf Ali, Mubarak Ali and Sachin Surve, who were also working with Azane and Kate, were injured. Police said all five are out of danger and have been discharged from hospital, and their statements are being recorded.

Acase of under IPC sections 304A, 338 and 34 has been registered, they said, adding that staff members of L&T and Oberoi constructions, Jyotul Paints, Rainways Skyrise Fredil Ltd have been made party to the crime but no arrest have been made till date. Senior PI Uttam More with Aarey police station said, "We are trying to find out who was directly responsible for the incident, as there are many people involved. The main company had hired another to do the work. We want to know the role of each and every person involved and arrests will be made accordingly."

"It's a very unfortunate incident. We outsourced our construction to L&T and third party contractors. L&T is an excellent company and have a great safety track record. Our supervisor was badly injured in the accident, as were two L&T workers and contracted painters," said an Oberoi spokesperson.

Recounting the tragedy, a worker who was present when the incident took place said, "We were busy working. Some of my colleagues were in the lift moving material and painting. Suddenly, my colleagues started screaming."

He added, "Before we could do anything, something hit the ground hard. We were shocked to see the lift crash to the ground and so many people injured. Three of my colleagues were unconscious and bleeding badly. We immediately informed the authorities and took them to the hospital. Supervisor sahib died on the way to hospital."

Sort by:Newest|Oldest|Recommended|Most Discussed|Agree|Disagree|Logged in CommentsNew!
