
Kuoni has become the latest travel firm to cancel holidays in Kenya, following the change in the Foreign Office’s advice last week.

The company said although the updated FCO advice did not include Moi International airport, Diani beach or Malindi, “the main road access to these resorts goes through the restricted area defined by the FCO advice.

The company added its operations team would contact all customers who were due to travel in the next 14 days, which would continue on a “rolling basis” until the FCO advice changed.

It said any customers travelling from the UK within the next 14 days with an itinerary that includes the Kenyan coast would be able to cancel free of charge or amend to an alternative destination with no administration fee but at the applicable cost.

Any customers travelling to other parts of Kenya on safari or staying in a lodge and don’t have Mombasa included in their itinerary will not be affected by the current FCO advice and holidays will continue as normal, Kuoni said.

It comes after Thomson and First Choice announced last week plans to evacuate all of its 400 customers currently out in Kenya after the FCO amended its advice to include all but essential travel “to Mombasa Island, and within three miles of the coast from Mtwapa creek in the north down to and including Tiwi in the south”.

Thomson and First Choice said on Friday “as a result of the change in FCO advice, the decision has been taken to cancel all our outbound flights to Mombasa, Kenya up to and including 31 October. As a precautionary measure, we have also taken the decision to repatriate all customers currently on holiday in Kenya back to the UK”.

Later that day 10 people were killed in two explosions which rocked the capital Nairobi.

Imagine keeping 42 million passengers on the move to 225 global destinations each year. Imagine being part of a business with a turnover in excess of £600m. Imagine delivering low cost carrier and charter tactical and strategic sales and marketing plans for four of the UK's leading airports - London Stansted, Manchester, East Midlands, and Bournemouth.
