
Republicans obsessing over Benghazi claim the Obama administration is trying   to hide something, but the regrettable truth is, the GOP cannot hide its motive for keeping the issue front and center.

The motive is politics, not what the party contends, the belief that unveiling all the facts in the 2012 embassy attack might help prevent the future loss of U.S. diplomats’ lives at some outpost in an unfriendly land.

Instead of picking at a wound and reinforcing the party’s image of insensitivity, Republicans ought to stand down on their Benghazi assault and adopt other issues that really matter to voters, such as our sputtering economy.

Unfortunately, the GOP would rather take the risky approach. Republicans want a select committee to explore — yet again — what happened in Benghazi.

• They denied that security was insufficient in Benghazi. Wrong. Four diplomats wouldn’t have been killed if there had been enough security.

• Their initial explanation that the attack sprang from a spontaneous protest was wrong. It was an organized attack.

• They withheld key emails from congressional investigators, saying the House Republicans didn’t ask precisely for what they wanted.

The last mistake violated the first rule of crisis management: Release as much information as possible, as quickly as possible. Had Obama and Clinton been forthcoming about Benghazi, the furor would have subsided soon after the slain Americans were laid to rest. Instead, the administration’s stonewall is the excuse detractors need to continue prying and probing for more information.

We can lay part of the blame on Obama and Clinton for Benghazi’s extended shelf life, but Republicans are committing an equally horrendous mistake by fanning the issue. There comes a time when such tragedies ought to be laid to rest.

If there is some damning evidence to dig up, it eventually will be brought to light.

Rather than pick at the wound, Republicans should focus on reviving our national economy. Create jobs.

Get families back on their feet. Resurrect prosperity. Fight for issues that matter most for Americans, and allow the people who were tragically killed in Benghazi to rest in peace.

Yes. Great cause.

No, but I am donating anyway.

I give to other causes that don’t get the attention they deserve.

No, it’s all I can do to pay the rent.

Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
