
Attacks in Benghazi by a maverick general and a subsequent armed assault on the parliament in Tripoli may reflect a political shoving match between Libya's main Islamist camp and rival groups.

Libya has struggled to build a stable democracy since the 2011 overthrow of Muammar Qaddafi. The interim parliament, the General National Congress (GNC) elected in 2012, has been regularly paralyzed by internal squabbling and two prime ministers have been ousted on no-confidence votes. In the absence of a strong state, myriad local militias across the country operate with impunity.

On Friday, forces led by retired general and former rebel leader Khalifa Haftar attacked hardline Islamist militias that operate unchecked in the eastern city of Benghazi. The government denounced the attacks as tantamount to a coup since Mr. Haftar had acted on his own volition. He said he was taking it upon himself to rid the city of violent groups only because the government had failed to do so.

Sunday’s assault on the GNC building may have been timed to disrupt a planned vote on a new cabinet for Prime Minister-elect Ahmed Matiq. It represents a challenge to an interim parliament considered “too close to the Islamists” by its critics, says a Western diplomat who spoke on condition of anonymity. “It’s a power struggle between [liberals] and Islamists,” he says.

Libya’s government, currently led by an interim prime minister, insists it remains in charge; Tripoli was calm this morning, the diplomat said. The GNC plans to vote on Mr. Matiq’s cabinet in the coming days, which would confirm him as prime minister.

Political turmoil is nothing new in post-Qaddafi Libya, where the GNC has come under attack numerous times already, notes Sami Zaptia, a business analyst and the editor of the country’s Libya Herald online newspaper. Meanwhile, eastern militias demanding regional autonomy continue to blockade two of four oil ports they seized last year, cutting deeply into Libya’s oil exports.

All Rights Reserved.
