
More than two years of planning and working wrapped up with the dedication of the burn building in Richlands May 17.

Town officials joined Wayne Estes of the Department of Fire Programs and several citizens to dedicate the facility which will be used for training fire fighters.

The town took the lead in building the facility with the bulk of the funding coming from them and the fire services program. The town owned the property was involved in the project from day one.

Fire Chief Keith Reynolds and Assistant Cheif Rhudy Keith Jr. thanked Mayor Jan White and members of council for their work on the project. They presented plaques of appreciation to the Mayor, Estes and to Danny Brown who oversaw the project.

Keith said Brown came to the site when the building was in the planning stages and was there every day overseeing construction.

They also have plaques for the board of supervisors, town of Bluefield, Noah Horn well drilling, Consol and other companies. Keith said the town of Bluefield made a $5,000 donation to the building.

Consol installed a device that can simulate a gas leak causing a fire. Fire Chief Keith Reynolds said that will allow fire fighters and employees of CNX gas to drill on fighting those types of fire.

Noah Horn Well drilling assisted with construction and the county made monetary donations. The building is used for training and simulates smoke and heat a firefighter would come in contact with.

Estes said the town should be proud of the building which can be used by any department in the area for practice. It is also available for classes and a firefighter one class used it during the winter.

“We were out here every weekend whether it was 12 degrees or 50 degrees,’ Keith said. After a luncheon prepared by EMS workers tours of the building were offered.

The town received a grant of $430,000 from the state to pay for the $500,000 building and used other donations and town money to complete it. Work started in June of 2012 and was finished in March of 2013.

Posted in Richlands clinch valley on Monday, May 19, 2014 4:45 pm.

1 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language.

2 Don't Threaten or Abuse. Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated. AND PLEASE TURN OFF CAPS LOCK.

3 Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.

4 Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.

5 Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.

6 Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness accounts, the history behind an article.

Welcome to the discussion.

We're always interested in hearing about news in our community. Let us know what's going on!
