
The largest city and capital of South Korea, Seoul, is spending around $100 million to make the metropolis more female-friendly, including the creation of parking spaces reserved exclusively for women.

As part of Korea's big-budget push to make Seoul more welcoming for women, 7000 new female-only toilets are being installed around the city and many pedestrian walkways are being resurfaced with a slightly spongy material to aid those wearing high heels.

Made clearly visible via bright pink painted outlines and skirted female iconography, the special parking spots are wider and longer than regular ones.

The she-spots, as some are calling them, are also better lit and closer to vital shopping infrastructure, such as elevators and escalators.

It's not clear if male drivers who park in the spots will incur a fine, or how the new system will be policed.

In conversation with the Korea Times newspaper, the Assistant Mayor for Women and Family Affairs, Cho Eun-hee stated: "It is like adding a female touch to a universal design and make things more comfortable for women".

Korea is not the first country to offer female-only parking spots. Car parks reserved for women are already seen in China, Kuwait, Malaysia, Indonesia, Austria, Italy and Germany.

Some Australian car parks and shopping malls have 'family' parking spots designed for parents with infants, often designated with the symbol of a pram.

In 2012 the German town of Triberg announced male and female designated car spots, the latter better lit and wider. The male car parking spots were hemmed in by concrete pillars and could only be reversed into.

Triberg Mayor, Gallus Strobel, denied the strategy was sexist. He told Germany's Spiegel magazine he was accused of "male pig-headedness" by one critic and that he "never expected this reaction".

"I am happy, and it looks like we've hit a raw nerve in society. It's been a great marketing gimmick," he said.

"Women can come here and prove me wrong, and while they're at it they can see the town's attractions," said the Triberg mayor.

Do you think gender-based parking spots are a good idea? Have your say in the comments section below.

In most cases, motoring.com.au attends new vehicle launches at the invitation and expense of vehicle manufacturers and/or distributors.

Editorial prices shown are a "price guide" only, based on information provided to us by the manufacturer. Pricing current at the time of writing editorial. Pricing prior to editorial dated 25 May 2009 may refer to RRP. Due to Clarity on Pricing legislation, RRP for those editorials now means "price guide". When purchasing a car, always confirm the single figure price with the seller of an actual vehicle.

^ If the price does not contain the notation that it is "Drive Away No More to Pay", the price may not include additional costs, such as stamp duty and other government charges. Please confirm price and features with the seller of the vehicle.

Opinions expressed with motoring.com.au editorial material are those of the writer and not necessarily Carsales.com Ltd. motoring.com.au editorial staff and contributors attend overseas and local events as guests of car manufacturers and importers.

Subscribe to receive the latest car news, reviews and advice.
