
Students on the University of Florida campus in Gainesville. The recently  passed state budget includes an extra $5 million to help UF become one of  the nation's top 10 public research universities, in addition to $15 million  previously approved for that purpose.

Last Modified: Friday, May 16, 2014 at 5:03 p.m.

As the University of Florida tries to rise in national college rankings, officials need to ensure that faculty who endured years of cuts aren't left behind.

The Legislature this month approved a budget that would provide UF with more than $100 million in additional funding.

The budget, which awaits Gov. Rick Scott's approval, includes an extra $5 million to help UF become one of the top 10 public research universities, in addition to $15 million previously passed for that purpose.

UF has already been hiring faculty in areas identified as important in the top-10 push, dubbed "UF Rising." UF Provost Joe Glover has told the Faculty Senate that he hopes that as many as 40 of 120 newly authorized positions will be filled by year's end.

As UF brings in new faculty, it can't forget the people who stuck with the university through five years of cuts that only ended last year.

A faculty union survey that included eight colleges with nearly 550 respondents revealed deep dissatisfaction in those ranks.

Respondents were asked if they agreed with the statement that they would leave UF if offered a comparable job elsewhere and personal factors did not keep them here. A majority of faculty in seven of the eight colleges -- business administration was the exception -- strongly or somewhat agreed.

The figures were as high as 75 percent of faculty respondents in the colleges of fine arts and liberal arts and sciences. Neither should be a surprise, since both colleges were particularly hard hit by budget cuts.

While UF has tried to stay competitive in pay, years without raises moved already stagnant salaries further behind. UF faculty salaries are as much as $17,000 lower than salaries at comparable public universities, according to a Chronicle of Higher Education study. The gap is tens of thousands of dollars greater between full professors at UF and those at public universities already in the top 10.

UF President Bernie Machen has indicated that raises are a top priority.

Other employees must also be properly compensated, including graduate assistants, who teach roughly half of all classes at UF. About 10 percent of their already modest incomes are taken by ever-increasing student fees.

UF's drive to be a top-10 public university is focused on increasing research that attracts grants and leads to breakthrough discoveries and spin-off companies. That focus also provides economic benefits for Gainesville as a whole, but so does ensuring all employees are properly compensated.

While hiring new faculty in targeted areas is crucial, being a top university also means retaining quality people.

As the university seeks fresh blood, it must ensure current employees share in the benefits of its newly bolstered budget. A wide variety of disciplines must rise together for UF to truly be an elite university.

This editorial first appeared in The Gainesville Sun, a fellow member of the Halifax Media Group.

Reader comments posted to this article may be published in our print edition. All rights reserved. This copyrighted material may not be re-published without permission. Links are encouraged.
