
A human rights group says more than 160,000 people have died in Syria’s 3-year conflict that has also forced millions of people to flee their homes and the country, which is poised for an election that current President Bashar Assad is widely expected to win.

A Syrian woman comforts her children after their house in the Sahour nieghbourhood of the northern Syrian city of Aleppo was bombed earlier this month. The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights estimates that more than 160,000 people have died during the three-year conflict in Syria, while millions have been forced to flee their homes and the country.

BEIRUT—The death toll in Syria’s three-year conflict has climbed past 160,000, an activist group said Monday, a harrowing figure that reflects the relentless bloodletting in a civil war that appears no closer to being resolved.

The grim tally, however, only presents one facet of the tremendous suffering that Syrians have endured since the revolt against President Bashar Assad erupted in March 2011. The crisis has also uprooted some 6.5 million people from their homes, forced 2.7 million to flee the country, laid waste to cities and towns alike, and unleashed sectarian hatreds that have rippled across the region.

The government has presented Syria’s June 3 presidential election , which Assad is widely expected to win, as a means to end the conflict. The Syrian opposition and its Western allies have denounced the vote as a farce aimed solely at lending Assad a veneer of electoral legitimacy.

It also remains unclear how the government can hold a credible vote when the nation is engulfed in fighting and a significant chunk of the country is in opposition hands.

The Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said Monday it has documented 162,402 deaths in the conflict, including civilians, rebels and members of the Syrian military. That figure also contains militiamen, such as members of the Lebanese Hezbollah militant group who have been fighting alongside Assad’s forces, as well as foreign fighters among the opposition forces.

The Observatory remains the sole organization providing a reliable tally of Syria’s war dead.

The United Nations has stopped updating its own tally of the Syrian dead, saying it can no longer verify the sources of information. The world body’s last count in late July was 100,000 killed.

The Observatory bases its figures on information it obtains from a network of activists inside Syria. Its numbers are based on the names of those killed, collected by activists who document the dead in hospitals, morgues and identify them from video materials.

Civilians comprised about a third, or 53,978, of the Observatory’s new toll . Those deaths include 8,607 children and 5,586 women.

The uprising also has killed 26,858 rebel fighters and 37,685 Syrian soldiers, the Observatory said. It said 25,147 pro-government fighters also have died on the battlefield, including 438 Hezbollah militants, and 1,224 Shiite foreign fighters and Palestinian militants.

The Observatory counted 13,529 deaths among foreigners and other fighters who have sided with the rebels, including members of an Al Qaeda-linked group and other hard-line Islamic groups. There are also 2,891 unidentified bodies in the conflict, and 2,314 identified bodies of Syrian army troops who have crossed over to the opposition side to fight the government.

The Observatory considers its tally a rough estimate.

Syria’s uprising began with largely peaceful protests against Assad’s rule before slowly turning into a civil war. The conflict has taken on sectarian overtones, with predominantly Sunni Muslim rebels battling an Assad government that is dominated by Alawites, an offshoot of Shiite Islam.

Bickering among the opposition’s exiled politicians who make up the Western-Backed Syrian National Coalition has hampered efforts to create a credible alternative to Assad.

On Monday, a spokeswoman for the opposition’s Turkey-based interim government said its defence minister, Asaad Mustafa, had submitted his resignation. The spokeswoman, Sarah Karkour, did not say why Mustafa was stepping down.
