
Share This Story!

An appeals court has denied an emergency motion to stop a federal judge from announcing his ruling.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Supporters of same-sex marriage hold photos of themselves and their family members or partners on the steps of the Wayne L Morse U.S. Courthouse Wednesday, May 14, 2014, in Eugene, Ore. A federal judge will hear arguments Wednesday about whether a national group can defend Oregon's ban on same-sex marriage because the state's attorney general has refused to do so.

The 9th Circuit Court of Appeals has denied a request to stop or "stay" Monday's decision on whether gay couples can marry in Oregon.

Supporters of same-sex marriage rushed to file motions Monday morning after the National Organization for Marriag e filed an emergency motion asking the appeals court stop U.S. District Court Judge Michael McShane from issuing his decision at noon.

"NOM's purpose in filing this appeal is not to win. It is to delay plaintiffs' ability to marry in Oregon,"attorneys for the plaintiffs state in their response . "The standards governing a stay, even a temporary stay pending consideration of a motion for stay, do not permit this tactic."

NOM used Utah to explain why it believed a stay was necessary. According to its motion, a district court judge overturned Utah's ban on same-sex marriages and couples began to marry. Then, the U.S. Supreme Court intervened and issued a stay in the case, raising questions about the validity of licenses issued during the interim.

Oregon voters approved a state constitutional amendment in 2004 that declared marriage was only between one man and one woman. Four couples challenged the amendment as federally unconstitutional in the fall of 2013.

NOM asked to intervene and defend Oregon's constitutional amendment in April after Attorney General Ellen Rosenblum announced in February that the state would not. McShane denied that request Wednesday, May 14.

In his ruling, McShane told NOM that a private group couldn't intervene "simply because the organization disagrees with the interpretation" of state and county officials.

NOM plans to appeal that decision.
