
Share This Story!

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

After being found not guilty in a corruption trial Friday , former Senate Majority Leader Joseph Bruno said today he will seek state reimbursement for his legal bills -- as much as $4 million.

He said that under state law, he has a right to seek the money from the state Attorney General's Office. The money would then need approval by the state Comptroller's Office.

"I want what is legally, lawfully due me and I hope Eric Schneiderman, he is the attorney general, is just fair and objective and not in anyway political – and I don’t expect that of him," Bruno said on "Live from the State Capitol with Fred Dicker" on WGDJ-AM (1300).

There was no immediate comment from Schneiderman's office on Bruno's expected request. Bruno spent $1.5 million from his campaign account on legal fees, and there was a legal fund to help his cause.

Bruno, a Rensselaer County Republican who led the state Senate from 1994 through 2008, was acquitted of two counts of federal mail fraud Friday after facing a two-week federal trial in Albany.

Prosecutors accused Bruno, 85, of trading his influence at the Capitol for $360,000 in consulting payments from Albany-area businessman Jared Abbruzzese, as well as accepting $80,000 from Abbruzzese for what the U.S. Attorney’s office called a “virtually worthless” horse.

It was the second time Bruno faced trial on the charges.

In 2009, Bruno was convicted of two mail-fraud charges related to Abbruzzese and acquitted of five other fraud charges, while the jury was hung on a ninth charge. But in a separate case in 2010, the U.S. Supreme Court threw out a portion of the “honest services” clause Bruno was convicted under, ruling that prosecutors must prove bribery occurred in order to get a conviction.

At the first trial, prosecutors consciously avoided trying to prove a quid pro quo arrangement. Bruno’s conviction was thrown out, but prosecutors were allowed to try him again and attempt to prove bribery occurred.

Bruno said the ordeal has taken a toll on him, and he's happy to be able to move on.

"Prayers do get answered, and I firmly believe that. It just feels great. It’s hard for us to still comprehend," Bruno said.

There is precedent for a large payout for lawmakers found not guilty in the performance of their official duties. Former Senate Minority Leader Manfred Ohrenstein, a Manhattan Democrat, received $1.3 million for his successful legal defense in a corruption case in 1992.
