
“Hernandez hit me so hard I thought he broke my leg” – Cal Crutchlow.

Nicky Hayden's French MotoGP lasted just a few turns before he fell due to contact from  Andrea Iannone on the exit of the first chicane.

“Not a lot to report,” said Aspar Honda rider Hayden on Sunday evening. “Obviously it's a shame. We found something to improve the bike this morning and I was able to go faster than in qualifying so I was excited for the race.

“I got a good start, probably my best of the year and was right there with a decent position.

Iannone had qualified eleventh on the grid and was the only Factory class rider using the extra-soft rear tyre, which perhaps encouraged him to attack in the early laps. However it appears he was too aggressive, the incident with Hayden being followed by a fall on his own a lap later.

“I am sorry for the contact I had with Nicky, who fell. I didn't see him because he was behind me,” said Iannone. “In addition, during the contact I completely destroyed my boot, it would have been difficult in any case to finish the race because the boot was completely open.

After the race Ducati's Cal Crutchlow revealed that he and Iannone's team-mate Yonny Hernandez were also caught up in the incident.

“Today's race was wrecked for me in the first three corners because I was caught up in the collision with Nicky,” Crutchlow said. “Iannone was hot as usual. He hit Nicky who crashed in front of me and then Hernandez hit me in the side of the leg so hard I thought he broke my leg.

Crutchlow finished the race in eleventh, with Hernandez 13th.

Sorry, due to abuse from people posting SPAM, we no longer allow web addresses to be posted in comments.

Please login or register before adding your comments.

Although the administrators and moderators of this website will attempt to keep all objectionable comments off these pages, it is impossible for us to review all messages. All messages express the views of the poster, and neither Crash Media Group nor Crash.Net will be held responsible for the content of any message. We do not vouch for or warrant the accuracy, completeness or usefulness of any message, and are not responsible for the contents of any message. If you find a message objectionable, please contact us and inform us of the problem or use the [report] function next to the offending post. Any message that does not conform with the policy of this service can be edited or removed with immediate effect.

Why in every single interview he has, does Cal have to slag someone or something off, like in this, Iannone was hot "like usual" he really should concentrate on himself rather than constantly calling everyone else out, be it other riders, or his team!    As said above, Hayden ever the professional, the bloke is a class act.
