
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .

If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .

Seoul: President Park Geun-hye of South Korea has vowed  to disband her country's coast guard, saying South Korea owed "reform and a great transformation" to hundreds of high school students who died in a ferry disaster last month.

Ms Park offered a tearful "heartfelt apology" for failing to prevent the sinking of the  ferry on April 16 and for the coast guard's bungling of rescue operations.

"The ultimate responsibility of the poor response to this accident lies with me," Ms Park said in an address to the nation on Monday, during which she openly wept and twice bowed deeply before the television cameras in a display of contrition.

Ms Park's popularity ratings have been hammered by the disaster that claimed about 300 lives.

She has voiced regret several times, but Monday's address was the first time she had explicitly accepted direct responsibility for what has become a defining moment of her presidency.

"As the President responsible for the lives and safety of South Koreans, I offer my sincere apology for all the suffering," she said.

The ferry sank off the island of Jindo off the southern coast of South Korea.

Towards the end of her 30-minute address, Ms Park's voice choked with emotion and tears ran down her cheeks as she described the heroic actions of some of the victims who died trying to save others.

Her comments highlighted the failure of the coast guard's immediate response to the tragedy, and acknowledged the complaints of the victims' relatives that many more lives might have been saved.

"I have decided to dismantle the coast guard," she said, adding that its investigative activities would be taken up by the police and its maritime patrol operations will be handed over to a newly created ministry of national safety.

The Sewol, with 476 passengers and crew members on board, capsized and sank, killing at least 286 people, with 18 missing, making the episode one of the country's worst peacetime disasters. Of the passengers, 339 were children and their teachers on a field trip from a high school on the outskirts of Seoul. Only 172 people were rescued, with the rest presumed to have drowned.

Some of the crew, including the captain, were caught on videotape abandoning ship while the children were repeatedly told to stay put in their cabins and await further orders.

The victims' families have been extremely critical of nearly every aspect of the government's handling of the disaster. Many relatives believe some children may have survived for hours or even days inside air pockets in the capsized ferry, but died because rescuers took too long to access the submerged vessel.

"We failed to save those students who should have been saved," Ms Park said. "I will make this an opportunity for South Korea to be born again."

All 15 surviving crew members were indicted last week, including the captain and three senior crew members on homicide charges. The remaining 11 crew were also indicted for negligence.

"The irresponsible acts of the captain and crew members who abandoned hundreds of people are practically an act of murder," Ms Park said, adding that existing legislation would be amended to provide harsher penalties for officials found responsible for such accidents.

Investigations into the disaster have suggested it was almost wholly man-made: the result of cut corners, regulatory violations, poor safety training and a woeful lack of oversight - all, or nearly all, attributable to a desire to maximise profits.

Daredevil wingsuiters take on 'epic challenge'

Onlookers cheer as two Dutch wingsuiters jump from a helicopter and soar around the Euromast building in Rotterdam.
