
In what photographers are calling a “David vs. Goliath” situation, the widow of a photographer who with his father shot hundreds of pictures of the Walton family from 1950 to 1994 is being sued by the Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and the Walton family to have negatives, proofs and prints turned over to them.

Robert A. Huff and his son, David A. Huff, owners of Bob’s Studio of Photography in Fayetteville and both now deceased, photographed members of the Walton family from 1950 to 1994 in their studio. The Walton family, suing as Crystal Lands LLC, maintains that the studio kept the negatives and proofs as a courtesy to the family, but that they are the intellectual property of the Waltons.

Defendant Helen B.M. Huff, widow of David Huff, has filed a counterclaim, saying she holds the copyright to the photos and asking the court to stop Walmart from using the photographs without her permission. Huff says Bob and David Huff were independent contractors, using their own equipment, lenses, lights and backdrops; controlled the positions of their subjects; chose and developed the film or hired the processing company; and provided a copyright notice to the Walton family notifying them that they owned “exclusive rights to reproduce” the pictures.

Wal-Mart Stores, filing as The Walmart Museum, and Crystal Lands filed suit March 28 in Benton County Circuit Court, but attorneys for Huff, citing federal copyright law, were able to remove the case to federal court in the Western District of Arkansas. Federal Judge Timothy L. Brooks has scheduled a case management hearing for July 7.

The Waltons claim the pictures were taken under their “supervision” and that they thus hold intellectual property rights to more than 200 photographs in six boxes, including those shot at the studio as well as photos taken to the studio for restoration. The plaintiffs are asking the court for a declaratory judgment that the Walmart Museum and the family own the photographs and, whatever the result of the case is, to prevent Huff from making commercial use of the pictures.

Jonesboro Mayor Harold Perrin has suspended Police Chief Mike Yates for 30 days without pay for Facebook comments about a Jonesboro Sun police reporter who's since quit her job because she said she didn't feel safe. The chief has been ordered to apologize, to undergo training, to stay away from social media and to review information release procedures that the Sun complained about.
