
Attorney Misha Isaak shares an excerpt from Eugene judge Michael McShane's ruling striking down Oregon's same-sex marriage ban.

Pedicabs drove newly engaged Oregonians from the Multnomah County building, where same-sex couples picked up their marriage licenses, to the Melody Ballroom, where officials performed ceremonies on Monday afternoon.

The ruling in U.S. District Court in Eugene Tuesday that overturned Oregon's ban on same-sex marriages is a historic moment, one that sent a euphoric shiver through much of the population, especially those queuing up to say their vows.

The man who issued the decision, U.S. District Judge Michael McShane , pulled from his own experiences in an eloquently worded opinion filed as part of the decision.

Noting the moral and religious objections from many Oregonians, McShane notes how several generations, including his own, were raised in a world in which homosexuality "was believed to be a moral perversion," where "smear the queer" was a popular childhood game, and that ultimately led to "an environment of cruelty, violence, and self-loathing."

"Even today I am reminded of the legacy that we have bequeathed today' s generation when my son looks dismissively at the sweater I bought him for Christmas and, with a roll of his eyes, says 'dad ... that is so gay,'" McShane wrote.

On a legal level, McShane said the state's marriage laws unjustifiably treat same-gender couples differently than opposite-gender couples.

It's not surprising, he wrote, that people with such strong religious or moral opposition to gay marriage would fight to enshrine those values into law. "But just as the Constitution protects the expression of these moral viewpoints, it equally protects the minority from being diminished by them."

Finally, McShane acknowledges that this debate won't end with him. But he expresses hope that it progresses peacefully.

"Where will this all lead? I know that many suggest we are going down a slippery slope that will have no moral boundaries. To those who truly harbor such fears, I can only say this: Let us look less to the sky to see what might fall; rather, let us look to each other ... and rise."

Erik Siemers is managing editor of the Portland Business Journal.

If you are commenting using a Facebook account, your profile information may be displayed with your comment depending on your privacy settings. By leaving the 'Post to Facebook' box selected, your comment will be published to your Facebook profile in addition to the space below.

Sign up to receive Portland Business Journal's Morning Edition and Afternoon Edition newsletters and breaking news alerts.
