
TRIPOLI, Libya - Armed men have stormed the parliament building in Tripoli, killing at least two people and injuring many others.

CNN has revealed fierce fighting occurred in the Libyan capital on Sunday in some of the worst violence since the 2011 revolution swept dictatorial leader Muammar Gadhafi from power.

Legislators were targeted by the gunmen at the end of the day's parliamentary the session.

The armed men then blocked the road that led to the parliament, blocking access to the building.

According to some of the legislators who later spoke on Libyan television, the attack was driven by members of the al-Qaaqaa, al-Madani and al-Sawaeq brigades, powerful militia forces from the western mountain city of Zintan.

The fighting developed from an intense divide which has sprung up between Islamists and liberals, who are backed by the heavily armed Zintan militias.

Zintan generals have accused the Islamists of trying to control the government and parliament.

The Zintan militia leaders have now vowed to continue the assault on Islamist militants in Tripoli and Benghazi.

CNN said its correspondent in Tripoli was able to report fighting from several parts of the city and intense gunfire coming from the road to the airport.

Witnesses to fighting in the southern suburbs said clashes had been particularly violent with opposing militias engaged in street battles, including mortar fire.

The violence in the capital came as the death toll rose over the weekend from intense fighting Friday to the east in and around the town of Benghazi, led by a retired General Khalifa Haftar.

Haftar has vowed to continue his assault on Islamist militants who have been blamed for attacks on foreign diplomats, journalists, judges and security forces.

There are various militias in Libya, divided along regional, religious, tribal and political lines.

Many of the militias fought the Gadhafi regime in 2011 and have refused to disarm and disband.

The militias are responsible for daily bombings, kidnappings and assassinations.

When it comes to Iran's nuclear weapons program, the only difference between them is this: Ahmadinejad was a wolf in wolf's clothing, Rouhani is a wolf in sheep's clothing, a wolf who thinks he can pull the wool over the eyes of the international community.

The chief lobbyist for the National Retail Federation was speaking about talks to end the U.S. government shutdown.

Get the latest Malaysia Sun headlines delivered to your inbox.
