
A federal court has ordered Utah to recognize same-sex marriages carried out during a brief period in which those unions were legal in the state.

If the order holds, it could be big news for the more than 1,300  same-sex couples married in Utah this winter, after a federal judge struck down the state's ban on December. A higher court took until January 6 to put the  ruling on hold as it works through the appeals process.

That allowed  same-sex couples in Utah more than two weeks to get legally married. And while the federal government opted to recognize these marriages, the state government did not.

The preliminary injunction order , from US District Judge Dale Kimball, means the state government must recognize these couples' marriages even as same-sex marriage remains illegal in the state.

Because the couples got married when same-sex marriage was legal, the court argued that trying to enforce a same-sex marriage ban on these couples would be a retroactive application of the law. "Utah law has a strong presumption against retroactive application of laws," Kimball wrote.

The court, however, temporarily stayed the ruling for 21 days to allow the state government to seek an appeal. That means Utah's married same-sex couples will have to wait at least 21 days — or more, if a higher court applies a permanent stay as the case works through appeals process — to have their marriages recognized by the state government.

Update: After Utah Governor Gary Herbert appealed the decision, a court put Judge Kimball's order on hold until the case works through appeals.

As part of the new Vox launch, prior users will need to choose a permanent username, along with a new password.

Your username will be used to login to Vox going forward.

Please login to your Vox Media account.  This account will be linked to your previously existing Eater account.

As part of the new Vox launch, prior MT authors will need to choose a new username and password.

Your username will be used to login to Vox going forward.

We'll email you a reset link.

If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.

Almost done,

By becoming a registered user, you are also agreeing to our Terms and confirming that           you have read our Privacy Policy .

Great!

Choose an available username to complete sign up.

In order to provide our users with a better overall experience, we ask for more information from Facebook when using it to login so that we can learn more about our audience and provide you with the best possible experience. We do not store specific user data and the sharing of it is not required to login with Facebook.
