
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

State Assemblywoman Claudia Tenney, R-New Hartford, has called U.S. Rep. Richard Hanna, R-Barneveld, a "liberal Republican" and questioned his voting record. She will face Hanna in the June 24 Republican primary in the 22nd Congressional District. Democrats will not field a candidate in the November election.

WASHINGTON, D.C. -- State Assemblywoman Claudia Tenney says she's trying to unseat U.S. Rep. Richard Hanna, her one-time friend and fellow Republican, because Hanna has abandoned his conservative principles.

Since March, Tenney has campaigned across the 22nd Congressional District, declaring that Hanna is a "liberal Republican" who "sold out his constituents" and Tea Party supporters like herself who voted for him in 2010 and 2012.

Tenney has repeatedly claimed that Hanna is the "third most liberal Republican" in the House.

It's true that only fellow New York Reps. Michael Grimm, R-Staten Island, and Chris Gibson, R-Kinderhook, voted more often among Republicans for bills graded as "liberal" by the National Journal.

When looking at Hanna's overall voting record compared to all 435 House members, including Democrats, Hanna ranked 230th most conservative and 201st most liberal.

Separately, a Washington Post database shows Hanna has voted with Republicans 88 percent of the time in his second term in Congress. Only seven out of 237 Republicans split more often with the GOP leadership.

He voted for a February bill to raise the federal debt limit and avoid a default on the nation's debt.

He was the only Republican to vote against a January bill that would have banned health insurance plans from covering abortion services under the Affordable Care Act.

He voted against a September 2013 bill for a short-term budget that would have required a one-year delay for parts of the Affordable Care Act.

In his first term , he voted against legislation that would have trimmed funding for National Public Radio, the National Endowment for the Arts, Amtrak, and the Department of Energy and cut off federal aid for Planned Parenthood.

Tenney and her supporters say Hanna has "turned his back on pro-life taxpayers" with a series of votes that support abortion rights.

She cites a January vote on the "No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act" in which Hanna stood alone among House Republicans in his opposition to the measure.

Hanna, who supports abortion rights, explained that he has always opposed spending federal money on abortion - a ban already in place under the Hyde Amendment.

Hanna said he voted against the January bill because it took additional steps that would have prevented some multi-state health insurance plans from providing abortion coverage.

"While I personally oppose abortion, individuals should be free to make that very difficult and personal decision without heavy-handed government involvement," Hanna said after the vote.

During an appearance last week on the Bob Lonsberry show on WSYR-AM in Syracuse, Tenney told the conservative talk-radio host that Hanna's January vote would allow federal money to be spent on late-term abortion.

The bill did not contain such a provision. Lonsberry called Tenney's accusation "false in letter and spirit."

On the campaign trail, Tenney has repeatedly claimed that Hanna "voted to fund Obamacare" and has broken his promise to voters that he would fight to repeal the law.

Hanna has voted almost 50 times to repeal or replace all or part of President Barack Obama's landmark health care law.

Tenney cites a September 2013 House vote on a short-term budget bill to prevent a shutdown of the federal government. The bill included a one-year delay on parts of the Affordable Care Act.

Hanna, among only two Republicans to split with their party on the legislation, said after the vote that the brinksmanship over the government shutdown was "a shameful way to operate."

He also objected to a GOP provision in the bill that would have given insurers the right to deny birth control coverage based on religious or moral objections.

Tenney says Hanna did not support Republican calls for a new investigation into the 2012 attack that killed four Americans at the U.S. Consulate in Benghazi, Libya.

Tenney cited Hanna's comments on a live radio talk show in which he said "there have been close to 40 (House hearings) and they have not been able to find a smoking gun."

But in a May 8 vote, Hanna joined the majority of House Republicans who passed a resolution 232-186 to establish a House committee to investigate the Benghazi attack.

In a campaign mailer, Tenney claims Hanna "voted against protecting our Second Amendment rights." She cited no specific vote.

Tenney also says Hanna was soft in his opposition to the New York SAFE Act, a state law in which he had no vote, and slow to support workers at Remington Arms in Herkimer County.

Guns rights advocates have sided with Hanna. Last week, the National Rifle Association -- the nation's largest gun rights group -- endorsed Hanna over Tenney in the primary.

The NRA said it backed Hanna because he "opposed all attempts to ban lawfully-owned firearms and magazines, and stood against President Obama and New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg's gun control agenda."

Tenney claims Hanna opposes E-verify legislation that would require employers to keep a list of legal workers that would be shared with other employers.

Hanna denies that he opposed the program, and his voting record backs him up. In September 2012, Hanna voted to extend the E-verify program for three years.

© 2014 Syracuse Media Group All rights reserved ( About Us ).

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
