
Politics >> Conservatives are against affordable health insurance for all, Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, Head Start, women and children's nutrition programs and every program for the poor, while approving corporate welfare and tax shelters for the rich. They are conserving the wealth of the rich, which is why they are called "conservatives."

Benghazi >> I'm calling in regard to the person in the Sound Off who tried to compare the '50s McCarthy hearings to Benghazi hearings. He has to remember that there is one big difference. Americans were killed in Benghazi, and they did not have to die. That's the difference between that and McCarthy's witch hunt. I know. I sat through McCarthy's hearings.

Market >> It's about time Las Cruces had a farmer's market in the evening. They have the Sunset Market in Oceanside, California, on Thursdays. It is really nice — all types of foods, crafts and music, even an area where people can dance if they like. Hope Las Cruces continues to have a farmer's market in the evening.

Harbison column >> Mr. Harbison's latest commentary is a perfect example of Fox Fantasy News. But the numbers he throws at us are just numbers, and there's really no relationship to reality.

Harbison column >> Mr. Harbison's columns just do not make any sense whatsoever. The reason you're not going to sell many houses in the area when the average salary is about $9 an hour is you don't qualify for a mortgage. At the same time, you condemn a minimum wage increase. You just don't make any sense, sir.

Astroturf >> It looks like the news coverage of NMSU's Astroturf buried the original opposition to it by Dr. Bernd Leinauer, professor in the NMSU Agriculture Department.

Birth control >> Mr. Morgan had an excellent article on teen pregnancy prevention in New Mexico. He noted Hispanic girls have higher birth rates than other kids. He lists several reason, but misses the elephant in the room, which is the church that is both against contraception and abortion. Lack of one, obviously, leads to the need for the other, so I hope they come into the 21st century and change their position.

Fundraiser >> The caller amused by the announcement of Mucho Macho Hot Legs, monies raised is not for research. It is to help Doña Ana County people who have cancer by the program CARE.

Senate race >> U.S. Senate candidate Allen Weh is a government contractor who has a lot of taxpayer money to spend but no grass-root support to take on the task of unseating Tom Udall. We need a fresh face like David Clements.

Sheriff's race >> I find it interesting to note that Mr. Vigil continually calls the animal control officers who work for the sheriff's department "dog catchers," degrading them by calling them that and claiming they are not considered law enforcement officials.

Harbison column >> According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the biggest reason for the increase in those leaving the labor force is retirement in an aging population. Mr. Harbison declares this "sad." I actually look forward to it. Too bad his retirement isn't working out.

Be heard. Call 575-541-5466 or email soundoff@lcsun-news.com to submit a Sound Off! item.
