
Share This Story!

These are the stories making news today.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

See what's trending on azcentral.

Wrong-way drivers: Arizona highway safety and transportation officials are trying to figure out how to curb wrong-way accidents on Arizona highways.

The third such fatal head-on accident the Phoenix area in a week killed two people early Sunday. Five other people died in two previous wrong-way wrecks.

The directors of the state Departments of Public Safety and Transportation and the Governor's Office of Highway Safety met Sunday to review the accident and to discuss strategies.

The agencies said they're focusing on enforcement, engineering and education and that removal of impaired drivers from the highways is the Highway Patrol's top priority.

Phoenix budget: After four months of contentious debate and warnings of red ink, Phoenix City Manager Ed Zuercher's plan to erase the city's $37.7 million deficit all comes down to an upcoming vote.

The City Council votes Tuesday on his final proposal to balance the budget in the coming fiscal year, which starts July 1. The plan would spread the financial pain, cutting employee compensation by $16.5 million and raising taxes and fees for residents by about $11 million.

Phoenix faces a deficit because its expenses are growing faster than revenue. The city expects to have about $10 million more next year, but its fixed expenses will increase by $48 million, including soaring employee pension and health-care costs.

AT&T wants DirectTV: Priming itself for the age of Internet-delivered video, AT&T Inc. said it would buy DirecTV for $48.5 billion in cash and stock, or $95 per share.

While DirecTV doesn't help the telecom company compete in the online video space immediately, cost savings from the merger and the extra cash flow will improve its ability to compete with the cable giant that would be formed by Comcast Corp.'s proposed $45 billion takeover of Time Warner Cable.

With 5.7 million U-verse TV customers and 20.3 million DirecTV customers in the U.S., the combined AT&T-DirecTV would serve 26 million. That would make it the second-largest pay TV operator behind a combined Comcast-Time Warner Cable, which would serve 30 million under a $45 billion merger proposed in February.

AT&T is already the largest mobile service provider in the U.S., serving 116 million customers compared to Verizon's 103 million.

Ukraine crisis: Russian President Vladimir Putin on Monday ordered troops deployed near Ukraine to return to their home bases and praised the launch of a dialogue between the Ukrainian government and its opponents even as fighting continued in the eastern parts of the country.

Putin specifically ordered Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu to pull back forces involved in "planned spring drills" in the Rostov, Belgorod and Bryansk regions to their home bases, the Kremlin said. The order appears to go further than a similar statement by the Russian leader two weeks ago that troops were being pulled back from the border to shooting ranges.

The three regions border Ukraine and the withdrawal of troops deployed there to other Russian provinces would signal a genuine attempt by Moscow to de-escalate the worst crisis in its relations with the West since the Cold War. It also would be easily verifiable by Western intelligence.

Weather: Breezy to windy conditions today will result in critical fire weather conditions for much of the state. This windy weather will continue through Tuesday as a low-pressure system moves toward Arizona. This system will also lower afternoon high temperatures into the upper '80s in the Valley by Wednesday and keep them below average through the end of the week.

Today's high is expected to be 98.
