
The best systems can beat human performance in ideal conditions. But their performance drops dramatically as conditions get worse. So computer scientists would dearly love to develop an algorithm that can take the crown in the most challenging conditions too.

Today, Chaochao Lu and Xiaoou Tang at the Chinese University of Hong Kong say they've done just that. These guys have developed a face recognition algorithm called GaussianFace that outperforms humans for the first time.

The new system could finally make human-level face verification available in applications ranging from smart phone and computer game log-ons to security and passport control.

Impressive.

Apple Inc and Google Inc's Motorola Mobility unit have agreed to settle all patent litigation between them over smartphones, ending one of the highest-profile lawsuits in technology.

In a joint statement on Friday, the companies said the settlement does not include a cross license to their respective patents.

Apple and companies that make phones using Google's Android software have filed dozens of such lawsuits against one another around the world to protect their technology. Apple co-founder Steve Jobs called Android a "stolen product."

Google and Apple informed a federal appeals court in Washington that their cases against each other should be dismissed, according to filings on Friday. However, the deal does not apply to Apple's litigation against Samsung Electronics Co Ltd.

This is quite odd. Motorola had been suing Apple since 2010, claiming that Apple infringed its standard-essential patents on 3G. Apple said it had a licence via its chip supplier. Back and forth, and no result. But now with the Lenovo deal about to get approved, this never-ending litigation is abruptly settled. It feels like Motorola - or Google, or Lenovo - wanted things wrapped up. Florian Müller calls it a "second-class settlement".

Microsoft announced a partnership with Insteon today, along with some big plans to fully incorporate the popular home automation network into its ecosystem. Starting June 1, an enhanced version of the Insteon app with exclusive features will be made available for Windows Phone 8 devices, along with any tablet, laptop, or desktop running Windows 8.1.

In addition, it won't be long after that before you start seeing Insteon products lining Microsoft Store shelves.

… Insteon is a fee-free home automation network that's long been popular with hobbyists. The Insteon network combines a wireless radio frequency with existing power line connections to create a fast, reliable, dual-band connection.

Wouldn't you take any sensitive conversations away from Facebook, and have them some place where *no* meta data is being collected about who you are talking to, and when? It's also in question whether Cryptocat can sway the skeptics who may remember the service's rocky history when it comes to security.

I fear that the people who spend all day thinking and writing about technology often suffer from the same myopia about the behavior and mentality of the vast majority of everyday users of technology. We are nothing like them in many respects – we know far more about the technology than they do, we use a far greater variety of devices and services than they do, we read far more about it than they do, and we inhabit the same sort of bubble as Pauline Kael did, where we're often shut off from how regular people think about technology.

Okay, so you still want to work there? You should. But it isn't easy. A lot of people want to work at Google. To give you a sense of this, in the year I joined, Google grew by about 3,000 employees, that same year they had around 1,500,000 people apply for jobs, so only 1 in every 500 people who applied, was hired. Google is in the enviable position of being able to pick and choose who it makes an offer to.

I'll focus on engineering hiring. The core of Google's engineering teams are the SWEs — the software engineers. Most developers joining Google start as a SWE. Above this are TLs — Tech Leads, who run one or more teams of SWEs. A TL makes the high level technical decisions for their team(s), mentors more junior team members and keeps their projects on track against deadlines and milestones. They spend some of their time writing code.

Fascinating.

For live audiences, Stairway's power starts with its introductory notes. "Can you think of another song, any song, for which, when its first chord is played, an entire audience of 20,000 rise spontaneously to their feet, not just to cheer or clap hands, but in acknowledgment of an event that is crucial for all of them?" Observer critic Tony Palmer wrote in a 1975 profile. Dave Lewis writes in Led Zeppelin: The Complete Guide to Their Music that "Stairway has a pastoral opening cadence that is classical in feel and which has ensured its immortality."

You'd need to rewrite the history of rock 'n' roll.

Be sure to play the MIDI-based game in the link as well as reading the story.

What is remarkable about these statistics is the fact that the overall number, at 61% of Americans 12+, would be significantly higher were it not being suppressed by the relatively slower adoption by seniors–particularly amongst Americans 65+, among whom one-quarter own a smartphone. The growth in smartphone ownership has been significant over the past three years, and yes, the growth rate among seniors has been high, as the chart below indicates–nearly doubling with Americans 55+ over the past two years. Still, the overall penetration of ownership amongst 12-54 year-olds is now approaching 75%–more than double the penetration with 55+.

For those aged over 65, smartphone ownership is just 25% - which probably isn't a surprise. Those over 65 comprise 13.5% of the total US population in 2012, according to its Census Bureau.

Our editors' picks for the day's top news and commentary delivered to your inbox each morning.
