
Share This Story!

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Phoenix Mayor Greg Stanton says the city is now better prepared to react to future budget surprises, like the one this year that led to $38 million in pay cuts and fee increases in the budget the City Council votes on Tuesday.

After four months of contentious debate and warnings of red ink, Phoenix City Manager Ed Zuercher's plan to erase the city's $37.7 million deficit all comes down to an upcoming  vote.

The City Council  votes Tuesday on his final proposal to balance the budget in the coming fiscal year, which starts July 1.  The plan would spread the financial pain, cutting employee compensation by $16.5 million and raising taxes and fees for residents by about $11 million.

Phoenix faces a deficit because its expenses are growing faster than revenue. The city expects to have about $10 million more next year, but its fixed expenses will increase by $48 million, including soaring employee pension and health-care costs.

Zuercher originally proposed to balance the budget by drastically reducing services to residents, but thousands mobilized to protest. Now, Zuercher says the city can erase its red ink if both residents and employees give a little.

In the latest plan, the largest source of new revenue is a tax on residents' utility bills, based on water-meter size.

On average, the tax would cost  customers $1.50 per month and raise about $9.5 million.

Mayor Greg Stanton called Zuercher's budget a move "in the right direction" because it avoids "devastating" cuts to city services. But it's unclear if he can muster the five council votes needed to approve the plan.

Several council members have opposed the city's new contract with its police union, the only union that did not accept the city's final offer. Those council members will likely submit an alternative budget plan that would cut expenses they consider non-essential.

The council meeting starts at  1 p.m. Tuesday in council chambers, 200 W. Jefferson St.
