
The man accused of killing a 21-year-old man at Mascara's Gentlemen's Club last year appeared in court Monday morning.

A judge ordered Anderson held with no bond. He's charged with second-degree murder and possession of firearm by convicted felon. He has a pretrial date scheduled for June 3.

"It's sad to see a guy kill an innocent kid over something so senseless," said Trenton Green, Brandon Green's father.

According to the Jacksonville Sheriff's Office, Anderson killed Green after they "bumped shoulders" inside Mascara's and gave each other "defensive looks."

"Brandon, he was the type, he got a spirit like my daughter, my oldest daughter," Trenton Green said. "They have one of those spirits that's fun. He loved his mother, he loved his daddy, brothers and sisters. He was one of those type of kids who wanted to go out and have fun and do things a 20-year-old does."

Green's family said it's been tough since his death.

"Very hard," said Harriet McNeal, Brandon's mother. "We have been fighting, passing out flyers, walking, begging people to come forward. They found evidence and came up with enough to arrest him."

Family attorney T.C. Roberts said Anderson could face a first-degree murder charge if a grand jury finds enough evidence to indict him on it.

"It's just so senseless," Roberts said. "If it's someone stepping on your foot or bumping into you in a bar or club, that doesn't mean you should get out a gun and shoot somebody for that."

Copyright 2014 by News4Jax.com. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

The views expressed below are not those of News4Jax or its affiliated companies. By clicking on "Post," you acknowledge that you have read the Terms of Service and your comment is in compliance with such terms. Readers, please help keep this discussion respectful and on topic by flagging comments that are offensive or inappropriate (hover over the commenter's name and you'll see the flag option appear on right side of that line). And remember, respect goes both ways: Tolerance of others' opinions is important in a free discourse. If you're easily offended by strong opinions, you might skip reading comments entirely.

No email address was supplied by .                                 To complete your registration on this site, please supply an address.

Please confirm or modify the email address to which you will have subscription offers sent.

For a more personalized experience, please supply the following optional information.
