
JINDO, South Korea, May 19 (Yonhap) -- Divers made no headway in their search Monday for the 18 people still missing from last month's deadly ferry disaster due to a broken anchor chain of a barge at the scene.

After nearly a day of hiatus due to rough waters, Navy, Coast Guard and civilian divers resumed their work earlier in the day to find the missing in the April 16 sinking of the 6,825-ton ferry Sewol off the country's southwest coast, which has left 286 people dead.

But the operations were suspended again after one of the barge's four anchor chains broke, preventing divers from going underwater.

"We plan to restart the search operation in the evening after fixing the chain," Ko Myung-seok, a spokesman of the government crisis, told a briefing. "Some 122 divers are ready to comb a kitchen, compartments and hallways on the ferry."

   The start of a period of weaker currents at the shipwreck site has boosted expectations for progress, but concerns have also grown over a possible collapse of part of the hull, according to officers.

Despite President Park Geun-hye's pledge to dismantle the Coast Guard, the agency said it is committed to the rescue job until all the missing people are found.

"We will humbly accept the president's will and do our best until we find everyone still missing," Coast Guard chief Kim Suk-Kyoon told a briefing.

Vowing to further strengthen its capacity for the search mission, the head said he will hire more civilian divers while paying extra care for health conditions of rescuers.

In a nationally televised address earlier in the day, President Park offered a fresh apology over the tragedy and unveiled a package of measures for overhauling the national safety management system, including dismantling the Coast Guard.

Family members of the missing vented outrage over Park's plan to abolish the maritime police agency, saying it could have a negative impact on the ongoing rescue operation.

"Despite the plan, not a single officer should be taken out from search operations. The Coast Guard should be at the scene until the end, and the government should strive to help divers commit themselves to the rescue work," a representative of the families said in a news conference.
