
Photos from Syria Trojan Women project website and Indiegogo.com.

In December 2013, around 40 Syrian women performed Euripides’ Trojan Women on stage in Amman, Jordan. All of the actresses were refugees that had fled their country to escape the war that began three years ago. Euripides wrote the Trojan Women in 415 BC. However, the tragedy could have been written yesterday, for these Syrian refugees. Just like the Trojan Women, they lost everything when they left Syria: their homes, their jobs, their possessions and in many cases, their loved ones. The co-founders of the project now want to portray this experience through a documentary entitled Queens of Syria.

In a large, bright in Amman, Syrian women, all refugees living in the Jordan capital, are playing Musical Chairs. All of them are running and laughing like children. One woman slips and falls on her bottom, trying to sit down, she bursts out laughing with her friends.

This surprising and heart-warming scene was filmed during the Syria Trojan Women project , launched in October 2013, where 40 Syrian refugees participating in drama therapy workshops worked together to perform Euripides’Trojan Women tragedy on stage in December.

Journalist and award-winning former foreign correspondent, Charlotte Eagar is one of the co-founders of the Syria Trojan Women project. Months ago, she got the idea of having Syrian refugees perform in Euripides’ tragedy on stage. She had been familiar with this mythical play since reading it during her time at university: And in 1992, while covering the conflict in Bosnia, she heard it on the BBC World Service. The words echoed with the reality she was living at that time. This play is a universal, timeless tale about war and its victims.

Charlotte is also an award-winning filmmaker. The year before the Syria Trojan Women project was born, she co-directed and co-wrote a mini soap in Kenya entitled “Something’s Got to Change”, with young amateur actors, in a Nairobi slum for the NGO ‘Emerging Leaders’.

Just like the Trojan Women, the Syrian women lost everything and were forced to flee their country, leaving everything behind.

Lebanon, but we had to change our plans for security purposes,” Charlotte told us when we contacted her from Beirut. She explained that, as a former war correspondent, she was not really worried about the security situation in Lebanon, but insurance companies most certainly were. “Not a single one accepted to insure the project.” So the organizers decided to do it in Amman, the capital of Jordan, a much more stable country.

The objective of the Syria Trojan Women project was to help refugees through drama-therapy, but also to publicize the crisis and to raise the audience’s awareness about the humanitarian situation in Syria.

After performing on stage, the women said they felt that people had listened to their story. For once, they were directly speaking to the public, without any media between them and the audience.

The Syria Trojan Women performance in December was also a success from an artistic point of view. They have been invited to perform in places such as the UK, the US and Switzerland. But getting visas for Syrian refugees to certain countries is difficult. So, to reach as many people as possible, the organizers are now trying to finalize the documentary, “Queens of Syria”.

“The objective of the documentary is to reach more people, to let as many people as possible hear the story of these women. We filmed the drama-therapy sessions, the rehearsals and the performances thanks to a grant from the Asfari Foundation and private donations,” Georgina Paget said. “We have 88 hours of footage and we need money to make a documentary out of them”.

To finance the production of the documentary, the Syria Trojan Women Project launched a crowdfounding campaign on Indiegogo , a crowdfounding digital platform.
