
The president takes up all the responsibilities.

South Korea’s President Park Geun Hye had a speech Monday morning to apologize to the people for the failure to save the lives of hundreds of passengers on the Sewol ferry that sank on April 16. The disaster took away close to 300 lives with 18 passengers still missing.

She held herself responsible for the lack of enforcement on the safety regulations set for companies and the government’s failure in the way they operated during the disaster. Shedding tears, she apologized during her speech and said, she will go through a strict reform process to improve the safety of people so a disaster like the sunken ferry won’t ever happen again. The Coast Guard’s failure in their rescue mission has led to the decision of breaking up the organization.

The president stated, she will take down any corporation trying to play dirty and risk the lives of innocent people and will put an end to corruption.

Although she has apologized, the public is harshly criticizing her. They are saying she seemed like she didn’t want to make the speech at all, and that it was lacking.

After more than a month, she now, I believe, learn how to cry. Indeed she told she was responsible but she didn’t mention a single thing of what she has failed to do. Still 18 people are missing so I hope her announcement of breaking up the Coast Guard doesn’t affect the recovery operation. Indeed, she used women’s weapon, waterdrops. According to one of radio broadcasts of CBS before the public apology , her tears were already expected as one of focal points, since she was advised by people in the Cheongwadae (presidential residence)  to show tears to become more persuasive. The lady who was in tears is also responsible for arresting around 200 demonstrators who demanded the government thorough enquiry into this issue yesterday. She became into the power after manipulating public opinion by abusing government’s authorities, which is clearly illegal. Indeed she is just one of ultimate failures to be removed from the Korean society.

As a Westerner I have to point out it’s better and more than we would get.

As a political realist I have to point out that arresting protesters doesn’t always equate to corruption. There’s a difference between legal protest and illegal.

As a woman, I take huge offense to the comment about tears. It effectively rendered the rest of your comment null and void.

First of all, I would like to apology for my inappropriate description of tears. I did not intent to offend women but this could be a discriminative comment based on the gender. Sorry for my insensitiveness.

Freedom of expression as well as of association have been to large extent restricted recently in Korea. Under this circumstance, I only can say that the demonstration of public was peaceful, which no violent suppression of the force was not necessary. Also 300,000 people gathering on that day for a candle vigil, I believe, was legal by notifying in advance as requested by law.

Corruption is another matter. it was found that the Korean Intelligent Agent and other intelligent offices have intervened the last presidential election by uploading thousands of comments on the internet to support her as well as to defame the opponents. My opinion is that the legitimacy of her presidency should be questioned.

I can, of course, wait to find whether her apology with tears is genuine or just another politically motivated performance but I would like to expressed my opinion on her public apology. I still do believe that her tears weren’t just fake as the other occasions and her measures are just a shock therapy. However, if there was anything unintentionally offending others’ feeling  in the course, I must apology.
