
In this original BTB Investigation, we unveil the tragic story of Kirk Murphy, a four-year-old boy who was treated for “cross-gender disturbance” in 1970 by a young grad student by the name of George Rekers. This story is a stark reminder that there are severe and damaging consequences when therapists try to ensure that boys will be boys.

When we first reported on three American anti-gay activists traveling to Kampala for a three-day conference, we had no idea that it would be the first report of a long string of events leading to a proposal to institute the death penalty for LGBT people. But that is exactly what happened. In this report, we review our collection of more than 500 posts to tell the story of one nation’s embrace of hatred toward gay people. This report will be updated continuously as events continue to unfold. Check here for the latest updates.

At first glance, David Benkof appears to be a young gay man who believes that same-sex marriage will damage the institution of marriage, that there are better options for gay couples than marriage, that the community should join him in prioritizing other more pressing issues, and that the marriage discussion is harming the efforts of gay couples in red states to get recognition for their unions. He also claims that he’s a gay columnist, that he speaks for an influential collection of gay thinkers, and that he is part of the gay and lesbian community and that he shares our goals and dreams. But none of that is true.

The April 2008 edition of the pay-to-publish vanity journal Psychological Reports featured a new report from NARTH. Written by NARTH president A. Dean Byrd, past president Joseph Nicolosi, and Richard W. Potts, the report carries the unwieldy but self-descriptive title, “Clients perceptions of how reorientation therapy and self-help can promote changes in sexual orientation.” While the title describes what the authors meant to show — how clients describe the benefits of reparative therapy — the report itself actually illustrates something very different: the ex-gay movement’s remarkable ability to instill an almost robot-like parroting of ex-gay rhetoric among their clients.

The Toronto Star said that a new study “discover[ed] a new strain” of a super-bug “hitting gay men.” Headlines in Britain screamed, “Flesh-eating bug strikes San Francisco’s gay community,” and anti-gay extremists across America spread the alarm that gays were introducing another plague into “the general population.” But there was a small problem with all of this: None of it is true!

In 2005, the Southern Poverty Law Center wrote that “[Paul] Cameron’s ‘science’ echoes Nazi Germany.” What the SPLC didn”t know was Cameron doesn’t just “echo” Nazi Germany. He quoted extensively from one of the Final Solution’s architects. This puts his fascination with quarantines, mandatory tattoos, and extermination being a “plausible idea” in a whole new and deeply disturbing light.

On February 10, I attended an all-day “Love Won Out” ex-gay conference in Phoenix, put on by Focus on the Family and Exodus International. In this series of reports, I talk about what I learned there: the people who go to these conferences, the things that they hear, and what this all means for them, their families and for the rest of us.

At last, the truth can now be told.

Using the same research methods employed by most anti-gay political pressure groups, we examine the statistics and the case studies that dispel many of the myths about heterosexuality. Download your copy today!

Anti-gay activists often charge that gay men and women pose a threat to children. In this report, we explore the supposed connection between homosexuality and child sexual abuse, the conclusions reached by the most knowledgeable professionals in the field, and how anti-gay activists continue to ignore their findings. This has tremendous consequences, not just for gay men and women, but more importantly for the safety of all our children.

Anti-gay activists often cite the “Dutch Study” to claim that gay unions last only about 1½ years and that the these men have an average of eight additional partners per year outside of their steady relationship. In this report, we will take you step by step into the study to see whether the claims are true.

Tony Perkins’ Family Research Council submitted an Amicus Brief to the Maryland Court of Appeals as that court prepared to consider the issue of gay marriage. We examine just one small section of that brief to reveal the junk science and fraudulent claims of the Family “Research” Council.

When Karla Jay and Allan Young published The Gay Report in 1979, it quickly a favorite source of statistics for many anti-gay extremists. But before you accepts these statistic at face value, you should examine the inner workings of this survey very carefully. What you learn might surprise you.

The FBI’s annual Hate Crime Statistics aren’t as complete as they ought to be, and their report for 2004 was no exception. In fact, their most recent report has quite a few glaring holes. Holes big enough for Daniel Fetty to fall through.

Where will this all lead? I know that many suggest we are going down a slippery slope that will have no moral boundaries. To those who truly harbor such fears, I can only say this: Let us look less to the sky to see what might fall; rather, let us look to each other … and rise.

– Federal District Judge Michael McShane, in today’s ruling striking down Oregon’s ban on same-sex marriage.

As of noon today Pacific Time, Oregon has become the eighteenth state, in addition the the District of Columbia, to provide marriage equality for same-sex couples. With this ruling 39.5% of the total U.S. population lives in marriage equality states.

His order is effective immediately.

With no one defending Oregon’s marraige ban, it’s hard to find anything new in Judge McShane’s decision that hasn’t already been covered before. In fact, its a rather odd read. Because there were no arguments put forth by defendants in defending the ban, McShane’s attempt to argue against such arguments here are rather hypothetical and not based on the court record. And since state and county officials have already said that they have no plans to appeal the decision, McShane’s ruling will remain strictly an Oregon matter, and will likely have little bearing on case law as the other cases move their way through the appeals process. So I guess one can argue that the Oregon decision is relatively unimportant in the greater scheme of things, I have a feeling that many thousands of same-sex couples in Oregon today would be justified in strongly disagreeing with that.

I think Oregon may have lost an excellent opportunity to pass marriage equality at the ballot box. Just imagine, another major victory for the good guys by popular vote after Maine, Maryland and Washington.  Just my 2 cents, of course.

And a a lot of time, energy, and money wasted, with no guaranteed of a win.

No thanks.

And Minnesota, remember Minnesota voted not to define marriage as one man / one woman, thus setting the stage for the MN legislature to pass marriage equality by statute.

The lack of appeal strikes me as a positive example, if unlikely to be repeated, for other states. Instead of joining the growing circus of cases begging for attention from higher courts, it is done. No more expense, drama, bad publicity or humiliating, predictable losses.

Mark F.

Mark,

It won’t matter, because such a decision affecting another state could not affect an unappealed decision in Oregon. IANAL, but if it’s not appealed, there’s nothing the USSC can do to affect the decision.

Then we will have to continue fighting state by state. As much as I would love to have the ‘easy’ win, I don’t see that as necessarily a loss.

The political battles mean people much come out of the closet. I have long maintained that the enemy is the closet, not the right wing.

I love the last sentence of your article. It’s a reminder why we’ve fought so hard for marriage equality.

This judge is the proverbial needle in a haystack. A gay Federal judge writes an opinion on state marriage law in a case where the defense strategy was to agree with plaintiff.  That, in itself is quite remarkable. That this judge managed to work in references to ‘smear the queer’, ‘God Hates Fags’, ‘that’s so gay…’ and a reminder that the Bowers decision is less than 30 years old in a decision that will stand unchallenged is both prescient and artistic.

Not much there?  Yet again, I must beg to differ.

By that logic, no African-American can preside over a case in which equal civil rights oft blacks is an issue… so Clarence Thomas should have recused himself from the recent Michigam higher-education affirmative action case, which would have resulted in a 4 – 4 Supreme Court decision, and Michigan would have lost.

Or all of SCOTUS should have recused themselves from the New York “prayer before public meeting” case, allowing the lower court ruling against the town to stand.

Does judicial bias exist? It sure does… but that bias reveals itself in decisions in which the logic of the decision is so twisted, murderers are dealt with as victims of “affluenza”, or rapists are given probation because 14-year old victims aren’t virginally pure.

But to intimate bias in a decision that, ultimately, rests on the words: “(We) hold these truths to be self-evident… that all (persons) are created equal” reveals the bias, not of the judge, but of the person so commenting on the decision.

@Eric Payne,

I’m not sure where your going with this or how you got there.  An artistically written opinion does not signal bias, nor the need for recusal.

Slightly off topic.  Pennsylvania Judge just did the same thing.

PA has Marriage Equality!

@Nicholas Petersen,

Mea culpa. I read your comment! above! as snark directed at Judge McShane’s decision, and not one of congratulations of the decision, because of the unneeded reference to McShane’s sexual orientation.

All comments reflect the opinions of commenters only. They are not necessarily those of anyone associated with Box Turtle Bulletin. Comments are subject to our Comments Policy .

© Box Turtle Bulletin. All Rights Reserved.
