
SHANGHAI: China and Kyrgyzstan issued a joint declaration in Shanghai on Sunday, vowing to facilitate stronger strategic partnership.

The declaration was released as Kyrgyz President Almazbek Atambaev is paying a state visit to China from Sunday to Wednesday as guest of Chinese President Xi Jinping. Atambaev will also attend the the fourth summit of the Conference on Interaction and Confidence Building Measures in  Asia (CICA) to be held in Shanghai on Tuesday and Wednesday. Both countries promised not to join any alliance or group that harms each other's sovereignty, security and  territorial integrity, nor sign any agreement of such kind with the third country, according to the declaration.

The two countries affirmed their principles of equality, mutual benefits and no use of force in international  affairs, and their opposition to hegemonism and expansion policies in any form, it said. Kyrgyzstan reiterated that the government of the People's Republic of China is the sole legitimate government of China, and Taiwan is an indispensable part of the country, said the declaration. The Kyrgyz government firmly supports the one-China policy, and opposes the so-called "Taiwan Independence" in any form, it said.

Kyrgyzstan backs the peaceful development of cross-Strait relations and China's efforts to realize national unification, according to the declaration. China vows to support the development path that the Kyrgyz people chose for their country as well as the Kyrgyz  government's efforts to safeguard national sovereignty and territorial integrity. Regarding economic cooperation, both countries vowed in the declaration to expand cooperation in such areas of electric power, oil gas, hydropower and renewable energy, and facilitate bilateral energy projects such as the construction of China-Kyrgyzstan natural gas pipeline.

The two countries will build a mechanism to ensure the long-term stable operation of their natural gas pipeline project, according to the declaration. Both sides plan to hold consultation on the feasibility of building interconnectivity channel connecting China, Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, Kazakhstan and Afghanistan.

«The cow, of course, hasn’t died yet, but not alive already».

«Soon it comes to the absurd: we start giving orders protocol to call each other».

The Vice Prime Minister Valery Dil, speaking at a conference on preparation for the heating season on July 23, 2014.
