
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

A line began forming outside the Multnomah County building shortly after 5 a.m. Monday morning, as gay couples awaited the chance to get married, should a judge overturn Oregon's ban on gay marriage.

By 10 a.m., more than a dozen people milled about on the sidewalk outside, sitting in lawn chairs and chatting over a makeshift buffet of coffee and pastries. The mood was was celebratory, with a tinge of caution.

Judge Michael McShane has said he will rule on the legal status of Oregon's gay marriage ban at noon on Monday. It is likely he will overturn the ban, which voters enacted in 2004, just months after Multnomah County began issuing marriage licenses to gay couples.

Deanna Geiger, 55, and her partner, Janine Nelson, 53, spurred the legal debate over gay marriage in Oregon in Octobe r, when they sued the county along with the state, arguing the statewide ban was unconstitutional. The pair were second in line Monday morning, awaiting their chance to get married after 31 years together, and months of legal deliberations.

"It's exciting, but it's also nerve-wracking because we don't know what's going to happen," Geiger said as the pair waited.

The pair were wed in 2004, when Multnomah County began issuing marriage licenses, but the statewide ban made their marriage legally void. Nelson said the experience was heartbreaking.

"It was a total wind out of the sails," she said. "Hopefully it sticks this time."

The pair plan to be married at the Multnomah building, 501 S.E. Hawthorne Blvd., immediately after they obtain their licenses. Their friend Bill Griesar, 49, who joined them in fighting the ban in court, will officiate. He's betting this time, the change will be permanent.

"It feels so much less fraught then in 2004," when there was strong opposition to Multnomah County's decision to grant gay marriage licenses, he said. "It feels light, positive. I feel like the whole country is moving forward."

As the morning wore on, the line of couples waiting to wed grew longer. County elected officials appeared intermittently to talk with the couples and celebrate the judge's anticipated verdict. All five members of the Multnomah County Board of Commissioners support marriage equality .

"This is huge," Commissioner Loretta Smith said. "It's going to change the lives of a lot of folks in Multnomah County and give them a sense of security they didn't have."

The Oregonian will be at the Multnomah County building throughout the morning and into the afternoon, and our reporters in Salem will be following McShane's decision. Continue checking Oregonlive for updates.

My Portland!

© 2014 Oregon Live LLC. All rights reserved ( About Us ).

The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Oregon Live LLC.

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
