
Forces apparently loyal to a renegade Libyan general said they suspended parliament after earlier leading a military assault against MPs.

Libya's leadership condemned the attack and vowed to carry on.

A commander in the military police in Libya read a statement announcing the suspension on behalf of a group led by General Khalifa Hifter, a one-time rebel commander who said the US backed his efforts to topple Gadhafi in the 1990s.

Hours earlier, militia members backed by truck-mounted anti-aircraft guns, mortars and rocket fire attacked parliament, sending MPs fleeing for their lives as gunmen ransacked the legislature.

General Mokhtar Farnana, speaking on a Libyan television channel on behalf of Gen Hifter's group, said it assigned a 60-member constituent's assembly to take over for parliament.

He said Libya's current government would carry on as an emergency Cabinet.

Gen Farnana, who is in charge of prisons operated by the military police, said forces loyal to Gen Hifter carried out Sunday's attack on parliament.

He also said yesterday's attack on Libya's parliament was not a coup, but "fighting by the people's choice".

Wearing a military uniform and sitting in front of Libya's flag, he said: "We announce to the world that the country can't be a breeding ground or an incubator for terrorism."

Early this morning, Libya's interim government condemned the attack on parliament and largely ignored the declaration by the general's group.

"The government condemns the expression of political opinion through the use of armed force," Libyan justice minister Salah al-Marghani said.

"It calls for an immediate end of the use the military arsenal...and calls on all sides to resort to dialogue and reconciliation."

Militias that backed the country's interim government manned checkpoints around the capital.

Gen Hifter's forces in Tripoli appeared concentrated around the road to the city's airport and its southern outskirts.

The attack on parliament, which Mr al-Marghani said killed two people and wounded more than 50, came after an assault on Friday by Gen Hifter's forces on Islamist militias in the troubled eastern city of Benghazi that authorities said killed 70 people.

Yesterday, gunmen targeted the Islamist MPs and officials Gen Hifter blames for allowing extremists to hold the country to ransom, his spokesman Mohammed al-Hegazi told Libyan television station al-Ahrar.

"This parliament is what supports these extremist Islamist entities," Mr al-Hegazi said.

"The aim was to arrest these Islamist bodies who wear the cloak of politics."

The fighting spread to the capital's southern edge last night and along the airport highway.

Libya's army and police rely heavily on the country's myriad of militias, the heavily armed groups formed around ethnic identity, home towns and religion that formed out of the rebel factions that toppled Gadhafi.

Bringing them under control has been one of the greatest challenges for Libya's successive interim governments, one they largely failed at as militias have seized oil terminals and even kidnapped a former prime minister seemingly at will.

In the fighting yesterday, officials believe members of the al-Qaaqaa and Sawaaq militias, the largest in the capital, backed Gen Hifter even though they operate under a government mandate.

Al-Qaaqaa posted a statement on its official Facebook page saying it attacked parliament with Sawaaq because MPs supported "terrorism".

Islamist-backed parliamentary head Nouri Abu Sahmein earlier told Libyan television station al-Nabaa that parliament would convene tomorrow.

An official with the Libyan Revolution Operation Room, an umbrella group of militias groups in charge of the security in the capital, said the gunmen "kidnapped" some 20 MPs and government officials.

MPs  said security officials tried to evacuate them before attackers breached the parliament, following warnings the building would be assaulted.

Libya's parliament is divided between Islamist and non-Islamist factions, with rival militias lining up behind them.

Recently, Islamists backed the naming of a new prime minister amid walkouts from non-Islamists, who said the new government would be illegitimate.

Those who attacked parliament have ties to Zintan in Libya's west and are an anti-Islamist powerhouse in Tripoli. Militias from Misrata, the other dominant force in Tripoli, largely support the Islamists.
