
Tuesday May 20 is the last day investors can apply for Saga shares in the    firm’s flotation.

Demand for shares in the over-50s group is expected to be high, which is why    dozens of brokers are going out of their way to accept applications.

You don't have to go through a broker – Saga is also accepting applications    directly. However, depending on your circumstances, this    could work either for or against you . For example, direct investors    will not be able to put the shares in an Isa; those who want to do this will    have to use a broker, or transfer the shares to a broker at a later date.

All applications must be received by 11:59pm on Tuesday May 20.

If you are not a Saga customer or employee and decide to use a broker, which    one will be best? The answer depends on how long you will want to hold the    shares.

If you are buying shares to try to bag yourself a quick profit by selling on    day one, you'll just want a broker that has low dealing charges. It costs    nothing to buy the shares in the flotation but the cost of selling will    vary.

Bestinvest charges £7.50, one of the lowest fees among participating brokers.    It also charges a percentage of the value of the shares owned. This is    levied at the rate of 0.4pc a year, with a minimum of a month's charge, even    if you own the shares for just a few hours. In other words, someone who    sells Saga shares as soon as trading begins will pay a 12th of 0.4pc,    0.03pc, of the value on top of the £7.50 dealing fee.

If you already have an account with another broker, you could use that    instead. Dealing charges vary and it's worth checking that there won't be    any one-off fees. He are the dealing costs at the main brokers, compiled by    Lang Cat, a consultancy.

Here, you won't care so much about the dealing commission but will want a    broker that charges little or nothing to hold the shares. Saga's own direct    service will not levy an annual charge and you can choose between an    electronic account and having a share certificate.

Among the brokers, analysis by the Platforum, a consultancy, found that the    lowest cost option was AJ Bell Youinvest because it does not levy an annual    fee, whether or not you hold the shares in an Isa. Other brokers will charge    a percentage of assets you hold or a flat annual charge, although Halifax    and Hargreaves levy no charge if you have an ordinary trading account - in    other words, not in an Isa.

No, but the majority will be accepting applications until 5pm on Tuesday May    20.

There are some notable names not taking part in the float, such as TD Direct,    NatWest Stockbrokers, Trustnet Direct and Fidelity Personal Investing.

*Customers are defined as anyone who held a magazine subscription, or    bought a Saga financial product or private health care policy between    January 5 2013 and April 30 2014 or who booked or went on a Saga or Titan    holiday or cruise between January 5 2011 and April 30 2014.
