
Share This Story!

Pilot Flying J's President, Mark Hazelwood, has abruptly departed from the company.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Thirteen months after an FBI raid on its Knoxville headquarters, Pilot Flying J's president Mark Hazelwood has abruptly departed from the company.

Hazelwood's departure was confirmed late Monday by Aubrey Harwell, the Nashville attorney representing Pilot. Harwell did not say why Hazelwood left or if he resigned or was asked to leave.

Hazelwood's departure comes after 10 of his subordinates entered guilty pleas, during the past year , to charges that they engaged in a widespread scheme to cheat trucking companies out of millions of dollars in promised rebates.

Hazelwood, 55, a Knoxville resident, could not be reached for comment.

The raid on Pilot's headquarters on April 15 of last year was conducted by the FBI and IRS.

Freeman also stated, according to the transcripts, that Pilot CEO James A. Haslam, knew about the scheme. Haslam, who also owns the Cleveland Browns, has repeatedly denied any knowledge of the rebate allegations.

Metro Pulse, a media outlet in Knoxville, reported Monday that Pilot employees learned of Hazelwood's departure in an email from Haslam in which he wrote, "Please join me in thanking him (Hazelwood) for his many years of service."

Sources connected to Pilot also confirmed that Scott Wombold, who was vice president of national accounts, is no longer with the company.

Hazelwood has not been charged in the criminal probe but he has been named as a defendant in civil cases, including those recently transferred to a Kentucky federal judge — who also is overseeing the grand jury conducting the Pilot criminal investigation.

Haslam, who is the brother of Tennessee Gov. Bill Haslam, also is a defendant in those remaining civil suits.

Many of the civil suits were settled under an agreement approved late last year by a federal judge in Arkansas.Under that agreement the company agreed to reimburse truckers the rebates they were owed plus interest. The total, including lawyers' fees came to $85 million.

10 Pilot employees have entered guilty pleas to charges of mail and wire fraud.

More than two dozen trucking firms have filed civil suits against Pilot over the rebate program.

13 trucking companies settled their suits, many in a class action with payments totaling $85 million.

Seven federal suits against Pilot are set to be heard by a federal judge in Kentucky.
