
Lebanon's Arabic press digest.

The following are a selection of stories from Lebanese newspapers that may be of interest to Daily Star readers. The Daily Star cannot vouch for the accuracy of these reports.

An-Nahar has learned that in the wake of Maronite Patriarch Beshara Rai’s insistence, and due to the unwillingness of Change and Reform bloc members to be seen as if they are blocking the presidential election, there is a possibility that they will attend the next parliamentary session and vote for their leader MP Michel Aoun, in return for others voting for Lebanese Forces leader Samir Geagea.

Meanwhile, ministerial sources said there is an attempt to find a consensus candidate -- not Samir Geagea or Michel Aoun – one who has the support of the Future Movement.

However, the suggested names are likely to cause a further delay as they would require a constitutional amendment.

Al-Joumhouria quoted US Ambassador David Hale as telling some Lebanese friends he visited recently that Former Prime Minister Saad Hariri neither said he supported Aoun’s candidacy, nor said he was against it.

Meanwhile, sources told Al-Joumhouria that Lebanese leaders who met Saudi Foreign Minister Saud al-Faisal in Paris recently felt Faisal was not enthusiastic about Aoun’s nomination for president.

The significant development, however, was the meeting between Faisal and Progressive Socialist Party leader Walid Jumblatt in Paris, which has been kept hush hush.

Al-Akhbar said that head of the Future Movement Saad Hariri has informed MP  Michel Aoun that he is still promoting his candidacy to Saudi officials.

Meanwhile, visitors quoted Aoun as saying that he was still in touch with Hariri.

Your feedback is important to us!

We invite all our readers to share with us their views and comments about this article.

Disclaimer: Comments submitted by third parties on this site are the sole responsibility of the individual(s) whose content is submitted. The Daily Star accepts no responsibility for the content of comment(s), including, without limitation, any error, omission or inaccuracy therein. Please note that your email address will NOT appear on the site.

Al-Joumhouria quoted US Ambassador David Hale as telling some Lebanese friends he visited recently that Former Prime Minister Saad Hariri neither said he supported Aoun's candidacy, nor said he was against it.

Meanwhile, sources told Al-Joumhouria that Lebanese leaders who met Saudi Foreign Minister Saud al-Faisal in Paris recently felt Faisal was not enthusiastic about Aoun's nomination for president.
