
(CNN) — A federal judge struck down Oregon’s voter-approved ban on same-sex marriage Monday.

“Because Oregon’s marriage laws discriminate on the basis of sexual orientation without a rational relationship to any legitimate government interest, the laws violate the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution,” U.S. District Judge Michael McShane said in his ruling.

Oregon voters passed Measure 36 in 2004, which amended the state’s Constitution to define marriage as between one man and a woman.

In February, the state’s attorney general said she would not defend the ban in court because it would not stand up to a federal constitutional challenge.

Same-sex couples camped out in lawn chairs outside a government building in Oregon’s largest county while waiting for the news, then cheered as word of the judge’s decision spread.

Multnomah County began issuing marriage licenses to same-sex couples minutes later, the county said in a statement.

At a news conference shortly after the judge’s ruling, activists and attorneys who challenged the amendment celebrated the news.

“Love won today,” said Marty Rouse, national field director for the Human Rights Campaign.

Ten years ago, Rouse said, the first same-sex marriages in the United States were celebrated in Massachusetts. And 45 years ago marked another historic moment, he said.

The Oregon ruling continues a near-unbroken string of state and federal court victories nationwide in the past year for supporters of same-sex marriage.

Seventeen other states and the District of Columbia allow same-sex marriage within their borders: California, Connecticut, Delaware, Hawaii, Illinois, Iowa, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Minnesota, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, Rhode Island, Vermont, and Washington. Just over a decade ago, there were none.

Earlier this month, judges in Arkansas and Idaho ruled that same-sex marriage bans in those states were unconstitutional. Both decisions are being appealed.

This month also marks the two-year anniversary of President Barack Obama voicing his public support for the first time of same-sex marriage, citing his own “evolution” on the issue.

“At a certain point, I’ve just concluded that for me personally it is important for me to go ahead and affirm that I think same-sex couples should be able to get married,” Obama said at the time.

Groups supporting same-sex marriage applauded the Oregon ruling.

But court battles over the matter are far from over.

About 70 cases dealing with same-sex marriage are now making their way through U.S. courts.

Separate federal appeals courts in recent weeks heard challenges to same-sex marriage bans in Utah, Oklahoma and Virginia. Similar appeals will be heard on current bans in Nevada, Texas, Kentucky, Ohio and Michigan.

TM & © 2014 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.

Notify me of follow-up comments via email.

Notify me of new posts via email.

Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
