
DOE ready to begin move Wednesday - KUAM.com-KUAM News: On Air. Online. On Demand.

Guam - The Department of Education administrative offices are getting ready to move into their new home in Tiyan.

After decades of calling the Department of Administration Building home, DOE administrative offices are finally getting ready to move out. Superintendent Jon Fernandez says the occupancy permits for Building A in Tiyan have been squared away, noting, "My understanding right now is that we have occupancy for Building A and Building A is the former CoreTech headquarters at the site and is going to house the Superintendent's Office, the business operations, procurement technology and so forth."

DOE has been trying to move  after the Guam Fire Department issued a notice of hazard for the dilapidated DOA and DOE building in Hagatna two years ago. "I think overall the conditions of the buildings are going to be much better so we know that these facilities we suffer from some deferred maintenance that we have not been able to identify resources to address that includes roofings leaks we have vegetation growing in some offices from the outside in, in terms of vines through the cracks," he said.

Fernandez says overall from a health and safety perspective although the building may be a little tighter in terms of space the move is going to be welcomed by DOE employees. With every division waiting to move the first to pack up will be the Technology Department.  "My understanding is that on Wednesday we can start moving the Technology Office that will be the first office that moves to Tiyan their responsibility is getting everybody and getting themselves set up and helping and assisting the other offices as they come in making sure they are wired and up and running," he said.

Fernandez says they will see how efficiently and quickly they can move in so that they can gauge how long it will take for the subsequent offices. "Since I am the last person to leave this building I haven't started yet I think as we get closer to September, October that's kind of the target for me to move," he said.

With September being several months away Fernandez says that they hope to compress the time schedule as the time frame at this point has been constructed taking into consideration contingencies, the available man power needed to move and recognizing that a lot of resources will be dedicated to school openings.

All content © Copyright 2000-2009, WorldNow and KUAM. All Rights Reserved.
