
SAN FRANCISCO (MarketWatch) — Oil futures on Monday extended their gains from last week as turmoil in Ukraine and Libya fueled worries about potential disruptions to global crude supplies, prompting prices to briefly top $103 a barrel.

Crude oil for June delivery CLM4  rose 59 cents, or 0.6%, to settle at $102.61 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange after the contract earlier breached the $103 level. The June contract expires at the close of trading on Tuesday.

Nymex oil prices had climbed 2% last week, finding support from stronger U.S. economic data and anticipation of the start of the summer-driving season.

“Although oil output has not been impacted ... the potential for this to happen has prices looking nervy — and moving higher,” he said.

Refining towers at the Zawiya oil refinery near Tripoli, Libya.

July Brent crude LCON4 the European benchmark, reversed from earlier gains to settle 38 cents, or 0.4%, lower at $109.37 a barrel on the ICE Futures exchange.

A militia group stormed Libya’s parliament Sunday, according to news reports. A Libyan military official who backed the militia said he disbanded parliament after the attack and that the body would be replaced by a 60-member group, according to Bloomberg.

“It seems every time you think you can count on Libya exports to start moving, you can’t,” said Phil Flynn, senior market analyst at Price Futures Group in Chicago, in a note.

With this year’s election of a new European Parliament, the European Union is trying to adopt a system more like that in the U.S. by giving voters a say on who will become president of the bloc’s executive. Here’s how it works.

Meanwhile, German officials warned over the weekend that Russia would face additional sanctions if Moscow disrupts coming presidential elections in Ukraine on May 25.

Russian President Vladimir Putin has ordered troops involved in military exercises on the Ukraine border to return to their bases and called on Kiev to immediately remove troops from eastern Ukraine, The Wall Street Journal reported.

But hefty U.S. supply levels continue to be a concern for oil traders.

However, U.S. Energy Secretary Ernest Moniz recently said that the nation’s restrictions on oil exports is being reevaluated, Gebhard said. An Energy Department official also told Platts Energy Week on Sunday that the Obama Administration is considering lifting or easing restrictions on oil exports.

Back on Nymex Monday, prices for petroleum products pulled back after posting gains last week, with June gasoline RBM4  ending at $2.965 a gallon, down nearly a penny, and June heating oil HOM4  fell a cent to $2.94 a gallon.

June natural gas NGM14  climbed nearly 6 cents, or 1.3%, to $4.47 per million British thermal units, rebounding after the 1.3% loss it suffered on Friday.

Copyright ©2014 MarketWatch, Inc.  All rights reserved.

Intraday Data provided by SIX Financial Information and subject to terms of use .                 Historical and current end-of-day data provided by SIX Financial Information. Intraday data                 delayed per exchange requirements. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones & Company, Inc.                 All quotes are in local exchange time. Real time last sale data provided by NASDAQ. More                 information on NASDAQ traded symbols and their current financial status. Intraday                 data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, and 20 minutes for other exchanges. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM)                 from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. SEHK intraday data is provided by SIX Financial Information and is                 at least 60-minutes delayed. All quotes are in local exchange time.
