
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .

If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .

Video will begin in 5 seconds.

Witnesses say heavily armed gunmen stormed into Libya's parliament Sunday after attacking the building with rocket-propelled grenades.

Tripoli: Militias allied with a former Libyan general staged a brazen attack on Libya's parliament on Sunday and declared it dissolved, in some of the worst fighting the capital has seen since the 2011 revolution.

By Sunday night, those forces announced that the elected General National Congress was being replaced by an existing constitutional drafting committee. It was far from certain that the order would be observed. But the power grab threatened to send Libya hurtling into a full-blown civil war.

Tripoli residents and journalists reported heavy fighting, including rocket attacks and gunfights, in several central neighbourhoods. Dozens of vehicles mounted with anti-aircraft guns could be seen speeding toward the centre of the capital from a south-eastern suburb. Plumes of black smoke rose over the city.

It was unclear whether ex-general Khalifa Haftar commanded sufficient force to prevail in the showdown in Tripoli - the latest chapter in a struggle for power, land and resources that has raged in this oil-rich country since the fall of longtime dictator Muammar Gaddafi.

The central government has struggled unsuccessfully to rein in scores of militias that emerged from the anti-Gaddafi uprising.

"In Libya, there really isn't a party on the ground that is more powerful than the other," said Essam Gheriyani, a prominent businessman.

The Associated Press quoted hospital officials as saying that two people were  killed and more than 60 were wounded in the fighting, which occurred two days after Haftar forces launched an assault on Islamist militias in the eastern city of Benghazi, leaving 70 dead.

Libyan  media reported that Haftar militia members had also kidnapped several national MPs on Sunday. Rumours circulated that the justice minister had narrowly survived an assassination attempt.

Reached by phone, the justice minister, Salah Merghani, sounded shaken but would not comment on the reports. "My colleagues and I are OK. I can't really talk. Thank you," he said.

In an ominous sign, militias from the coastal city of Misrata were en route to Tripoli on Sunday night, said Anwar Salwan, a powerful local leader from the city about east of the capital.

Salwan said Misrata militias had stopped about  from Tripoli on Sunday night, to try "to understand more about who is fighting with whom before sending in our forces".

But "Zintan must be stopped", he added, referring to the  home town of some of the Haftar supporters.

Haftar is, a mysterious general-turned-opposition-leader who sought exile in the United States in the 1980s, and lived for years in Falls Church, Virginia. He returned to Libya during the 2011 uprising.

In 1988, he broke with Gaddafi and established the Libyan National Army, a rebel group based in Chad. He claimed publicly that he had UA backing.

In a 2011 interview with CNN, Libya's former ambassador in Washington, Ali Aujali, who supported the anti-Gaddafi uprising that year, declined to confirm whether the CIA had bankrolled the Haftar-led rebel group. But he said: "The Americans know him very, very well."

He added: "I think working for the CIA for the sake of your national interest is nothing to be ashamed of."

When The Washington Post asked in 2011 about Haftar's possible connections to the CIA, a senior intelligence official said the agency policy was not to discuss such issues.

Massoud Ali Shalash, a Haftar supporter and a local leader in the western mountain town of Zintan, said the militias had given the government a chance to show it could run the country.

"The Congress is a failure and the government is a failure. The purpose of [Haftar's] actions was to purify the army and the Congress," he said.

Daredevil wingsuiters take on 'epic challenge'

Onlookers cheer as two Dutch wingsuiters jump from a helicopter and soar around the Euromast building in Rotterdam.
