
Energy Inc., powered by the Denver Business Journal, features in-depth industry reporting and analysis from our energy specialist, Cathy Proctor, with the latest oil, gas, wind and solar energy news from across Colorado.

The parts department at Vestas’ nacelles factory in Brighton.

Vestas Wind Systems said Monday it has a firm order for 48 wind-power turbines for use at a $369 million wind project near Oakfield, Maine.

In the same announcement , Vestas said its Colorado factories "are expected to be involved in the manufacturing for this project," and reiterated its plans to hire hundreds more workers for the Colorado plants.

The latest order, from Boston-based renewable-energy company First Wind, is for 48 of Vestas' V-112-3.0 MW turbines, each with a capacity of 3.075 megawatts. The turbines will be installed at the Oakfield Wind project in Aroostook County, Maine. The order includes a 10-year service agreement for the installed turbines.

Terms were not announced.

Construction at Oakfield Wind began late last year, First Wind said. Vestas said it expects to deliver the turbines in the second quarter of 2015, with commissioning expected by Q4 2015.

The order is part of a master supply agreement announced last December between Vestas and First Wind to supply up to 568 megawatts worth of wind turbines for several projects nationwide.

In December, Vestas announced it would supply First Wind with 75 turbines for a wind-farm project near Amarillo, Texas.

In Monday's announcement, Vestas said that "to meet customer demand, Vestas is adding more workers at three of its Colorado factories -- the blade factory in Windsor as well as the blade and nacelle factories in Brighton. Vestas is recruiting now and expects to add hundreds of production workers in the first half of 2014 in Windsor and Brighton, primarily at the two blade factories."

It said interested applicants should visit ElwoodWindJobs.com .

If you are commenting using a Facebook account, your profile information may be displayed with your comment depending on your privacy settings. By leaving the 'Post to Facebook' box selected, your comment will be published to your Facebook profile in addition to the space below.

Energy Inc. is a weekly email newsletter arriving each Tuesday with all you need to know about the energy industry.
