
Yuma, Arizona - Observation of Emergency Medical Services (EMS) Week began today with a Proclamation by City of Yuma Mayor Douglas Nicholls and special recognition of several local EMS personnel.

The Yuma Fire Department and Rural Metro Fire Department took time this morning to recognize members of the Emergency Medical Service team selected for their exemplary performance, service, and achievements. Representing the Yuma Fire Department for these presentations was Chief Dennis Light and Yuma’s Rural Metro Fire Department was represented by Chief John Hannon. Assisting the Chiefs were Mayor Nicholls and City Administrator Greg Wilkinson.

This year’s Emergency Medical Dispatcher of the Year for the Yuma Fire Department is Jose Zavala. Jose is the newest EMD to the communications center and in a very short time has displayed an excellent work ethic, ability to adjust to high call volumes and radio traffic. He has displayed consistency in his call processing and a great attitude towards his work and co-workers.

He continues to maintain high call answering statistics and low EMD call processing times, with an average of 57 seconds. Jose is always ready to help his co-workers and adjusts quickly to escalating incidents and call volume or radio traffic. He maintains a positive attitude throughout his shifts.

This year’s EMT of the Year for the Yuma Fire Department is Nick Rico. Nick is known for his mentoring ability and work ethic.  Nick has always been a very dependable EMT, but last year he expanded his role as a mentor. He was assigned to work with a new medic/firefighter last, and Nick helped to make this a successful team that no supervisor would have reason to worry about. Past reviews of Nick’s abilities have stated that he is anticipated to become a future leader of this organization and last year only further cemented those convictions.

This year’s Paramedic of the Year for the Yuma Fire Department is Travis LaRue. Travis has the qualities we hope all of our employees would emulate. His demeanor in the most stressful of situations is calm and confident. Travis is constantly studying the protocols of not only YFD, but the state.  He is not afraid to push for positive change. Travis is always quick to step up and provide training to Paramedic and EMT students. His report writing to not only thorough, but exact. He is quick to volunteer for work groups or committees with a goal of improvement of the EMS system for our department. He always has a positive attitude towards patient care.   These attributes make him the perfect candidate for Paramedic of the Year.

Also recognized for her contributions to the Emergency Medical System was Dr. Constance Uribe. Dr. Uribe received the E.F. Sanguinetti Award for her dedication and commitment to the City of Yuma Fire Department and the citizens of Yuma. She has served for twenty-two years as the Medical Director for our American Heart Association Training Center, overseeing the program, instructing, and attending required meetings statewide representing our Training Center. She has developed the American Heart Association/Advanced Cardiac Life Support Pre-course used locally to provide students a review of EKG and Pharmacology studies prior to attending the ACLS course. Dr. Uribe’s years of dedication have allowed it to evolve into the excellent quality program it is today.

For detail information on the awards presented to Rural Metro personnel, please contact Charly McMurdie, or Melissa Iverson at 928-782-4757.

Congratulations to all for a job well done.
