
Share This Story!

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

This image made available by the Serbian police shows the flooded area in Obrenovac, some 30 kilometers (18 miles) southwest of Belgrade, Serbia, Sunday, May 18, 2014. In Serbia, more than 20,000 people have been forced from their homes. Officials there fear more flooding later Sunday as floodwaters travel down the Sava and reach the country. Serbian officials said that the flood wave might be lower than initially expected, because the river broke barriers upstream in Croatia and Bosnia. Experts said they expect Sava floodwaters to rise for two more days, then subside.

The historic floods and landslides have unearthed deadly landmines left over from Bosnia’s 1992-95 war, and knocked down warning signs.

Forces apparently loyal to a renegade Libyan general lead a military assault against lawmakers, directly challenging the legitimacy of the country’s weak central government.

The deal, which could face sharp government scrutiny, would give the telecommunications company a larger base of video subscribers and increase its ability to compete against rivals.

The disaster that left 304 dead or missing is a shock to the country that has transformed itself into Asia’s fourth-largest economy. Many now question how far South Korea has really come.

The devastating blazes scorching Southern California offer a glimpse of a warmer, more fiery future, according to scientists and federal and international reports.

SpaceX Dragon brings back nearly 2 tons of science experiments and old equipment for NASA.

Tuesday’s high-profile primary elections may see tea party Republicans losing individual races but nonetheless tugging the GOP rightward.

President Obama’s expected nomination of Julian Castro as HUD secretary could test the 39-year-old’s ability to navigate Washington ahead of 2016 elections.

The fungus has caused more than $1 billion in damage across Latin American region.

The Kentucky Derby and Preakness winner might abandon his Triple Crown bid if N.Y. officials don’t allow the colt to wear a nasal strip at the Belmont Stakes.
