
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

SPRINGFIELD – The City Council approved a new, three-year contract on Monday with public library employees that includes a residency requirement for any new staff hired after July 1.

It marked the fourth city employee contract in approximately a year that requires newly hired staff to live in Springfield as a condition of employment. City councilors have long urged the Labor Relations Department to make residency a priority in contract negotiations.

The latest contract approved by the council is with the Springfield Organization of Library Employees, representing about 45 employees such as library clerks and office assistants. It is retroactive to July 1, 2012, when the last contract expired, and expires June 30, 2015.

Under the approved agreement, there is no pay raise granted for the first retroactive year. A 2 percent pay raise was granted, retroactive to July 1, 2013, and another 2 percent raise takes effect July 1, 2014.

Salaries ranged from $22,319 to $43,541 prior to the raises. The council approved a $36,891 budget transfer to cover the retroactive raise this fiscal year.

The residency requirement has previously been negotiated and accepted by unions representing city building inspectors, city Public Works and Parks foremen, and with library professionals. In each case, it affected just newly hired employees.

The residency requirement has been a local ordinance since 1995 for new employees and as a condition of promotions, but has been largely unenforced, along with many employee groups being exempted by contract or state law.

Councilor Bud L. Williams praised Labor Relations Director William Mahoney for making residency a priority in negotiations, as sought by the council.

Check here if you do not want to receive additional email offers and information.

You are now signed up for our Breaking News newsletter. You will receive occasional emails from us as stories break.  To view and subscribe to any of our other newsletters, please click here .

© 2014 MassLive LLC. All rights reserved ( About Us ).
