
The  Dadaab camp in northern Kenya is home to more than 300,000 Somalis,  making it the largest gathering of Somalis after the Somalian capital of  Mogadishu. In existence since 1991, Dadaab has long worn out its  welcome with many Kenyans. They blame Somali refugees for harboring  Somali al Shabaab extremist militants who have carried out a series of  terrorist attacks on Kenyan soil.

Composed of squalid, overcrowded camps in arid north Kenya, Dadaab is no tourist spot.

Dadaab is full of rural, conservative Somalis. Many have grown up in the camp away from the war in an atmosphere of peace. Dadaab hosts some of the best educated Somalis in the world.

"They've been marinated in the NGO culture of rights for a very long time . it's very much a liberal hegemony, the structure of authority in the camp," Rawlence told a meeting at London-based think tank Chatham House recently.

Composed of squalid, overcrowded camps in arid north Kenya, Dadaab is no tourist spot. The region is also where al Shabaab militants, bandits and smugglers are active. Aid workers and police have been attacked there, and visitors need a police escort to visit the site.

It's also one of the most monitored places on earth, in terms of mobile phone surveillance, Rawlence said.

The idea that Dadaab harbors militants long predates the Westgate attack.

"Dadaab presents a huge threat to Kenyan security . the refugee camp is probably crawling with militia," a columnist for Kenya's Daily Nation newspaper wrote in 2011. "What better way for al Shabaab to penetrate Kenya's borders than to become refugees within our borders?"

As an academic who worked in Dadaab with UNHCR, Rawlence said it was more likely that a small number of trained fighters were operating in the camp supported by a small minority of refugees, while the rest of the population lived in fear of them.

Refugees: That refugees, forced by violence to abandon their homes, may find a generous welcome and the protection of their rights.

Oceania: That Christians in Oceania may joyfully announce the faith to all the people of that region.

The most important email of the day!

Sign up to receive your FREE Catholic Online newsletters and special offers by email.

There is NO COST for the subscription.
