
The North Korean government was unusually forthcoming about the collapse of a 23-story apartment building in Pyongyang last week.

PYONGYANG, North Korea, May 19 (UPI) -- North Korean officials admitted Sunday that an apartment building in its showy capital, Pyongyang, collapsed last Tuesday.

In a rare display of openness, the state-run Korean Central News Agency said the incident occurred in Pyongyang's Phyongchon district.

The news agency said the accident "claimed casualties." It also pinned the collapse on shoddy construction, noting that "officials supervised and controlled it in an irresponsible manner."

Though its unclear how many people died, a South Korean official told the Yonhap news service that more than 90 families lived in the 23-story building.

Choe Pu Il, the North Korean minister of people's security, blamed himself and his agency for the  "unpardonable crime." According to the state report, Kim Jong Un "sat up all night feeling painful" when he heard of the accident.

Kim has aligned himself with city construction efforts since he took over from his father in 2011, telling North Koreans in his New Year's address to "make concerted efforts to build up Pyongyang so that it is more grandiose."

UPI licenses content directly to print outlets, online media and institutions of all types. In addition, UPI's distribution partners provide our content to thousands of businesses, policy groups and academic institutions worldwide. Our audience consists of millions of decision-makers who depend on UPI's insightful and analytical stories to make better business or policy decisions.

In the year of our 107th anniversary, our company strives to continue being a leading and trusted source for news, analysis and insight for readers around the world.

© 2014 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

UPI.com is your trusted source for world news, top news, science news, health news and current events.

We thank you for visiting us and we hope that we will be your daily stop for news updates.
