
That corporate commitment, Taylor points out, does more than create jobs and contribute to the overall health of the economy; it produces a vitality that makes Milwaukee stand out.

Phyllis M. King, Ph.D.

During the BizTimes Women in Business Breakfast at the BizExpo on Wednesday, May 21, at Potawatomi Bingo Casino, Taylor along with Milwaukee business leaders Tami Scully Garrison, community commerce and partnerships manager for MillerCoors LLC, Phyllis King, associate vice chancellor of the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee and Nancy Hernandez, president of ABRAZO Multicultural Marketing and Communication, will discuss the economic engine generated by these strategic investments of corporate thought leadership and capital.

Scully Garrison said this community responsibility includes partnerships with nonprofits that go well beyond writing checks. MillerCoors takes a comprehensive approach to strengthening organizations – from board leadership to employee volunteer programs and financial contributions. The company also turns this lens inward, to its employees.

King lives the concepts of lifelong learning and professional development as associate vice chancellor at UW-Milwaukee. She oversees approaches to student enrollment and retention and academic program development that include initiatives to educate students for today's workforce needs.

King's commitment to workforce development extends into the community. As board president for Milwaukee Women inc and a member of TEMPO Milwaukee, she's actively involved in advancing women into leadership positions.

A vibrant community, she said, is a strong community that offers well-paying jobs, attracts and retains smart talent and spurs the growth of new businesses. Hernandez oversees a team of marketing and communications professionals that help U.S. companies develop opportunities in emerging markets.

Hernandez said people who attend the Women and Business Breakfast on May 21 will take away an understanding that companies gain business and expertise when whey contribute to the vitality of their communities.

Scully Garrison agreed, and said the size of the company you work for should not matter.

Taylor said she wants to challenge companies to think about how these strategic investments can include more of the community.

Kimberly Kane is president and founder of Racine-based Kane Communications Group. She will be the moderator for the Women in Business Breakfast at BizExpo on Wednesday, May 21 at Potawatomi Bingo Casino in Milwaukee.
