
A student at Natchitoches Central High School is in a Shreveport hospital Monday afternoon suffering from fight-related life-threatening injuries.

The 13-year-old boy who raped a 5-year-old girl at a McDonald's playland was sentenced on Tuesday.

Hamilton County Juvenile Court Judge John Williams sentenced the teen to an in-patient program in northern Ohio. The teen will be there until he is at least 21 years old, or as long as the court finds necessary.

"This court will watch this case like a hawk and will not do anything to endanger this community," said Judge Williams.

The teen's attorney, James Bogen, said the residential program will provide counseling for the teen's mental health problems.

Williams said he weighed the teen's mental health issues along with the predatory nature of the crime.

"McDonald's playland is someplace parents should be able to go and have full confidence the child is there for a fun time with their parent or guardian," said Williams.

The teen, whose name is not being released because of his age, pled guilty last month to one count of rape.

Investigators say the boy raped the girl in the play area of the Anderson Township McDonald's in October. The boy's parents turned him in to police after seeing surveillance pictures on the news.

The teen apologized to the victim's family during sentencing.

"I know that what I did was very wrong," he said. "I know I can't take back the pain and suffering I've caused. I know that forgiveness is unavailable, but I still feel sorry for my actions and I just wish that none of this had ever happened."

The victim's mother said she will not be able to forgive the teen.

"What happens to him, happens to him, but until the last breath I take, I will never forget what he did and what issues my daughter may have from this," she said. "I will never be able to forgive. I will move on, my daughter will move on, but forgiveness is not in my heart."

Prosecutor Dotty Smith said this will be the first step in the family's healing process.

"Knowing the perpetrator is being held accountable, they can move on," said Smith.

Maud, Texas community members held a baby shower Sunday for the Seals family, who recently added five more to their fold.

Rod Nylund is ready to start doing work on the home he just purchased, but he was shocked to find the house occupied and the locks changed.

All content © Copyright 2000 - 2014 Worldnow and KSLA. All Rights Reserved.
