
Sprint just got hit with a fairly expensive and embarrassing slap on the wrist. The US carrier has agreed to pay $7.5 million to resolve an FCC investigation into whether it ignored do-not-call rules and pestered consumers with unwanted marketing calls and text messages. The FCC says this is the single largest do-not-call settlement it's ever reached to this point. In addition to the financial penalty, Sprint will be required to put together a "robust" compliance plan to ensure that it doesn't again violate consumer privacy and annoy people with telemarketing even after they've expressly asked the company to stop calling. That includes providing employees with better training when it comes to DNC policies.

An initial compliance report must be filed with 90 days, with annual follow-ups for the next two years. Unfortunately this isn't Sprint's first brush with privacy complaints. In 2011, the company handed $400,000 over to the FCC over similar accusations that it was ignoring requests to halt marketing calls. Back then,  Sprint blamed the mishap on an equipment malfunction that caused one of its servers to "stop processing requests from consumers who did not wish to be contacted by Sprint."

As part of the new Verge launch, prior users will need to choose a permanent username, along with a new password.

Your username will be used to login to Verge going forward.

Please login to your Vox Media account.  This account will be linked to your previously existing Eater account.

As part of the new Verge launch, prior MT authors will need to choose a new username and password.

Your username will be used to login to Verge going forward.

We'll email you a reset link.

If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.

Almost done,

By becoming a registered user, you are also agreeing to our Terms and confirming that           you have read our Privacy Policy .

Great!

Choose an available username to complete sign up.

In order to provide our users with a better overall experience, we ask for more information from Facebook when using it to login so that we can learn more about our audience and provide you with the best possible experience. We do not store specific user data and the sharing of it is not required to login with Facebook.
