
Heavily armed gunmen have stormed Libya's parliament, insisting it had lost legitimacy and demanding that it be suspended. The attack has been claimed by a renegade former army general who has vowed to purge Libya of Islamist militants. His forces were also responsible for weekend attacks on Islamist forces in the country's second biggest city of Benghazi. The latest violence has increased a sense of chaos within the OPEC oil producer, with a fragile national government still struggling to control brigades of former rebels who are refusing to disarm.

ELEANOR HALL: In Libya, gunmen have stormed the nation's parliament to demand that it be suspended.

The attack was led by a former army general who has vowed to purge Libya of Islamist militants.

His forces were also responsible for the weekend attacks in the country's second largest city, Benghazi.

Barney Porter has the latest.

BARNEY PORTER: Tripoli is now reported to be calm, with armed men setting up several checkpoints across the city.

But these residents of the capital have clearly had enough.

ALI (translation): We do not want any more militias or displays of arms. And Tripoli is considered a civilian city and we do not want anyone coming here and terrorising us, like what happened today.

YOSEF (translation): What is happening is a struggle for power, that's it. And the people are the ones suffering and they are the real victims.

And as you can hear, bullets are flying around and it's all down to your luck when that happens.

BARNEY PORTER: Earlier, heavy gunfire had erupted and smoke rose from the parliament after gunmen stormed the General National Congress, raided offices, took several hostages, and withdrew.

Supporters of the retired general, Khalifa Haftar, say his forces and their militia allies had planned the parliament assault in a campaign to rid Libya of Islamist hardliners.

Earlier on the weekend, General Haftar had sent his fighters into Benghazi against Islamist militants based there, claiming Libya's central government had failed to halt violence in the eastern city.

At least 40 people were killed in those clashes, which also involved some air force helicopters.

NURI ABU SAHMAIN (translation): The acts carried out in Benghazi by some army officers constitute violations of state sovereignty. They represent a coup led by Kalifa Haftar and against him an arrest warrant was issued by the military chief prosecutor.

An order has been handed down to stand up to any attempts by these subversive forces and to directly target any military jetfighter flying over the skies of Benghazi.

BARNEY PORTER: Rival brigades of ex-rebels have often clashed since the overthrow of Muammar Gaddafi in 2011 and it's not the first time the parliament itself has been under threat.

In a video message last February, General Haftar gave parliament an ultimatum to dissolve as its mandate had expired.

KHALIFA HAFTAR (translation): This movement is not a military coup. This movement is not a military coup in the conventional sense, or an entrance to military rule. This is what we reject. This is outdated.

BARNEY PORTER: He never carried out his threat to detain congress members, although the parliament vowed to hold elections later this year.

But in the meantime, Libya's problems are continuing.

Libya's parliament remains divided between Islamist and non-Islamist forces who are bickering over appointing a new government and holding the elections.

The rival armed militias, which wield the real power, have lined up behind the competing political factions.

MARY FITZGERALD: Really, at the root of what we're seeing in recent days in Libya, whether in Benghazi or Tripoli, is this question of legitimacy. Legitimacy of the institutions, legitimacy of the congress in particular, because there are elements in Libya now who consider that the congress has lost its legitimacy and should therefore dissolve.

BARNEY PORTER: She's also told al Jazeera the complicated political landscape has effectively paralysed the government.

MARY FITZGERALD: The central government in Tripoli remains extremely weak. It struggles to impose its authority across vast swathes of the country where these armed groups, many of whom but not all, emerged during the uprising against Gaddafi.

Many of them, indeed, actually were formed after Gaddafi was ousted. They sprang up in 2011. Many of them have refused to disarm and many of them have refused to give up the powers that they have become accustomed to.

BARNEY PORTER: Tawfik Breik is a member of the liberal National Forces Alliance party.

With three prime ministers since March and no new constitution, he's given the BBC a bleak assessment of the country's future.

TAWFIK BREIK (voiceover): Yes: civil war. That's the truth. Maybe many members of the government will say that it's normal but that's not democracy. Democracy will not be by guns. Libyans are fighting Libyans. We don't know what will happen in few hours or few days. Like as I said, it's like a volcano.

ELEANOR HALL: And that's Tawfik Breik. He's a member of the liberal National Forces Alliance party in Libya. Barney Porter with that report.

If you have inside knowledge of a topic in the news, contact the ABC .

This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.
