
Lonmin says it has fired 235 of its workers "who have been absent since January 23" - ​the day Amcu members downed tools demanding a higher salary.

City Press reported on Sunday that there was a hit list containing names of Lonmin staff who had returned to work and their union affiliation. But Nkhoma said the company  was not aware of a hit list.

It was apparently obtained from staff who responded to SMSes the company sent to workers in a bid to end the platinum mining strike. “We are unaware of such a list.  We have a database of employees who have indicated their intention to accept [our wage offer], which is kept highly confidential,” Nkhoma said.

Meanwhile, the mining companies are expected to oppose an urgent court interdict by Amcu over its direct communication with striking employees at the Johannesburg Labour Court on Tuesday.

Sake-Beeld reported that Amcu applied last Monday for an urgent court interdict to stop the mines from communicating a new wage offer directly to workers.

Amcu wants the court to stop the companies from directly contacting about 70 000 workers. The mines have been communicating directly with their employees for the past two weeks in a bid to convince them to accept a new wage offer made in April after the employers’ talks with Amcu leaders deadlocked.

Amcu president  Joseph Mathunjwa told the Mail & Guardian last week that Lonmin’s actions was leading to a repeat in the circumstances around the Marikana massacre.

Amcu argued in court papers that the SMS campaign and pre-recorded phone messages to workers from the companies breached the recognition agreement with the mining union.

In a joint statement last Wednesday, the three companies said their efforts to end an almost four-month-long strike were not in contravention of regulations or agreements. The companies would ask the court to endorse their communication efforts to find a resolution.

Meanwhile, earlier on Monday, the platinum mine, who has all its operations in the Rustenburg area, said that the strike caused unprecedented damage to both mineworkers and companies, in an apparent appeal to Amcu to return to the negotiation table.
