
សូមស្តាប់វិទ្យុសង្គ្រោះជាតិ Please read more Khmer news and listen to CNRP Radio at National Rescue Party . សូមស្តាប់ វីទ្យុខ្មែរប៉ុស្តិ៍/Khmer Post Radio .

PHNOM PENH, Cambodia—Opposition forces claimed gains in local elections Sunday that could boost their ability to challenge long-ruling Prime Minister Hun Sen.

The ruling Cambodian People's Party was widely expected to retain the vast majority of seats in the Southeast Asian nation's district, municipal and provincial councils after Sunday's vote. Ordinary Cambodians didn't participate in the poll; it was open only to roughly 11,400 commune councilors, who generally voted along party lines.

But analysts say the preliminary results, based on estimates by ruling and opposition parties, pointed to a slight slip in the ruling party's dominance of subnational politics. They show about 74% of ballots going to the ruling party and roughly 26% to the main opposition Cambodia National Rescue Party.

The People's Party claimed it took 2,543 of the 3,333 seats up for grabs, compared with the Rescue Party's 769. That is actually five seats more than the 764 that the Rescue Party claimed for itself, a total that would represent an increase of 185 seats from the previous vote.

The royalist party Funcinpec trailed with just 20 seats, according to the ruling party's estimates.

Official results are due on May 30.

Rescue Party gains reflect growing public concern over issues like corruption, immigration and land disputes, said Hang Puthea, executive director of the Neutral and Impartial Committee for Free and Fair Elections in Cambodia, a nonprofit election monitor. And with its likely increased seat share, he said, the part "can better advocate in the provinces and districts, despite not being the dominant player at those levels."

Analysts say the People's Party had more or less secured victory for Sunday's poll back in the June 2012 commune elections, when it took 8,292 of 11,459 available seats. Those elections determined who voted Sunday.

Even so, opposition leaders said their gains Sunday reflect a stronger grass roots profile and growing desire for political change in a country long dominated by Mr. Hun Sen, who has served nearly three decades as prime minister.

"The [Rescue Party] has collected a noticeably higher number of votes and gained many more district and provincial councilor seats, which will make democracy at the grass-roots level more vibrant," Rescue Party leader Sam Rainsy told reporters after the vote.

"This can help to curb the [People's Party] and not allow them to do everything they wish," said Mr. Rainsy, whose party was formed in 2012 by a merger of Cambodia's two largest opposition groups.

Cheam Yeap, a veteran People's Party lawmaker, said the ruling party is proud of its performance. The results show that "our grass roots supporters are still united. This isn't like the national elections in July," he said.

Those elections last July were the People's Party worst showing since 1998. Official results gave it 68 seats in Cambodia's 123-member National Assembly—a 22-seat drop from 2008 that analysts attributed to disenchantment over rural-land conflicts, high youth unemployment and widening social inequity.

The Rescue Party officially won a historic 55 seats, but disputed the results, claiming it had actually won. The party has boycotted the legislature since September and challenged Mr. Hun Sen to hold a fresh vote, a demand rejected by the prime minister.

The two parties remain in talks toward a political settlement in which the ruling party would likely agree to bring forward the next general election and to overhaul Cambodia's electoral commission, in exchange for an end to the opposition's parliamentary boycott.

Something is wrong here.  Last year CNRP claimed that CPP stole the 2013 election.  How come this month, CPP won so many seats, 2,543 seats while CNRP only won 769.

I expect CNRP to win 1,700 seats while CPP would win 1,600 seats.

Welcome! You have come to the right place. Khmerization is a home to the Cambodian daily news, which is updated twice daily. Please take a tour and enjoy yourself. Thank you.

Dear Readers,

Due to an increase in offensive and profane comments, Khmerization has decided to moderate all comments. Comments containing offensive language, profanities and racist connotations will not be published.
