
If you are interested in this story, you might be interested in others from The Journal Gazette. Go to www.journalgazette.net/newsletter and pick the subjects you care most about. We'll deliver your customized daily news report at 3 a.m. Fort Wayne time, right to your email.

The American steel industry is in trouble.

It has long been under pressure from cheaper foreign imports. Then, demand dropped off a cliff during the recession as construction slowed. And over the past few months, as activity was recovering – especially natural gas extraction, which requires miles and miles of steel tubing – a flood of production started coming online from Asia, sending prices through the floor.

Unable to compete, U.S. steel companies have cried foul. In a Capitol Hill hearing a couple months ago, executives said that South Korean steel companies were dumping massive amounts of supply on the American market, vaguely suggesting they were up to dirty tricks. So far, though, the Commerce Department has disagreed. Since Korean companies weren’t artificially depressing prices, it didn’t qualify as illegal dumping, the department ruled in February.

But the U.S. companies – as well as the unions whose membership depends on domestic production – haven’t given up. They’ve asked the Commerce Department to re-evaluate its decision, and on Tuesday they put out a report by the Economic Policy Institute making the case for why America ought to fight back.

In a rare moment of accord, Sens. Sherrod Brown, D-Ohio, and Jeff Sessions, R-Ala. – both from heavy steel-producing states – got on a call with reporters to drive that message home.

The argument boils down to this: Regardless of whether  Korean firms were selling their steel for lower prices, many of the companies are state-owned and thus receive advantages that U.S. private industry doesn’t. Also, not being market-driven actors, the Koreans don’t adjust production when demand stagnates, driving the price lower than it might otherwise be.

He’s put his finger on the tradeoff between economic freedom and American jobs: Someone’s cheap goods are another person’s pink slip. Except it’s a little more complicated than that. If the natural gas industry can get cheaper tubing, maybe it will produce even cheaper gas, which has created hundreds of thousands of jobs by making American manufacturing more competitive.

Even Brown agrees with that – he signed a letter a couple days ago asking that the United States not allow gas exports to China, which would theoretically keep prices lower for Americans.

But Brown thinks that gas companies don’t pass savings on to consumers, and in any case, insists that those low prices are ill-gotten gains.

But if Korea has been careful with its export strategy,  American steel companies may not have a way to make it stop. And steel jobs might go back into a long decline.
