
Members of the media were attacked by a mob of DMK supporters outside the house of MK Stalin after there were reports that he had offered to resign in wake of the party's dismal performance in the Lok Sabha elections.

While police have arrested 11 DMK workers in connection to the attacks, the party claims that it was anti-social elements who were responsible for injuring media persons.

According to a PTI report as the news of Stalin resignation spread, his supporters protested outside the leader's residence demanding that he continue to lead the party.

During the course of this protest, some journalists were injured when they were roughed up allegedly by the protesting supporters. The protestors were apparently upset over the coverage of some TV channels of Stalin's resignation.

According to a Times of India report, "three reporters, including Times Now reporter Shabbir Ahmed and cameraman Jayaprakash, were attacked." The report says that the mob damaged cameras and other equipment.

It adds that cameraman "Jayaprakash was kicked on the chest, and he suffered leg injuries too."

According to a report on NDTV, "DMK said it 'regrets' the attack but claimed that the offenders are not members of the party. The party said 'it suspects infiltration by anti-social elements.'"

The report adds that a case of attempt to murder has been registered against the attackers and 11 people have been arrested.

According to PTI, DMK organisation secretary T K S Elangovan expressed regret over journalists being attacked outside Stalin's residence. He said party workers clashed with the reporters thinking a section of the media criticised Stalin.

"Some evil forces could have infiltrated the crowd and created confusion. However, as organisation secretary of DMK, I express my deep regret on the attack on journalists," he said in a statement here.

Stalin later tweeted expressing sympathy for the reporters.

"My sympathy for press reporters facing unpleasant events from external elements who were present along with party workers and media outside my home," he said.
