
KUWAIT: The Interior Ministry announced yesterday that candidate registration for the by-election to fill the seats that fell vacant after five MPs resigned will start from today for 10 days, ending May 29. The move came after the Cabinet announced late Sunday night that the by-election will be held on June 26, just two days before the start of the holy fasting month of Ramadan.

The five seats became vacant after opposition MPs Riyadh Al-Adasani, Abdulkarim Al-Kandari and Hussein Quwaiaan resigned about three weeks ago when the National Assembly rejected their request to grill the prime minister on allegations he gave cash handouts to a number of MPs. A few days later, MPs Ali Al-Rashed and Safa Al-Hashem, the only female in the 50-member house, quit in protest against what they described was a breach of the Kuwaiti constitution and an attempt to silence MPs.

The Assembly last week accepted the resignations with a comfortable majority amid some opposition from a small number of lawmakers, and Speaker Marzouk Al-Ghanem declared their seats vacant and informed the government. The by-election will be carried out in the second and third constituencies (two seats each) and the fourth constituency (one seat). The elections will be carried out in the same way as the main polls held for this Assembly in July last year amid a massive boycott by a majority of opposition groups.

The Interior Ministry reminded that candidates wishing to contest the election should be Kuwaiti by birth, at least 30 years of age and know how to read and write Arabic. They should also have not been sentenced to a jail term unless they had been rehabilitated.

In another development, the Assembly is due to debate today the new government policies on subsidies for public services and commodities. Finance Minister Anas Al-Saleh is scheduled to deliver a key presentation on the current subsidies and their cost and impact on the national treasury and propose solutions that need to be approved by MPs. Saleh announced last week that the Cabinet formed a committee in October to revise public subsidies mainly on fuel, electricity and water in order to suggest policies and measures.

According to figures, subsidies are estimated at more than KD 5 billion, or almost a quarter of the annual budget. Saleh said that the government wants to make sure that subsidies go to people who need and deserve them, and accordingly any revision or cuts in subsidies will not affect low or middle income sections of the society, including expatriates. The local media has reported about an imminent decision by the government to end subsidies on diesel and perhaps reduce subsidies on electricity based on consumption. The government however stressed that so far no decision has been taken and that the concerned committee is still working.
