
Washington (CNN) -- Amid the cacophony of political analysis and reporting around the midterm elections, here's a user's guide -- our effort to slice and dice the story lines for what you need to know from now till November.

1. Return of the establishment Republicans: But will it mean GOP victories in the fall? The tea party's candidates have failed to catch on in Kentucky, North Carolina and Mississippi, to name a few. Absent any onetime witches in the field, there's no guarantee that the tea party faithful will turn out in droves to push Sen. Mitch McConnell over the finish line to re-election in November.

12. Where's Joe?: Keep track of how many times Vice President Joe Biden pops up in New Hampshire, Iowa, South Carolina and Florida in the next six months.

15. Benghazi backlash: Is it a cold that could develop into a flu for Democrats? While they might brush aside Rep. Trey Gowdy's special committee as a joke, the GOP base will eat it up.

Their approval rating is horrendous. They rarely get along or get anything done. So here's your chance to do something about it.

President Obama is vowing to act on his own due to House inaction on immigration reform But there are limits to the power of his pen.

The major story line so far in 2014 is the ongoing battle that pits mainstream Republicans against tea party and anti-establishment groups.

S. E. Cupp interviews Carly Fiorina about her effort to rally conservative female voters for Senate races.

The GOP establishment, incumbent and mainstream candidates scored big wins.

This California Republican's back story is full of plot twists.

President Obama's new rules aimed at dramatically limiting carbon pollution has been a policy priority of his and one that he hopes will help to shape his legacy.

The Affordable Care Act, aka Obamacare, might not be the Republican Party's key to electoral victory as once thought.

An advocacy group backed by hedge fund tycoon Tom Steyer is set to unleash a seven-state, $100 million offensive against GOP "science deniers."

Flooding the airwaves this election year are Democratic ads featuring two men not on any ballot, and not even politicians.

Taking a cue from Beyonce, House Democrats are targeting "all the single ladies" to try to win a few Republican-held seats.

Former NYC Mayor Michael Bloomberg plans to spend $50 million this year through a new organization called Everytown for Gun Safety.
