
President Michel Suleiman on Monday asked the Constitutional Council to look into the constitutionality of the new rent law.

The state-run National News Agency reported that Suleiman requested the Council to check whether the draft law adheres to Article 19 of the Constitution.

The parliament passed in April the controversial draft law regarding rents, which calls for an increase in rents over a six-year period until they reach 5 percent of their current value.

The old rent law pertains to rent contracts carried out before 1993.

Tenants of old rent law buildings have slammed the draft law, saying that it will force many of them to leave their houses because they would not be able to afford the new rent.

The owners of the buildings, on the other hand, say that the law paves the way for better ties with tenants.

Several demonstrations have been staged in protest against the law, with the General Labor Confederation calling on Suleiman to refer it back to the Joint Parliamentary Committees for further discussions.

S.D.B.

M.T.

This is one of the biggest injustices of modern day lebanon.

Mr. president ,you did a lot of good things in your six years.But this is a black dot on your record,I hope You will see ghosts of landlords in your sleep.

everyone is reponsible for himself and his kids.

the money spent on people comes from our pocket. i don't want to help such people.

pajama. I agree.

Peace wants a welfare state that we cannot afford to have. Those who cannot afford to give a decent living to their kids, let them not have kids. Fullstop.

Instead, they have loads of kids and cry a river that govt is not helping them.

People should learn to count on themselves.

socialism should come from friends and family, or people we personally know. I'm against anything else.

30 to 40 minutes away from any destination in lebanon.Commuting is part of life.Confiscating landlords properties because of an excuse is a crime.

but the gvt must think about the rights of both : landlords and renters! not just landlords!

in my european capital it's the opposite, the rich are in the suburbs...  so your argument about western countries doesn't stick.

also if they invested in a downpayment for a house instead of buying their ridiculously expensive SUV, then they would be able to buy an appartment.
