
Coordinated raids in 19 countries lead to the arrests of webcam hackers who use Blackshades, a remote access tool (RAT) that allows users to break into social media accounts, spread viruses and obtain sensitive information from users around the globe. Kyle Fedorek, 26, of Stony Point, N.Y., and Marlen Rappa, 41, of Middletown, N.J., were rounded up and were expected to be in front of a judge Monday afternoon.

U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara talks to the media about the raids.

A map shows where dozens of people were arrested for using remote access tool technology to access computers and webcams of other people.

Some 90 people from 19 different countries were rounded up in the raids, which were explained by U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara (at podium).

Two men in the New York area were part of the roundup.

This dirty RAT helps couch potatoes the world over become creepy cyber crooks.

The Blackshades remote access tool — RAT for short — has allowed thousands of users in New York and elsewhere since 2010 to steal personal records and spy on victims by hijacking computers and Web cameras, authorities said Monday, announcing an international crackdown on the criminal software.

Blackshades is best known as software a California man used in a "sextortion" scheme to obtain naked photos of Cassidy Wolf, a Miss Teen USA pageant winner, and as many as 150 other women.

"The RAT is inexpensive and simple to use, but its capabilities are sophisticated and its invasiveness breathtaking," Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said.

"We now live in a world where, for just $40, a cybercriminal halfway across the globe can — with just a click of a mouse — unleash a RAT that can spread a computer plague not only on someone's property, but also on their privacy and most personal spaces."

Miss Teen USA Cassidy Wolf was a ‘sextortion’ victim of cybercriminal Jared James Abrahams.

Jared James Abrahams, 19, pleaded guilty to hacking into young women's computers and taking compromising photos of them.

This ransom note would show up on computers that were hacked.

Miss Teen USA Cassidy Wolf was the victim of a cyber crime.

Federal agents and foreign police recently conducted coordinated raids in 19 countries to arrest more than 90 people, including men from New York and New Jersey, for allegedly using Blackshades.

Kyle Fedorek, 26, of Stony Point, N.Y., and Marlen Rappa, 41, of Middletown, N.J., caught up in the sweep, face computer hacking charges in Manhattan Federal Court, where they were due before a judge Monday afternoon.

Like Jared James Abrahams, the California college student sentenced to 18 months in prison in March for using Blackshades to take control of Wolf's laptop, Rappa allegedly used the RAT to spy on dozens of victims.

Abrahams sent Wolf, his former classmate, an anonymous email claiming to have nude photos captured from her Web cam. He threatened to post the shots online unless Wolf sent him more nude photos.

The RAT is inexpensive and simple to use, but its capabilities are sophisticated and its invasiveness breathtaking.

The new sweep follows the arrests of Blackshades creators Michael Hogue in 2012 and Alex Yucel last year. Hogue has pleaded guilty and is awaiting sentencing. The charges against Yucel are pending.

Leo Taddeo, the FBI's cybercrime chief, said Blackshades allowed users with "no sophisticated hacking experience or expensive equipment" to prey on innocent people.

"The tool allowed cybercriminals to steal passwords and banking credentials, hack into social media accounts, access documents, photos and other computer files, record all keystrokes, activate webcams, hold a computer for ransom and used the computer in … attacks," Taddeo said.

"Blackshades made taking over a computer so easy even a caveman could do it."

© Copyright 2014 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.
