
MOSCOW (AP)  Russian President Vladimir Putin on Monday ordered troops deployed near Ukraine to return to their home bases and praised the launch of a dialogue between the Ukrainian government and its opponents even as fighting continued in the eastern parts of the country. Putin specifically ordered Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu to pull back forces involved in "planned spring drills" in the Rostov, Belgorod and Bryansk regions to their home bases, the Kremlin said. The order appears to go further than a similar statement by the Russian leader two weeks ago that troops were being pulled back from the border to shooting ranges.

LOS ANGELES (AP)  Priming itself for the age of Internet-delivered video, AT&T Inc. said it would buy DirecTV for $48.5 billion in cash and stock, or $95 per share. While DirecTV doesn't help the telecom company compete in the online video space immediately, cost savings from the merger and the extra cash flow will improve its ability to compete with the cable giant that would be formed by Comcast Corp.'s proposed $45 billion takeover of Time Warner Cable.

SEOUL, South Korea (AP)  South Korea's president pledged Monday to disband the coast guard amid mounting criticism of its failure to save hundreds of passengers trapped last month in a sinking ferry. Critics said President Park Geun-hye was trying to shift attention from her mishandling of one of South Korea's deadliest disasters in decades. The country's coast guard is a nonmilitary agency and does not patrol the maritime frontier with North Korea, which is done by the navy. Still, a move to abolish the independent coast guard in a peninsula country surprised many.

BEIRUT (AP)  The death toll in Syria's three-year conflict has exceeded 160,000, an activist group said Monday, a harrowing figure that reflects the country's relentless bloodletting that appears no closer to a resolution. The Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said it has documented 162,402 deaths since the uprising against President Bashar Assad's government began in March 2011.

MOORE, Okla. (AP)  When the storm came, it wasn't a surprise. Tornadoes have a habit of ripping through town, and the forecasters had been warning for days that another was going to descend from dark clouds sure to gather in the late afternoon. The only question was: What horror would this tornado wreak this time? A year later, the answers still scar the Oklahoma City bedroom community of Moore.

Moments. Every awards show producer craves moments, the things they'd love for us to spend our Monday mornings talking about and marveling over. The Billboard Music Awards had a fair number Sunday night  some funny, some weird, some kind of creepy even.

CANNES, France (AP)  Pamela Anderson has previously talked about being a survivor of rape, but in an emotional speech for her new charity, she credits animals with helping her survive years of abuse at the hands of others. Anderson was in Cannes to launch the Pamela Anderson Foundation, dedicated to boosting human rights, helping animals and the environment. At a yacht reception to inaugurate the charity, the actress went into detail about sexual assaults she says she endured from a young age.
