
On April 30, legislators from the Luhya nation met in Nairobi to map out their future political course. It was not news. Not once, not twice but on several occasions have they been pushing for this elusive unity to no avail.

Prior to the botched ODM February elections, the so-called Luhya unity diehards had hoped Mr Ababu Namwamba would lose in his quest for the secretary general post so as to trigger a massive walk out from the party. It is a wish (the loss) that was nearly granted and might yet come to pass. Those wishes were propagated by adherents of UDF who have remained loyal to the party, even in the face of overwhelming evidence that it is a ramshackle vehicle devoid of resilience.

Whereas we have been reading and hearing of ODM, TNA and URP, if only to keep the spirit going, UDF has not been heard of since the March 4, 2013, General Election.

It is only until recently that they started making perfunctory noises about leaving Jubilee, an alliance they never seriously belonged to in the first place.

Parties that form the Jubilee alliance include; The National Alliance, National Rainbow Coalition, United Republican Party and Republican Congress.

From whichever perspective one looks at it, Western politics are intertwined with those of Nyanza and that is why many Luhya leaders have been waiting for ODM to falter before they can muster enough courage to attempt to go it alone.

Former House Speaker Kenneth Marende halfheartedly tried to negate the prophesy by one of the Luhya sages that the Luhya would get the top leadership of this country through Luo Nyanza. The late Elijah Masinde did not, of necessity, imply it would be handed over like a baton. The implication was, perhaps that it would be hard to beat an organised and combined Luo and Luhya vote.

TNA and URP have proved that the tyranny of numbers in a paper democracy is a lethal weapon.

Amorphous masses can be whipped into whatever shape astute politicians want them to take even where no benefits accrue, as long as the numbers add up. Will the adage ‘once bitten twice shy ‘ have a bearing on the 2017 elections? United by a common denominator, Uhuru and Ruto pulled a surprise that surprised even them.

Are they capable of doing it again in 2017, having shown their ace card? They possibly could.

‘ Luhya unity ’ is a tired perennial song by the same failed choirmasters. A feeble attempt by feeble minded politicians to unite a people driven apart by vindictive leaders and cultural difference that mark others as enemies.
