
MIS officials say the new web page will have cleaner, modern design.

Lebanon County commissioners got a peek at designs for the new website last Thursday during their meeting.

Sally A. Barry, Director Lebanon County Probation Services, said a committee was formed to study changes to Probation website. The committee researched other county websites to help determine what would work best.

"They did an excellent job at taking a look at what other counties were doing with their websites and what kind of information we'd liked to put on ours," Barry said.

Danielle Hogg, director of the Management Information Systems for the county, said the goals are to make the website more user friendly.

"What we're looking to do is modernize the site a little bit, give it a little more clean look, easier to navigate for our end users, as well as staff," Hogg said. "It puts a little bit more of standard template on each page so everything is easier to find. There's also a feature that will make it mobile friendly."

Hogg said the site will include a telephone directory for county departments, as it does now. It also will feature quick links, a calendar of events, email alerts and an FAQ section.

The MIS department is currently responsible for updating the web pages but the new format will allow the department to train specific end users to update the pages as needed.

"That will take some pressure off the back end for my staff, as well, and it will allow a quicker turnaround for getting updates and documents posted," she added.

The website would not collect user data, Hogg said.

Changes will be made to the Probation Department first, followed by the other departments.

"It will be a progressive changeover. The site will be live the entire time," she said, noting that it will take several months to change the county's entire website.

Also at the meeting, the board heard a first quarter review of the Municipal Employees' Retirement Plan by representatives of Stifel Nicolaus & Co. Inc. and Sovereign Consulting Inc. The board agreed to a minor realignment of some its equity funds to a more conservative, less risky plan.

In other business, Lebanon city resident George Horn addressed the commissioners about a board proposal that asks all municipalities in the county to provide support for Central Booking. Horn said he is opposed to the plan.

Central Booking is a one-stop shop where suspects are detained, fingerprinted and arraigned in a systematic fashion, allowing the arresting police officer to quickly return to the streets. The service is used by county law enforcement including detectives, sheriff's deputies and probation officers as well as local and state police to process thousands of  suspects a year.

However, the commissioners say the service has an annual deficit and they have proposed that each municipality pay a share of the cost based on arrests made in their municipality.

"I think you're opening a can of worms if you try to allocate the expenses of Central Booking to various communities," Horn told the commissioners. "If you've got to raise taxes, raise them. I'm not afraid to pay taxes."

Horn said he believes it's a county responsibility, "and that's how it should be allocated."
