
Precincts for the county primaries open Tuesday, May 20 from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. Although some seats are hotly contested, such as the Republican county commissioner race for District 1 where incumbent Sid Kunz is being challenged by Ron Moeller, others have petered out away from opposition, such as Billy Beard dropping his candidacy for the Republican contender for county treasurer. Carl Church and Bev Palm are battling on the Democratic ticket for county treasurer. Whatever the position, from supreme court justice to district judges, the road levy and that for a Driggs library, they all have direct impacts in the lives of valley residents.

Teton County voters will decide if they are willing to pay more in property taxes for a Driggs branch of the Valley of the Tetons Library in the May 20 election.

The two-year levy would add $16.08 per $100,000 in property value, that’s on top of the $16.08 per $100,000 that county residents pay per year for the library district. This is the first new request by the library district for an increase in funds since 1966.

If the levy is passed, the Driggs branch will be open Monday-Friday from noon to 8 p.m. and on Saturdays from 2 to 6 p.m. The Victor library hours would not change. Each branch would be open a total of 44 hours a week.

The branch would include four or five computers as well as two computers specifically intended for children.

The Valley of the Tetons Library held an online survey to  gauge support for the branch. Of the 457 respondents, 304 were in favor of the new branch with 153 opposed. Studies by the City of Driggs also showed that a library had strong support.

Driggs Community Development Director Doug Self said a community review last year by representatives from state agencies, universities and nonprofits recommended that a library would be a good next step for Driggs.

The library wouldn’t start getting money from the levy till January of 2015, but in an earlier TVN article, Librarian Susie Blair said they would use existing funds and grant money to start work on the branch immediately if the levy passed. Local resident Shannon Garcia volunteered as the grant writer to secure that funding.

Several properties have been identified for a short-term location and Blair said the long-term goal is to find a permanent home, like possibly the old county courthouse or the armory building.

“Libraries are evolving, and we want to evolve with it,” said Blair.

The additional evening hours would allow kids to use the library after school, said Blair.

The special road and bridge levy is up for renewal in the May primary election. First approved in 2010, the two-year, $1 million annual override levy has been in place since 2010, having been renewed in 2012. These funds are allocated specifically to improving county and city infrastructure maintained by Teton County Road and Bridge Department and the included cities.

According to county engineer Jay Mazalewski, roughly three-quarters of the funds are allocated to county road and bridge projects, specifically, chips seals, gravel stabilization, gravel overlays, new bridge construction, gasoline and diesel for heavy equipment, design and engineering and matching funds for grants. The remainder goes back into the cities, as city residents who pay toward the levy directly realize their contribution.

Voting on the levy will not affect summer 2014 projects, as its previous passage runs through September 2014. In previous years the levy passed with roughly 60 percent approval, but it only needs 50 percent plus one for authorization.

Mazalewski said road and bridge will have to cut their projects down to solely grating roads and patching pot holes if it does not pass.

Justice Joel Horton is being challenged by William “Breck” Seiniger for his seat on the Idaho Supreme Court. Both are experienced litigators who seek to maintain balance on the bench. Seiniger comes from personal injury, while Justice Horton served as a criminal deputy in Ada County before taking the bench.

While Teton County falls within the jurisdiction of the Seventh Judicial District Court, Judge Gregory Moeller is the only judge specifically assigned to preside over Teton County. He is running unopposed in this election. However, any seventh district judge can fill in for Moeller.

Acting Administrative District Judge Darren Simpson is having his district seat contested by Idaho Falls attorney Andre Linchenko Lawson. Similarly, Bonneville County deputy prosecutor Randy Neal is challenging incumbent Judge Joel E. Tingey.

As Judge Jon Shindurling retires, Scott J. Davis, Bruce L. Pickett and Stevan H. Thompson will compete for his seat.

Precincts will be open from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. Tuesday.

Precinct #4: Driggs City Center,

Posted in News on Monday, May 19, 2014 1:00 pm. Updated: 2:57 pm.

Welcome to the discussion.
