
The wreckage of a Lao air force plane which crashed in a forested area of Xiangkhoung province, Laos, on Saturday is shown in this video image.

BANGKOK  — A military plane carrying senior Lao government officials crashed Saturday in a wooded area as it approached an airport in the country’s northeast, killing at least five people, including the defense minister and other high-ranking members of the authoritarian country’s ruling party.

Lao National Television showed video of the mangled wreckage of the plane, with smoke rising from its badly charred remains. The footage showed rescuers pulling away pieces of aircraft debris and trying to dig through the remaining fuselage with shovels, as medical crews stood by watching.

About 18 people were believed to be on board the plane, which left Vientiane, Laos’ capital, early Saturday morning to bring the group to an official ceremony in Xiangkhoung province, about 290 miles away, said Thai Foreign Ministry spokesman Sek Wannamethee. Earlier reports had said about 20 people were on board.

The Ukrainian-made Antonov AN-74TK-300 crashed in Xiangkhoung’s Pek district, where authorities were “helping to rescue the survivors,” according to Lao state news agency KPL, which cited an announcement from the Prime Minister’s Office. The brief official statement did not say how many people had died in the crash or survived.

Among those confirmed killed were Defense Minister Douangchay Phichit and his wife, said Nipat Thonglek, the Thai Defense Ministry’s permanent secretary.

Others killed in the crash included Minister of Public Security Thongbane Sengaphone, Vientiane Gov. Sukhan Mahalad and at least one other senior ruling party official, Sek said. He said he was given the information by authorities in neighboring Laos who did not immediately release details about the other passengers.

The Lao government is known for its secrecy, and most information about the crash — including the initial confirmation that it occurred — came from officials in neighboring Thailand.

“The accident happened as the plane was about to land at Xiangkhoung airport,” said Sek. The airport is near one of Laos’ major archaeological sites, the Plain of Jars. Xiangkhoung province borders northwestern Vietnam.

Authorities were investigating the cause of the crash.

Posted in World news on Monday, May 19, 2014 9:48 am.

Casa Grande Valley Newspapers Inc. is part of Kramer Publications.   Member of the Arizona Newspapers Association, Newspaper Association of America and National Newspaper Association. © Copyright 2014, trivalleycentral.com , Casa Grande, AZ Casa Grande Valley Newspapers Inc.
