
push lawmakers to better fund public transportation.

with more.

a three percent jump from the year before.

But while ridership continues to go up every year.

public funding isn't following suit.

the problem.

dot com*.

of public transportation in cities across the country.

is not only causing some problems for business.

but users as well.

to finding public transportation.

fleet.

miles on them.

do a good job.

call their elected officials.

and is open to the public.

increases.

on a ride-along tomorrow on one of the city buses.

La Crosse's MTU is joining a national effort to push lawmakers to better fund public transportation.

MTU is expecting 1.2 million riders in 2014, a 3% jump from the year before. But while ridership continues to go up every year, public funding isn't following suit.

Transit unions are trying to let the public know about the problem. They've launched a website and have declared May National Transportation Month.

It's part of a campaign to highlight the importance of public transportation in cities across the country.  Local public transit unions say the shortage in funding is not only causing some problems for business, but users as well. "What usually happens is that there is serious cutbacks in service and increases in fares, and that double hit of losing service and increase in fairs makes it less and less of an option for people when it comes to finding public transportation," said Dan Kane from Amalgamated Transit Union Local 519.

Kane talks about the importance of funding when he points out that La Crosse's MTU is battling an aging fleet. While they've purchased four new hybrid buses recently, 2/3 of their buses have more than 500,000 miles on them. "The older buses are in to 10, 11, 12 years now, a couple of them 14 years old and 14 years and a half a million miles, you really trust your mechanics to do a good job," said Kane.

To put the pressure on, MTU setting up a phone bank where residents can call their elected officials. The bank will open all day Tuesday, May 20th at MTU and is open to the public. Union officials say they plan on having one phone bank every month until funding for public transportation increases.

To also help in the effort, MTU has invited local and state officials will go on a ride-along on one of the city buses.

Copyright 2014 by WKBT News8000 . All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

The views expressed are not those of this company or its affiliated companies. Please note by clicking on "Post" you acknowledge that you have read the Terms Of Service and the comment you are posting is in compliance with such terms. Due to a technical change, all comments posted before February 26, 2014 no longer appear on News8000.com. Comments posted after February 26 are not impacted.

No email address was supplied by .                                 To complete your registration on this site, please supply an address.

Please confirm or modify the email address to which you will have subscription offers sent.

For a more personalized experience, please supply the following optional information.
