
The failure of the company that runs the coal mine in Soma to take adequate safety precautions and government negligence when it came to properly inspecting the mine are the main causes of the recent disaster that claimed the lives of 301 miners, said miners who survived the tragedy.

In a press meeting held in Soma on Thursday, two days after the tragic incident, top officials of the Soma Kömür İşletmeleri A.Ş. (Soma Mining Co.) maintained that data from air quality sensors indicated that oxygen was at a normal level inside the mine before the tragedy, but mine workers who spoke on the condition of anonymity denied the company's claim, saying the sensors were not operational.

“When we entered the mine, the gas sensors were not active,” a worker from İmbat A.Ş, another mining company in the town of Soma, who took part in rescue efforts right after the disaster on Tuesday afternoon, said to Today's Zaman. “When I asked the miners who worked in the [disaster-stricken] mine why the sensors did not work, they said they had been shut down as they had slowed down production,” he added.

Another miner who works for Soma Mining Co. in Manisa province said the official inspections carried out in the mine were not adequate at all, maintaining that the inspectors just examined the main shafts of the mine and not the side corridors. “We would be told a week beforehand that an inspection would be conducted. Within that week, everything in the mine was put in order,” he added.

The reasons behind the country's worst mining disaster are still not clear, but all of the 301 miners apparently lost their lives due to carbon monoxide poisoning. It was probably not possible to determine any rise in the level of carbon monoxide in the mine, if, as maintained by mine workers, the sensors were not operating.

“If the oxygen sensors had been working, the disaster could have been prevented,” the İmbat A.Ş. miner said.

Erdal Bıçak, a miner who had just finished his shift when the disaster struck in the Soma coal mine on Tuesday, has no doubt in his mind about what led to the tragedy. He told the Associated Press (AP) that it was the mining company's negligence in failing to implement the proper safety measures.

“The company is guilty," said Bıçak who also maintained that managers who had devices to measure the methane gas level with them failed to inform the miners of the danger in time. “The new gas levels had gotten too high and they didn't tell us in time,” the AP quoted him as saying.

Like one of the miners who spoke to Today's Zaman, Bıçak stated that government safety inspectors never visited the lower reaches of the Soma mine and that they have no idea of how bad conditions get in those parts of the mine. However, the government and officials from the mining company, who denied any allegations of negligence, have insisted that the mine was inspected regularly and fit for mining operations based on a report drawn up in March.

Still another indication of negligence on the part of the mining company is the hot coal that is said to have been taken out of the mine in the weeks leading up to the tragic incident. Labor and Social Security Minister Faruk Çelik visited the Köseler village of İzmir's Kınık district on Saturday to offer his condolences to grieving families who lost relatives in the mine disaster and a mine worker's claim has raised additional concerns about possible company negligence.

“For the past couple of weeks, hot coal was being taken out of the mine, but nobody showed any interest in this. Production was not stopped. We felt our feet get warmer [while working in the mine] due to the coal. We felt that two weeks before the incident. Those who were responsible for safety came and saw it for themselves. ‘Leave here,' the safety people said, but the production manager said, ‘Production will continue,” said Mustafa Gülenç, who has been working in the Soma mine for two and a half years, when meeting with the Minister, the Doğan News Agency reported on Saturday.

Reportedly, other mine workers who also attended the chat with the minister confirmed the worker's comment, and the minister told his aides to note down what Gülenç had said. Hot coal is an indication that there was already a fire burning in some part of the mine that apparently, the mining officials failed to take proper note of. The fire seems to have suddenly grown to huge proportions and produced a large quantity of carbon monoxide.

A lack of proper gas masks also played a major role in the disaster. The İmbat company worker who took part in the rescue operation maintained, based on what he saw in the mine during rescue efforts, that the masks the miners used did not seem to be checked regularly. “Colleagues who took part in the rescue operation saw when they reached the bodies that many of the victims' gas masks had not been activated. The cords -- which should be checked every 15 days -- that make the masks function automatically turned out to have been torn off,” the miner said.

According to a report in the Habertürk daily on Sunday, the issue about gas masks is not just a failure of proper inspection, but that the miners were not provided with proper gas masks that offer protection from carbon monoxide poisoning in the first place. The gas masks miners need should have filters that block carbon monoxide and other poisonous gases; however, most of the gas masks the Soma miners had were not of this quality, the daily said.

According to the report, some of the miners who were killed in the disaster had only a simple dust mask, that is, masks made of cloth that have no filter at all. Dust masks cost no more than TL 20-30, while miners in countries such as Germany are reportedly provided with high-quality filter masks that cost between TL 200 and one million. “In Turkey, gas masks with a carbon monoxide filter are not being used [in mines] in Turkey due to the high costs,” the daily said.
