
Kolhapur: Senior leaders of the Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) from Solapur, Hatkanangale and Sangli failed to provide leads to their candidates in their native places, a booth-wise voters' data has revealed.

Kasegao village in Hatkanangale constituency, the hometown of NCP leader state rural minister Jayant Patil, and Tasgaon assembly segment belonging to home minister R R Patil had provided leads to the opponents. The trend points out that the appeal of these leaders was rejected by the voters. "The conventional way of analysing the political strength of a leader was proved wrong during the general elections," said Shekhar Inamdar, a BJP leader from Sangli.

When senior BJP leader Gopinath Munde picked up Sanjay Patil, a former NCP man, to contest from Sangli, there were doubts about his win. Sanjay has always been at loggerheads with R R Patil. Besides, there were allegations against him for grabbing control over Tasgaon sugar factory. He was accused of violating government norms and therefore, the factory was handed over to Congress leader Patangrao Kadam.

He had contested the assembly elections twice against R R Patil and managed to give tough fight to the latter on both the occasions.  Sanjay Patil was pacified by NCP chief Sharad Pawar with a nomination to the legislative council.

Sanjay Patil joined the BJP in mid-February this year. Within a couple of days, the party announced his candidature from Sangli to take on sitting  Congress MP Pratik Patil.

"Interestingly, all these issues turned out to be irrelevant," Inamdar said.

"Sanjay Patil is known as a dynamic person in the district and is popular among the youths. This image benefited. Besides, there was tremendous attraction among the voters towards Narendra Modi. R R Patil is known for his clean image and keeping a low profile. He has been representing the Tasgaon assembly segment for more than 15 years, the fact that failed to help Pratik Patil. The sitting MP received 68,698 votes, while Sanjay Patil garnered 1,06,826 votes in Tasgaon. It clearly points out that people have voted for Sanjay Patil by going against their local leader," he said.

Jayant Patil too met with a similar fate. The minister, who manages more than four sugar factories in the Walwa and Shirala tehsils of Sangli district, had campaigned against farmers' leader and Mahayuti candidate from  Hatakanagale Raju Shetty, who carved out a political career by staging agitations against sugarcane proce. During several campaigns, Patil had promised Congress candidate Kallappa Awade of providing good lead from his assembly constituency, Islampur.

But of the 1,76,587 voters in Islampur, 95,392 voted for Shetty, while Awade got 71,947 votes. Similar was the case in Shahuwadi assembly segment represented by Jan Surajya Shakti party leader Vinay Kore, who had campaigned for Awade. Shetty received 1,06,193 votes, while Awade could garner only 63,213 votes.

Union home minister  Sushikumar faced a similar situation in Solapur, where the assembly segment represented by his daughter Parniti provided a lead of 18,366 votes to BJP's Sharad Bansode. Ashok Nimbargi, general secretary of BJP's Solapur unit, said, "It was an election where the supporters of Congress and NCP leaders were not following them. The leaders lost their touch. All these factors helped the BJP in getting decisive leads."
