
Sign up now for our News Alert emails and the latest breaking news plus new features.

PHUKET: Phuket.Net Real Estate is pleased to announce that it is among the winners of a five-star award at the prestigious Asia-Pacific Property Awards held at the Shangri-la Hotel in Kuala Lumpur on May 9.

Phuket.Net competed against a number of real estate agents and property consultants to receive the award for Best Real Estate Agency Website Asia Pacific.

As a regional winner we will also be flying the flag for Asia-Pacific in the International Property Awards to be held in Dubai later this year.

''I am very proud of our hard working team at Phuket.Net Real Estate'' said managing director Alex Lotz. ''They continue to grow our site and services making it user-friendly, informative and efficient.

''To be recognised by International Property Awards for our efforts is extremely rewarding,'' added Lotz.

The Asia Pacific Property Awards are part of the long established International Property Awards. The award winners' logo is recognised as a symbol of excellence throughout the global industry.

Attaining one of these coveted awards is indisputable evidence that Phuket.Net is capable of outperforming some exceedingly strong contenders within the highly competitive Asia Pacific property arena.

The Asia Pacific region has an enviable record of achievement at international level, having scooped an unbeaten total of 18 World's Best Awards in 2013.

Stuart Shield, President of the International Property Awards said, ''We will all now wait to see if Asia Pacific can not only retain the title of best performing region of the world in the International Property Awards but also beat its own record for yet another successive year.

''Each region is highly competitive with levels of excellence within the property industry rising annually, this makes the competition hugely exciting as it heads towards the final conclusion in December.''

The judging panel consists of approximately 70 professionals including Lord Caithness, Lord Best, Lord Courtown, Fiona Nixon, chairman of the Australian Institute of Architects; Patrick Grove, co-founder of IPGA Ltd; and Peter Bolton King, residential professional group director at RICS.

Founded in 2007 as a residential brokerage firm specialising in holiday and investment properties, Phuket.Net Real Estate is one of the island's leading independent agents with an excellent portfolio of Phuket property and comprehensive Phuket rental listings.

No comments so far. Be the first to comment using the form below.

Want an avatar for your comments? Register with Gravatar .

Do not enter anything in this text box otherwise your message will not be sent!
