
Yesterday marked the seven-year anniversary of Kisoi Munyao, who hoisted the Kenyan flag on Mt Kenya in 1963 during independence celebration. Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka and other political leaders attended his memorial at his home in Waia village, Mbooni constituency. Freedom fighter Dedan Kimathi and Paul Ngei of the Kapenguria seven were represented by their families.

 Kalonzo expressed his gratitude towards Kisoi for his monumental task. He said Kenya is at fault for forgetting heroes. Kalonzo said sometimes the heroes' families live in abject poverty.

 “For any society to chart a way forward we have to know where we have come from. It is high time  we honoured what they fought for. We must also reward and compensate them for the sacrifices they made,” he said.

 The Wiper leader took issue with the Jubilee government over the directives by the Executive to the county commissioners and the “excessive powers” which by fact makes the county commissioners “in charge” of the counties contrary to the letter and spirit of the constitution which bestows the powers of the counties on the governors. He said by doing so the Executive has exemplified their unwillingness and more so their effort to frustrate devolution. Kalonzo decried this as retrogressive to the strides made by the new constitutional dispensation.

 Kalonzo stated that devolution was a reality that is here to stay and that the jubilee government should not use the county commissioners to drag Kenya back to the old days.

 The Wiper leader challenged the Jubilee government to hasten the construction of the Konza City, a vision 2030 project, the first of its kind in sub-saharan Africa. He said the diversionary tactics being pulled would not work, as the County of Machakos is not contesting the fact that Konza is in Makueni County.

 “No amount of diversionary tactics will work or put Kamba people at loggerheads. We all know that Konza City is in Makueni County, both the governors of Machakos and Makueni have affirmed so. So let us start the work immediately,” Kalonzo added.

 Kalonzo passed his condolence to the victims of the twin bombings in Gikomba market and called upon the public to donate blood to medical facilities in assistance of those injured and in need of blood transfusion.

 Makueni Governor Prof. Kivutha Kibwana expressed his respect for the late Kisoi and also expressed his gratitude for the service rendered for the sake of the nation.

 Echoing the words of the Wiper leader, Gov. Kibwana said that heroes should be remembered and rewarded whilst still alive. He further called on legislators to help the families of these champions who have done a great service to the nation by passing laws, which favor them.

 “We must not allow ourselves to be a nation without a soul, the heroes who have done service to this nation must be remembered rewarded and used as an example to our future generations,” the governor said. Senator Mutula Kilonzo took the government to task over the state of insecurity in the country. He said that the government cannot be doing the same things over and over and expect different results. He said that it is time Kenyans know the dreams our heroes sacrificed for heavily.

 The occasion was graced by 19 members of parliament include 3 women reps who said that the Malili location controversy should not divide the Kamba community leaders as it is being “manufactured” to stall the development of this vision 2030 project which will immensely help Kenyans from every corner of the country.

 They unanimously agreed that the said project is in Makueni county and thus the created controversy is a jubilee government tactic not to allocate the required funds to kickstart the development.
