
The Chief of Army Staff (COAS) General Raheel Sharif during his visit to Kabul on Monday, reviewed the security situation in Afghanistan along with the transfer of security responsibility to Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF).

#COAS Kabul Visit: Enhanced Pak- Afghan bilateralism with emphasis on coord mechanism along Pak-Afghan Border discussed.

They reviewed the prevailing security situation in Afghanistan. The transfer of security responsibility to Afghan National Security Forces in the wake of US, ISAF drawdown, enhanced bilateralism between Pakistan and Afghanistan with particular emphasis on coordination arrangements along Pakistan – Afghanistan Border was also deliberated upon during the meeting.

Afghan military officials briefed the Pakistani delegation over latest security situation in Afghanistan with special emphasis on Afghan Presidential Elections.

Gen Sharif said that Pakistan considers security and terrorism as the common enemy of both countries.

Later, Gen Raheel held separate meetings with the Afghan Acting President Younis Qanooni and Afghan Defence Minister General Bismillah Muhammadi.

The Afghan Defence Ministry said Sunday that General Raheel Sharif will represent Pakistan in the trilateral meeting with Afghan Chief of Army Staff General Sher Mohammad Karimi and International Security Assistance Force Commander General Joseph Dunford.

“The Chief of the Army Staff will be going to Kabul on Monday for a day-long visit. He will hold important meetings with Afghan military and ISAF commanders” a text message from the army’s Inter-Services Public Relations said, confirming the visit.

General Raheel will be attending the trilateral meeting in Kabul for the first time, the Afghan Defence Ministry spokesperson General Zahir Azeemi said in a statement.

Your comments may appear in The Express Tribune paper. For this reason we encourage you to provide your city. The Express Tribune does not bear any responsibility for user comments.

Comments are moderated and generally will be posted if they are on-topic and not abusive. For more information, please see our Comments FAQ .

Notify me of new posts by email.

Unless otherwise stated, all content is copyrighted © 2014 The Express Tribune News Network.
