
A QUEENSLAND Health boss is under fire for chartering a helicopter for a “joyride” of bush hospitals in far north Queensland.

Officials spent $3100 for a day flight from Cairns to the Outback, Daintree rainforest, and Great Barrier Reef coast last Tuesday.

Doctors, unions and the State Opposition have asked for a “please explain” on why three QH executives did not drive a motor car to facility meetings at hospitals in Dimbulah, Cow Bay and Mossman.

But Cairns and Hinterland Hospital and Health Service chair Bob Norman, a property developer and avid aviator who has his own private helicopter, told The Courier-Mail taking a chopper to visit clinics was “cost-effective” and “the only way to travel’’.

Mr Norman said he often flew his own R44 helicopter to meetings as far afield as Tully, Innisfail, Croydon and Georgetown at “no cost to Queensland Health’’.

Cairns and Hinterland Hospital and Health Service chair Bob Norman, a property developer and avid aviator who has his own private helicopter, is under fire for hiring another helicopter to attend meetings at three far north Queensland hospitals last Tuesday.

Mr Norman, who pockets a $60,830-a-year salary, said he did not claim mileage, charge fuel expenses, or get any “recompense’’ when he used his own chopper.

“It is safer to fly and it is quicker,’’ said the son of the late Sir Robert Norman, a renowned airman who founded Bush Pilots.

He said they hired a five-seater Bell Jetranger 206 because he was not legally allowed to fly passengers on a commercial basis.

Together Union organiser Kevin O’Sullivan said the three hospitals were all accessible by road and a round daytrip by car was not insurmountable.

Doctors had to make do with video-conferences, phone calls and email, he said.

“Those thousands of dollars would have been better spent on the Rescue Helicopter. Not on jaunts or joyrides by bureaucrats,’’ he said.

Queensland Opposition Treasurer Curtis Pitt said more than $6 million and 250 jobs had been axed in the CHHHS under Mr Norman.

“What would the more than 200 staff that lost their jobs during Mr Norman’s purge at Cairns Hospital think about his preference to fly rather than drive, at public expense?’’ he said.

CHHHS chief executive Julie Hartley-Jones, who was on the flight along with QH chief infrastructure officer Glen Rashleigh, said the entire health district covered an area of 141,000sq km with remote facilities.

News.com.au's Privacy Policy includes important information about our collection, use and disclosure of your personal information (including to provide you with targeted content and advertising based on your online activities). It explains that if you do not provide us with information we have requested from you, we may not be able to provide you with the goods and services you require. It also explains how you can access or seek correction of your personal information, how you can complain about a breach of the Australian Privacy Principles and how we will deal with a complaint of that nature.
