
The first HIV-positive case diagnosed in Bangladesh, in 1989, was a returnee migrant. National surveillance data of 2011 revealed that HIV prevalence among sex workers in land port areas (Hili) is higher than average prevalence rate among sex workers in general. According to IOM data of 2012, 60% of the reported HIV-positives are migrants. We have to take this issue seriously because there are case studies in our neighbouring countries for example in Ganjam district in India where HIV-positive cases was in single digit in 1999-2000 but within ten years the number increased in thousands.

According to 2001 India census, there were approximately 3 million Bangladeshi migrants  working in India. Reasons of this huge number of cross border migration are lack of employment at source (Bangladesh), comparatively high wages at destination (India), low migration cost, porous border and geographic proximity.

These migrant workers remain in isolation and poor working condition that led to engage in risky sexual behaviour. They lack spousal communication and consistent condom use. They often pursue sexual relationships with commercial sex workers without condom. There are also incidents of women and girls trafficking across border who are also vulnerable to HIV and AIDS.

The EMPHASIS project has been started in 2009. Our goal was to reduce the vulnerability to HIV and AIDS of population mobile between Bangladesh and Nepal to India. And our objective was to demonstrate effective good practice models and for HIV prevention care and support; to enhance capacity of government other service providers; to develop evidence based advocacy.

Our project implementation area covers source, transit and destination areas. At the source area we work in Jessore and Satkhira in Bangladesh and Achham and Kanchanpur in Nepal. Transit areas include Jessore/ Satkhira border and West Bengal in case of Bangladeshi migrants. And the destination areas where we work under this project are Delhi, Mumbai and Kolkata.

In Bangladesh, 82,008 target populations has been reached with health education as of January 2014. We have established two Voluntary Counselling and Testing (VCT) centres in Jessore and Satkhira government hospitals. As of April, 2014, 2184 individuals were diagnosed in these two centres. We got 38 HIV-positive and that is more than 1.5% of total number of tested clients.

We have to continue awareness, BCC and counselling activities targeting migrants and their family members using existing GoB health infrastructure as well as to establish and continue HIV testing and counselling services at GoB health facilities in the district with high concentration of migrant populations.  Another immediate action would be integration of prevention and referral services including adequate supplies of STI drugs and condoms to all.

It is really critical in Bangladesh that we do not silo the issue of HIV and migration. It needs to be looked at globally, regionally and locally. Recently, 52 countries have met in Bangladesh to discuss on migration in post 2015. This is a long term issue and it is a global issue. It is about equity, human rights and equality.

The issue of cross border migration is of particular importance because earlier on we would hear of migration cases from India but recently more and more cases of emigration to Nepal have emerged. As a result, cross-border migration should be a crucial issue which needs our special attention.

Firstly we need to have a cross border partnership that looks into the health of migrants from source country and also in the destination country. We need cross ministerial walk on that and also the involvement of the foreign affairs ministry.

I will want to use a community based approach because all of us are migrants. We all move from one place to another so you cannot really say that this is one place where you will find migrants but you can say that this is the source community where most migrants that do cross border migration really emerge from, like the work that the EMPHASIS project has done in Satkhira  and Jessore.

In the context of HIV, we really need to bring a lot of family planning into the work that we do because if you think about a male migrant who has gone out, when he comes back the risk lies with his spouse and with other female partners in the community.

Every time I hear the numbers of people living with HIV and AIDS in Bangladesh, I think that we are catching only the tip of the iceberg. In our studies, we found that women in Mumbai who found that they were HIV-positive did not return. We heard of cases of women who were staying illegally in Dubai and caught HIV and AIDS committing suicides instead of returning. I don't know where the statistics are for these people. That points out to the huge stigma that this illness bears.

The issue of migrant workers and especially female workers, they have really been ignored by everybody except to be beaten up and victimised. Back in 2003-2004, we were in Mumbai when Arab men from Dubai came to recruit bar dancers and it became known that the rate of HIV was very high. Suddenly there was great interest in recruiting girls from Bangladesh as the low prevalence in Bangladesh made it very attractive for them to be hired by those men.

As cross border migration and HIV vulnerability is an international issue, we need support from our own government as well as international governments.

We know that there is a parliamentary caucus on HIV and AIDS in Bangladesh. We now need a grassroots based social structure where all stakeholders can talk and exchange ideas. If we need the focus on this issue to sustain, we can't just depend on a project. Thus, if all those organisations who work on migration can work in a coordinated manner, there would be a real difference.

The presentation emphasised on the need for counselling and coordination between the two sectors of migration and health. If we come to the issue of counselling, the recommendations here clearly suggest that both documented and undocumented migrant workers need counselling.

Migration and cross-border mobility have always remained aside and still there is a gap in policies, collaboration and coordination between the ministry that deals with migration and the ministry of health. There is a health policy but migration is not integrated there or the policy and strategies related to migration does not account for the health issues of migration.

EMPHASIS is a learning platform to understand the vulnerability of migrant workers and test appropriate approaches, interventions and solutions. This is one of the important events with the participation of important policy makers and practitioners where we are sharing our experiences that we have learned through implementing EMPHASIS regional project of CARE International. The EMPHASIS project was primarily targeting undocumented migrant populations. One project or organisation can't deal with an issue of such magnitude. We need to develop a government response to address this issue.

Through EMPHASIS we tried to reach the Cross Border Mobile Population at source using existing health infrastructure structure & system like the community clinics, Community Support Groups, FWC, health complexes and district hospitals. We found out that this approach yielded good results and the HIV prevention knowledge and service uptake level have been increased. This is a tested approach and this can be integrated into existing health systems in the other part of the country.

There is a treaty between India and Nepal that if anyone from India is working in Nepal, they have access to services. If someone from Bangladesh works in non-Bengali speaking cities in India, they are always vulnerable often hide their identity as Bangladeshi. Civil Society Organisations working on HIV in India and Bangladesh share information but at the government level it almost absent. The governments need to patronise these civil society organisations for further collaborations.

Migration is a social and economic indicator of change. It is inevitable and universal. It is a new phenomenon to look at migration from health perspective. So we have to discuss over it in great length to understand the full gamut of this linkage.

I think, the initiation of our HIV programme was on a wrong footing. HIV has become a matter of stigma and fear to general people. Our approach to HIV is guilty of this misrepresentation. HIV should be treated like any other diseases.

I am fully agreed with the urge of holding bilateral and multilateral discussion over the issue of cross border migration and HIV vulnerability with our neighbouring countries.
