
Georgia and Russian broke off their diplomatic relations in 2008. The disaster on the Russian-Georgian border has given both Moscow and Tbilisi an opportunity to demonstrate their good will in dealing with each other. Apparently, the parties are unwilling to burn all the bridges.

Georgia is ready to increase food exports to Russia, the country's  Minister of Agriculture Otar Daneliya is quoted as saying by ITAR-TASS.  The minister also stresses that the two states have already made great  progress in developing mutual economic ties.

The Georgian Military Road is the only ground connection between Russia and Armenia. The 200-km road connects Vladikavkaz and Tbilisi, running along the rivers of the Greater Caucasus, including the Darial Gorge. The road is often hit by avalanches and blocked for days or weeks in winter and mudslides in the summer.

The Special Representative of the Georgian Prime Minister  for Russia, Zurab Abashidze, says the two states are going to change the  current format of their bilateral relations. In such a way the envoy  commented on Moscow's decision to suspend the free trade agreement with  Georgia.

The Russian Economic Development Ministry has published a draft decree on the suspension of the agreement on free trade between Russia and Georgia.

Georgian MP from the ruling coalition "Georgian Dream" Levan Berdzenishvili opposed the initiative of his colleague George Baramidze from the party "United National Movement" to ban broadcasting of Russian TV channels in Georgia at legislative level."Maybe they will want to ban books, too? When I was the director of the National Library, they presented to me such a proposal, saying that some books should not be read and need to be banned. Such bans are incompatible with the European prospects," News-Georgia quotes Berdzenishvili.

Georgy Baramidze, a member of parliament of Georgian ex-President  Mikheil Saakashvili's United National Movement, proposed banning of  Russian TV channels in the country. The parliamentary majority said they  were not planning to discuss the issue, Interfax reports.
