
From left: AGBU's Vasken Yacoubian, AUA's Bruce Boghosian and Armenia's Defense Minister Seyran Ohanyan.

Yerevan - AGBU, the American University of Armenia (AUA), and Armenia's Ministry of Defense and Armed Forces have launched a new scholarship program that will serve soldiers and representatives of the military.

The initiative was officially announced at a recent meeting attended by AGBU Central Board member Vasken Yacoubian, Armenia's Defense Minister Seyran Ohanyan and AUA president Dr. Bruce Boghosian. Together at the ministry, they signed an agreement detailing the different courses and activities that will be funded by AGBU and implemented by AUA.

The program will provide new educational opportunities to service members at every phase of their military career. It will include trainings for the ministry's English language teachers; classes for soldiers completing their last six months of service; scholarships for ministry representatives enrolled in AUA's undergraduate and graduate schools; as well as professional development courses for military staff.

Small classroom sizes and an individualized approach will give each participant the attention they need. Enrollment will be no more than 18 students per course, and one-on-one mentoring will be incorporated into the curricula. Classes focused on the GMAT, GRE, LSAT and TOEFL iBT exams will help prepare those pursuing higher education either at AUA or international universities.

Mr. Yacoubian praised the venture, stating, "The Armed Forces is one of our nation's key pillars and a source of pride and confidence for Armenians everywhere. We believe that this new program will further strengthen its efficiency and capabilities while continuing to produce highly qualified officers and professionals. AGBU is very proud to play a role in it working alongside the ministry and AUA."

These plans build on a longtime partnership between AGBU, AUA and the Ministry of Defense. A number of ministry members are already enrolled in courses at the AUA Extension Program, among them a master's degree candidate who is receiving full funding from AGBU. The AUA Extension Program also currently offers a free Leadership and Management course, organized by Dr. Arpie Balian, the Extension Program director, for cadets in the Vazgen Sargsyan Military Academy Officers' Qualification Center. Established in May 2013, the course is now a part of the Academy's Command Base curriculum and is offered to middle and senior command staff.

Those officers are among the hundreds of students that AGBU supports around the world; for the 2013-2014 academic year, the AGBU Scholarship Program distributed over $1.1 million to performing arts, religious studies and international students in nearly 35 countries. To learn more about the AGBU Scholarship Program, visit  www.agbu-scholarship.org .

To learn more about the American University of Armenia, visit www.aua.am .

Armenia's Ministry of Education and Science and the Mesrop Mashtots Institute of Ancient Manuscripts (the Matenadaran). The new venture will provide bright young researchers with the support they need to discover and help preserve some of the oldest manuscripts, books and documents in Armenian history.

Eight scholars were selected to participate in the AGBU-funded program, which will advance their studies in Art History and Theory, Historical Source Research, Historiography, as well as World History. The Matenadaran is the ideal site to conduct their work: it houses over 100,000 documents dating as early as the eighth century. Researchers and tourists travel from all over the world to see its national treasures, including the Gospel of Lazarus and Hakob Meghapart's "Parzatumar," one of the first Armenian books ever printed.

The scholarship initiative is one of the many ways AGBU has supported the Matenadaran over the years. Following Armenia's independence, when the country was plagued by an energy crisis, AGBU and its benefactors helped the Matenadaran acquire the air conditioning, fire prevention and security systems that were vital to protecting its archives. AGBU has also sponsored a number of the Madenataran's publications.

The new program was inaugurated during a ceremony held at the institute and attended by several public officials. There to celebrate was Hrachya Tamrazyan, the Matenadaran's director; Manuk Mkrtchyan, deputy minister of Armenia's Ministry of Education and Science; Ashot Ghazaryan, vice president of operations of the American University of Armenia and former director of AGBU Armenia; Vardi Keshishian, head of the Matenadaran's international relations department; and Vahan Ter-Ghevondyan, head of the Matenadaran's Arabic manuscripts research department.

Hovig Eordekian, interim director of the AGBU Armenia Representation office, congratulated the students and addressed the crowd, remarking, "When the Matenadaran's leadership first approached AGBU with the idea for this partnership, we did not hesitate to pledge our support. We knew it would strengthen an already productive partnership between our organization and the institute, one that is of strategic importance because it promotes the development of Armenian studies in Yerevan and globally."

Upon receiving his certificate, scholarship recipient Hrant Ohanyan commented on the great impact that the program will have on him and his fellow academics. Holding his award, he stated, "AGBU's assistance is not merely financial. It signals to us that our work is critical to the Matenadaran and to the field of Armenian studies as a whole. We are so proud and excited that AGBU has decided to invest in us and our research."

The Matenadaran scholarship distribution comes days before AGBU announced support of another educational initiative in Armenia: a scholarship program developed with the American University of Armenia and Armenia's Ministry of Defense and Armed Forces, which will serve soldiers and representatives of the military. To read more, visit  bit.ly/1qDaIMK.

Established in 1906, AGBU ( www.agbu.org ) is the world's largest non-profit Armenian organization. Headquartered in New York City, AGBU preserves and promotes the Armenian identity and heritage through educational, cultural and humanitarian programs, annually touching the lives of some 400,000 Armenians around the world.
