
(MENAFN - The Peninsula) Qatar Museums Authority yesterday unveiled its new brand, logo and name reflecting the organisational vision to develop, promote and sustain the cultural sector at the highest standards.

The new name is Qatar Museums (QM), accompanied by the descriptor 'Art, Heritage, Creativity' which "captures the spirit and purpose of the organisation committed to helping the next generation of cultural professionals thrive and flourish and generating a national spirit of participation," said Shaikha Fahad Al Thani, Brand Coordinator.

The new logo is built from geometric shapes used in Arabesque art and architecture. It is supported by a wider visual system which unites the museums, exhibition spaces and heritage sites.

H E Sheikha Al Mayassa bint Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani said: "The new brand has been introduced to engage our primary audience, families and the youth.

"The colours and shapes are dynamic, reflecting Qatar's cultural ambition in developing arts, heritage, and creativity.

"QM is a family of museums inviting Qataris, residents, and the rest of the world to learn about different cultures, people and civilisations."

In line with Qatar National Vision 2030, QM's objective is to form the next generation of arts, heritage and museum professionals in the country and grow and build the nation's creative life and talent.

To deliver on the social ambition, QM has identified three strategic priorities. They include nurturing emerging talent to inspire the next generation of cultural producers through projects such as the Fire Station: Artist in Residence programme; creating a platform for the voice of Qatar to take our own distinctive place within global debates on culture and creativity as seen through exhibitions such as Mal Lawal; and taking museums beyond the four walls, as evidenced by Al Zubarah archaeological site.

QM is launching its Culture Pass membership programme which offers individuals the chance to experience exclusive cultural activities across Qatar.

Members will be invited to attend specialist workshops and exclusive VIP exhibition openings as well as private tours of galleries, receive newsletter and discounts at QM food and beverage outlets, gift shops and selected places.
