
As usual, Rosamund did all the planning but I did make some of the bookings so it wasn't too unbalanced.  Our neighbour heard of our plans and let us his car, parked somewhere south of Brisbane so we took the opportunity to drive it and booked our flight there to land in Brisbane.

Flying to Australia is a long process.  Direct flights are expensive so we decided to save a bit by taking a two hour flight to Los Angeles, a four hour wait, and then a 14 ½ hour flight to Brisbane.  Somewhere over the Pacific we crossed the International Date Line.  That means that we arrive some time before we actually took off.  I'm not sure I have figured it out yet.

.  The gesture was highly appreciated considering the long trip and that our world had, literally, been turned upside down.

We were struck by the lush and colourful surroundings so the first photo I took was of a hibiscus flowering in their back yard.  That afternoon, Jeremy toured us around the Gold Coast beach, a tourist favorite because of the sand beaches, sun, and warm climate and water.  Consequently, the towering hotels and holiday apartments grew so high that at noon they cast a shadow over the beach.  The restful beach that the older Australians knew had gone forever and economic prosperity came at a price.  The buildings however were impressive especially compared to our Vancouver buildings.  The beach itself was gorgeous.  One could walk for miles (kilometers) on pristine sand viewing clear water forever.

.  The car's steering wheel was on the right but the gearshift was on the left of it.  The clutch and gas pedal were the same as ours but the windshield washer and the turn indicator were on opposite sides of the steering column.  The latter was the most difficult.  Almost every corner was preceded by a wipe of the windshield, oh sorry, windscreen.

Surfing, a sport many Australians take seriously was fun to watch.  Gulls were different than ours but just as impressive.  Flowers littered the dunes for all who cared to look.

Our first day was breath taking.
