
More than 50 former classmates gathered to share memories about their school days – and catch up with the playground pals they met at Swaffham Secondary Modern half a century ago.

To send a link to this page to a friend, you must be logged in.

The Class of ‘59 reunion has become an annual occasion following the success of the initial event in 2009 to mark the 50th anniversary of the formation of classes 3A/4A and 3B/4B.

After years of research, organiser Derek Edwards, from Toftwood near Dereham, has tracked down 67 of the surviving classmates, with the majority arriving for Saturday’s get-together at Swaffham Conservative Club.

One person who does sound different these days is Georgina Maartensz, who has picked up an antipodean accent in the 40 years she spent living in Australia after leaving school as Georgina Page. Following her wedding in 1964, she moved to Sydney with her late husband, who she met while he was serving at RAF Watton.

The guests also included 3A’s form master Gordon Mason, now 84, who said: “I think of all the schools I taught in, these were the hardest working kids I have come across. I didn’t have any troublemakers – I didn’t allow them in my class. But I did have some jokers.

Another special guest was Cheryl Hill, the current principal of what is now the Nicholas Hamond Academy.

She said although the former pupils may not recognise some of the new buildings or courses being run there, the “pursuit of excellence”was still the same.

The youthful faces in two black and white class photographs became the starting point for the research which led to the reunion.

Mr Edwards said 81 former pupils had been identified, of which 67 have been located and 10 had since passed away, leaving four still to find.

Those four are believed to be from RAF families who had since left the area. Seven teachers have also been identified and six have been contacted.

Mr Edwards said: “Our form master Gordon Mason started taking these class photos, which was innovative at the time. It was not just as a record, but as a project – he would send us to the dark room at the back of the science lab to develop and print it.
