
Martes, 26 de Agosto 2014. Actualizado a las 12:10 AM.

SANTO DOMINGO. After a long process in search of a consensus carried out by President Danilo Medina, the legislative proposal which he sent yesterday to the Congress, in an attempt to regulate and naturalize the children of foreigners in the country, has the expressed support of several sectors, although there are dissident voices. This dissidence is the case of the National Progressive Force (FNP), which feels that while the proposal respects the sentence from the Constitutional Tribunal, number 168-13, it also violates the Constitution over the fact that it orders the Central Electoral Board (JCE) to issue documentation to the children of foreigners who were illegally registered in the Civil Registry.

"In no article of the Constitution is there the possibility that the Central Electoral Board can grant Dominican nationality through the accreditation of acts or the emission of ‘cédulas'," says the FNP, which is led by jurist Marino Vinicio Castillo (Vincho).

Nonetheless, the constitutional lawyers, Eduardo Jorge Prats, Olivo Rodriguez Huertas, and Juan Miguel Castillo Pantaleon, agreed on stressing the prudence of the proposal, because they understand that it respects both the Constitution of the Republic as well as the sentence by the Tribunal.

"We feel that the proposal is respectful both of the sentence 168-13 handed down by the Constitutional Tribunal as well as the Constitution, since it deals with one of the great problems detected by the Constitutional Tribunal such as the set of legal lack of foresight and legal and institutional deficiencies which affected a number of persons who were born in Dominican territory of foreign parents that received documents that made them presume their Dominican nationality," suggested Jorge Prats.

Rodriguez Huertas, one of the advisors of the administration in the writing of the proposal, defends the fact that this is adjusted to the Dominican judicial order. "It respects the sentence, as long as its basis is not the same which focused on the precedent set by the TC in the sentence 168-13. In addition it makes a distinction on the underlying reality, which is a different situation from those who were accredited as Dominicans during a long time from those that plain and simply say they are Dominicans, but where there is no birth registered."

Rodriguez Huertas clarifies that in this case, the JCE is not going to establish nationality, but rather the legislator starts with the reality that the persons favored already enjoyed this nationality and therefore the Board will only process the application of what the legislator establishes, an argument which Jorge Prats also endorses.

For Castillo Pantaleon the proposal is prudent and humanitarian. "You have to take into consideration two interesting points: First you recognize the binding authority of the Constitutional Tribunal and second, you recognize the work carried out by the JCE regarding the cleanup of the civil registry books." This is like this because the dates encompassed by the proposed legislation go from the dates of the constitutional modification of 1929 until 2007, when the JCE handed down Circular 27. "This indicates that those that are going to benefit are more than 14,000 persons listed in the Civil Registry, but without evidence of fraud."

In the meantime, the president of the National Council of Churches, Braulio Portes, said that the proposal submitted yesterday to the Congress, through the Chamber of Deputies, reduces the tension created by the sentence of the Constitutional Tribunal.

"The proposal for the naturalization law ‘puts out the fire' which has resulted from the sentence of the TC. We hope that it is approved as soon as possible because this law means peace for our country and will help in the relations between the Dominican Republic and Haiti," he told reporters.

The president of the Association of Industrial Enterprises of Herrera and the Province of Santo Domingo (AIEH) said that "We understand that (the legislative proposal) talks about a fair, balanced proposal that is far from the extremes and which respects the judicial order of the Dominican Republic."

The PRD president said: "Just as we have been calling for, the solution to this problem should be humane but constitutional, and in effect the proposal sent by President Danilo Medina, as the opinions given by the PRD lawyers at our insistence said, respects both the Constitution as well as the Sentence 168/13 of the Constitutional Tribunal"

The president of the National Council of Private Enterprise (CONEP): "The creation of this legislative proposal is necessary for the country, as well as its prompt passage, so that in this way we can solve this situation that has captured the attention of the nation for months and go on to other important issues of national interest."

The Secretary General of the PRSC: "Party president Federico Antun presented President Medina with the opinion of the New PRSC regarding the proposal and all of these were incorporated in the legislation, so because of this we feel satisfied and we will work for it urgent passage. It is a good law."

The Chief Justice of the Constitutional Tribunal (TC): "The Constitutional Tribunal reiterates its commitment to guarantee the supremacy of the Constitution, the defense of the constitutional order and the protection of the fundamental rights, in the most absolute respect to the constitutional and legal prerogatives of the public powers."
