
Thousands of women’s lives could be saved by a simple test for heart attacks    due to be introduced across the NHS within months.

The test could cost as little as £5 a time and works by detecting small    increases in levels of protein in the blood released when heart muscle is    damaged.

Around 14,000 and 50,000 patients a year are wrongly sent home by doctors    having suffered a mild heart attack that has been missed by current testing    methods.

Women are more frequently missed than men as they tend to experience symptoms    such as abdominal pain, back ache and nausea which can be misdiagnosed as    indigestion when they have actually had a mild heart attack.

Once patients have suffered a mild heart attack however they are at high risk    of a far more severe one within the next few days or weeks that is often    fatal.

Doctors hope that the new two-step blood tests - carried out in A&E units    - will diagnose mild heart attacks in many more patients, the Daily    Mail reported.

They could then be given blood thinning drugs and have a stent inserted to    widen blocked arteries or be prescribed blood thinning drugs.

Additionally the tests would also quickly rule out heart attacks in many other    patients allowing them to be sent home within a few hours - currently they    have to stay overnight for monitoring.

The National Institute of Clinical Excellence (NICE) which recommends the    suitability and affordability of treatment on the NHS has recommended    doctors use one of two versions of the new tests.

But it advises that the test should be carried out twice - meaning samples are    twice run through the machines in the lab - to ensure maximum accuracy.

NICE estimates the cost of the each of the tests will be no more than £20 a    patient although researchers who developed it say it could be closer to £5    per patient.

Patients would undergo a normal blood test in A&E which would then be sent    to the lab and a heart attack would be diagnosed within four hours.

They work by detecting very small changes in levels of the protein troponin    which rise when the heart has been damaged following an attack.

The standard electrocardiogram scans (ECGs) and other blood tests will often    only detect major heart attacks.

Experts also estimate that as many as half of heart attacks in women are    missed because they have misleading symptoms and doctors assume they are    less at risk than men.

The new tests are known as the Elecsys Troponin T high-sensitive, made by    Roche, and the Architect Stat High Sensitive Troponin-I, manufactured by    Abbot.

Speaking last Autumn, Dr Nicholas Mills, a cardiologist at the University of    Edinburgh, who helped developed the latter of the two tests said: “It’s    pretty simple, pretty cheap and has huge potential to improve the way we    diagnose heart attacks.

“The advantage of this new test is that it can very, very small concentrations    of this heart muscle protein and that allows you to make the diagnosis of a    heart much quicker.

“We are realising now that we’ve potentially been underdiagnosing heart    disease over the years in women.

A major trial of one of the two tests published in September involving 1,126    patients showed that it doubled the diagnosis rate of heart attacks.

Often when a patient is sent home, they are hit with a second, more serious    heart attack which kills them before they can return to hospital for    emergency.

NICE yesterday published draft guidelines tests should be routinely used in    NHS hospitals and a final decision is expected in October.

Around 43,000 men and 31,000 women die from heart attacks in Britain a year    and they are the cause of just under 80,000 hospital admissions annually.

Dr Mike Knapton, Associate Medical Director at the British Heart Foundation,    told the Mail: “If these tests were to become routinely used they would help    remove some of the doubt and uncertainty that can surround the diagnosis of    a heart attack.

“By confirming a suspected heart attack more quickly it will allow doctors to    begin vital treatment earlier.
