
MANILA, Philippines - President Aquino revealed yesterday that Ombudsman Conchita Carpio-Morales is likely to file before the Sandiganbayan the graft and plunder charges she had earlier recommended against lawmakers allegedly involved in the pork barrel scam.

He told reporters in Legazpi City that they were anticipating that the strongest cases with solid evidence would be filed soon.

Aquino said he is confident that the ombudsman is doing her job properly and in a timely manner.

In a speech before the Filipino community in Kuala Lumpur last Feb. 28, Aquino hinted that there would be indictments very soon with regard to those who have been charged with graft and plunder in connection with the multibillion-peso pork barrel fund scam.

A month later or last April 1, Morales came up with the resolution recommending the filing of graft and plunder charges against Senators Juan Ponce Enrile, Jinggoy Estrada, Ramon Revilla Jr., and 34 others in connection with the misuse of the pork barrel or Priority Development Assistance Fund (PDAF) of lawmakers.

By saying the ombudsman will be filing the cases very soon, Aquino meant charges would be filed before the anti-graft court, where senators and congressmen who have been respondents in the case would face trial.

Aquino raised anew his doubts on the credibility of alleged pork barrel scam mastermind Janet Lim-Napoles who has been giving contradicting versions of her purported affidavit, where she identified 14 senators in one list but removed three in another.

“And now she has admitted it is perhaps a strategy of some of the accused. What’s the phrase… ‘Bring the whole house down.’ Since we’re all guilty anyway let’s muddle things up,” he said in Filipino.

He begged off, however, when asked to comment on Napoles’ application to become a state witness, stressing that the purported list or lists should still undergo verification, not to mention an evaluation if she is indeed the least guilty among the respondents.
