
Trend Micro bestows honour at partner conference.

Security vendor Trend Micro has announced at its partner conference in Sydney that Ingram Micro has won the Distributor of the Year award for the second consecutive time.

"It’s a great reflection of the strong partnership that has developed between Trend Micro and Ingram Micro," said Lee Welch, Ingram Micro's senior business manager for enterprise software.

"We’ve been working really well together and doing some very innovative things. We’ve been focusing strongly on enabling and supporting our Trend Micro resellers with programmes such as our Security Pass education programme, and that’s proven to be a very successful strategy," said Welch upon accepting the accolade.

Security Pass is a programme for Trend Micro resellers developed in conjunction with Ingram Micro. The distributor said in a statement that it is "designed to introduce resellers to Trend Micro security solutions, help them to build a pipeline of sales prospects, and provide support in the way of collateral, training and other resources to help them close sales".

Welch said: "We have more than 200 participants in Security Pass currently and feedback from participants is that the programme has been extremely useful in providing in-depth information on both Deep Security and the Worry Free Business Security suite and particularly in helping our SMB resellers to develop deeper expertise in the security space."

You must be a registered member of CRN to post a comment.

CRN Magazine looks in-depth at the emerging issues and developments for the channel, and provides insight, analysis and strategic information to help resellers better run their businesses.

Your use of this website constitutes acceptance of nextmedia's Privacy Policy and Terms & Conditions .

We will provide you with information and insight necessary to help you better achieve your business goals.

Access CRN's extensive online resources including; email bulletins, community discussions and unique online news.

Channelwire is a crucial information service for all resellers, delivering the latest channel news and analysis from Australia and around the world.

Special offers, promotions, competitions and new products from CRN and nextmedia, as well as its carefully selected partners.

At no time will your email be provided to any other company.

This process can take up to a minute to complete.

A confirmation email has been sent to your email address - SUPPLIED GOES EMAIL HERE. Please click on the link in the email to verify your email address. You need to verify your email before you can log on to the CRN website or start posting comments on articles.
