
Rolf Harris told a girl of 11 “I will introduce you to a tongue kiss” before he groped her, a court heard today.

The alleged victim said she was left “frozen” when the children’s entertainer assaulted her at a mutual friend’s home in Darwin, in Australia’s Northern Territory, in 1969.

The woman said she did not think he was serious, but he put his arms around her and started to kiss her.

She went on: “He put his tongue in my mouth and gave me a tongue kiss.

“It seemed like it lasted forever but it must have been very quick.

The woman said she now had to warn her husband not to kiss her in a certain way as it brought back bad memories.

Another witness broke down today as she told how Harris, 84, showed his “dark side” when he groped her as they danced.

She said she was 16 or 17 when she met Harris during a private function at a New Zealand restaurant in about 1970.

But she claimed things took a sinister turn when they took to the dance floor with other pairs and Harris slid his hand up her dress.

She said: “I was relaxed, ­comfortable, then in a flash, a moment, I saw the dark side of a man I thought could be trusted.” The woman said she pushed Harris away and fled the restaurant before she told her mum.

She said she did not come forward to Operation Yewtree officers until Harris’ arrest in April last year as she thought she would not be believed.

A third witness said she was 18 when she met the celebrity cartoonist on holiday in Malta in 1970.

She bumped into him in a bar and told the artist she admired his work. The woman said he offered to show her more of his pictures and took her to a private room, where he forced a “slobbery” kiss on her.

Harris was not charged over the alleged incidents relating to today’s witnesses as they took place abroad before a new law gave police jurisdiction overseas.

Jurors heard the women were called to demonstrate a pattern of behaviour by Harris.

The Australian TV star, of Bray, Berks, denies 12 counts of indecent assault against four victims aged seven to 19.

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).
