
“ The former Iraqi branch of Al Qaeda [ISIL] has now superseded [Osama] bin Laden ’s network to become the more important driving force behind the global jihad,” he said.

Filiu, who is a former adviser to the prime minister and minister of defense, explains that after the US invasion of Afghanistan, when all the attention was on the hunt for bin Laden, it was the Jordanian Abu Musab al-Zarqawi who was building his own organization in Iraqi Kurdistan, which was called al-Tawhid wal-Jihad.

The Al Qaeda leadership worried that Zarqawi’s mass killings against Shi’ite civilians would cause a backlash, but at the same time did not want to lose the group that was leading the Iraqi insurgency, argued Filiu.

After Zarqawi’s death in 2006, and that of the following appointed leaders, the Iraqi Baghdadi took over the Islamic State in Iraq and refused to pledge allegiance to Zawahiri after bin Laden’s death.

The uprising in Syria gave Baghdadi the opportunity to use the networks that brought fighters from Syria and to instead turn it around, and send jihadis to fight Syrian President Bashar Assad’s forces.

“Their objectives were quite different, even contradictory. The ISIL was fairly comfortable with Assad staying in power for the time being, as it was more interested in building its own base, while the Nusra Front was adamantly resolved to topple the dictator,” asserted Filiu.

Filiu told The Jerusalem Post that he believes the struggle between the two groups has nothing to do with pragmatism but – like Zarqawi of yesterday and Baghdadi of today – is about the quest for absolute control on the ground.

“While bin Laden of yesterday and Zawahiri of today accepted the ‘protection’ of Taliban patrons to develop their global networks,” it is the ISIL that actually has a growing territorial hold, he said.

Filiu said the distinction between “global jihad” and “national jihad,” which sticks to state borders, was already clear in Iraq between the “global” outlook of Zarqawi and the “national” insurgency that included jihad propaganda and foreign volunteers.

When the Nusra Front was confronted by ISIL’s attempt at a hostile takeover in April last year, the group responded by pledging allegiance to Zawahiri , hoping to remove the pressure from ISIL.

The Nusra Front however, discovered that the Al Qaeda leadership’s power was virtual, since it did not alleviate the pressure, explained Filiu.

Aymenn Jawad al-Tamimi, a Shillman-Ginsburg fellow at the Middle East Forum and a student at Brasenose College, Oxford University, told the Post that he disagrees with Filiu’s conclusion that ISIL fighters’ outreach is growing regionally as groups switch their allegiance from Al Qaeda to ISIL.

“None of Al Qaeda’s official affiliates in Somalia, the Maghreb or Yemen are planning to switch allegiance as Filiu seems to imply,” though “there are of course pro-ISIL elements within Al Qaeda in the Arab Peninsula, al-Shabaab, etc., but they do not control these organizations,” he continued.

“All that said, the level of foreign jihadi support for ISIL is sufficient to ensure the group’s existence for the foreseeable future,” he said, and any hope that Zawahiri has of marginalizing the ISIL, as happened to the Armed Islamic Group in Algeria during the 1990s, is unlikely to pan out.

The content of this field is kept private and will not be shown publicly.
