
Jacquita Gonzales (centre), wife of MH370 inflight supervisor Patrick Francis Gomes, yesterday said the services of the caregivers providing emotional support were the crew member families’ lifeline. MAS has recently stopped the service. – The Malaysian Insider pic by Shafiq Safiee, May 19, 2014.

Malaysia Airlines (MAS) today denied abandoning the families of MH370 crew who have sought legal help, saying today it was only following directives from lawyers who insist communication must be done officially.

Several families of the 12 crew members on board the lost MAS passenger jet have complained that the loss-making carrier had cut off caregiver services as they had sought legal assistance.

The Boeing 777-200ER plane carrying 227 passengers and 12 crew vanished on March 8 while on route to Beijing. The plane has yet to be found despite an extensive search in the South China Sea and southern Indian Ocean.

"MAS clarifies that certain crew member families have retained foreign lawyers to represent their interests, and these foreign lawyers have directed that MAS cease from any further direct communication with their clients, and that MAS direct all further communications regarding these crew member families to them," the flag carrier said in a statement today.

"As for family members without legal representation, the airline has been in contact with them via the Family Support Centre (FSC) and have been providing these family members updates from JACC (Joint Agency Coordination Centre) and the Malaysian Government," it added.

MAS reiterated that “it will continue to offer the same assistance to all crew member families but communications with families represented by foreign lawyers will be through their appointed lawyers as they have directed”.

Yesterday, families of the crew on board the lost MH370 said MAS had “abandoned” them because they sought the help of a foreign law firm, including stopping the services of the caregivers who had been there for them to provide emotional support.

Jacquita Gonzales, wife of inflight supervisor Patrick Francis Gomes, in a press conference at Holiday Villa Hotel yesterday said the caregivers were the families’ lifeline.

The families of seven of the 12 crew members said the national carrier sent an email to them two days ago asking them to get their lawyers to deal with the airlines legal team for all requests related to the missing passenger jet.

Jacquita said this happened after the airlines got wind that the families of the seven had hired a legal advisor.

National Union of Flight Attendants president Ismail Nasaruddin said today MAS cannot cut itself off from the grieving families simply because they had sought legal advice.

“It is their obligation to care for the well-being of their employees and their families. Furthermore, MAS has not offered to make any payout to the families of the crew members,” Ismail said.

He hit out at MAS for not keeping its promise which was given to the families when the flight which was bound for Beijing went missing on March 8.

“MAS had initially promised the families many things. However they have ignored all of these obligations ‎towards the families in the last couple of weeks,” said Ismail.

Lamenting over MAS's cold-hearted actions, he said that the national flag carrier should have not stopped supporting the family members of the crew.

“It is shameful to see how they can just wash their hands off and act as if nothing had happened. This is so irresponsible of MAS,” he said, adding that no assistance was extended to missing crew members' wife who would be delivering a baby tomorrow. – May 19, 2014.
