
Federal cuts are going to make Queensland's upcoming budget tougher, the state's treasurer has warned.

State and territory leaders held a crisis meeting in Sydney on Sunday to reject $80 billion in federal budget cuts.

Queensland Treasurer Tim Nicholls says there will be consequences for the state budget, to be handed down on June 3.

'We'll obviously have to adapt our budget and make changes to some aspects of our budget,' he told ABC radio on Monday.

'It's made the job a bit tougher.'

Mr Nicholls said Queensland and other states and territories were particularly incensed about the federal government's decision to terminate existing national partnership agreements that still had some years to run.

He's repeated Premier Campbell Newman's call for Queenslanders to approach federal Liberal National Party MPs and make their anger over the budget known.

Mr Newman has led the battle against the Abbott government's cuts.

On Monday, Prime Minister Tony Abbott said Mr Newman was rightly fighting for his state's interests.

'Campbell is a friend of mine. I know him well,' Mr Abbott told reporters in Brisbane on Monday.

'He's a fine man, he's a fine premier and I absolutely appreciate that just at the moment the premiers are fighting their corner as they should.

'But I've got to fight the nation's corner.'

Federal MP Steve Ciobo was less forgiving, accusing premiers of opposing cuts for political gain in the lead-up to elections.

Mr Ciobo, who is the parliamentary secretary to the treasurer, says that in net terms the states will actually be better off.

But Queensland Agriculture Minister John McVeigh said Mr Ciobo was missing the point, given the impact the cuts meant for education and health funding.

'Mr Ciobo I think needs to talk about facts as well,' he said.

'The cuts are there. It's unacceptable to both the health and the education sector of Queensland and that's exactly why the majority of premiers got together yesterday to express their concerns.'
