
Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own.

One of these days, housing stocks will spring a surprise and start catching up with the market, so opportunistic investors are now re-intensifying the hunt for future winners among the fallen in the moribund industry. Oddly, one stock that some analysts believe will transport investors to the sunny side isn’t a homebuilder but a leading  supplier of unique products to the remodeling sector of the industry.

Its stock has been pummeled recently as first quarter results disappointed some investors, driving the stock down to $30 a share from $39 a week before. But the first-quarter numbers were not caused by any ruinous fundamentals but resulted from the adverse weather conditions that delayed renovations by homeowners.

The severe weather in most of the country during the first quarter “delayed the start of outdoor living project activity,” noted Ronald W. Kaplan, Trex’s chairman, president and CEO. But “except for the weather-related impact to our sales, we are pleased with our first-quarter financial performance and remain confident about our strategy for the year,” he said.

At least one analyst who had been on the fence about the stock turned positive right after Trex reported its first-quarter results on May 5, 2014. Keith Hughes, analyst at SunTrust Robinson Humphrey, upgraded his recommendation on Trex to buy from neutral, with a price target of split-adjusted $45 a share. He based his bullish stance in part on his expectation of the continuation of a yearly revenue growth rate of more than 10% over the next three years “as the renovation market recovers.”  The big decline in Trex’s stock provides an opportunistic entry point for investors to get into the stock, says Hughes.

Another positive, says the analyst, is a new product line that is only modestly reflected in Trex’s stock price. This new product is derived from the company’s success over the past five years in producing consistent quality after shredding and pelletizing recycled plastic goods.

The analyst says Trex is “now engaged in selling this recycled polyethylene to a couple of non-building product customers as a raw material stream for their plastic production.” This is a huge opportunity in coming up with a new product for plastic producers, according to Hughes. Trex has had excess capacity in this material and if agreements are fulfilled by new customers, Trex would face a crucial decision in 2015 on whether to further expand this new business, says Hughes.

He figures the company will generate over $140 million of free cash flow over the next few years and he sees Trex using its growing free cash flow to primarily buy back shares. Management repurchased $31 million of stock in 2013, and Hughes expects the company will increase the amount of repurchases through 2016.

Although Hughes has trimmed his earnings forecast for 2014 and 2015, he expects Trex’s stock to trade up to $45 on a combination of double-digit earnings growth and continued rise in generating free cash flow. He figures Trex will earn split-adjusted $1.15 a share in 2014 (below his earlier estimate of $1.42), and $1.74 in 2015 (down from an earlier $1.94 estimate). In 2013, Trex earned $1.40 a share.

Internationally, Trex’s market reach has also expanded, which now totals 37 countries, including new markets in Belarus, India, and Dubai where Trex has been awarded a contract for a 4.3-mile boardwalk that’s expected to be completed by yearend.
