
MUSCAT — Alizz islamic bank SAOG, Oman’s newest Islamic Bank today announced that it has won the ‘‘Best Branch Automation Project Award in the Middle East’ at The Asian Banker’s 2014 award ceremony becoming the only bank in the Middle East to win an award in this category.

Held in Dubai, the 2014 edition of the awards was attended by over 100 senior bankers from across the Middle East and Africa. Considered the most prestigious of its kind, the awards recognise the best efforts by the consumer financial services industry in bringing superior technology, products and services to their customers.

“The award further reflects the bank’s commitment to place the customer’s needs at the heart of its consumer banking operations. This is a key component of Alizz Islamic Bank’s service offering, and we are delighted to have been recognised for our customer-centric approach,” added Saif al Yarubi, Acting CEO of Alizz Islamic Bank.

Alizz Islamic Bank was recognised with the prestigious ‘Best Branch Automation Project Award in the Middle East’ award for its concerted efforts in continuously innovating including launching the bank within a period of five months exceeding global turnaround.

The scoring of the award is based on several crucial elements, such as growth in client base, transaction volume and value as well as the range of unique features of products and service offered by the bank as key achievements competed since launch the bank on September 30,  2013.

NCR the bank’s business partner and award joint winner of the Asian Banker supported the set up the bank with networking storage, UCS servers, security and IP Telephony. NCR also implemented the bank’s middleware, ATM controller, HSM, Call Center and IVR, full function ATMs, TCRs, Teller Cheque Scanners, Instant Cheque Issuance, Instant card Issuance and Signature Pads. For the teller experience the TCR’s facilitated to improve the AutoNation process of the bank as tellers are no longer required to count money and thus reducing customer time and error.

Notify me of follow-up comments by email.

Notify me of new posts by email.
