
President Goodluck Jonathan yesterday ordered  thorough investigation into the explosion that rocked Kano metropolis on Sunday evening. This is even as he has also called on Nigerians to remain united against the Boko Haram insurgency and all enemies of the state.

His Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Dr. Reuben Abati, said the President gave the order during the crucial security meeting he held with the  security chiefs yesterday.

The meeting which took place at the Presidential Villa, Abuja focused on ongoing efforts to rescue the over 200 schoolgirls abducted by Boko Haram on April 14 from Government Girls Secondary School, Chibok, Borno State.

The parley, followed the regional security meeting on Boko Haram hosted by French President Francois Hollande at Elysee Palace in Paris last Saturday.  The Kano blast occurred in the predominantly Christian area of Sabon Gari.

Abati wrote: “Kano blast: President Jonathan summons meeting of security chiefs today (Monday) on arrival in Abuja after Paris summit.

Those in attendance at yesterday’s meeting include the Chief of Defence Staff, Air Chief Marshal Alex Sabundu Badeh; Chief of Army Staff, Lt-General Kenneth Minimah; Chief of Naval Staff, Vice Admiral Usman Jibrin and Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Ademola  Amosu.

The Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Abubakar, the Director-General of Department of State Security (DSS), Ita Ekpeyong, were also at the meeting which lasted some hours.

The Paris meeting which was attended by Jonathan, also had his colleagues from neighbouring countries, Presidents Boni Yayi, Benin Republic, Idriss Deby, Chad,  Paul Biya, Cameroon and Mahamadou Issoufou of Niger Republic.

At the end of the summit, Nigeria and other neighbouring countries  agreed to build analysis and response capabilities that will enhance the security of all people and the rule of law in the areas affected by Boko Haram insurgency.

They also agreed to immediately implement coordinated patrols to combat the Islamist sect and locating the schoolgirls.

They are also to establish a system to share intelligence reports to support this operation, establish mechanisms for information exchange on trafficking of weapons and bolster measures to secure weapons stockpiles while also establishing mechanism for border surveillance.

The communique from the Paris meeting, noted that countries are to establish an intelligence pooling unit, create a dedicated team to identify means of implementation and draw up, during the second phase, a regional counter-terrorism strategy in the framework of the Lake Chad Basin Commission.

Start receiving  Breaking News & Alerts by simply adding your email below. A confirmation email will be sent to you!

Take advantage of our impressive statistics, advertise your brands and products on this site.
