
A Bangladeshi worker allegedly killed his co-worker in their accommodation following a dispute over sacking from a job, the Dubai Criminal Court heard.

On February 27, at around 8pm, MH, 46, Bangladeshi worker, returned to his house in Port Saeed area which he shared with other workers and went to his room.

"When I entered the house, EA and the victim were in heated discussion. I intervened and asked each one of them to go to his room which they did.  I entered my room with the victim and changed my dress and then went to the kitchen to prepare food,” MH told investigators.

When MH was in the kitchen, EA came to him and started complaining about the victim who had offered him a job and had dismissed him a couple of days later.

“While the victim was inside the room, he heard what EA was saying to me. He got out from the room and asked EA why he was dismissed. When the two resumed quarrelling, I left them and entered my room and shared food with a friend,” he told investigators.

The witness went out to wash his hands and saw the victim lying on the floor in a pool of blood.

When asked who had stabbed him, the victim was unable to talk, so he called the police.

Driver MA, 40, Pakistani who lives in the same house, told investigators that at around 10pm while he was chatting with friends in his room, he heard his Banglades his housemates quarrelling outside.

“I used to hear them fighting all the time, so I did not pay attention. Later, my friend and I decided to go out for a walk as the next day was an off day. I opened my room's door and I saw the victim walking towards the wash basin and the accused following him. The two then pushed one another. The accused then stabbed the victim and ran away.

“I did not see the knife in his hand, but I saw him hitting him in the chest and the victim falling down bleeding,” the driver told investigators.

The driver ran behind the accused till a clock tower but could not run further.

“When I returned home, police had already arrived,” added the driver.

On the following day, EA, 37, was arrested in coordination with Sharjah police.

The accused claimed that he had been beaten by the victim and another man on the day of the incident.

“The victim had offered me a job of distributing promotional stickers of a massage centre for a monthly salary of Dh2,500. I took the job and moved to stay with him in the same house. After about 25 days, he gave me Dh1,500 and told me that I had been sacked.

“On the day of the incident at around 7pm, he asked me to accompany him to a building, saying that he will offer me a job.

“When we reached to the building, he and another man assaulted me and I ran away from them and headed for the house. When I returned home, I started asking him why he had dismissed me from the first job and a quarrel started. He was standing at the dish washing basin when I came to him and asked him why he had sacked me. He turned back to me and held my neck, so I stabbed him with a knife that I was holding,” admitted the accused.

Forensic reported that AR, Bangladeshi, died because of a deep stab that reached an internal cavity and caused a cut in the heart muscle and the liver. The fatal stab caused internal and external bleeding.

The court will reconvene on June 1.
