
One of the survivors of Sunday night’s suicide bomb attack in the Sabon Gari district of Kano has narrated how the blast ripped open the stomach of a girl who carried a tray of fish on her head.

The survivor who gave his name as Ibeabuchi told LEADERSHIP that he was just standing at the entrance of their compound when he heard a loud explosion and suddenly fell down unconsciously. He said when he regained consciousness, he saw horrible sights that he would not forget for a long time.

Ibeabuchi who has not stopped thanking God for what he called “deliverance from the hands of the wicked” told LEADERSHIP that the state and federal governments must find a lasting solution to the wave of terrorist attacks.

Our reporter who was at the scene of the blast at about 11pm saw a young man at the scene of the blast, wailing and rolling on the ground as he agonised over his brothers killed and wounded by the blast. “What did we do to them that they are bombing us like this?” he asked.

The young man was later picked up by security agents who comforted him and kept him in protective custody.

An eye witness, Raymond Chibueze told our reporter that his sister, Gloria Ibe was seriously injured with sharp nails all over her body as the blast left her with broken bones.

Raymond, who until yesterday morning had blood all over his trouser, said he took his sister to the military hospital and she was responding to treatment.

Raymond said that by yesterday morning when he was at the military hospital, he was told that out of the injured persons brought to the hospital, three persons had died. According to him, there was only an injured lady left at the military hospital.

Meanwhile, the president of Ohaneze Ndigbo in Kano, Chief Pascal Passover Nwosu described the incident as unfortunate and very callous, saying there is no religion that preaches killing people.

Pascal said religion preaches the sanctity of human life, adding that wasting people’s lives in the name of religion is an abomination.

Where do u want them to go? Enugu? They will starve there … Thats typical mentality of Illiterate Igbo that has never been to the North. The number of igbos in Kano alone out number the igbos Enugu. And they will rather died in the north than to go back to the poverty striken, under- developed, insecure, dull and high cost of living south east states. That your governors are doing nothing but looting your money and instigating hatred for the north among the masses despite the huge federal allocation u always received.
