
The U.S. charged five Chinese military officials with economic espionage linked to computer hacking of American nuclear power, metals and solar companies, in its first public accusation that an overseas government’s employees committed cybercrimes.

The indictment, unsealed yesterday in federal court in Pennsylvania , effectively accuses China and its government of a vast effort to mine U.S. technology through cyber-espionage, stealing jobs as well as the innovation on which the success of global companies such as United States Steel (X) Corp. and Alcoa Inc. (AA) -- two of the targets of the alleged hacking -- depends.

The Chinese government rejected the charges as “absurd,” and said they would harm relations between the U.S. and China.

China’s Foreign Ministry said it would suspend participation in a U.S.-China cyber working group, which was formed last year to discuss rules for cyberspace and as a mechanism to manage differences between the two countries.

GlobeSherpa Inc., the Portland, Oregon-based maker of mobile applications for transit tickets, and New York’s Bytemark Inc. settled a patent dispute, the companies said in a joint statement .

Bytemark sued GlobeSherpa in December 2013, claiming the Oregon company’s mobile ticketing app infringed patent 8,494,967, which covers an electronic ticket distribution system.

The two companies will work together on a mobile ticketing project for the Virginia Railway Express, they said in the statement.

The case is Bytemark Inc. v. GlobeSherpa Inc., 13-cv-00700, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Norfolk).

For more patent news, click here.

Mumbai’s Anchor Health & Beauty Care Pvt. Ltd. prevailed in a trademark case against Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) ’s Oral-B unit, India ’s Financial Press reported .

The Delhi High Court said that Oral-B’s use of “all around protection” and “allrounder” with its dental products infringed Anchor’s trademarks, according to the Financial Press.

A skateboarder who accused a New Zealand Conservative Party leader of trademark infringement said he will donate any settlement or award money to the Green Party, the Star Times of Auckland reported .

Levi Hawken registered the phrase “nek minnit” -- meaning “next minute” -- as a trademark in 2012 after a video of him using the phrase went viral, receiving almost 3 million hits, according to the Star Times.

He sent Conservative leader Colin Craig a cease-and-desist notice after a “Nek Minnit. Conservative” sign was displayed at a public meeting Craig held in Wellington, the newspaper reported.

Craig told the Star Times the phrase was not part of his branding or his campaign.

For more trademark news, click here.

MGM Holdings Inc. (MGMB) units must defend against a lawsuit over the rights to the 1980 Oscar-winning movie “Raging Bull,” the U.S. Supreme Court ruled.

The 6-3 decision is a victory for Paula Petrella, whose father worked with boxer Jake LaMotta to write the screenplay. The justices reversed a lower-court, which had said Petrella waited too long to press her copyright suit.

The ruling is a setback for the motion-picture and publishing industries, which supported MGM in the case.

The Foundation for Inner Peace won a copyright dispute over the use of teachings from its “Course in Miracles” self-study program that the author said she got from Jesus in her dreams, according to the Local, an English-language news service in Germany .

The foundation accused a German group of plagiarism for using excerpts of the teachings without permission, the Local reported. The German group said it didn’t infringe any copyrights because Jesus was the purported author of the messages.

A Frankfurt court found that argument unpersuasive, saying the copyright for the words belongs to the human recipient of the inspiration, the Local reported.

For more copyright news, click here.

Press spacebar to pause and continue. Press esc to stop.

U.S.

U.S.
