
Jill Abramson’s speech was likely among the most widely followed commencement addresses in history. It drew an enormous media presence, with about 200 journalists on hand. CNN, MSNBC and C-SPAN covered it live, with live streaming on YouTube, NBCNews.com and the university’s web site, among others.

She cited the examples of a Times journalist in China, who, despite being detained at one point by Chinese authorities, “went right back to work and got on with it. ‘I believe what I do and that makes me fearless,’” she quoted him as telling her.

Abramson also cited former Times reporter Nan Robertson, who was among a group of female journalists who challenged the newspaper’s treatment of women in the 1970s, and Katharine Graham, the late publisher of The Washington Post, who took over the paper upon the death of her husband, Philip L. Graham, in the early 1960s and saw it through its Watergate coverage and enormous business success. Graham and Robertson both eventually won Pulitzer Prizes.

She also cited as “a hero” Times reporter James Risen, who is in the midst of a lengthy legal battle with the federal government, which is seeking the names of his confidential sources on a series of stories and a book chapter he wrote revealing national-security secrets in 2006.

As a piece of parting advice, Abramson cited her mother, an avid knitter. “Stick to your knitting,” she told the graduates.

She received a sustained standing ovation from the audience at the conclusion of her talk.

Impression of @JillAbramson speech at Wake Forest: short, sweet and no swipes at her former boss. And she’s keeping the tattoo.

A deft, heartfelt and witty speech from Jill Abramson draws to a close with the words “get on with your knitting”.

Paul Farhi is The Washington Post's media reporter.

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
