
LOCALS working for Hewatt Earthworks on the Boco Rock Wind Farm face an uncertain period after the company went into voluntary administration earlier this month.

One of the huge concrete foundations for one of the 67 wind turbines in the first stage of the wind farm.

LOCALS working for Hewatt Earthworks on the Boco Rock Wind Farm face an uncertain period after the company went into voluntary administration earlier this month.

Hewatt was contracted by the Downer Group, an international construction company, to carry out major earthworks, excavation and drainage work, as well as, laying 69 kilometres of pavement at the Nimmitabel site.

The Canberra based company went into voluntary administration on May 8, following a preliminary review of Hewatt's operational and financial position.

Most of the company's employees were stood down, while the Administrators conduct a further review of the business and assess options for its future.

Despite the set back, the future of the $361 million wind farm has been guaranteed by CWP Renewables.

A spokeswoman for the Boco Rock Wind Farm CWP Renewables said the company was confident the project would still be completed with local workers.

"At this stage Downer are using their own resources to re-engage local workers," the spokeswoman said.

"There is a commitment to finish the project, with the majority of the local contractors and workers who have been employed on the site."

"The project contractor terminated their contract with Hewatt and will continue to fund the wind farm themselves."

The wind farm near Nimmitabel, which is due for completion by the end of the year, is expected to save an estimated 293,343 tonnes of carbon dioxide per year.

Hewatt were midway through the installation of 122 wind turbines, spread over 27 properties.

The Canberra based construction company also brought work to a standstill on the $288 million Majura Parkway project in the ACT and has left a number of projects around the state in jeopardy.

The first meeting of Creditors was due to be held in Canberra today (May 20) at 10am.
