
Jumeirah Zabeel Saray has announced a number of appointments within its executive team, including key posts for two UAE nationals.

Najat Saeed Obaidalla has been appointed as director of Human Resources, Rahul Sharma as resident manager, Nandana Wirasinha as executive assistant manager of food & beverage and Hisham Aljneibi as director of security.

Obaidalla, the new director of human resources, is a UAE National with over 15 years’ industry experience in the region. She began her career began in 2000 as deputy HR manager at Etisalat and Najat has since worked for the A W Rostamani Group, United Holdings and most recently Zabeel Investments.

With a Bachelor’s degree in Business Administration from Al Ain University and a Masters degree in Business Administration from Portsmouth University, United Kingdom, Najat joins a team at Jumeirah Zabeel Saray that already employs 31 UAE National colleagues.

Executive assistant manager for rooms Rahul Sharma has been managing the overall operations of the hotel since its opening in 2011, and will now play a significant role in the success of the resort as resident manager.

The Indian national started his career within Jumeirah in September 1999 with the opening of Burj Al Arab as a guest butler. In 2004 he moved across to Madinat Jumeirah to assist with the opening of Al Qasr and Dar Al Masyaf as assistant front office manager and progressed to director of rooms at Madinat Jumeirah, the Arabian Resort of Dubai.

Originally from Sri Lanka, Nandana Wirasinha has over 24 years’ international experience in the hospitality industry and will now be executive assistant manager of food and beverage at the resort.

Nandana first joined the Jumeirah Group in 1997 at the Jumeirah Beach Hotel and soon became assistant food and beverage director for Jumeirah Emirates Towers. In December 2010, Nandana joined the pre-opening team of Jumeirah at Etihad Towers in Abu Dhabi where he was instrumental in positioning the food and beverage offering of the hotel.

Hisham Hashil Obaid Aljneibi, another UAE national, is the new director of security at Jumeirah Zabeel Saray. He has 15 years’ experience in the various security departments within the UAE and holds a great wealth of knowledge and expertise within security functions.

Published by & © 2014 ITP Business Publishing Ltd. All Rights Reserved.
