
#clipperrace – Derry~Londonderry~Doire arrived in Jamaica yesterday to a spectacular welcome as the Northern Irish team continues to threaten the front runners at the top of the leaderboard in the Clipper 2013-14 Round the World Yacht Race.

Derry~Londonderry~Doire crossed the finish line of Race 12 titled race: The Spirit of Jamaica Chase, at Folly Point Lighthouse at 05:31 UTC in ninth place, which is the teams worst result since Race 4 from Cape Town, South Africa to Albany, Western Australia.

"Race 12 was a lot tougher than expected. We were looking forward to a two or three day hop across the Caribbean but I think it was a lot harder than everybody expected. It was upwind, it was quite bouncy for the first couple of days which isn't very comfortable. It was quite difficult all round. Tactically there two options you could take, we made the mistake of not really committing to either one. Our result shows that unfortunately."

"Everybody is really looking forward to a bit of a rest and it is well deserved. We have a decent amount of time off and we'll be looking to prepare for the next race as everybody is looking forward to getting a more decent result next time around," Sean added.

Henri Lloyd was first across the finish line arriving in Jamaica at 20:41:56 UTC with GREAT Britain right behind in second at 20:42:27 UTC. Switzerland took third place, claiming its second podium finish of the Clipper Race so far, finishing at 21:42 UTC.

Derry~Londonderry~Doire currently lies in fourth place on the overall leaderboard, just seven points behind third place OneDLL and just 15 points behind second place GREAT Britain. With four races still left in the 16 race series and over 60 points still left for the taking the Northern Irish team could still challenge the current overall leader Henri Lloyd for the ultimate prize.

The Clipper Race fleet will be berthed at the Errol Flynn Marina in Port Antonio, Jamaica until 24 May when it will depart in Race 13: The Grange Hotels Trophy to New York which completes Leg 7, the penultimate Clipper Race leg.
