
Nairobi, Kenya: Journalist Walter Barasa has moved to the Court of Appeal to challenge a decision by the High Court that sanctioned his arrest and extradition to the ICC .

This came as the ICC said the Kenya Government has an obligation to arrest journalist Walter Barasa and surrender him to the court to face witness-tampering charges.

ICC Outreach Co-ordinator Maria Kamara said yesterday in Nakuru the Government has an obligation to fully co-operate with the court by arresting Barasa and extraditing him to The Hague.

But Barasa, through lawyer Kibe Mungai, wants the appellate court to restrain the Director of Public Prosecution and the Interior Cabinet Secretary from arresting and surrendering him to the court.

“The honourable court be pleased to grant an order of injunction to restrain the respondents from arresting and surrendering Barasa to the ICC pending filing, hearing and determination of the appeal against the High Court decision,” submitted Mungai.

Mungai is also asking the appeal court to stay further criminal proceedings pending before the lower court against Barasa and any other proceedings that would lead to his arrest and extradition to the international court until his appeal is heard and determined.

Barasa submits that in a constitutional petition, he had challenged the legality of the criminal proceedings under part four of the International Crimes Act and had also questioned the constitutionality of the procedure.

“The applicant is extremely apprehensive that unless the orders sought are granted forthwith the process for his surrender to the ICC would become a mere formality and irreversible for all practical purposes in views of the judgment made on January 31,” submitted Mungai.

Barasa is accused by ICC Prosecutor Fatou Bensouda of offering bribes to witnesses in the case against Deputy President William Ruto and radio journalist Joshua Sang.

Kamara was, however, quick to add that the process of handing him over to the court is domestic and the ICC could not determine or dictate how it should be conducted.
