
THE bravery of the teenage girl who reported her rape despite fears the claims would bring dishonour on her own Scots Asian family is to be commended.

his community.

This cowardly “man of honour” – Edinburgh taxi driver Mohammed Ashraf – calculated that his crime would bring such shame on the family of his victim that it would protect him from being exposed as a rapist.

With sentencing due shortly, he is about to learn exactly what honour is about.

It is about standing up for your community and to sadist bullies like Ashraf – which is precisely what the teenager, her older sister and her mother did.

Sickeningly, he worked out how to abuse a young woman and hide behind the honour of the community.

Reporting rape is gruelling enough without misplaced thoughts of guilt and shame that can accompany such violation.

It takes real guts to face up to that and, at the same time, take on male domination in traditionally minded communities.

No woman, of whatever background, should feel that family or social pressure should stop them reporting crimes like this.

Because this young woman came forward, this monster has been stopped.

institution is remote, plays no part in their lives and doesn’t have much power.

Thursday’s poll is a battle between the main parties to persuade their core supporters to vote.

With their big referendum push, the SNP have a highly motivated activist base and should be assured of not only topping the poll but also gaining an extra MEP.

But the political momentum, according to the Record’s poll today, appears to be moving towards the anti-EU rhetoric of Nigel Farage – and his rants about Romanians.

Across the UK, the anti-politics underdog appeal of UKIP is gaining ground. But don’t be fooled, behind the pipe-and-beer image is a nasty streak of xenophobia, a hatred of foreigners.

Scotland does not want to be tarnished with that image.

ST Johnstone fans were in raptures yesterday as they celebrated the club’s first-ever major trophy.

It seemed like the whole of Perth was out in the streets of the city for the Scottish Cup victory parade.

THE daughter of slain great-gran Rosina Sutherland believe serial offender Kevin Rooney was determined to ruin everything the OAP treasured.

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).
