
FELICITY farmers are being affected by the “political spite” being meted out to People’s National Movement (PNM) Senator Avinash Singh, Opposition Leader Dr Keith Rowley has said.

Rowley made the statement on Sunday in response to concerns raised by Felicity farmers that they are being prevented from entering the land where their crops are located.

Farmers in Felicity say when they woke up on Saturday morning they found a sign bearing government markings warning them not to trespass on the lands they used for farming, or face the consequences.

Singh is one of the affected farmers.

He represented the PNM in last July’s Chaguanas West by-election, which was won by the Independent Liberal Party’s (ILP) Jack Warner.

Singh faced the ire of the United National Congress (UNC) and Housing Minister Dr Roodal Moonilal for his decision to represent the PNM, Rowley said.

“Minister Moonilal laid a personal threat against Avinash Singh when he became the candidate in the by-election, he was threatened by Minister Moonilal that he would put an end to him in the farming, and Avinash Singh and those farmers...what you are seeing there is the carrying out of that threat,” Rowley claimed.

Rowley claimed the action taken against the Felicity farmers is this threat coming to fruition.

“Avinash Singh is a commercial farmer, a trained UWI (University of the West Indies) graduate in agriculture who has taken his training to the soil, is a potato farmer in the school-feeding programme and the Government is now threatening to shut that down, along with other farmers, to teach him a lesson and these are the people who lead the charge that you should not take agricultural land from agriculture,” Rowley said.

“The national community must object because while they (the Government) are talking about increasing food production and all kinds of propaganda they pay for in the newspapers, here it is a classic case where farmers who are producing a variety of crops, contributing to our national food supply, are facing political spite because they want to get rid of someone who should be taught a lesson.
