
Four Australian Harvey Norman franchisees have been penalised nearly A$100,000 ($108,000) by the federal court for misleading customers about their rights, doubling the amount of penalties the retail giant has forked out because of ACCC investigations in the past three years.

The federal court has ordered the franchisee of the Harvey Norman superstore in Gordon, on Sydney's North Shore, to pay A$25,000, after finding its sales staff misled a customer about her rights.

The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission claimed in court that sales staff told the customer she was not "entitled to a refund" after she expressed concern over the quality of a refrigerator in May 2012. When she referred to the store's refund policy, she was told it "did not apply to large appliances".

On top of the fine, the Gordon franchisee has been ordered to display signs with corrections inside the store and to implement a consumer law compliance program.

The three other penalised Harvey Norman franchisees are Oxteha, which operates a store in Oxley, Queensland; Mandurvit, from Mandurah in Western Australia; and Avitalb, from Albany, also in Western Australia.

Oxteha was penalised A$26,000, and ordered to display in-store corrective notices and begin a compliance programme. The two Western Australian stores ceased operations in May last year.

The ACCC said one of the franchisees told customers it was not bound to provide a choice of remedy if a product was supplied more than three months ago.

Another franchisee misleadingly informed customers they had to pay a postage and handling fee before a product could be returned from the manufacturer.

"These judgments imposing penalties are a clear message to all suppliers, no matter how big or small, that they must not mislead consumers about their rights under the Australian Consumer Law," said the ACCC's deputy chairman, Michael Schaper.

The ACCC is urging consumers to understand and exercise their rights for goods purchased after January 1, 2011. These rights include the guarantee that products will be of acceptable quality, will be fit for any disclosed purpose, and will match any description under which it is sold.

"Where a good develops a major fault, consumers have a right to a replacement or refund from the supplier of the good. For goods that develop a minor fault, a consumer has a right to have the good remedied, at the suppliers discretion, within a reasonable time," a spokesman said.

"If the supplier doesn't do so, the consumer can either reject the goods and get a refund or have the problem fixed and recover reasonable costs of doing so from the supplier."

Harvey Norman has been approached for comment.
