
IT was meant to be a Fijian birthday celebration, instead Mark Hardaker’s wife and children returned to Sydney in mourning after he was killed in a horror boat crash.

The shattered family of the father of three from Toongabbie yesterday released a ­photograph of the smiling 40-year-old.

Mr Hardaker and his ­family had travelled to Fiji to celebrate the 40th birthday of his wife Vanessa.

He had been on a boat trawling for fish in the Mamanuca waters and was returning to their resort at Mana Island when a fibreglass vessel carrying at least nine people collided at high speed and struck him in the head.

Fijian police arrested the boat’s driver 33-year-old local, Jimi Beti, and charged him with one count of manslaughter as well as one count of criminal recklessness and negligence.

Nick McGee, from Brisbane, was with Mr Hardaker and had befriended him in the day while they fished with two other people on the boat.

He said the trauma of the crash and the attempts to save Mr Hardaker meant it’s likely he will never return to Fiji.

Mr McGee helped lift Mr Hardaker’s body onto a third boat which was then rushed to Mana Island resort where he was pronounced dead.

He also helped pull the ­unconscious driver of their fishing boat out of the water.

Mr McGee had only ­arrived that morning in Fiji.

He was staying at Ratu Kini’s Backpackers and Dive Resort but after the incident left the island and stayed at the Bamboo Backpackers in Nadi.

The 24-year-old from the Brisbane suburb of Deagon then flew back home   cutting his holiday short.

Mr Hardaker’s body will arrive in Sydney today.

His friend, Sasha Jakimovski, from Blacktown, had joined the Hardaker family for the holiday and said they were now in a “safe place” yesterday.

A Facebook tribute to Mr Hardaker was posted by his sister-in-law Alana Rice on May 16.

She said: “Just got news my beautiful brother in law has just been killed in a boating accident in figi (sic).

Mr Beti had his bail application refused at Nadi Magistrates Court yesterday.

He will remain in custody until reappearing at Lautoka High Court on June 4.

News.com.au's Privacy Policy includes important information about our collection, use and disclosure of your personal information (including to provide you with targeted content and advertising based on your online activities). It explains that if you do not provide us with information we have requested from you, we may not be able to provide you with the goods and services you require. It also explains how you can access or seek correction of your personal information, how you can complain about a breach of the Australian Privacy Principles and how we will deal with a complaint of that nature.
