
(CNSNews.com) -- Since October 2001, when the Afghanistan war began, 1,798 children and 1,107 widows had their loved ones pass away in the conflict, according to CNSNews.com’s database of U.S. casualties.

In the more than 12 years that have passed since U.S. troops first entered Afghanistan, 2,195 service personnel have given their lives in and around Afghanistan in support of U.S. military activities in that country. Those 2,195 men and women left behind a combined 2,905 widows and children -- 2,083 of those widows and children, or 71.7%, came after President Barack Obama took office on Jan. 20, 2009.

Most of the deaths that occurred during this time, 87.4 percent, were due to combat-related incidents such as improvised explosive devices, rocket-propelled grenades, small arms fire, and helicopter crashes. A smaller number, 12.6 percent of the deaths were non-combat related, meaning they were either due to accidents or natural causes.

CNSNews.com spoke with Nick Ochsner, one of the 1,798 children whose father passed away in the Afghanistan war. Jim Ochsner was a green beret dedicated to military service, as he spent 18 years in the Army and passed away in the Afghanistan War in 2005.

“When your loved one is killed, it’s a very sudden thing. It’s a very sudden loss, and it’s maybe even more impactful when they’re killed overseas, and so you really don’t know what to do. There are a lot of questions you have, a lot of uncertainty you have,” Ochsner said.

Nick Ochsner is also a member of the  Freedom Alliance , a group that helps the sons and daughters of American heroes, U.S. military personnel who have been killed or permanently disabled due to war.

The Freedom Alliance sponsors charitable and educational initiatives, such as the Support Our Troops program, which honors members of the Armed Forces; the Freedom Alliance’s Scholarship Fund, which provides scholarships for those whose family members have been impacted by war; and the Center for Sovereignty and Security, which serves as the public policy division to educate the American people.

Most recently, the Freedom Alliance kicked off Military Appreciation Month with a special gift for a Marine who lost his legs in Afghanistan.

On May 1, 2014, Sgt. James “Matt” Amos  received a custom-made, all-terrain wheelchair from the Freedom Alliance. Often, it’s difficult for injured service members to obtain a wheelchair like this, because they are expensive, and insurance does not usually cover it.
