
May 19, 2014, 8 a.m.

On the 10th and 11th May, Polocrosse players from all over NSW were greeted by a vista like no other, which is the polocrosse fields located at the Gooloogong Country Club.

Sub Juniors Victoria Webb, Jock Stuart and Zoe Stevenson in action.

On the 10th and 11th May, Polocrosse players from all over NSW were greeted by a vista like no other, which is the polocrosse fields located at the Gooloogong Country Club. Great playing conditions ensured a fantastic few days of Polocrosse lay ahead of us.

Players and teams travelled from Sydney, Central Coast, Gulgong, Tumut, Mendooran, Young, Grafton, Raglan, Marra, Warren, Oberon, Orange and Cowra. Play was held in both Open and Mixed competition, with a strong contingent of enthusiastic Sub Junior players, which is an under 12 years division.

Play commenced at a very respectable 9am Saturday with the local Orange team consisting of Daniel Wescombe - Cowra, Sophie McKillop - Cowra, Di McKillop - Cowra, David McKillop - Cowra, Kaye Stevenson - Orange and Paula Wright - Trundle, failing to open the account going down to Young 1.

After the completion of the first day of play the more favoured teams of Young 1 and Sydney 1 came through undefeated in the Open competition. As did Oberon and Gooloogong (a composite team of pool players from various clubs) in the Mixed competition.

Rain overnight did not dampen the spirits of the players and supports spending the evening with our hosts the Gooloogong Country Club, with a great meal being served by Vince's restaurant with Mick Beath and his bar staff supplying refreshments for the thirsty players.

Sunday's games went ahead even after the heavy rain of Saturday night, such is the quality of the playing surface at the grounds. Sunday also saw some success for the local Orange team with two wins for the day over Mendooran and Sydney 2.

However, Sydney 1 maintained their winning form taking out the Open final 15 to 13 over Young 1. While, in the mixed competition, the composite team of Gooloogong defeat Oberon 14 to 11.

Best Orange player for the weekend Sophie McKillop, which comes after a successful campaign at Albury recently, where Sophie was selected to play for one of the NSW development teams at the Junior Classic competition. This competition saw Sophie play teams from Victoria, and the Northern Territory. Well done Sophie.

The Orange and District Polocrosse Club would like to thank the many sponsors, who without them the weekend would not be possible. We would like to thank in no particular order Dara Pastoral Co, Lachlan Fertilizers Cowra, Elders Cowra, Cowra Motorcycles, JJ Dressers , North Cowra Vet, Ellis Saddlery, Lachlan Steel, Coco Cola, Willowdene Constructions Orange, Angus Barrett Saddlery Orange, Orange Vet Clinic and Mullion Produce Orange. A big thank you also goes to Ernie Idiens and Les Reid for their continued support and hard work at the grounds.
