
ARRIVING in a Chinook helicopter, Their Excellencies the Governor-General, the Honourable Sir Peter Cosgrove and Lady Cosgrove landed in Yungaburra on Tues 13 May, 2014 as part of their whirl wind tour of Far North Queensland.

They attended a formal wreath laying ceremony at the Afghanistan Avenue of Honour, as guests of the Afghanistan Avenue of Honour Association.

Only recently sworn-in as the twenty-sixth Governor-General of the Commonwealth of Australia on the 28th March this year, it was the Governor- General and Lady Cosgrove’s first visit to the Afghanistan Avenue of Honour which was officially opened on the 22 June, 2013.

The memorial is of a very high standard befitting its National status.

After disembarking from the Chinook, Sir Peter and Lady Cosgrove were accompanied by Afghanistan Avenue of Honour Association President Ray Byrnes and Gordon and Susan Chuck as they walked down the Avenue of Honour.

Gordon and Susan Chuck’s son, Private Benjamin Chuck who was from Yungaburra, was one of three commandos who lost their lives in a helicopter crash in Afghanistan in 2010.

He was one of the 41 Australian soldiers killed in the Afghanistan Campaign whose names are included on individual plaques on the Honour Board at the Memorial.

At the formal wreath laying ceremony, Afghanistan Avenue of Honour Association President Mr Ray Byrnes delivered a ‘Welcome Address’.

“It is indeed a pleasure to welcome Your Excellencies on your visit to the Afghanistan Avenue of Honour. We are honoured that you have chosen to visit the Avenue at this early stage in your term as Governor-General. Australia is a big country and we know that there are many other communities and centres to be visited which is all the more reason for us to appreciate your presence here today.

The Governor-General then addressed the 200 strong crowd.

He said “It’s easy to see where Private Benjamin Chuck got his courage, drive, stamina, and determination from” and went on to say that he was a remarkable young man who had obtained these qualities from his parents.

“You and your community make all Australians proud.

All those wonderful young men who are remembered here – their spirits would be happy.

What you have created here is exceptional.

Let this place be a place of reflection and healing,” he said.

Governor-General Sir Peter Cosgrove and Lady Cosgrove, then laid a wreath in honour of all those Australian service personnel who had given their lives during the Afghanistan Campaign.

Raymond Cupitt of Yungaburra played ‘The Last Post’ and ‘Reveille’ at the ceremony, while the Mount St Bernard College Choir did a magnificent job of singing the Australian National Anthem.

The Governor-General is highly respected and renowned for leading the Cyclone Larry Recovery Task Force after the Severe Category 4 cyclone devastated the Tablelands on 20 March, 2006.

His help was not forgotten.

John Hine, you couldn't be further from the truth about the AWB single desk. It left for dead,
