
When Kathryn Eliza Matiszak, 31, sped through a red light in Melbourne on August of 2011, she claimed the lives of two parents and sentenced their young children to a lifetime as orphans.

Matiszak was sentenced to six years in jail with a minimum of three years and three months and had her licence cancelled for four years at the Victorian County Court on Monday.

She had been driving 15km/h over the speed limit and the traffic light had been red for six seconds when she drove through the intersection and hit Fernando Marino, 33, and Karen McGovern, 31.

The family of the couple killed, say they are devastated she could walk from jail in as little as almost three years, with Ms McGovern's father Peter McGovern dubbing the sentence too lenient.

'Devastated, we all are,' he said outside court.

'It's not enough. It never will be enough.'

At a hearing on Thursday, Mr McGovern said: 'I can never ever forgive this person for the lives she has destroyed,' The Age reported.

Mr Marino's mother Maria told the court on the same day, that her intense grief sometimes left her struggling to breathe.

Matiszak, wept in a Victorian County Court dock on Monday as Judge Damian Murphy outlined the consequences of her crime.

'Your conduct has resulted in the death of a loving couple, the building block of our society, and left two children orphans,' he said.

'Your dangerous driving has destroyed the natural order. Parents should not have to bury their children.

'Children should be raised by their parents, not grandparents, aunties and uncles.'

The couple from Albion Park in NSW were on a weekend trip to Melbourne to watch Ms McGovern's beloved AFL team the Sydney Swans play at the MCG, when they were hit while crossing a road in Carlton's restaurant district.

They both died in hospital from their injuries.

Matiszak of Keilor, pleaded guilty to two counts of dangerous driving causing death.

She never provided a reason for her lapse of concentration, but Judge Murphy condemned her combination of speed and significant inattention.

'For a period of nearly 10 seconds you were inattentive ... and exceeding the speed limit to boot,' he said.

He accepted Matiszak was genuinely remorseful for her crime and said her young son would provide incentive for her rehabilitation.

On Thursday, Matiszak's defence lawyer told the court that 'Her remorse truly is dreadful to behold.'

He said that she had begun to take heroin, despite having been rehabilitated years ago, and was finding it too difficult to care for her son.

A psychiatrist also revealed that since the incident, Matiszak had begun to suffer from severe anxiety and depression, and claimed to have heard voices.

Sorry we are not currently accepting comments on this article.
