
YEREVAN, MAY 19, ARMENPRESS. The German NDR TV Channel is shooting a documentary dedicated to prominent Armenian boxer Arthur Abraham.

The film crew paid a visit to Armenia to shoot the movie telling about Arthur Abraham. The NDR film crew was in the boxer’s birthplace – Inner Charbakh. Arthur Abraham’s grandmother – Mrs. Roza, also participated in the filming. Some part of the movie was shot in Holy Cross Church of Inner Charbakh as well.

Arthur Abraham was born on February 20, 1980, in Yerevan, Armenia to parents Grigor and Sylvia Abrahamyans. His little brother, Alexander, is also a professional boxer. He moved to Germany with his parents and brothers at the age of 15. He became a citizen of Germany in August 2006. Abraham started his professional career on August 16, 2003, being promoted by HyeFighters. Sauerland-promoted Abraham had many impressive early victories. He defeated Canadian southpaw Ian Gardner (18–1) for the vacant WBA Inter-Continental Middleweight title, Hector Velazco (former WBO Champion) and contender Nader Hamdan (36–1).

In July 2005, Abraham defended his WBA Inter-Continental title against the highly regarded Britain Howard Eastman. Eastman had previously only lost to American William Joppy and former Undisputed Middleweight Champion Bernard Hopkins. On 10 December 2005, in Leipzig, Germany, Abraham won the vacant IBF Middleweight title against Kingsley Ikeke by a 5th round knock-out. The IBF belt had previously been vacated by undisputed champion Jermain Taylor after a bout with Abraham was denied in October that year. Abraham defended his title on 5 March 2006 with a unanimous decision against Australian Shannan Taylor. Two months later, Abraham won a second title defense against Kofi Jantuah, also on points.

On 23 September 2006, Abraham won a decision against undefeated contender Edison Miranda despite having his jaw broken in two places in round four. Miranda took advantage of this by fighting dirty. Miranda was deducted five points for landing repeated low blows as well as intentionally headbutting Abraham. However, even without the five points deducted, Abraham would have still won the fight (final result: 114:109, 115:109, 116:109). Abraham's jaw was operated on the night after the fight. He had 22 screws inserted into two titanium plates. After the Miranda bout, Arthur was praised for his ability to finish the fight despite his injury.

Abraham defeated Canadian Sébastien Demers by KO in the third round after two minutes and fifty-seven seconds. Abraham was clearly physically superior than his opponent. Arthur won his fifth title defense by defeating fellow Armenian Khoren Gevor by 11th round knockout from a powerful left hook. On 8 December 2007, Abraham defeated Wayne Elcock to make his sixth title defense by technical knockout in the 5th round. During two of his matches, Arthur Abraham was accompanied by live performances of the Scorpions and is currently accompanied by the track "Ready for The Fight" by The Young Punx. On 29 March 2008, Abraham defeated American Elvin Ayala via 12th round KO after connecting with a devastating left hook that sent his opponent crashing to the canvas face first. This was Abraham's 7th successful title defense.

The copyright for information published on this web site is owned exclusively by Armenpress news agency.  All information materials published on this website are intended solely for personal use.

For full or partial reproduction of any material in other media it is required to acquire written permission from Armenpress news agency. Those, who have committed copyright violations, will be prosecuted accordingly.

Website administration is not responsible neither for opinions expressed on the website, nor for the content of the advertisements and of the external links.
