
WHAT would you like to have sir? One of the waiters at a restaurant asked me and my wife. Can we have the menu? I asked him.

He brought the menu. We made our orders. I liked his service, then, I began to talk with him. What is your name? I asked him. My name is Kishore and I am from Nepal. In June 2014 I will be completing two years in Oman. I have already got an offer in Dubai to work in one of the companies, but I will be having good memories of Oman. I am going back to Nepal, first and then from there I will go to Dubai. He showed very good respect.

It is my sixth month in Oman, I am from Bangladesh, and my name is Mohammed Hussein. He was assisting Kishore and answered me, when I asked about him. There are many workers in the field of building and constructions, where I met one of the workers, who was working hard carrying blocks and cements at around 2 pm.

He took a lunch break, and I got a chance to talk with him. I noticed the sweat on his body. Where are you from, my friend? I asked him. I am from Peshawar, and my name is Badal Khan.

Arbab! he called me once he saw my dishdasha and turban, and said that the situation in “our country is very bad, people are not safe. You must see the news every day,” he continued his conversation.

man smoking “beedi” a cheap cigarette, most labourers with low income smoke it.

The man was around 50 years old, as I guessed. I am from Rajasthan, India. I am a labourer here and have a lot to do for my family; I see them every two years. I have to make money and then I can go, Arbab, he said to me. I forgot to ask his name, and also could not tell him, that I am not Arbab. Arbab means a rich Arab.

Another day, I was waiting for my turn at a barber shop, and finally my turn came. The barber was carrying a comb in one hand and scissors in the other hand and started cutting my hair. How is the business? I asked him, while he was cutting my hair. It is not always good, he answered.

The big problem is my family is in India and that I am the only one to look after them. If I fail to send money in a month, they will suffer. Leaving the family behind is hurting me, he said.

Najwa is one of the female teachers who teaches Arabic, social studies, and Islamic science to women. She is from Egypt.

Once she started to cry while teaching the class, and left the class to make a call to her family in Egypt. She found that her grandfather was very sick. She planned to go to Egypt and before she makes her final decision, she got the news that her grandfather passed away.

My wife told the story about the Egyptian teacher. In one of the incidents, where I found one Egyptian was emotional and sentimental, and did not know how to handle the situation.

There are so many stories about expatriate here. One thing is very clear that leaving your own family and hometown behind is not an easy job. Nobody wishes to leave his or her own homeland but there are some factors which force people to leave their homeland, one is finance.

No matter for how long such expatriates are in our country to work, they are our guests and part of economic development, and we should look after them the best way and we don’t know when they leave us. Once they leave us they must have good memories about Oman and its people.

Notify me of follow-up comments by email.

Notify me of new posts by email.
