
ABU DHABI: Lulu Group, the owner of the largest hypermarket chain in the Middle East, is to open its first outlet in Malaysia in June next year. It will be done through a strategic cooperation with Felda.

The outlet will be set up in Kuala Lumpur at a premises provided by Felda. This will be followed by five more in Kota Baru, Bukit Katil in Malacca, Ipoh, Nilai and Shah Alam within the next two years.

The memorandum of understanding (MoU) on this was signed here yesterday, witnessed by Prime Minister Datuk Seri Najib Tun Razak.

The MoU was signed by Felda director-general Datuk Faizoull Ahmad while Lulu Group International was represented by its managing director Yusuffali M.A. Also present was Felda chairman Tan Sri Mohd Isa Abdul Samad.

The Lulu hypermarket chain has 109 branches in the United Arab Emirates, Oman, Bahrain, Kuwait, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Yemen, Egypt and India.

Najib said Felda would benefit from Lulu’s extensive hypermarket chain by selling Malaysian products.

“We are talking about products worth hundreds of millions of ringgit,” he said. “As for this year alone, Lulu would be importing some US$35mil (RM112mil) worth of products,” Najib said.

“The exports would increase to US$50mil (RM160mil) next year,” he said after the signing ceremony.

Najib is here on a three-day official visit since Saturday at the invitation of Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi Sheikh Mohammed Zayed Al Nahyan.

He said the opening of the Lulu hypermarket chain in Malaysia would provide some 2,500 jobs and indirect employment of about 5,000 people.

He added that the products that were in high demand in the Middle East were tapioca cake, red bean bun and sambal fried bun. The others are fruits such as golden melon, pineapple and jackfruit.

“All our products sold at Lulu hypermarkets are halal,” Najib said.

On a separate matter, Najib has described Malaysia’s 6.2% GDP growth in the first quarter as outstanding and was a reflection of the country’s strong economy.

“That has exceeded experts’ forecast. It reflected investors’ high confidence towards Malaysia’s economy as private investments had increased significantly, and so, too, have our exports,” Najib said.

“The economic momentum remains high and it is my hope that we can sustain it for the years to come,” he said, adding that Malaysia hoped to boost defence cooperation with the UAE by carrying out joint exercises on desert warfare with their armed forces.

Please wait.
