
Choir members sing during a "Holy Ghost Service," a monthly prayer gathering hosted by the Redeemed Christian Church of God at their sprawling Redemption Camp campus on the outskirts of Lagos. The church, claimed to be the world’s largest, is a Nigerian Pentecostal denomination that has grown exponentially under the watch of Pastor Adeboye, nicknamed Daddy G.O. for General Overseer. Image by Allison Shelley. Nigeria, 2013.

Attendees listen during a "Holy Ghost Service," a monthly prayer gathering hosted by the Redeemed Christian Church of God  at their sprawling Redemption Camp campus on the outskirts of Lagos. The auditorium can accommodate a million worshipers. Image by Allison Shelley. Nigeria, 2013.

A woman prays while walking the room to comfort her child during an evening service at Christ Embassy church, in the Badia neighborhood of Lagos. Badia, a neighborhood of mostly tin-roofed wooden homes built along a railroad track, is known for its brothels and nightlife. Image by Allison Shelley. Nigeria, 2013.

Frank M. Okafor, health department manager for the Catholic Archdiocese of Lagos, reads from a book of Catholic canon law which specifically condemns the practice of abortion, in the Yaba neighborhood of Lagos. The text clarifies the position of the Church, "Abortion and infanticide are abominable crimes…The Church attaches the canonical penalty of excommunication to this crime against human life." Image by Allison Shelley. Nigeria, 2013.

Bunmi Aiyenura, 23, right, prays during a Wednesday evening service at Christ Embassy church, in the Badia neighborhood of Lagos. Bunmi says she has had nine pregnancies by the same boyfriend—seven of which ended in abortion—and says she has not ever been educated about birth control.  The last pregnancy ended in miscarriage and her boyfriend, who was finally ready for a child, left her for her best friend. Image by Allison Shelley. Nigeria, 2013.

A woman prays over three baby outfits during a "Holy Ghost Service," a monthly prayer gathering hosted by the Redeemed Christian Church of God at their sprawling Redemption Camp campus on the outskirts of Lagos.  The church preaches that fertility issues can be healed by God and has held special services for women wanting children. Image by Allison Shelley. Nigeria, 2013.

A priest hears a confession during the Catholic “Vigil in Reparation for Abortion” at the Archdiocesan Marian Shrine in the Maryland neighborhood of Lagos. Image by Allison Shelley. Nigeria, 2013.

Members of the choir pray during a "Holy Ghost Service," a monthly prayer gathering hosted by the Redeemed Christian Church of God. Image by Allison Shelley. Nigeria, 2013.

A woman holds a modified rosary featuring tiny plastic fetuses encased in clear beads—for sale at the Catholic “Vigil in Reparation for Abortion” at the Archdiocesan Marian Shrine in the Maryland neighborhood of Lagos. The overnight vigil, which lasted from early evening until early the next morning, featured special prayers for the souls of aborted children, singing, confession, sermons, and the Stations of the Cross walk.  Image by Allison Shelley. Nigeria, 2013.

A man prays during a "Holy Ghost Service," a monthly prayer gathering hosted by the Redeemed Christian Church of God. Image by Allison Shelley. Nigeria, 2013.

Children read along as a crowd follows a scripted Stations of the Cross walk, narrated by the amplified voice of a woman portraying an aborted baby, during the Catholic “Vigil in Reparation for Abortion” at the Archdiocesan Marian Shrine in the Maryland neighborhood of Lagos. Image by Allison Shelley. Nigeria, 2013.

On ground cool with concrete tiles, a woman carefully smoothed a turquoise and burnt orange printed sheet in front of her. She tenderly unfolded three white baby onesies and laid them on the fabric. Kneeling before her simple shrine she clutched her stomach, raised her eyes to heaven and started her kinesthetic prayer. Thousands of fellow congregants danced and shook around her. A woman sprawled on the ground crying; a man walked in place with his eyes closed, mouth racing with determination.

From his lectern at the front of this cavernous auditorium, Pastor Enoch Adejare Adeboye, a tall smiling man with plum cheeks, said, “You can pray sitting, you can pray lying down, you can pray standing, any way you want. Begin to talk to the Almighty God.” He’d titled the conversational sermon “God will make you laugh.” The promises and prophecies conveyed to the gathered faithful were mostly of miraculous fertility.

Religion is big in Lagos. Not just in size, not just in sound, nor in the omnipresence of reminders on billboards, bookmarks, pins and bumper stickers. It is big in the consciences of Nigerians, in the public understanding of morality, and in political debates. Abortion is legal here only to save the life of a mother, and in all cases, taboo. Religious groups consistently lobby the government to keep the restrictions in place.

But despite the restrictions, at least 760,000 abortions happen every year, with complications killing between 3,000 and 34,000 women annually, according to estimates by the Guttmacher institute and the government. Women go to pharmacists, herbalists or expensive qualified doctors for a wide range of clandestine procedures. Often the cheapest abortions are the most dangerous.

Pastor Adeboye’s service, and the fervent prayers of his congregants, demonstrates the beliefs and social pressures that define abortion as a social anathema. He recounted anecdote after anecdote of relief from barrenness and the glory of God through children.

“The Lord says there is a lady here who will find a sudden movement in your belly, and he said the demon affecting the seed of your husband has been dealt with,” he said, as a roar built from the crowd and echoed through the rafters.

The church, claimed to be the world’s largest, is the home of the Redeemed Christian Church of God, a Nigerian Pentecostal denomination that has grown exponentially under the watch of Pastor Adeboye, nicknamed Daddy G.O. for General Overseer. The auditorium at Redemption Camp, outside of Lagos, can house one million worshippers. That night it was half full, but the church is currently constructing a new one that will be three kilometers square.

One of the primary fears women have around abortion is of long-term impacts on fertility. The fears are grounded. Bunmi Aiyenuro, a 23-year-old hairdresser, had seven abortions at the insistence of her boyfriend, but when he decided he was ready to have a family she miscarried twice and he left her. She now attends church services and begs God to forgive her for her sins.

One Wednesday morning at the National Headquarters of the Celestial Church of Christ in the Makoko neighborhood in Lagos, dozens of women lay on the concrete floor in meditation. A handful of men reclined across the aisle; the church separates the congregation by gender.

This is the Seeker Service, a weekly occasion for Celestiants, as adherents are called, to “gather to seek God’s face for mercy and special favors,” explained Afis Kiki, the Shepherd in Charge, or head pastor at the parish.

The women were dressed head to toe in white, as is traditional in this six decade-old church, founded in Benin. “People’s major focus is pregnancy,” said Afis. Fertility is “not the priority of the service, it’s just one of those things,” he said. But given the number of symbolic candles, coconuts, bananas and water bottles splayed next to the women, it was clearly a very important thing.

Religious beliefs influence women and providers to be discrete about abortion. Few people will admit to procuring or providing the procedure out of internal guilt and public shame. But religion also influences the policies around abortion.

The vast majority of Nigeria’s Christians and Muslims believe abortion is wrong, according to the Pew Research Center. So political leaders have little motivation to loosen the legal restrictions around abortion, even as they recognize the public health costs of keeping abortion underground.

“We all know that septic abortion precisely has a lot of impacts on maternal mortality in Nigeria,” said Dr. Bose Adeniron, head of the reproductive health division at the Federal Ministry of Health. But she said there is no plan to change the policy now.

But as the numbers show, the stigma and the legal restrictions are not keeping women from finding a way to terminate unwanted pregnancies. They are only pushing the procedures out of the formal sphere and into a dangerous and shadowy market.

In Ethiopia, religious leaders have been persuaded by health workers, doctors, and NGOs to promote family planning, but they represent the exception rather than the norm.

Over the year, Talks @ Pulitzer give journalists the chance to discuss their reporting with audiences in Washington, DC. Add in Google Hangouts, and even more people can hear what's being said.
