
The Government decided to create a regional centre of command for floods in Craiova. Besides, the aid of the Army is not excluded, if issues cannot be solved with the help of ISU, the Police, the Romanian Waters and the local authorities.

The Government will create a regional centre of command for floods in Craiova to be coordinated by Minister of Administration, Vice-PM Liviu Dragnea, with all institutions involved in the area in subordination. The announcement was made yesterday by PM Victor Ponta, quoted by Mediafax, at the commandment for floods united at the Government. “We will not be able to rest earlier than a week,” said Ponta, saying that the Danube flash flood in Serbia poses a high threat.

The PM also said that the Government will ask the Army for help in case the problems will not be able to be solved with the aid of the Inspectorate for Emergency Situations, the Police, the Romanian Waters and the local authorities. “Today (yesterday, editor’s note), there is no need for their involvement, but they should stay alert. If we don’t manage with the united forces of the Police, the ISU and the local authorities, we will resort to the Army,” Ponta told relevant minister Mircea Dusa who was present at the Government headquarters. He said the military worked these days at Valcea, to replace the bridges broken by floods. Dusa said that the army, including a helicopter squadron in Timisoara, is prepared to get involved if need be.

On the other hand, deputy Prime Minister Liviu Dragnea said that the authorities will closely monitor the dikes along the Danube as these structures will come under continued pressure for about 4 to 6 weeks from now on, due to the swelling river’s high flow rates. ‘With dikes under constant pressure, we set this permanent dike monitoring system in place and have all the forces prepared to urgently step in in the event that there is a crack somewhere,’ Dragnea said. On the same occasion, Minister of Internal Affairs, Vice-Premier Gabriel Oprea announced that over 2,300 personnel are ready to intervene in case Romania’s southern counties come under high waters.

Prime Minister Victor Ponta designated Interior Ministry State Secretary Raed Arafat as liaison with the authorities of Serbia and Bosnia-Herzegovina and offer them equipment, but also food, blankets, water, after the two countries were gravely affected by flooding. ‘In the name of the Government of Romania we have personally expressed to the Prime Minister of the Serbian Government, Mr. Vucic, firstly our condolences and solidarity for the loss of human life, but also the support that we may grant (…) even if we are facing dangers as well. But, when comparing with what happened in Serbia and Bosnia, we cannot complain, said Ponta during the meeting of the National Committee for Emergencies held at the Government House. The head of the Romanian Government requested Arafat to try collecting aid for the flood victims in Serbia through the Mobile Emergency Service for Resuscitation and Extrication (SMURD) Foundation.

According to a release remitted by Romanian Waters National Administration (ANAR), the Danube River has surpassed the flood ceiling at five hydrometric stations, with a water debit of 12,100 cubic meters per second upon entry in Romania. ‘(…) the Danube has exceeded the flood ceiling at five hydrometric stations: Calafat (60 cm over the ceiling), Bechet (84 cm), Corabia (53 cm), Turnu Magurele (63 cm), Zimnicea (35 cm). The dikes in the Gruia-Zimnicea sector have entered the second stage of flood defence while downstream in Zimnicea they are in the first stage’, the release shows. Comparing to 2006, when the Danube’s water debit upon entry was of 15,860 c m/s and several dikes were damaged, around 10,000 people necessitating evacuation, the specialists of the Romanian Waters National Administration estimate that up to a Danube water debit, upon entry, of around 13.500 – 14.000 c m/s, a significant risk for flooding does not exist.

This prognosis is updated daily, relying upon information received from the Hydrologic Prognosis Center of Serbia, as well as data collected by the national monitoring system.

The National Meteorology Administration (ANM) announced that the water amounts will be low and isolated this week, and will not contribute significantly to the rivers debit, but that the rain will return as of May 27, including the Danube basin. “Until next Tuesday, May 27, the amounts of precipitation in Romania will be 15-20 mm, meaning they cannot contribute to the further increase of the rivers inland. The second good news is that no rain will be recorded in the Danube basin in Croatia, Serbia and Hungary, until next Monday. On 27, however, it starts to rain in the Danube basin. We cannot estimate the amounts now, but we will notify the authorities and the population as it will rain from May 27 onwards in the basin in Romania as well. The good news is that the current flash flood in Hungary with the amount of rain on 27 to 30,” said ANM director Ion Sandu, at the flood commandment at the Government. Inquired by Victor Ponta if the flood on the Danube will recede until the date of the rain, Sandu confirmed, saying that the maximum level of the flash flood will be on May 25 upon entering the country.

Sunday, vice-PM Liviu Dragnea announced that the Danube debit will reach a maximum level of 13,500 square meters per second by May 22, and the flash flood will remain 4 to 5 weeks in Romania, with a risk of dam resistance, not overflowing. Dragnea said that the issue of evacuation is not in the cards, saying that the authorities are prepared to intervene with a million bags of sand and personnel and equipment, including in the threatened Danube-neighboring counties, and the aid from the Army will be requested.

Subscribe to RSS or enter you email to receive newsletter for news, articles, and updates about what's new.

All subscriptions will be automatically extended by one month.
