
Richard Norton has moved from Landmark to Ruralco and on to MLA within less than 12 months.

UPDATED 10:20am: IN the next round of musical chairs for the agribusiness sector, Meat and Livestock Australia (MLA) today announced the appointment of Richard Norton as managing director.

Mr Norton has resigned from his relatively recent appointment as Ruralco's general manager network development to take up the role at MLA, replacing Scott Hansen who left MLA in April.

MLA chair Dr Michele Allan said an extensive executive search had led to an outstanding appointment who would be ideally placed to lead the organisation.

“Richard brings extensive experience and knowledge of global agricultural retail supply chains as well as agricultural marketing and production systems,” said Dr Allan, who resigned as a director of Ruralco, effective as of last Friday (May 16).

Dr Allan is leaving the board as a result of a business conflict, Ruralco said in a statement on Monday. She joined the board in March 2012.

Formerly boss at Landmark, Mr Norton only joined Ruralco early this year in a surprise appointment coming on the heels of the recruitment of several Elders’ cattle traders to set up its own live export division late in 2013.

It was one of two key appointments flagged in Ruralco’s announcement of its full year results for 2012-13 with the company also announcing the appointment of a new chief financial officer, Ruth Martin, to replace Andrew Ferguson who resigned in July.

Mr Norton said he was very excited about the next stage in his agribusiness career.

“My passion has long been Australia's agricultural sector and I am keen to work to increase opportunities in domestic and international markets for the benefit of levy payers,” Mr Norton said.

Dr Allan also thanked Christine Gilbertson, a director of MLA, who acted as interim managing director during the executive search for Mr Hansen's successor.

“Christine has provided outstanding leadership as we searched for the best candidate possible,” said Dr Allan.

Mr Norton will commence in the MLA role on Monday June 2.

Ruralco managing director John Maher said although Mr Norton's time at the company was short, "his contribution to the business... was productive and added a great deal of value". He said Ruralco extended its best wishes to Mr Norton and his young family for the future with MLA.

Outgoing MLA boss, Mr Hansen, moved to become director general of the NSW Department of Primary Industries after himself having held that job for a relatively short two and a half years. He had previously worked for MLA in the US and as head of its communications unit in Sydney.

Mr Norton, who trained as a stock and station agent after growing up on the NSW Monaro, has held a range of agency management operations in his career and was head of Landmark's wool and livestock divisions before the business was bought by Calgary-based Agrium four years ago.

He had also played a lead role in developing Landmark's live export market to China in the two years before taking the top job late in 2010 when the farm services firm was split from the de-listed AWB agribusiness group.

Mr Norton's move to the Melbourne head office had followed a stint at Landmark's Moss Vale branch on the NSW Southern Highlands four years earlier, and prior to that a period in logistics management in Sydney.

Although Landmark was able to use its new parent company's momentum to expand its farm inputs footprint and revive its rural heartland credentials under Mr Norton's leadership, the business has also been under pressure to boost returns in a tight marketplace compounded by dry seasonal conditions last year and a slide in livestock values.

Mr Norton's decision to depart in August caught the local industry, and Agrium, by surprise.

He was replaced at Landmark by American, Tommy Warner, the general manager for one of Agrium's High Plains Division.

John Hine, you couldn't be further from the truth about the AWB single desk. It left for dead,
