
KINGSTON - ATTORNEY AT LAW Arlean Beckford has been banned for two years from  practising law as a result of what the  General Legal Council (GLC) described as "professional misconduct".

The GLC, in a newspaper advertisement yesterday,  announced that the  licence of the St Andrew-based lawyer had been suspended after she was  found guilty of professional misconduct for a second time.

The GLC said that after hearing evidence in the latest breach from a  complainant identified as Winston Rowe, it ruled that the attorney had  acted unprofessionally.

The ban became effective on May 1 and Beckford is not entitled to practise until her suspension has expired.

Prior to the ban, the GLC had taken disciplinary action against the  lawyer in 2005 for professional misconduct regarding a real estate deal.

She was reportedly fined $250,000 and ordered to pay the complainant's attorney's fee of $50,000.

Following the 2005 disciplinary action, Beckford was twice accused of  defrauding her clients, and, in both instances, was arrested and charged  with fraudulent conversion and taken before the Corporate Area Resident  Magistrate's Court.

She was first arrested and charged in February 2011 following  allegations that she defrauded one of her clients of more than $5  million in a real estate deal. It is alleged that she sold a house for  the complainant in 2008 and failed to hand over a cheque, which she had  received for the sale of the house.

Do the math: Since (in this article) no mention is made of restitution, it would seem to make for a "good deal", if she repeated the performance every time she regains "active and professional duties", after the "court-enforced vacations".

To be fair, she must be awarded high marks …for consistency.

Banned? This don't happen in Barbados.

For information about this website or content published please contact the Webmaster or Online Editor respectively. Regarding press releases please contact Janice Griffith .

Subscribe to NationNews with our Webfeed . Follow us on Facebook and Twitter .

No unauthorized use is permitted of content produced by NationNews.com, The Nation Newspaper or any other publication or media owned by Nation Publishing Co. Limited. Unauthorized use includes framing and direct posting of content on websites other than www.nationnews.com.
