
U.S. Secretary of State John F. Kerry's remarks favoring U.S. interventionism in a commencement address at Yale University stand in stark contrast with the Obama administration's gun-shy responses to strife in Syria and Ukraine -- as well as his own historic opposition to U.S. actions overseas.

Instead, Kerry, alarmed by what is happening in the world, appears to be trying to carve out his own stance of America's role in global affairs independent of his boss in the Oval Office, security and political analysts say.

Speaking from the same stage where he gave a fiery anti-Vietnam, anti-intervention speech upon graduating from Yale in 1966, Kerry told graduates yesterday that America has swung too far toward isolationism.

"We cannot allow a hangover from the excessive interventionism of the last decade to lead now to an excess of isolationism in this decade," said Kerry, who initially voted for the Iraq War but later campaigned against it. "I can tell you for certain, most of the rest of the world doesn't lie awake at night worrying about America's presence. They worry what would happen in our absence."

GOP political consultant Ford O'Connell said Kerry's remarks represent a counterpoint to Obama's "idealistic" foreign policy philosophy, which he said counts on greater restraint and international cooperation to tamp down hostilities.

"For once in his life, John Kerry's being a realist. He understands the world is a difficult place," O'Connell said. "He knows he doesn't want America to be the world's policeman, but he knows if America doesn't have a foothold in international affairs, America's going to wind up on the losing end. He recognizes that Obama's held sway over the current generation such that it becomes a problem, into isolationism."

John Pike of GlobalSecurity.org said Kerry's message aligns with the concerns of countries like South Korea and Japan -- voiced to Obama during his recent trips there -- that America might not step in if a hostile neighbor threatens regional stability, as Russia did with its invasion of Ukraine, or Syria with its violent suppression of rebellion that has included the use of chemical weapons.

This content is published through a licensing agreement with Acquire Media using its NewsEdge technology.

We need to choose our battles wisely and not let “The enemy” suck us in. That is the difference between being proactive and reactive,,,retreating or interventionist. Unlike what some may think, and thanks to economic blunders, we have limited resources which need to be used only where needed and to our advantage. Drilling, piping and consuming our OWN North American oil would enlarge our resources and our ability to spend and act,,,,,but the party of socialist traitors have sold us out to the very people who have our worst interest and heart.

Obama and the Democrats married in haste with the Russians, Muslims and European Socialists,,,,,now they can repent at their leisure. The American people CAN in 2014,,,,begin the divorce process that renews our resources. which renews our prosperity and strength. and which renews our American way of life. The choice is becoming obvious even to those men of reason left within the ranks of the Democrat party itself.

Indeed, and well-put. We don’t need to become Isolationist, but we could sure use a good stiff dose of it. Time to let some of our Good Buddies carry their own water, and as for those who are against us– if we have the stones to recognize our enemies for who and what they truly are– to let them go straight to Hell.

Looks to me like Kerry was swift-botoxed.

When Kerry speaks its the same way obama speaks. He has a message and wants to spread it around and see if it is accepted. He may even be considering a run for the WH but should know thats not a possibility.The dems are dumb but not crazy (well except for Pelosi anyway).

Good for Kerry!  He got it right, for a change.  America did iteself and the world no good by being isolationist in the 1930′s while Germany re-armed as fast as they could.  If we had re-armed at the same time and at the same pace as Germany, Hitler might have had second thoughts about starting World War II.

I still believe Reagan’s policy of “Peace Through Strength” is the best way.  Make all other would-be challengers have second and third thoughts about attacking us or a country that is a good friend to us.

I agree we need to be wary of intervening in another country’s business if we don’t like the way they do things there.  As long as they have not harmed us or an ally, we probably need to turn a blind eye to things they do that we don’t like.  For example: Assad of Syria killing his own citizens who disagree with him.  For example: Boco Haram in Nigeria kidnapping 300 Christian girls from school with the intent of forcing them to convert to Islam and being sold as sex slaves to Islamic men.  The practice is reprehensible.  But our troops should stay out of it unless Boco Haram kidnaps American girls in this country to sell them as sex slaves.

If the Nigerian government makes an official request for American help and troops, Congress should vote on whether to go to war with Boco Haram in Nigeria.  Going into another country to fight for a just cause is OK, if the other country has asked for our help.

A strong military would be contrary to Obama’s goal of destroying this country.

Obama doesn’t need a military, strong or otherwise.

He has developed this unique shovel-ready hashtag foreign policy which does away with the need for physical actions of any kind.

In order to put the kabosh on Iran, Obama was going to tweet, “#don’t build nukes”.

But the Iranians learned of the plan, so they pre-emptively tweeted, “#EMP over D.C.”.

Now, Obama is unable to counter their move.

He has no internet access because all of Washington is (virtually), “#without power”.

That said, people keep forgetting that Iran might be less to no problem at all if Obamarama had helped the Iranians who tried to overthrow the Ayatollas in 2011. They might have had more of a democratic western society that was sharia and nuclear free if our government had had the b*lls to do do something to help.

Instead, they were met with virtual silence from the US Govt. despite Iranians pleading by the thousands for our help. It could have been the beginning of the end for Ayatollan influence in the middle east if the US had helped. But due to Obamarama turning his back, extremist muslims are growing and taking over the middle east.

Only a new US administration that’s not color blind where red lines are concerned, can make a difference. Hopefully Iranians will take a chance again after the last fiasco and actually receive support from the US once the Obamarama administration leaves.

And yet, because of their own obtuse and myopic world views, Obama, Hillary Clinton, and now John Kerry have been caught by surprise as the Al Qaeda that Obama assured us had been well and truly beaten is poised to take over Iraq, and there are obviously no plans of any kind in place, and no diplomatic initiatives available, to respond to the event. I hate to interrupt Obama’s golf outings, but around the world, “stuff” is happening, and the Obama Administration demonstrates less and less ability to handle it or even to recognize what is occurring.
