
Chairman Leif Johansson said Pfizer’s final proposal was 'inadequate'

Firm viking: AstraZeneca's Swedish chairman Leif Johansson said Pfizer¿s final proposal was 'inadequate'

AstraZeneca yesterday rejected a last-ditch £69billion offer by US rival Pfizer – ending a month-long battle over its future.

The British pharmaceuticals giant all but secured its independence when it called the bid ‘inadequate’ in a strongly worded rejection.

Bosses said it ‘failed to make a compelling’ case which presented ‘serious consequences’ for the company, jobs and research in Britain.

If no deal is agreed by Monday next week, Pfizer must wait at least six months before making another move under UK takeover rules.

The Viagra maker is also legally barred from increasing its offer or making a ‘hostile’ bid directly to Astra’s shareholders.

It is the fourth approach the company has made in a bid to buy its British competitor.

But concerns over jobs, medical research and Pfizer’s tax affairs have seen the potential takeover criticised by scientists, City investors and MPs.

Astra also warned that the move would have delayed the development of life-saving cancer or diabetes drugs.

Pfizer had spent all weekend drawing up plans to win over the Astra board, and tabled its ‘final’ offer of £55 a share late on Sunday evening. But Astra yesterday threw out the proposal and issued a stinging rebuttal.

He added: ‘Pfizer’s approach throughout its pursuit of AstraZeneca appears to have been fundamentally driven by the corporate financial benefits to its shareholders of cost savings and tax minimisation.

Shares in the British drugs group yesterday fell to £42 – way below Pfizer’s offer price – indicating that investors now think a deal is unlikely.

The only way a takeover could now take place is if AstraZeneca’s shareholders convince the board to renegotiate with Pfizer.

However, many City experts expect Pfizer to return once the six-month legal lock-up period ends. Anne Richards of Aberdeen Asset Management, a major Astra shareholder, said: ‘Pfizer has said this is their last offer but we wouldn’t be surprised if they came back at some point.’ On Friday, Pfizer had said it was prepared to pay £53.50.

But AstraZeneca responded over the  weekend with demands of offers of at least ten per cent higher, which  would have valued the firm at around £74billion.

Pfizer wanted the deal in order to shift its tax base out of the US, saving it hundreds of millions of pounds a year.

David Cameron, who had been criticised by Labour for ‘cheerleading’ the takeover early on, said the deal was a ‘matter for the companies to resolve themselves’.

Asked if it was ‘game over’ for Pfizer’s takeover, Mr Cameron added: ‘I have seen what Pfizer have said, which is if it isn’t accepted they won’t make a hostile bid.

The PM said he was looking again at takeover rules but appeared cool about the prospect of radical reform, saying: ‘One of the things that gives Britain such strength... is that we are believers in global capital markets and open investment.

‘Britain is a very, very popular place to invest.

Shadow Business Secretary Chuka Umunna welcomed the rejection by AstraZeneca, which was formed by the merger of Swedish and British firms in 1999.

The hard-nosed defence of the independence of Anglo-Swedish drugs champion AstraZeneca in the face of the full frontal assault from US rival Pfizer is an enormous tribute to the steadfastness of its board.

Paradoxically, it has taken a French chief executive Pascal Soriot and a Swedish chairman Leif Johansson to face down the Scottish-born boss of Pfizer Ian Read and some very angry investors. These shareholders urged AstraZeneca to take the £69billion on the table, the biggest takeover offer for any British company, and accept defeat.

The most remarkable aspect of Astra’s defence was the fact that it chose to fight its battle on scientific and industrial grounds rather than price. In an age when the share registers of many companies quoted on the London Stock Exchange are dominated by global investors with loyalty only to the cash on the table, it could be regarded as unprecedented.

It flies in the face of claims made in other high-profile takeovers – most memorably the 2010 bid by Kraft for chocolate maker Cadbury – that investors left it with no choice but to accept the cash and admit defeat.

What is equally fascinating is that initially the Tory-led Coalition looked to be enthusiastic about a Pfizer bid, seeing it as a validation for its strategy of lowering corporate taxes.

George Osborne has slashed the corporation tax rate to just 20 per cent – making it among the lowest among the advanced industrial countries – and adopted the ‘patent box’ that provides science-based firms with big incentives to invest in the UK.

It demonstrated naivety on Downing Street and led to serious concerns about the influence of Cabinet Secretary Sir Jeremy Heywood, a former investment banker at Morgan Stanley, who was tasked with scrutinising the deal.

As the political pressure grew, the Coalition found itself on the back foot and even conceded that it might have to impose a ‘public interest’ test before the deal could go ahead.

In the event, AstraZeneca chose to make Britain’s leadership in pharmaceutical research and development, the deep connections between the UK’s ethical drug companies and our science-based universities and the risk of a brain drain of scientists if AZ’s ownership moved to New York the primary issue.

Mr Johansson argued that ownership by Pfizer would have ‘serious consequences for the company, our employees and the life sciences sector in the UK, Sweden and the US’.

In the course of the near month-long battle for independence, during which the price initially offered by Pfizer rose by £10billion (the value of Marks & Spencer and Royal Mail combined) AZ’s French chief Soriot vowed to increases sales to £27billion a year by 2023.

But even as Pfizer was sent away with its tail between its legs, European investors including the insurer Axa were still urging an immoveable AZ board to engage and talk with Pfizer.

But having taken such a robust line in opposition, the only way it could happen now is if shareholders sought to remove the chairman and chief executive.

What AstraZeneca has demonstrated, however, is that a resolute board of directors – who really believe in the science and the technology – are able to see off an overseas predator.

It is an enormous source of regret that the same resourcefulness was not shown by the dozens of science, computing and technology firms that have allowed companies built on the brilliance of our universities to be snapped up by predators largely from North America.

If more willpower had been shown, the ‘march of the makers,’ once promised by George Osborne, would have stood a much better chance.

The comments below have not been moderated.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
