
Here are the 10 best political insults, recently.

The use of undiplomatic language has left many a politician red faced either from embarrassment or anger — particularly when the offensive comment was not intended for public ears.

One of the more recent incidents involved Australian Education Minister Christopher Pyne, who allegedly dropped the C-bomb during a session of parliament on Wednesday.

Watch the video and make up your own mind.

Another memorable and recent insult involved two senior US diplomats who were discussing Europe's dithering over the anti-government protests in Ukraine earlier this year.

In a leaked audioclip of the conversation between Assistant Secretary of State for European Affairs Victoria Nuland and US ambassador to Ukraine Geoffrey Pyatt, Nuland says: "F-ck the EU."

Pakistani Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif shakes hands with his Indian counterpart Manmohan Singh on the sidelines of the UN General Assembly on Sept. 29, 2013.

Pakistani Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif reportedly called his Indian counterpart Manmohan Singh a “village hag” during a briefing for Pakistani journalists in September 2013.

The alleged insult — which was denied by Pakistani officials — came ahead of talks between the two leaders on the sidelines of the United Nations General Assembly in New York.

That must have been an awkward meeting.

Thai protesters used this crude insult , in Thai, against then Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra during anti-government street protests late last year.

It refers to Shinawatra’s family nickname of “Boo,” which is Thai for crab.

Two former Australian prime ministers: John Howard on the left and Paul Keating on the right.

Former Australian Prime Minister Paul Keating’s linguistic ability is legendary, and many a politician and journalist has been on the receiving end of one of his tongue lashings.

The Chinese government describes the Dalai Lama as a “wolf in sheep’s clothing” and a “separatist,” claiming the Tibetan spiritual leader is using violence to achieve independence for the Buddhist region.

EU President Herman Van Rompuy.

UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage told European Union President Herman Van Rompuy in February 2010 that he had "all the charisma of a damp rag and the appearance of a low-grade bank clerk."

Farage also described Van Rompuy's native Belgium as a "non-country."

That was how German Social Democrat Peer Steinbrueck described former Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi at a party rally in February 2013 after Italy’s inconclusive national elections.

The comment created a diplomatic incident between the two countries. Italian President Giorgio Napolitano cancelled a dinner with Steinbruek, who was the SPD’s candidate for chancellor in the German national elections in September.

Steinbrueck also labeled comic-turned-politician Beppe Grillo a clown.

Berlusconi made the offensive remark in July 2011 during a wiretapped telephone conversation with the man accused of supplying prostitutes to the premier’s infamous parties.

“Mandela has gone a bit too far in doing good to the non-black communities, really in some cases at the expense of (blacks),” Mugabe said, seven months before the former South African president died.

It is rare for a head of state to publicly express their true feelings about another leader — except, of course, when there is a technical glitch.

Former French President Nicolas Sarkozy was left red-faced after he was overheard calling Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu “a liar” in what was supposed to be a tête-à-tête with US President Barack Obama at the G20 summit in Cannes in 2011.

Unfortunately for Sarkozy the microphones in their meeting room had been switched on, enabling journalists in another room to listen in.

Oops.

It probably wasn’t the kind of farewell outgoing US Ambassador to China Gary Locke was expecting.

An editorial entitled “Farewell, Gary Locke” published in Chinese state-owned China News on Feb. 27 described Locke as a “banana” — as in yellow on the outside, white on the inside. It's a racist term for Asians seen as identifying with Western values despite their skin color.

The ugly slur — condemned by many ordinary Chinese — was a reference to Locke’s Chinese heritage and his role as the top-ranking representative of the United States in China.

"But when a banana sits out for long, its yellow peels will always rot, not only revealing its white core but also turning into the stomach-churning color of black," the editorial said.

The piece also called Locke a “guide dog for the blind” after the US Embassy took in blind rights lawyer Chen Guangcheng following his dramatic escape from house arrest.

The United States did not dignify the name-calling with a response.
