
The Northern Territory is due to complete and open its largest single infrastructure project in the next couple of months, a new cutting edge prison.

EMMA ALBERICI, PRESENTER: In the Northern Territory, sweeping changes to prison policies are about to come into force.

At the centre of the reforms: a new prison which is the Territory's largest single infrastructure project, offering inmates work and education. Just months from opening, it's highlighted the Territory's high Aboriginal incarceration rates - rates that have doubled in the past 25 years.

And there are claims tonight that the Territory's overall prison rates as a proportion of the population ranks at third internationally.

From Darwin, Ginny Stein filed this exclusive report which was filmed by Brant Cumming.

GINNY STEIN, REPORTER: In Darwin's Berrimah jail, the words to this song are simple: it's all about wanting to go home to country.

In a prison packed to capacity, and at times beyond, Aboriginal prisoners make up more than 80 per cent of the inmates.

BERRIMAH INMATE: Back in Groote Eylandt.

GINNY STEIN: A succession of Northern Territory governments have got tough on crime, leading to ever-increasing numbers in jail.

JOHN LAWRENCE, PRESIDENT, NT BAR COUNCIL: It's almost unbelievable, but the proportion of people in jail per head of population in the Northern Territory is third highest on the planet.

We are behind China, who get the gold medal, the United States of America, and we're on the dais behind them getting the bronze, which is unbelievable and shocking. And disgraceful.

GINNY STEIN: In the past 25 years, the Indigenous incarceration rate has doubled.

JOHN LAWRENCE: It's almost become part of the furniture in the Northern Territory: that you have cyclones, you have crocodiles and you have Aboriginal men, women and children behind bars.

GINNY STEIN: Berrimah Prison will soon shut. Its inmates will be moving to a new "superjail."

JOHN ELFERINK, NT JUSTICE AND CORRECTIONAL SERVICES MINISTER: We are enthusiastic about what we can do in the new jail. But we have already been enthusiastically pursuing a number of policy initiatives in spite of being in the old jail here in Darwin.

GINNY STEIN: A key component of the Minister's reform vision is putting prisoners to work.

A former policeman, John Elferink has publicly detailed his battle with alcohol and revealed that he was a victim of sexual abuse in his teens.

JOHN ELFERINK: Now, I don't want to see them go to jail. I imagine their families don't want to see them go to jail.

GINNY STEIN: He's now a firm believer in individuals embracing personal responsibility.

JOHN ELFERINK: Up until the change of government, we had essentially a "rack and stack" model of maintaining prisoners here, so the day that you left prison as a prisoner, you were just as broke, just as unemployed and just as unemployable as the day you went in.

GINNY STEIN: This is Darwin's new superprison.

KEN MIDDLEBROOK, NT CORRECTIONAL SERVICES COMMISSIONER: Whilst it encourages people to sort of take control in their own lives, we're supervising them all the way, but sort of not obtrusively.

GINNY STEIN: 'Lateline' gained exclusive access to the soon-to-open prison to see how the Government hopes to cut high reoffending rates. Here, every prisoner will be put to work.

KEN MIDDLEBROOK: We're making cattle yards, we're making mobile sheep areas. We build those big bins for the garbage contractors. There's a whole range of things we can do.

GINNY STEIN: Ken Middlebrook says the facility is at the cutting edge of rehabilitation. And its effectiveness will be easily judged.

KEN MIDDLEBROOK: I think the success will be measured by the number of people that come back to jail, the recidivism rate. And our target is to reduce recidivism.

GINNY STEIN: While getting tough on law and order has won votes, the price of Territory justice is very high.

JOHN ELFERINK: The actual build cost is $621 million if you include financing costs, but by the time we've paid it off it will cost the Territory taxpayer $1.8 billion.

GINNY STEIN: While Territorians weigh the cost of justice, the concept of work as part of the rehabilitation process has spread well beyond prison walls.

At this remote work camp in East Arnhem Land, prisoners have just returned from a full day's paid work.

RAY PETRIE, CHIEF PRISON OFFICER, DATJALA WORK CAMP: This camp is roughly, as you can see, (inaudible), 100m by 100m. I got no fences. I don't need a fence.

GINNY STEIN: Here, it's the vastness of the wilderness that locks people in. And taking prisoners out of jails and finding them real jobs in the community appears to be working.

By day, Gerald is employed in a bakery in Nhulunbuy, near the camp.

GERALD, DATJALA WORK CAMP INMATE: Get up at 3.30. Have brekkie. Cup of coffee to get ready for work. And I'm out of here by four o'clock.

GINNY STEIN: Each night he comes back to camp, knowing he's earning more money than he's ever had.

GINNY STEIN: That's pretty good.

GERALD: Oh yeah. Most of the time I'd have to steal it. That's only just to help support my habits.

But besides that, it makes me feel a lot better. Makes me feel a lot manly and that.

GINNY STEIN: At this camp there's also something unexpected: praise for jailers.

DION, DATJALA WORK CAMP INMATE: I respect him. And he give respect to us.

DION: It's important to us. Because we love him, you see. He's a good officer. He's organised everything, job, and for other people coming from, like, Nhulunbuy Prison are coming from Darwin - he organise job for them, too.

GINNY STEIN: Officer in charge Ray Petrie believes the combination of work and a jail without walls is the key to real and permanent reform.

RAY PETRIE: I've seen results here, yes. Makes me proud. Um... the word "proud": proud of what we're doing here. Depends how you classify the word "proud". Um ... I get a sense of well-being with what I'm doing, what I'm achieving and what I see.

But it first costs, time, effort and it's a lot of wear and tear on officers and prisoners alike to get to the standards that we're doing it.

GINNY STEIN: Despite the support and inroads it's made, the Territory Government has just announced this camp will soon close.

Prisoners will move to a new larger camp behind walls in Nhulunbuy. It won't be called a jail. But for inmates who have thrived in the wilderness, there will be walls once more.

Ginny Stein, Lateline.

If you have inside knowledge of a topic in the news, contact the ABC .

This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.
