
May 19, 2014, 4:53 p.m.

YOU can "set your pace for the human race", while enjoying some of Kiama's beautiful sights to help celebrate 100 years of Red Cross in Australia.

YOU can "set your pace for the human race", while enjoying some of Kiama's beautiful sights to help celebrate 100 years of Red Cross in Australia.

The Kiama branch has organised the Centenary Fun Run/Walk on Sunday, June 8.

This event is the second of three major fund-raisers the Kiama branch is conducting to commemorate the occasion.

The first was a recipe book (all 300 copies of which have sold out), and the third will be a dinner dance in collaboration with the Gerringong branch in August.

The walk/run offers two distances; one event of nine kilometres (from Minnamurra) and another of five kilometres (from Bombo), both ending at Surf Beach.

Kiama branch treasurer Judi O'Brien said they hoped to enlist 100 participants to celebrate 100 years.

The Kiama branch, which currently has 25 members, has already had its first fun walk registered participant - Heather Shepherd of Albion Park.

The 83-year-old is president of the Albion Park branch, and walks each morning before breakfast.

She said it was important various branches throughout the region supported one another's fund-raising efforts during the centenary.

Mrs O'Brien said it was vital to bring to the fore the hard work - much of it behind the scenes - that the Red Cross undertook.

"The coastal walk is magnificent," she said.

"For those who haven't done it before, they can see the beauty of it, and for a good cause.

"We're hoping it's a great family event, and hope people come along in the right spirit to help Red Cross."

Both walks start at 9am. Entry is $20 adults, $10 kids and $50 families (two adults plus children).

Funds raised will go towards supporting all Red Cross programs.

There will be a free barbecue at the finish and spot prizes.

To register for the event, visit kiama.com.au.
