
Professional investors subscribe to bne:Deal Weekly List for weekly news, commentary and analysis on the CEE/CIS M&A markets. Includes major news events, company results, macroeconomic reports and analysis, political commentary and analysis.

The Hungarian state energy firm MOL hit back on May 13 at claims from Zagreb that it has overseen the destruction of Croatian oil and gas company INA. The resumption of hostilities suggests a deal to end the long war over control of INA is some way off, despite the shrinking list of alternatives.

MOL issued a statement rejecting the claim made the previous day by Croatian Economy Minister Ivan Vrdoljak that since MOL took management control of INA in 2009, it has lost billions as targets have been missed and production dwindled. Pulling no punches, the Hungarian company accused Zagreb of looking to the past, and questioned the accuracy and independence of the report quoted by Vrdoljak.

The Croat official on May 12 quoted a study by A.T. Kearney and Oil & Gas Consulting, which was commissioned by Zagreb, that found that after taking over INA, MOL defrauded Croatia of $6.2bn by failing to abide by agreements. However, MOL countered by claiming instead that it has invested a total of €1.4bn directly into the Croatian economy. It added that the Croatian minister had harmed the reputation of INA.

"After finally having accepted MOL Group's appeal for the acceleration of the negotiations, MOL Group was encouraged that the Ministry of Economy would at last come up with proposals regarding the future development of INA. Unfortunately, the Ministry once again raised issues of the past, which will be anyway clarified by on-going arbitration processes, whereas no reasonable forward-looking ideas have been presented.

Croatian Economy Minister Ivan Vrdoljak accused Hungary's Mol of damaging INA Industrija Nafte d.d. with decisions that cost the Balkan subsidiary $6bn over five years.

The damage assessment comes from an analysis for the government concluded last week by A.T. Kearney and Oil & Gas Consultancy that studied the Budapest-based oil company's business policies since it took over INA in 2009, Vrdoljak told reporters in Zagreb today. "Our analysis shows that INA in the past five years has been subjected to destruction," Vrdoljak said.

Vrdoljak also said today that an impending verdict by Croatia's Supreme Court, in the case involving Mol's agreement with then-Premier Ivo Sanader, may play a "crucial role" in future talks with the Hungarian company. The Supreme Court is expected to release a binding verdict on whether Sanader is guilty of taking bribes from Mol and Austria's Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International AG.

Issuer AB Amber Grid informs that on 13 May 2014 the National Commission for Energy Control and Prices passed its resolution "Regarding the implementation of the plan of control separation of AB Amber Grid" No O3-125.

By passing the Resolution NCC has consented to the transaction regarding transfer of shares of AB Amber Grid, which is planned to be concluded between UAB EPSO-G and E.ON Ruhrgas International GmbH, as well as to the subsequent transactions whereby it is planned to acquire shares of AB Amber Grid in accordance with the procedure stated in the Law on Securities of the Republic of Lithuania.

Russia could privatize a 19.5 percent stake in top oil producer Rosneft this year or in 2015, a news report said.

The state owns 69.5 percent of Rosneft, the world's largest listed oil company by production, but it eventually plans to reduce its shareholding to 50 percent plus one share. Chief executive Sechin is a close ally of President Vladimir Putin.

A local newspaper speculates that CEZ is interested in natural gas retailer Prazska plynarenska, mainly because it has a 15-year contract with RWE to buy natural gas for the mothballed Pocerady CCGT and needs another outlet for it.

Russian arms manufacturer Kalashnikov, part of state-owned industrial giant Rostec, will buy 51% in Sintez-PD, a producer of metal injection molded (MIM) goods, for over RUB250m by the end of June, Rostec said in a statement seen by Prime.

The acquisition of the plant will allow Kalashnikov to improve designing of new models and implement new engineering developments in production, Kalashnikov CEO Alexei Krivoruchko said, as cited in the statement.

The preliminary volume of purchases by Russian state nuclear corporation Rosatom this year is worth 600 billion rubles ($17.2 billion), the head of the company's department on methodology and purchases told RIA Novosti Tuesday.

Unipetrol's CEO said that his company is interested in using its first option to buy Eni's minority stake in Ceska rafinerska and is waiting for Eni's offer. He added that there is no plan to shut down the refining business, because Unipetrol could no longer operate its retailing and petrochemical activities.

To consolidate the stake in CRa and upgrade the refinery is - business-wise - the only thing that Unipetrol can do to improve its operations. The question is the price and whether it will be value added for its shareholders in the current harsh environment.

Reports yesterday in Wall Street Journal and Kommersant suggest that Severstal has put up for sale its two steel plants in the US, Dearborn and Columbus. The sale of both assets could fetch around $1.5bn or higher.

Severstal bought Dearborn in 2004 for $285m and collected 100% in Columbus during 2008 for around $150m in total. Later that year, the company acquired another three steel plants (WCI Steel, Esmark and Sparrow Point) in the US that were sold in 2011 due to making losses. Apart from the steel-making assets, Severstal also owns the PBS coal-mining subsidiary, which is currently struggling in a weak market and operating at reduced capacity. We thus think the sale of PBS would be more difficult to achieve if Severstal decides to divest this asset as well.

According to Wall Street Journal, the interested counterparties include Brazil's CSN and US Steel, which is one of Dearborn's competitors on the auto steel market in the US. The interest in the assets seems reasonable as the plants are modernized and the US steel market is in relatively good shape. Earlier, Severstal Columbus redeemed early its $525m bond, which could indirectly indicate interest from the Russian company in selling the assets.

The two steel plants worked at around 96% of crude steel capacity and earned $244m (12% of total Severstal EBITDA) with a 6% EBITDA margin, or $52/tonne of sold products, in 2013. Since the bulk of investments in development of these assets had been already made by Severstal ($1bn for modernization of Dearborn and $1.5bn for construction of Columbus), the two mills now require minimum maintenance capex of around $70m combined and thus should enjoy positive FCF generation of roughly $150m.

The US plants have few synergies with the core company's business in Russia. We note that the sale of the US assets would also eliminate political risks for Severstal, and we thus view it as positive for the company if the valuation of the deal is attractive.

The rumored price tag of at least $1.5bn looks like an attractive valuation for Severstal. We note that the deadline for participating in the tender offer on the Severstal 16 and 17, for which $500m will be spent, is today. Considering the recent redemption of the Severstal 14 Eurobond, on our estimates, the company's cash balance will be reduced to nearly zero. Due to this, the sale of assets with the aim of replenishing the cash cushion looks entirely reasonable. On the whole, the news of the possible asset sale, particularly at a fairly hefty price, is clearly positive for Severstal's credit quality, and this may support the company's bond quotes.

Russian steelmaker Severstal has received bids fromÊpotential buyers forÊits North American operations, aÊRussian source familiar with theÊmatter saidÊÊMonday.

Severstal's operations inÊthe United States consist ofÊsteel plants inÊDearborn, Michigan andÊColumbus, Mississippi.

TheÊsource said theÊsales process was unrelated toÊthe worsening political relations between theÊUnited States andÊRussia over Ukraine. TheÊcompany had started looking intoÊa sale inÊSeptember, theÊsource said.

News: According to Vedomosti, Vostok NAO, a joint venture between Lukoil and Bashneft, is to receive seven licences in the Nenets Autonomous Area, of which five will be provided by Bashneft and two by Lukoil. Bashneft earlier paid RUB 4.8bn (USD 137mn) for the licences and Lukoil RUB 1.8bn (USD 52mn), so the latter is also going to contribute RUB 3bn (USD 86mn) in cash to the JV, according to the paper.

Freshtel could be acquired using Rostelecom's equity. Rostelecom (RTKM RX Ð Hold) is currently in talks to acquire WiMax operator Freshtel, Kommersant reported earlier today. So far, no decision has been made; Rostelecom is reportedly still doing due diligence. According to the newspaper's sources, the deal may be paid for with Rostelecom's equity rather than cash (Rostelecom's subsidiary Mobitel owns a 9.38% stake in Rostelecom). There is no information available yet regarding the potential price, but last year Freshtel was valued at $200 mln when TTK was interested in acquiring the company.

WiMax assets could be used for providing universal services. The Freshtel group, which is controlled by structures of Suleyman Kerimov and Victor Pinchuk, owns several companies which own part of the 3.5 GHz range of the spectrum in Russia that is used to provide broadband mobile access based on WiMax technology. These assets could be useful for Rostelecom, which has been selected to be the single national provider of universal telecommunication services (including providing high-speed internet access to smaller cities), which could potentially generate around RUB150 bln ($4 bln) in additional revenues for Rostelecom over the next 10 years.

Strategically justified, but potential effect on value unclear at this point. Acquiring Freshtel could make sense from a strategic point of view, but the effect on Rostelecom's value is not clear at this point, as there is not yet any information available on the sale price or Freshtel's financials. We reiterate our Hold recommendation for Rostelecom common shares. In the Russian telecom sector we prefer MTS (MBT US Ð Buy) and MegaFon (MFON LI Ð Buy), which are the leaders in the mobile market and offer attractive dividend yields. We reiterate our Buy recommendations for both names.

Two Polish state-controlled oil and gas companies, refiner Lotos and gas distributor PGNiG, signed a letter of intent to cooperate in upstream projects off the Norwegian coast, both groups said on Monday.

Facts/News. ÊLast Friday Kyrgyzaltyn, the Kyrgyz state-owned entity, and the largest shareholder in Centerra Gold (33%), announced it was 'disappointed' by Centerra's decision to keep Stephen Lang as chairman despite his receiving less than 50% of shareholder votes at AGM the day before. Centerra does not have a policy requiring a majority of votes.
