
Dr. Clyde Snow travels by donkey in the Kurdistan region of Northern Iraq in 1991, about 30 miles south of the Turkey border. He was there to investigate mass graves.

EDITOR’S NOTE: This article originally appeared in the Sun-Times in 2008 after an interview with Dr. Clyde Snow at the Explorer’s Club of Chicago. Dr. Snow passed away over the weekend .

He has traveled six miles through snow on a donkey, a flask of whiskey bouncing at his side, to get to a mass grave in Kurdistan.

Once, he trekked to Vukovar in the former Yugoslavia to track a mass grave through witness accounts.

He became the voice of the disappeared in South America, identifying victims of military rulers like Argentina’s Iberico Saint Jean, who famously vowed to kill the timid.

And every now and again, Clyde Snow , 80, can be found knocking around the sterile confines of the county morgue, Cook County’s Robert Stein Institute on the Near West Side. There he examines the bones of Chicago’s unknown, the odd leg or skull that turns up buried in a lot or gangway.

Snow , a forensic anthropologist, has been doing this work for more than 50 years. The Oklahoma resident has been on call for Chicago since he came here as an investigator for the 1979 American Airlines crash that killed all 271 people aboard.

The lines on his face are deep now, but the tools he uses are about the same.

So is the job.

If bones have stories, Snow is their raconteur.

A native of Texas, he easily leans back with a Camel cigarette and a coffee or Bombay martini — straight up with two olives — to tell tales of his work around the world.

Here in Chicago, in between his work on major cases, he has searched for buried mobsters and examined stolen Tibetan skulls.

Snow uses tools called sliding and spreading calipers that were developed in the 1890s.

His calipers are tucked tightly inside a weather-beaten brown leather folder he carries with him to all jobs. The calipers measure the precise length of bones.

For instance, he measures the precise distance from the tip of the nose to between the eyebrows, as well as the breadth of the nose. There are roughly 50 such measurements and, all together, when entered into a computer program he uses, they help Snow determine all sorts of stuff about the dead.

The size and shape of the pelvic area reveal gender. Subtle changes in pelvic joints can show whether a woman has had a baby. Height is gleaned from the lengths of the bones of the leg.

Bones, a very active tissue during life, also show old injuries, hint at nutritional problems and tell him whether someone was right-handed or left-handed.

The last chapter of such an “osteo-biography,” Snow says, is the cause of death.

Bullet wounds, cut marks and blunt force trauma all turn up on the bones.

Even years after a case is closed, some of his work still seems to give him pause.

Inside a downtown Starbucks, Snow talked about Holly, a 7-year-old girl who was beaten to death by her mother in 1969 and buried in a North Side gangway. Her remains were discovered in 2000.

It was a “through-and-through” break, which must have come from a punch. What he couldn’t figure out was what were the identical nick marks on each side of her rib cage.

It came to him later, but not in a “CSI: Miami” moment of high-tech revelation.

It was after quiet reflection, remembering the girl was 36 inches tall and weighed only about 30 pounds when she died because she couldn’t eat with a broken jaw.

Snow is paid per job he does for the county, with an annual cap of $10,000.

Some say Snow ‘s most profound contribution to his field is his work in international human rights cases.

In the early 1980s, Snow pioneered the use of forensic anthropology to investigate mass slayings and human rights abuses around the world and to identify victims.

It all began in Argentina in 1984, when the American Association for Advancement of Science asked for help identifying the thousands of “disappeared” Argentinians killed and buried in mass graves by the government after standing up for human rights.

He didn’t immediately hear back from anyone.

Then one night as he sipped wine and cut into a good steak at his hotel bar, Snow looked up to find about five “raggedy, taggedy” university students in front of him. They didn’t have much experience, but they wanted to help, they told him.

Together, the team began their work, heading out to cemeteries with crude tools — a window screen in one case — to sift dirt in their search for bone fragments and personal belongings.

In 1985, a new government brought charges against the former dictators. Snow testified, bringing forward two cases to prove what had happened to the masses.

One of the cases was 21-year-old Liliana Pereyra, who was seven months pregnant when she “disappeared” in 1977. Pereyra was executed, shot in the head at close range. Her pelvic bones showed she had given birth before her execution — likely so the baby could be given up for adoption to a member of the military or the police.

“Two disappeared people can represent hundreds,” Snow said to the Northeastern students as he told the tale. The dictators were convicted.

The work that began in Argentina survives today as the Argentine Forensic Anthropology Team, which continues to investigate human rights violations across the world. The New York office is run by Doretti, one of the “raggedy taggedy” students who found Snow at his hotel and volunteered back in 1984.

Chicago, northwest Indiana could see wet snow, ice pellets until 9 a.m.

Tony Snow: On Lebanon-Not calling for cease fire if it leaves status quo intact.

All Rights Reserved. A Sun-Times Media Publication.
