
Yesterday the country celebrated the fifth anniversary of the end of the conflict with Tamil Tigers. President Rajapaksa says "we are not celebrating a victory, but peace”. But police and soldiers close down temples and offices in the north of the country. Tamil Priest: Government uninterested in our predicament, it is “our right to remember our loved ones."

Colombo ( AsiaNews) - Colombo is behaving "unjustly" because it "treats its citizens in two different ways," preventing a part of the country from "commemorating the dead" of the Civil War, and prolonging a climate of fear and oppression in a large portion of the population, forced to "live in bunkers": this is the claim of Tamil groups in the north of Sri Lanka, a day after the nation celebrated the fifth anniversary of the end of the thirty-year war against the Tamil Tigers (Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam, LTTE).

On 18 May 2009, the founder and leader of the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE, the Tamil Tiger rebels) Velupillai Prabhakaran was killed by a special unit of the armed forces. His death marked the immediate and final end of the thirty years of ethnic conflict. The Tamil civilian communities in the northeast of the country paid the highest price and still today denounce , which discrimination by the authorities and the absence of a genuine process of reconciliation.

The official celebrations were held in the southern region of Matara, with President Mahinda Rajapaksa as guest of honor. In his speech, the Head of State stressed that "we are not celebrating the victory of a war, but we are celebrating peace". However, some Western diplomats including the Canadian High Commissioner declined the invitation, noting that "Sri Lanka should concentrate its attention on reconciliation".

Tamil sources ​​in the north of the country report that the security forces and the police blocked access to many places of worship and buildings ​​in violation of "the basic rights" of a part of the population who "could not remember loved ones who died in the war". The editor of the Uthayan newspaper in Jaffna, Saravanabavan, yesterday denounced the disruption that coincided with the celebrations. Members of the security forces "blocked access, without any explanation". He also adds that blocks and barricades were repeated throughout the day near the temple of Naguleswaram, in the north; police prevented access to the place of Hindu worship and prevented the commemoration of the victims of the conflict.

The head of the Chaldean Church is grateful for the AsiaNews campaign and hopes that "this chain of solidarity will reach far and wide”. Helping refugees to remain in Iraq. But many want to flee abroad. The bishop of Amadiyah where thousands of displaced people have found haven in churches and homes: We also help the Arabs (Muslims), and Yazidis, for free and without looking at our confessional differences.

For Mgr Vincent Zhu Weifang, from the official Church, the campaign of destruction is increasing social instability. It is real persecution against the Christian faith. The bishop apologises for failing to intervene sooner.  He was hoping that the campaign would end quickly. Catholics and Protestants suffer injuries as they attempt to defend their sacred buildings. For priests in Wenzhou, the campaign is unfair and touches buildings that have all the right papers. Such "stupid acts" by the government are undermining social harmony.
