
Police wrongly told a Dunedin couple their daughter had survived a double-fatality crash when she was dead.

Siblings Shannon and Danielle Kiriau died after the car they were passengers in crashed on the southern motorway, at Green Island, about 3am on Sunday.

However, officers incorrectly identified the body of Danielle Kiriau, 17, as being that of her friend Courtney Donald, 17, who was badly injured.

Police then passed on the incorrect information to both girls' families.

Beverley De Blecourt said police visited her in North Taieri on Sunday. They said that her son, Shannon, 22, had died and Danielle was ''very critical''.

It was not until she and her partner, Nai Kiriau, arrived at Dunedin Public Hospital that the mix-up was discovered.

''We're sitting there waiting for about an hour and then they came out and said, 'Sorry there has been a bit of a mix-up','' De Blecourt said. They were told Danielle was dead.

Ms Donald and another backseat passenger, Caitlin Adams, 16, were injured.

Police incorrectly told Ms Donald's family she had died at the scene, when she was in a critical condition in hospital.

Dunedin acting area commander Inspector Jason Guthrie said yesterday the officers who confused the two girls' identities were ''very upset'' by their mistake, and apologised ''unreservedly'' for the identity botch-up.

Guthrie said he appreciated the trauma that would have been caused to both families to receive the wrong information.

''As you can appreciate, the crash scene was difficult and confusing with multiple victims,'' he said.

''Information received from other victims of the crash incorrectly identified one of the females being treated (Courtney Donald) as the young woman who had in fact tragically died at the scene (Danielle Kiriau).

''Unfortunately this information was passed on to the parents of both Danielle Kiriau and Courtney Donald.''

Danielle's boyfriend, Cameron Presland, 20, was the driver of the illegally modified Honda Integra which crashed into a pole and tree.
