
Portuguese President Anibal Cavaco Silva, said last Saturday that the relationship with China and Macau is a strategic priority for the European country. ‘My presence here after a visit of state to China reaffirms very clearly and unequivocally that the special relationship with Macau is a strategic priority of Portuguese foreign policy’ said the President of Portugal as quoted by Portuguese news agency Lusa.

“I am little surprise to hear that, after the meeting I had with Macau’s Chief Executive,  the contacts I had with entrepreneurs and the visits to the universities”, the President of Portugal told, as quoted by TDM, when asked about the limitations on the attribution of Macanese Resident Identity Card (BIR) to Portuguese citizens. “I heard a lot of praise to the Portuguese community that lives in Macau and its contribution to the economic and social development of the region” he added. Without assuming the existence of the limitations, Anibal Cavaco Silva said that “if there is any difficulty, after the agreement signed yesterday the doors for dialogue and negotiations are opened and to overcome these difficulties”.

The President of Portugal revealed as well that 29 agreements between Portuguese and China governments’, companies and universities were signed. “This visit will reinforce the strategic cooperation between Portugal and China”. Mr. Silva also admitted that the ‘trilateral cooperation’, between Portugal, Africa and Latin America, was one of the mains issues discussed in this visit, which in his opinion proves “ the significant strategic value” of these ties for the European country.

In the last two days of a week-long visit to China Mr Silva was in Macau. The Portuguese president defined the former Portuguese enclave as “the greatest symbol” of friendship between Portugal and China. But more than a symbol, the Portuguese head of state considers Macau a “privileged platform for a closer proximity between Portugal and Asia, and particularly China”.

Macau was the first and last region of China to be ruled by a foreign country. It was integrated into the People’s Republic of China on 20 December 1999 under the policy ‘one country, two systems’ and as a Special Administrative Region. The handover was defined by the Sino-Portuguese Join Declaration signed in 1987 by Anibal Cavaco Silva, who was the Portuguese Prime Minister at the time. “The economic and social success of Macau, the political stability over the last 15 years is the proof that the option chosen as the handover model in 1987 was the right one for the region. Portugal is very proud about its special relationship with Macau”, the President said following a meeting on Saturday with SAR Chief Executive Chui Sai On.

Yesterday, while visiting the Portuguese School of Macau, Mr Silva said that the “Portuguese-language is one of the languages growing bigger in the world”. He also noted that the Portuguese-language is “more and more present in business, culture and science”.

In Saturday’s meeting with Chui Sai On, the Portuguese head of state had already underlined the importance of the Portuguese language and, according to Lusa, recognised the leader of Macau’s Government’s efforts in the promotion of the Portuguese language in Asia. Cavaco Silva also stated that the Forum for Economic and Trade Corporation between China and Portuguese-speaking Countries, hosted by Macao, can be a bridge for future projects “involving Chinese and Portuguese entrepreneurs in projects focused on the Portuguese-speaking countries”.

Chu Sai On said that the promotion of the Portuguese language is a local responsibility towards Mainland China as well as a necessity as Macau has to have bilingual workers in a variety of areas. The leader of Macau also reaffirmed his commitment to reinforcing the role of Macau as a platform between China and the Portuguese-speaking world.
