
Share This Story!

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

FISHERS The Town Council on Monday approved the Fire Department's request for a temporary firehouse in a home on East 116th Street.

Next month, three firefighters and a fire engine will move from Station 92, on Brooks School Road, to a home at 13021 E. 116th while the firehouse undergoes a $1 million renovation.

"We were hoping to work around construction and keep the firefighters there, but it's just not going to work," said Capt. John Mehling, spokesman for the department.

With little discussion, council members unanimously approved the temporary station during Monday's monthly meeting at Town Hall.

"I am fine with it," said Jociel Nowacki, a Fishers resident who lives in a subdivision adjacent to where the temporary firehouse will be. "If there is a fire, we'll have somebody close by."

Her neighbor, Marilene Dixon, agreed. "If it's just temporary, then I'm OK with it."

Fire Department officials say the move will be a cost-cutting measure. Housing firefighters for six months in a trailer during the renovation would have cost an estimated $50,000. Renting the ranch home is expected to cost about $14,000, according to a report submitted to the council.

The department plans to double the size of its firehouse on Brooks School Road. A second floor will be added, and kitchen renovations are planned.

"It's just not big enough," Mehling said. Renovations are expected to be completed in November.

The council also unanimously approved requests for the construction of roundabouts at 96th Street and Lantern Road and 106th Street and Cumberland Road.

The Indiana Department of Transportation would pay up to 80 percent of the cost for each project. The town would pay 20 percent.

The state will pay a maximum of $2.4 million for the Lantern Road project, which is scheduled for bid in July 2015. Bids for the Cumberland Road project, which the state will pay a maximum of $1million for, will be accepted in March 2016.

Call Star reporter Cara Anthony at (317) 444-6049. Follow her on Twitter: @CaraRAnthony.
