
Two brothers and their father accused of stabbing a teenage boy and his sister with a screwdriver will remain behind bars after magistrate Elaine Truscott denied them bail in Bankstown local court today.

The trio is alleged to have used knives and a screwdriver in a 'barbaric' daylight stabbing attack on Sunday afternoon.

Brothers Husein Al-Moosawy, 21, Sajjad Al-Moosawy, 23, and their father Haider Al-Moosawy, 47, fronted court on Monday charged with wounding with intent to murder.

The court heard the trio's alleged attack occurred on Sunday afternoon outside their neighbour's home in Yagoona, in Sydney's southwest.

Magistrate Truscott told the court the 16-year-old alleged victim, who can't be identified, and his 24-year-old sister were visiting the house next door to the Al-Moosawy family, AAP reports.

The 24-year-old was pushed to the ground and Haider allegedly stabbed her in the eye with a screwdriver.

The father is also charged with stabbing the woman's 16-year-old brother with a knife three times.

Sajjad and Husein allegedly pushed the 16-year-old on the ground and repeatedly stabbed him in the back and legs.

This morning, police said in a statement the 16-year-old suffered 'seven stab wounds to his stomach, left forearm, left thigh, chest and back.

'The boy’s 24-year-old sister was also transported to Liverpool Hospital after sustaining a seven-centimetre cut to the left side of the head, a stab wound to the left armpit, a stab wound above right knee, and small cut to her left eyelid.'

Brutal: Burwood magistrate Elaine Truscott described the alleged attack as 'barbaric'

Both the 24-year-old woman and her younger brother remain in hospital with serious injuries.

Husein made an application for bail but Ms Truscott ordered he stay behind bars after labeling the alleged assault barbaric.

'There is no court order that can prevent such barbary being committed again...' AAP reported Ms Truscott as telling court.

Haider and Sajjad did not not apply for bail.

All three will appear by video link in Burwood local court next month.

They are also facing other charges, including affray and wounding a person with intent to cause grievous bodily harm.

Sorry we are not currently accepting comments on this article.
