
The Londonderry arrived in Jamaica yesterday to a spectacular welcome as the yacht continues to threaten the front runners at the top of the leaderboard in the Clipper 2013-14 Round the World Yacht Race.

Londonderry crossed the finish line of Race 12 titled race: The Spirit of Jamaica Chase, at Folly Point Lighthouse at 05:31 UTC in ninth place, which is the team’s worst result since Race 4 from Cape Town, South Africa to Albany, Western Australia.

After a challenging short 600 mile sprint from Panama to Jamaica, skipper Sean McCarter, said: “Race 12 was a lot tougher than expected. We were looking forward to a two or three day hop across the Caribbean but I think it was a lot harder than everybody expected.

“It was upwind, it was quite bouncy for the first couple of days which isn’t very comfortable.

“It was quite difficult all round. Tactically there two options you could take, we made the mistake of not really committing to either one. Our result shows that unfortunately.

“Everybody is really looking forward to a bit of a rest and it is well deserved. We have a decent amount of time off and we’ll be looking to prepare for the next race as everybody is looking forward to getting a more decent result next time around,” Sean added.

Henri Lloyd was first across the finish line arriving in Jamaica at 20:41:56 UTC with GREAT Britain right behind in second at 20:42:27 UTC.

Switzerland took third place, claiming its second podium finish of the Clipper Race so far, finishing at 21:42 UTC.

Londonderry~Doire currently lies in fourth place on the overall leaderboard, just seven points behind third place OneDLL and just 15  points behind second place GREAT Britain.

With four races still left in the 16 race series and over 60 points still left for the taking Londonderry could still challenge the current overall leader Henri Lloyd for the ultimate prize.

The Clipper Race fleet will be berthed at the Errol Flynn Marina in Port Antonio, Jamaica until May 24 when it will depart in Race 13: The Grange Hotels Trophy to New York which completes Leg 7, the penultimate Clipper Race leg.

Get your favourite newspaper at a great low price.

Call us on 0844 292 0216 or click here to start your subscription today!

© 2014 Johnston Publishing Ltd.

This website and its associated newspaper adheres to the Press Complaints Commission’s Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion, then contact the Editor by clicking  here .

If you remain dissatisfied with the response provided then you can contact the PCC by clicking here .

Londonderry Sentinel provides news, events and sport features from the Londonderry area. For the best up to date information relating to Londonderry and the surrounding areas visit us at Londonderry Sentinel regularly or bookmark this page.

For you to enjoy all the features of this website Londonderry Sentinel requires permission to use cookies.

Cookies are small data files which are sent to your browser (Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome etc) from a website you visit. They are stored on your electronic device.

This is a type of cookie which is collected by Adobe Flash media player (it is also called a Local Shared Object) - a piece of software you may already have on your electronic device to help you watch online videos and listen to podcasts.

Yes there are a number of options available, you can set your browser either to reject all cookies, to allow only "trusted" sites to set them, or to only accept them from the site you are currently on.

However, please note - if you block/delete all cookies, some features of our websites, such as remembering your login details, or the site branding for your local newspaper may not function as a result.

A tool used by some of our advertisers to target adverts to you based on pages you have visited in the past. To opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

Our sites contain advertising from Google; these use cookies to ensure you get adverts relevant to you. You can tailor the type of ads you receive by visiting here or to opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

This is used to help us identify unique visitors to our websites. This data is anonymous and we cannot use this to uniquely identify individuals and their usage of the sites.

This comes from our ad serving technology and is used to track how many times you have seen a particular ad on our sites, so that you don't just see one advert but an even spread. This information is not used by us for any other type of audience recording or monitoring.

ComScore monitor and externally verify our site traffic data for use within the advertising industry. Any data collected is anonymous statistical data and cannot be traced back to an individual.

Our Classified websites (Photos, Motors, Jobs and Property Today) use cookies to ensure you get the correct local newspaper branding and content when you visit them. These cookies store no personally identifiable information.

We use Grapeshot as a contextual targeting technology, allowing us to create custom groups of stories outside out of our usual site navigation. Grapeshot stores the categories of story you have been exposed to. Their privacy policy and opt out option can be accessed here.

Our partner for Newspaper subscriptions online stores data from the forms you complete in these to increase the usability of the site and enhance user experience.

Add This provides the social networking widget found in many of our pages. This widget gives you the tools to bookmark our websites, blog, share, tweet and email our content to a friend.
