
Participate in Share Chat.

Vienna (Alliance News) - Despite three days of intensive negotiations, Iran and the six world powers failed to achieve progress in nuclear talks that concluded Friday in Vienna.

"The talks were held in a constructive atmosphere and free of any tensions, but no tangible progress was achieved," Iran's deputy foreign minister Abbas Araqchi said at the end of the talks.

The US said that there were still "several critical issues" to be settled between Iran and the P5+1, which consists of the five permanent members of the UN Security Council plus Germany. Washington has said that no agreement is better than a bad agreement.

The two sides were seeking to prepare a draft for a Comprehensive Plan of Action (CPA), which is supposed to end the ten-year-long dispute over Iran's controversial nuclear programme.

The US and its allies are seeking an agreement guaranteeing that Iran use its nuclear programme solely for peaceful purposes.

At least two more rounds of talks are planned in Vienna before July 20, the first deadline for the agreement, however no date has been set for the next meeting.

Araqchi said that the failure in this round of the talks "was no catastrophe." He added that if the first deadline was not kept, the two sides would have time until the end of the current year to prepare an agreement.

Datafeed and UK data supplied by NBTrader and Digital Look.      While London South East do their best to maintain the high quality of the information displayed on this site,

we cannot be held responsible for any loss due to incorrect information found here. All information is provided free of charge, 'as-is', and you use it at your own risk.

The contents of all 'Chat' messages should not be construed as advice and represent the opinions of the authors, not those of London South East Limited, or its affiliates.

London South East does not authorise or approve this content, and reserves the right to remove items at its discretion.

This site requires cookies in order to give you the best user experience. By using this site, you are agreeing to the use of cookies.
