
FARMERS on the Liverpool Plains have expressed alarm at a State Department of Environment & Planning recommendation to give the huge open-cut Watermark coalmine, near Gunnedah, the green light.

Caroona Coal Action Group spokesman Tim Duddy says the proposed mine is being recommended for approval despite major questions hanging over the extent of the impact it will have on the Namoi River and alluvial aquifer.

“These water sources feed some of the state’s most productive food and fibre farmland,” Mr Duddy says in a statement.

“If you needed any more evidence that the State Government’s promises to protect agricultural land from coalmining have not been delivered, then this is it.

Among the conditions to the approval are several that indicate that the environmental impacts of the project on the water supply and tributaries of the Namoi River have not yet been addressed.

The company will need to complete a Water Management Plan to detail “the sources and security of water supply” and describe measures they will implement “to minimise short-term and long-term discharge of saline water from the site”.

“They’ve recommended approval but asked for more study to be done into whether this mine will ruin the land with salt,” says Mr Duddy.

“It’s irresponsible and we won’t stand for it.

“This recommendation is a grave mistake.

“The (federal) Independent Expert Scientific Committee’s (IESC) warnings and advice on this project have not been heeded.

“The committee recommends that mine water storages be designed to contain a one-in-1000-year storm event, but this is not reflected in the conditions of this proposed approval.

“What will downstream users do if a flood of salty mine-affected water comes down the Mooki River?” says Mr Duddy.

The IESC also warned that, together with the next-door Caroona coalmine proposal, this mine will cause a reduction in flow to the Namoi River equivalent to about half the current water extraction from the regulated Namoi below Keepit Dam, he says.

“Together the two mines could cause drops in the water table of more than 10 metres across the Gunnedah water management area,” Mr Duddy says.

Lock the Gate Alliance national co-ordinator Phil Laird says the State Government should be taking a more conservative approach to protecting the water resources of the Liverpool Plains.

“The State Government doesn’t know if there will be enough water to feed this mine’s voracious thirst and appears ready to let the Liverpool Plains be run dry and turned to salt by two of the biggest mines in the state, dug right next to each other,” Mr Laird says in the statement.

“Among the conditions is a request that the company ensure it has enough water for the development, and to reduce it if there is not enough water available.

Meanwhile, the State Government has defended its decision to grant approval to Shenhua Watermark’s open-cut coalmine.

Last week the Department of Planning & Environment announced the billion-dollar mine should be approved and referred the matter to the independent Planning Assessment Commission (PAC) for review and determination, regional media report.

Shenhua is controversially seeking permission to extract up to 268 million tonnes of coal from the mine over 30 years, which would be located near the village of Breeza.

The subsidiary of China’s state-owned mining giant Shenhua Group – one of the largest coal-producing companies in the world – maintains the Breeza mine will create more than 1000 jobs and pump hundreds of millions of dollars into the economy.

But the project has been met with fierce opposition from many farmers and environmental groups, who have expressed concern at the mine’s potential impacts on the area’s productive farmland – or biophysical strategic agricultural land (BSAL).

Those fears were only heightened when the Mining & Petroleum Gateway Panel, in advice provided earlier this year to the government, found Shenhua had “applied incorrect methodology” in calculating the mine’s effects on BSAL.

“The proponent obfuscates the verification of BSAL and likely underestimates the true extent of potentially affected BSAL,” the report said.
