
The Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Board of Trustees (BoT), Chief Anthony Anenih, yesterday  appealed to all Nigerians to join hands against the increasing insurgency in the country, adding that his prayers are with the parents of the abducted students of the Government Secondary School in Chibok, Borno State.

Anenih said he was also praying for their safe return.

The PDP chieftain, in a statement, called on Nigerians to rally round President Goodluck Jonathan to ensure the end of the Boko Haram insurgency.

According to him: “At a time that our nation is facing the menace of terrorism, it is of utmost importance that all Nigerians, irrespective of their regional, religious or political affiliations, should be united in supporting the federal government and all the security agencies in the fight to end terror.

Anenih also deplored the situation where some opposition politicians have tried to make political issues out of it by calling for the resignation of President Jonathan over a group that is waging war against the Nigerian state.

According to Anenih, “Such behaviour is unbecoming of patriotic citizens of a democratic nation like Nigeria.  When militants gunmen attacked a shopping mall in Kenya, killing many people and holding many others hostage, the opposition leader, Rahila Odinga, stood right beside President, Uhuru Kenyatta, while the latter was addressing Kenyans on the dastardly attack.

“We are all witnesses to the fact that when al-Qaeda attacked the United States of America and the United Kingdom, citizens of those countries, irrespective of political affiliations, closed ranks and supported their respective governments in their fight against the perpetrators of terror.

Also, as Nigeria grapples with the challenge of winning the war against terror, the governor of Delta State, Dr. Emmanuel Uduaghan, has urged political leaders to always use their positions to unite the nation and join hands with the relevant authorities in defeating the enemies of the country.

Noting the fact that the international community was aiding the country to combat terror, especially that posed by the extremist Islamist group, Boko Haram, Uduaghan said leaders, irrespective of political leaning should be patriotic in their utterances and support the federal government in the war.

Uduaghan spoke through the Delta State Commissioner for Information, Chike Ogeah, in Lagos when the National Association of Women Journalists (NAWOJ) conferred on him the award of a “Positive Thinker” based on the transformation policies and programmes of his administration which has brought massive economic turnaround in the state.

He expressed dismay at the utterances of some political leaders on the country’s security challenges stressing that it was dangerous to play politics with such a serious national issue.

The governor commended the role of women in nation building noting that in all spheres of endeavour, they hold the hope for Nigeria’s emergence as a major international player.

He particularly frowned at a situation where some persons are perceived as less important and some others arrogate to themselves the monopoly of wisdom, but called for synergy of effort for the common good of the nation.

According to him, Delta State under his leadership has taken deliberate measures, especially through the Delta Micro Credit Programme (DMCP), where over 111,000 people have been empowered to start up and nurture their business, for self reliance in the state in line with the Delta Beyond Oil initiative.

He noted that the programme which is being managed by Dr. Anthonia Ashiedu has won for the state numerous awards, especially that instituted by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to reward states’ initiative in aiding the growth of small businesses.

He pledged the readiness of Delta State to share its rewarding experience in promoting micro-credit with other states.

Speaking at the ceremony, the National President of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Mohammed Garba, described Uduaghan as one of the governors whose policies and programmes have brought about manifest transformation in their states, saying that he deserved the award as well as the numerous others he has received. He described Uduaghan as very focused and committed to the development of his state.

Present at the ceremony held at the weekend were Delta State Commissioner for Agriculture, Mr. Misan Ukubeyenji, Commissioner for Poverty Alleviation, Dr. Anthonia Ashiedu and Commissioner for Special Infrastructure, Mrs. Orezi Esievo.

Please leave your comment below. Your name will appear next to your comment. We'll also keep you updated by email whenever someone else comments on this page. Your comment will appear on this page once it has been approved by a moderator.

Please enter some keywords that you'd like to search for. Your results will be displayed below.

THISDAYLIVE cares about you, help us to report better!
