
(posted May 19, 6:30 am) — The ongoing political, economic and social crisis in Venezuela is starting to reverberate in Nicaragua. With no explanation and a level of extreme hermetic silence that characterizes the Sandinista government, 120 Nicaraguan medical students who had been studying in Venezuela on an ALBA scholarship abruptly returned to Managua yesterday without completing their degrees.

Government officials and leaders of the Sandinista Youth, which managed the ALBA scholarship program, have offered no explanation for the students’ hasty return; students arriving yesterday at the Augusto C. Sandino airport declined to comment, according to La Prensa.

The Nicaraguan daily reported over the weekend that Sandinista political operator Gustavo Porras allegedly told the students’ parents in a private meeting last week that a decision had been made to end the scholarship program in Venezuela and that the students would be sent home immediately.

Porras allegedly promised parents that the students would be transferred into similar medical programs at Nicaragua’s National Autonomous University (UNAN) in León and Managua, though it’s not clear how that will happen. Porras offered no further explanation for the cancelation of the program.

It’s a government program, the Sandinista-Ortega administration will have absolutely no problem putting them in a school INSIDE OF THE COUNTRY THEY RUN.

This has to be intentional subreption on the part of nicaragua Dispatch and the fool that wrote this tainted article.

Calm down, estado. Rather than getting mad at the article, you might want to get mad at the situation that caused the students to be brought home. And remember, state universities have enrollment limits, entrance requirements and exams, and they are well into the school year. There is also the question of which classes already taken will receive credit at the new university. Transferring doesn’t include receiving full credit for previous work – an unlucky reality learned the hard way by many students. There is also the not so little question of university autonomy, hard fought and hard won. Will they enjoy being told: “Accept these students immediately – they are now yours.”? I think the bigger issue is that things are done willy nilly these days, from one day to the next. It’s just not serious. Lastly, the burning question in my mind is: is this fiasco the result of you-know-who’s revenge against students going to the authorities in Venezuela a few weeks (one week?) back to complain about their dire economic circumstances and lack of basic food supplies? Kinda sounds like it.

You’ve been defeated by your own argument. The STATE can ignore the entrance requirements and enrollment limits. It can easily apply earned credits to the student coming back.

Agreed. I’ve gone threw this myself.

However, this is government intervention. The government can easily wave any issues.

You completely ignore the state’s power.

Only part of your reply that is cognizant.
