
A days-long search for a missing Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson soldier had a happy ending Sunday afternoon, with him turning up in Seward and speaking to local authorities.

In a brief statement, APD spokesperson Dani Myren canceled the department’s request for information on 20-year-old Spc. Brian Semrinec’s whereabouts.

Myren says few details were immediately available from Seward about the reason behind Semrinec’s apparent disappearance Monday morning, when he was last seen checking out of the Ramada Inn on 3rd Avenue in Downtown Anchorage.

A Seward Police Department dispatcher said nobody was immediately available Sunday evening to discuss how or where Semrinec, an artilleryman who served a tour of duty in Afghanistan before recently being stationed at JBER, turned up.

Residents of Semrinec's hometown, Bradenton, Fla., have been closely following the case. Murray Miller, the father of one of Semrinec's close childhood friends, was also awaiting word on the circumstances of Sunday's news but said he and locals were ecstatic to hear it.

"We're so, just, relieved," Miller said. "We're extremely thankful."

Miller says efforts by Anchorage residents to locate Semrinec have been greatly appreciated by his loved ones in Bradenton.

"The people in Anchorage have been putting up flyers, contacting us to let us know what's happening," Miller said.

U.S. Army Alaska spokesperson Lt. Col. Alan Brown said Sunday night that he had just found out about Semrinec’s return from APD, with no further details.

“We are certainly glad that he has turned up and is well,” Brown said.

With Semrinec not reporting for duty Tuesday, Brown says any determination of whether he was absent without leave will fall to his superiors.

“At this point, once he gets back to his unit, they will determine what administrative action if any to take,” Brown said.

This is a developing story. Please check KTUU.com and the Channel 2 newscasts for updates.

No email address was supplied by .                                 To complete your registration on this site, please supply an address.

Please confirm or modify the email address to which you will have subscription offers sent.

For a more personalized experience, please supply the following optional information.
