
A close aide of newly-elected Indian prime minister Narendra Modi is tipped to join his government despite facing three charges of murder.

Amit Shah, a former minister in Mr Modi’s home state of Gujerat, helped mastermind the election victory that swept the controversial Hindu nationalist to power on Friday.

He was appointed to run the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) campaign in Uttar Pradesh, India’s biggest state.

His efforts secured 71 of the 80 seats in the state - a significant proportion of the country's 543 MPs.

The Congress party only secured 44 seats nationwide.

Mr Shah faces murder charges linked to the killings by police of three alleged Muslim terrorists in Gujerat, where he was home minister.

He denies the charges, which he says are politically motivated to discredit the new leadership.

According to recent figures, India has a  record number of politicians facing criminal charges with more than a  third of acting officials.

Mr Modi, who was chief minister in Gujerat, faced criticism in 2002 for not doing more to prevent the  slaughter of 2,000 Muslims in reprisal attacks in the state.

Yesterday, he held meetings with leaders at Gujarat Bhavan, a government guesthouse in Delhi.

The official building will act as his residence until he moves into 7 Race Course Road, India’s equivalent to 10 Downing Street.

Voters will be eagerly awaiting the announcement of finance minister - a crucial role for the government that ran on a campaign promising economic revival.

As well as boosting economic growth, tackling a fiscal deficit and preparing for a summit of Bric nations (Brazil, Russia, India and China) in Brazil in July,

The government will have to boost economic growth, tackle a fiscal deficit and prepare for July's summit of the Bric nations (Brazil, Russia, India and China) in July.

The comments below have been moderated in advance.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
