
 Wärtsilä has opened its new service facilities in the Dubai Maritime City as the global leader in complete lifecycle power solutions for the marine and energy markets looks to expand its operations in the region.

With the support of the sales and service centre of Wärtsilä Gulf FZE in Dubai Investment Park 2, the new DMC facility will provide a wide a range of services for engines, propulsion, automation as well as seals and bearings to meet the growing needs of the market and it is also endorsing the expansion strategy of Wärtsilä Services business worldwide.

“Opening a new facility in this strategic location and important regional maritime trading centre demonstrates our commitment to enhance the quality of our services. We will be closer to our customers and hence able to respond promptly to their requirements through locally available high-quality services and spare parts”, said Seppo Hautajoki, Managing Director and Vice President- Services, Wärtsilä Gulf FZE.

H.E Khamis Juma Buamim, Chairman, Drydocks World & Maritime World said Dubai Maritime City is delighted by the development and congratulated Wartsila for their new workshop at DMC.

“The new location will no doubt offer immense advantages, which will help grow your business and aid in networking with the best in the marine business. The development lies close to the heart of the trading hub of Dubai in close proximity to Drydocks World, the international airport and cruise line hub at Port Rashid,” Buamim said.

Wärtsilä Gulf FZE employs about 300 services staff in the Gulf and Middle East region and it is responsible for the services and support of Wärtsilä’s customers in 11 countries by optimising their operations and product-lifecycle through a highly committed organization. Wärtsilä’s new facility is open for business and located at Shed 147B, Dubai Maritime City, Dubai, United Arab Emirates.

and         enter the result. E.g. for 1+3, enter 4.

Published by & © 2014 ITP Business Publishing Ltd. All Rights Reserved. |   Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Policy and Privacy Policy.
