
Dallas, Texas, 05/19/2014 (ustrademedia) – YPF SA (ADR) (NYSE:YPF)’s bid to renew licenses and take control of the auction is opposed by the three Argentina’s provinces holding largest shale oil and gas deposits. The governors of the provinces Neuquen, Mendoza and Chubut namely, Jorge Sapag, Francisco Perez and Martin Buzzi respectively, met recently in Buenos Aires and impelled their congressional representatives to not abide by the move o federalize licensing processes.

The fight hailed from political tensions due to unclear rules prevailing in Argentina’s nascent shale industry. A single federal system will avoid the need to deal with two levels of government for potential license holders. In 2004, then President Nestor Kirchner gave the power to provinces rather than federal authorities to auction oil leases, giving then more control and larger share of natural gas resources. Now YPF is asking for federal licensing system in which provinces will have ownership of oil areas.

Vaca Muerta, a layer of underground rock based in Southern Argentina, contains world’s fourth largest shale oil reserves, after Russia, the U.S., and China, the second biggest gas reserves behind U.S. YPF.  The YPF owns around 37% of VacaMuerta concession areas and has invited companies including Chevron Corp. to help YPF to carry out shale exploration. It announced last year about the YPF-Chevron venture obtaining 3% rights of VacaMuerta till 2048, passed by Neuquen’s legislature.

YPF opposed a Houston roadshow conducted by Neuquen province organized to auction shale areas. The CEO of YPF wanted the federal government or YPF to handle the auctions.

Respol has dropped all legal actions against Argentina in exchange for the bonds. The company had threatened to sue any companies that joined hands with YPF in Argentina while it asked for compensation for the nationalization. The compensation, in terms of bonds totalling $5.32 billion maturing as late as 2033, is less than half of $10.5 billion what the company sought in the beginning. Respol sold a 12% stake in YPF on May 6 through Morgan Stanley (NYSE:MS) for $1.3 billion.
