
The tussle for the position of Gauteng premier continued late into last night.

This is due to a massive fight for power between lobbyists for incumbent Premier Nomvula Mokonyane and supporters of ANC secretary David Makhura.

Initial speculation that the ANC national executive committee would not respect the wishes of the provincial structure were put to bed when ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe said the NEC would not select a premier outside the names nominated by the province.

This is due to a rule adopted by the ANC’s Mangaung conference that its national executive committee may only elect a premier from the pool of three names forwarded by the ANC in the province.

Mokonyane is not favoured by the provincial executive committee. ANC Gauteng submitted Makhura as the number one nominee for that position. This was followed by education MEC Barbara Creecy.

But talks of negotiations still plagued the meeting by late last night and the debate on who should lead the province was still to be finalised.

Mantashe said the party was at pains to ensure gender parity in the eight premiers they are to appoint. “We resolved that if there is a male premier, there will be a female speaker,” he said.

Mantashe would not go into the details of the debate but concluded that it was robust. He said half of the eight provinces were concluded without “any problems”.

These, insiders confirmed, were the North West, Limpopo, Free State and KwaZulu-Natal. North West will see Supra Mahumapelo as its premier while Limpopo will see the incumbent Stanley Mathabatha remain.

Ace Maghushule will also return as the premier in the Free State. The KwaZulu-Natal premier would most likely remain as Senzo Mchunu.

“In other provinces there was some contestation but we will finalise it tonight,” Mantashe said. He said the national leadership painstakingly engaged each province on their nominated leaders.

“We met the whole of Sunday and today and we discussed this matter,” Mantashe said. Insiders said the national leadership included provinces’ election results in the scrutiny.

As the NEC unfolded, there appeared to be a strong push for consensus. Mantashe said all structures would be happy with the decisions of the NEC.

“We will consider from the pool of names nominated by the province,” he said. Insiders noted that President Jacob Zuma opted for a “cautious approach”.

The full names of premiers and speakers of the eight legislatures controlled by the ANC will be announced today.
