
Economically, Africa is on the climb after decades of slow growth and is increasingly becoming the destination of choice for investors within and outside the continent. The continent is now said to be the world’s fastest-growing with about one-third of its countries growing by more than 6 percent, according to the African Development Bank’s (AfDB) Annual Development Effectiveness Review 2013.

South Africa, being the most developed of all African countries, with a sophisticated infrastructure and corporate business hub, is home to the continent’s exclusive and expensive real estate assets with breathtaking architecture.

Though Nigeria, Angola, Equatorial Guinea, Ghana, DRC and Namibia have all become the latest hotspots for new oil and gas blocs that have created overnight billionaires, South Africa’s Cape Town is still the destination of choice, with investors from all over the continent choosing to buy homes there.

The New York Times recently listed Cape Town as the number-one holiday destination in the world. Last year, the city hosted the World Economic Forum for African business leaders. Cape Town is also host of the Annual Mining Indaba and Design Indaba, and was recently named 2014 World Design Capital.

Within the vicinity of this upscale neighbourhood is Nettleton Ridge, very prestigious homes overlooking the sweep of Clifton’s beaches and sheltered between magnificent mountains and indigenous Fynbos.

Clifton Beach, and the sea-side suburb of Clifton, hosts Africa’s most-sought-after real estate. It is home to Billionaires’ Row and is also known as the St Tropez of Africa and the Southern Hemisphere with its sugar-white sand, luxury yachts floating on a turquoise ocean and beautiful bodies soaking up the sun on one of the four pristine, blue flag status coves. It is an international destination and so its real estate commands international prices.

Conceived and developed by Land Equity Group, a South Africa-based equity finance and development company,  Nettleton Ridge, which was architecturally designed by Peerutin Architects, is for Africa’s new titans with its state-of-the-art homes ranging from 1,200 square metres (sqm) to almost 2,000 sqm under roof, and in price from $13 million through to well over $20 million.
