
The Federal Government has begun talks with Boko Haram on how to free the abducted Chibok girls, The Nation learnt yesterday.

The government is also asking the sect to hold its fire in the interest of both parties.

But Boko Haram  is demanding that the military pulls the brakes on its action against its members, a source said yesterday.

The insurgents have also kicked against arrest of their brethren and their detention without trial.

According to sources, the “closed door” talks are being coordinated by Vice-President Namadi Sambo through some clerics and elders in the North.

It was, however, stressed that the talks had nothing to do with “outright negotiation” with the sect because the Terrorism Act forbids payment of ransom.

Some of those involved in the talks have met the Vice-President up to five times, it was learnt.

It was also learnt that the facilitators include some elders from Borno State who have links with some coordinators of Boko Haram.

A source in the Presidency, who pleaded not to be named because he is not allowed to talk on the issue, said: “The government has been engaging Boko Haram through the backdoor. This is being coordinated by the Vice-President.

“The insurgents used to send representatives or emissaries to some of these Northern/ Borno elders and clerics we have engaged.

“These leaders and clerics also give us feedback on their demands which centre on the need to stop military action against them; putting an end to mass arrests of their members and detention; and the release of detained Boko Haram members.

“The government is actually not negotiating with the insurgents, it is just discussing  with them on the basis of ceasefire and the release of the innocent girls.

Responding to a question, the source added: “The way we do it is that we feel their pulse or demand through some of these elders/ clerics or leaders who are known to them. We also tell them what we want.

“In fact, some of these facilitators of the talks have admitted that the Boko Haram leaders are known to them.

Another source said: “I can only tell you that a lot of underground work is being done to set the abducted girls free.

“The latest challenge to the underground talks is the meeting in France where all the nations have agreed to join forces against the sect.

“This development in Paris on Sunday is making the sect to have a rethink if the ongoing talks should continue or not.
