
Tracy Dice Johnson holds a flag from a 'widow's box' that platoon mates of her wife prepared during the service they had for their fallen comrade.

The gay widow of a soldier killed in Afghanistan has received word from the Department of Veterans Affairs that she will receive the same full benefits that heterosexual widows and widowers receive.

It’s even more significant, said Army National Guard Staff Sgt. Tracy Dice Johnson, because the benefits will be retroactive, dating back to her wife’s death in October 2012. That was before the Supreme Court’s ruling in the summer of 2013 overturning parts of the Defense of Marriage Act.

“My hat’s off to the VA,” Johnson said. “It was a long, drawn-out process, but at the end of the day, hearts and minds prevailed.” Among the benefits are the Dependency and Indemnity Compensation, generally paid to spouses and children and some parents of those who died while on active duty. The rate for DIC in 2014 is $1,233.23 a month; Johnson will receive that retroactively to the date of her wife’s death. Johnson, who changed her name legally after her wife died, will also receive medical, education and other benefits.

Johnson’s wife, 29-year-old Army National Guard Staff Sgt. Donna Johnson, one of three soldiers killed Oct. 1, 2012, in Afghanistan by a suicide bomber. As far as is known, Dice and Johnson are the first same-sex married military couple to have suffered a casualty after the repeal of “don’t ask, don’t tell.” They married Feb. 14, 2012, before Johnson’s deployment in August 2012 to Afghanistan.

Stephen Peters, president of the association, noted it has accomplished much in the last five years since partners of gay service members began coalescing into a support group.

There still are challenges, such as lack of access to in-state tution for spouses, and burdens for gay couples who want to adopt. “It’s clear we have a long journey ahead of us, but it’s also clear we’ve come a very long way,” said Peters.

Rosemary Williams, deputy assistant secretary of defense for military community and family policy, praised the group for their work.

“History will record your action and its significance for all time,” said Williams, also noting that the group’s input helped guide the Defense Department in implementing the changes that allowing benefits for same-sex couples in the military.

DoD officials know that the readiness of the military is bolstered by the strength of families, Williams said, and outlined some of the benefits available to all spouses, encouraging them to use them.
