
With fewer than 400 people through the gate of the Northern Territory race course, numbers were down.

But organisers are still happy with the turnout, saying times are pretty tough for people at the moment.

As well as that, plenty of stations in the Barkly area are busy with mustering.

The nearby Tennant Creek Station still hasn't started mustering, so just about all of its workers were there.

The station owner, Ken Ford, says they come in to support the local community.

"We like to come and see the nice dresses and pretty ladies and all that sort of stuff, it's good fun," he said.

"I don't follow the horses at all so I'm only here to drink beer and catch up with a few mates."

One of those mates is Steve Goddard, who travelled 400 kilometres from Avon Downs, where he works as a grader driver.

"This is a pretty important function for Tennant Creek, so we turn up," he said.

"People have travelled from all over the Barkly area.

"There's a lot of people I know and a lot of new faces in town."

Mr Goddard says while he was able to take time off, there are plenty of people back at Avon Downs Station who couldn't come in because they are in the middle of mustering.

Lucy McGuinn, from Phillip Creek Station, 50 kilometres north of Tennant Creek, says they're also busy at the moment, but a few of them managed to make in to town.

She only started there in September, so it's important to come to social events like this one.

"So I can hang out with all my town friends and get to know more people," she said.

"Just to have a bit of a social life for a little while, before we go back out to the station."

For Bessie Ford, from Tennant Creek Station, the races are a chance to get dressed up.

"Especially out here, you don't get too many occasions like this.

"It's good to put time and effort into it," she said.

There were six races on the program, with the 1,600-metre Tennant Creek Cup as the highlight.

Bolton, trained by Steven Royes from Mount Isa in Queensland, won this year's race by half a length.

It's Mr Royes' first win in Tennant Creek, but he says there were some fast horses to compete with.

"There was a couple of horses in there that they had big wraps on and they were obviously going to go forward," he said.

"My horse is a good back horse, he's probably a 2,000-metre-plus horse.

"I instructed Murray Henderson, the jockey, to ride as close to them as he could without putting him under pressure.

"I thought the long straight here at Tennant Creek would suit him and it panned out good."

It's Mr Royes' third time racing in Tennant Creek.

He says the prize money for the $19,000 cup is the big drawcard.

"[The prize money] is superior to where I race and it's [only] five hours away.

"It's an even playing field, it's a nice long straight so every horse gets its chance here.

"The hospitality has been enormous.

"When we rocked up here last night there was a barbeque and free beer, it's a really welcoming place."

This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.
