
PRINCE Harry took time out for a few moments of solitude to contemplate the full horror of war today.

After serving two tours of duty in Afghanistan, the fourth in line to the throne is no stranger to conflict but he appeared visibly moved by the row upon row of white gravestones  in the Commonwealth war cemetery in Cassino, Italy.

Harry, an Army captain, was at the cemetery to attend a British service commemorating the 70th anniversary of the Allied victory at Monte Cassino, scene of some of the bloodiest fighting in the Second World War.

He met around 200 veterans from Britain and other Commonwealth countries who returned to Italy, many for the last time, to remember the comrades they lost and the deprivations they suffered in five months of fighting. A small contingent of serving German troops joined them too, in a symbol of reconciliation not evident at every commemoration across Europe.

The bodies of more than 2,000 British servicemen lie in the cemetery, which stands in the town of Cassino beneath the 1,700ft rocky outcrop where in the ruins of a bombed out 6th century abbey, stubborn German defenders held out for five months, delaying an Allied push on Rome.

Dressed in white Household Cavalry warm weather ceremonial uniform, Harry, 29, laid a poppy wreath at the cemetery's Cross of Sacrifice. His handwritten message in black ink read: "In memory of all those who paid the ultimate sacrifice for our country. Thank you. Harry."

Later, after meeting many of the veterans, he paid tribute to their courage and sacrifice and vowed to return to Cassino in the future to learn more about the conflict from the old soldiers themselves.

"At the end of the day this has always been referred to as the forgotten campaign - to me it makes no sense at all. Those guys in there are as important as everybody else," he said.

"And as I said, listening to some of the stories and banter amongst them, German soldiers and British veterans here together having a laugh I think it's amazing.

"The one thing that I keep getting reminded about is it's fine for everyone to be here and to see the ground the way that it's laid out, but actually from a military point of view...you see all this vegetation trees, walls, buildings everything - none of that was around then.

"So these guys were being asked, directed, to walk through open ground knowing they were going to lose most of their friends and probably themselves as well - so this deserves as much recognition as everything else.

"This was a huge ask and to do it for four or five months - I mean up and down, up and down."

The Prince, who yesterday attended commemorations for Polish and New Zealand veterans, gave long yearned for recognition to the British veterans, who have always felt their sacrifice was overshadowed by D Day in June 1944.

"They were saying they had white mine tape going down the hill for the walking wounded and the guys were going back up - so you were crossing people's paths and they were on their way down and you were on your way up and who knew what was to be expected," he said.

"So I take my hat off (to them). I'm so privileged to be here on this spot, on this ground, to share the last couple of days not only with the Brits but the New Zealanders and the Polish as well, and everybody else who has taken part."

Standing proudly as the sun poking  through the clouds above the rebuilt monastery overlooking them, their medal-adorned chests puffed out, the old soldiers looked at the white headstones on manicured lawns and remembered five months of hell.

"I remember trying to get up the hill - we were up to our waists in mud and water, soaking wet, hungry and full of lice," he said.

"We were being shelled and shot at constantly but it was just a case of keep going. What else was there to do? You couldn't run away.

"The hill was covered in snow and it never stopped raining. You had to do it all in darkness.

The veteran, who returns each year to the site where so many of his friends died,  was delighted Prince Harry had come. "I thought we were forgotten," he said. "It's great to see him here. It's marvellous of him to do it."

The infantryman, from Canterbury, Kent, survived Cassino but was injured during a later attack near Lake Trasimeno in Umbria, where he suffered multiple shrapnel wounds and lost an eye. The great grandfather stayed in the Army for 22 years.

Some of the veterans wore ties bearing the slur that became their badge of honour: D Day Dodgers, an insult which, according to legend, originated from Lady Nancy Astor, a Conservative MP who was alleged to have complained they were sunning themselves in Italy weeks later in 1944 while others were fighting in Normandy.

By a strange quirk of history, her great nephew, Lord Astor, a junior defence minister, was at the cemetery to lay a wreath and he was anxious to defend the family honour. He insisted it was a myth that his great aunt had insulted the soldiers of the Italian campaign.

"She always denied she ever made that remark. In fact she swore to her dying day that she never said it.

"She had three sons and four nephews fighting in the war, including in Italy, so it seems very odd that she would say such a thing. The story just doesn¹t make sense," he said.

"My father, her nephew, was out here with the Household Cavalry. He was captured and spent nearly a year in a POW camp. My great aunt would hardly have accused him of being a D Day Dodger.

"My father always told me that a constituent of hers wrote to her, jokingly saying he was a D Day Dodger. She then mentioned it to someone. Perhaps that is where it came from."

Matthew MacKinnon-Pattison, 89, from Appleby, Cumbria, served with The Argyll and Sutherland  Highlanders at Cassino. He later joined the SAS and was parachuted behind enemy lines in northern Italy.

He was wearing a D Day Dodgers tie and still believed it had come from Lady Astor but agreed that many troops just treated it as a joke.

"t was reported to us that she called us D Day Dodgers. But we were here at Monte Cassino long before D Day ­ we got here back in January of 1944. And we had done our own D Days before that, with the landings in Sicily, Salerno and Anzio. We were fighting like the clappers but our contribution was overshadowed by the Normandy landings which came just two weeks after we took Monte Cassino. D Day took all the limelight," he said.

He recalled crossing the Rapido river in May 1944. ³Jerry had his machine guns aimed at stomach level. They gave us quite a reception. They were hitting us with artillery and Moaning Minnies (Nebelwurfers). It was a hell of a battle. We were in the forefront. You just dug a hole wherever you could and got into it. Quite a few chaps from my section are lying in this cemetery," he said.

See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper,    order back issues and use the historic Daily Express    newspaper archive.
