
It’s almost as if someone is trying to get David Cameron, Boris Johnson and George Osborne’s backs up. First, Laura Wade’s acclaimed play, Posh, started its run at the Royal Court during the 2010 election campaign. Now, the film adaptation — The Riot Club — has released its barnstorming trailer during another election season, a year before the General Election and with a release date (September 12) set so that it will be showing in cinemas just before the senior Conservatives whose university lives it lampoons and denounces are gathering in Birmingham for their crucial party conference.

Irons and Sam Claflin play two freshers who want to join the Riot Club, Oxford’s aristocratic drinking society. At a fateful night in the pub in question, the club’s various members show off their prejudices over wine and forfeits and the 10-bird roast, including when they invite a prostitute to join the fun and ask her to get to work under the table. The story turns dark when the landlord, Chris, asks the boys to leave and their inverted class rage bubbles over with unexpected results.

Leading the cast on screen are the handsome young actors some are calling the new “Brit Pack” — Booth, Irons and Claflin. Booth is known from the BBC adaptations of Great Expectations and Christopher and his Kind, and for glaring out of Burberry poster ads across the capital (Burberry is rumoured to be planning a fashion link-up with the film). He also played Romeo in Carlo Carlei’s Romeo and Juliet last year, during which he was said to be dating young actress Vanessa Kirby, an ex-girlfriend of his co-star Christian Cooke. Later that year Booth was spotted taking Taylor Swift on a date to The Holly Bush pub in Hampstead, and he’s often seen with friend Cara Delevingne.

Alongside him at the Riot Club table is Irons (son of Jeremy and Irish actress Sinéad Cusack), who starred alongside Amanda Seyfried and Gary Oldman in 2011’s Red Riding Hood, and Lamda graduate Sam Claflin, who was Philip Swift in Pirates of the Caribbean and plays Finnick Odair in The Hunger Games. “If only the Bullingdon were that good-looking in real life,” sighed one commentator in Oxford’s student newspaper, The Tab.

We can expect a bit more romance in The Riot Club than we saw in the stage version, given that romcom expert Lone Scherfig is behind the camera. The Danish director made the Oscar-nominated An Education (2009), starring Carey Mulligan, and 2011 hit One Day, based on the David Nicholls novel. Scherfig is associated with the avant-garde film-making movement Dogme 95 (as is Nymphomaniac director Lars Von Trier), which is committed to traditional storytelling in movies and rejects major special effects. The Riot Club is produced by Pete Czernin and Graham Broadbent of Blueprint Pictures, responsible for The Best Exotic Marigold Hotel and Seven Psychopaths. Try Ten Psychopaths this time.

A clever wordplay on the film’s poster reads “Filthy. Rich. Spoilt. Rotten” — hinting at the story’s darker themes. The quote from one of the club members over dinner — “I am sick to death of poor people!” — will be recited with glee by columnists and Labour politicians come release date. Already, the New Statesman’s announcement of the trailer was headlined: “Bad news for Cameron and chums as new Bullingdon film trailer appears”.

By clicking 'search' you are agreeing to our Terms of Use .

Extra pepperoni!
