
The Swedish People’s Party has become an established minority party in Finland, a scrappy player that manages to hold its own from one national election to the next. When elections come round the public perception is that party members close ranks, as its share of the vote comes consistently in at around 6 percent.

Since the 1970s the Swedish People’s Party has been in government, even managing to nab two heavyweight portfolios in the latest ministerial line-ups – the Defence and Justice Ministries.

In its quest to stay in government the ostensibly liberal party has been willing to sing back-up to governments that have leaned left, right or steered a centre course.

The SPP has been everything from a national movement to a language minority party and a liberal group; it has espoused conservative values and embraced the ideals of the free market as and when needed.

In the European political landscape the SPP lines up with the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe along with the Centre Party. The SPP endorses the principle of social equality, speaks for minorities and defends equality in all sectors but it’s also a party of market liberals.

“The goal of European energy policy should be climate-friendly and self-sufficient energy production to ensure that our competitiveness remains strong. We still have to break down barriers to exports and trade in Europe as well as the rest of the world. In terms of transportation Finland is like an island, so a functional sea bridge is essential,” the party said in its European Parliament election manifesto.

All the same previous Swedish People’s Party parliamentary representative Nils Torvalds defended the European Union’s sulphur directive -- requiring costly modifications to ensure reduced sulphur emissions by the shipping industry -- condemned by Finnish industrialists for its potential negative impact on exports and sea trade.

However Yle’s online election tool shows that unlike Torvalds, European Parliament candidates fielded by the minority government partner this year have prioritised economic competitiveness over the environment.

The SPP offers unwavering support for small communities, fisher folk, local agriculturalists, minority and language groups and the Åland Islands.

“The Swedish People’s Party is a typical minority-focused party and is very liberal in its value system in that it embraces many ideologies,” said the Sámi Europarliament election candidate Klemetti Näkkäläjärvi.

SPP MP Christina Gestrin proved true to the party's colours by siding with the rural sector in an Yle MEP candidates’ debate.

“I’m not prepared to cut agricultural supports,” she stated.

The party also favours a pragmatic approach in balancing national autonomy against the might of the European Union.

“Decisions relating to cormorants, seal hunting or the use of snuff can be hashed out on home turf without engaging in indiscriminate tussles over EU directives,” the party remarked in its election manifesto.

Pressed on their foreign policy positions, SPP MEP candidates came down on different sides of the fence. EU expansion to include Turkey and Ukraine as well as NATO membership proved to be the most divisive issues for this otherwise consolidated group. Of SPP Europarliament candidates polled only Defence Minister Carl Haglund as well as his former permanent secretary Marcus Rantala expressed clearest support for joining the military alliance.

MEP candidates also struggled to find common ground on other issues such as unified taxation, a banking union, a European minimum wage and deeper integration.

The Swedish People’s Party’s lone seat in Brussels is also under threat in this year’s election, perhaps more than ever. Winning one of the 13 European parliament seats that will go to Finland -- out of just over 750 seats altogether -- is likely to be a steeper climb than seating two ministers in a 17-member Finnish government.

In the run-up to the European Parliament election on May 25, Yle is devoting a full day of coverage to each party across all its platforms and language services. The SDP is in the spotlight on May 14, the first day of advance voting. Citizens of all EU countries are eligible to vote in Finland’s European Parliament election.

25.8.

24.8.

23.8.

22.8.

21.8.
