
The federal government is taking the unusual step of beginning to sterilise an endangered species it is trying to save.

Johannesburg - Animal cruelty charges have been laid against an elephant sanctuary in the Eastern Cape over alleged cruelty, the NSPCA said on Monday.

The charges were laid against Elephants of Eden, its directors, and management, said inspector Wendy Wilson of the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals .

"This [was] necessary after the NSPCA received horrific footage depicting the cruel and abusive training methods employed to control and train baby and young elephants."

She said the footage showed elephant calves and juveniles being chained, roped, and stretched, shocked with cattle prods, and hit with bull hooks.

"The elephants show signs of crippling injuries with severely swollen legs and feet, debilitating abscesses, and wounds resulting from the abusive use of ropes, chains, and bull hooks", said Wilson.

"The calculated and premeditated cruelty of this nature that took place at this facility is a far cry from the loving sanctuary image, it likes to portray."

She said the footage was taken on the premises of Elephants of Eden . It is described as a safe haven for elephants and owned by the same entity that owns the Knysna Elephant Park.

Wilson said when the NSPCA attempted to inspect the facility, it was denied entry.

"We were obliged to obtain assistance from the police in order to effect [a] warrant."

Wilson said the NSPCA was only allowed entry when the owner was informed that refusal could lead to her arrest. The NSPCA also laid a charge of obstruction of justice against the owner.

Travel - Look, Book, Go!

SMS Alerts Get breaking news stories via SMS.

Blogs Your opinion on you, me and everyone.

Calais Website keywords automated by OpenCalais.

© 2014 24.com. All rights reserved.

Creating your profile will enable you to submit photos and stories to get published on News24.

This username must be unique, cannot be edited and will be used in the URL to your profile page across the entire 24.com network.

* The image you selected could not be uploaded.

Hi News addict,

Join the News24 Community to be involved in breaking the news.
