
A BAHRAINI teenager convicted of rioting has been denied asylum in the UK and will be deported here this week, according to a British newspaper.

Isa Haider Al A'ali was reportedly sentenced in absentia to five years in jail by a Bahraini court in March, having sought political asylum in the UK in February.

However, The Independent says it obtained leaked Home Office documents that state the 19-year-old will be deported to Bahrain on Thursday.

Opposition activists have criticised the decision, but others in Bahrain have welcomed the move.

The UK has often been criticised for allowing Bahraini dissidents to use political asylum as cover for their activities, even after being convicted of serious crimes in Bahrain.

Among those backing Britain's decision to deny Mr Al A'ali asylum are MP and chairman of parliament's human rights committee Ahmed Al Sa'ati, who dismissed claims that the teenager could be mistreated on his return.

"Let me assure everyone that nobody's life is in danger in Bahrain," he said.

"This teenager whose asylum application was rejected by the UK can safely come to Bahrain and get in touch with a lawyer."

The Independent reported that Mr Al A'ali has spent three months at the Harmondsworth detention centre near Heathrow Airport and was among around 100 who staged a hunger strike this month over alleged poor treatment.

A group calling itself Bahrain Watch claims close to 150 Bahrainis have sought asylum in the UK since 2011 unrest.

However, Mr Al Sa'ati claimed those who did so were using it as an excuse to avoid punishment for criminal offences.

"Political asylum is for individuals under threat from their country and is not meant as an escape route for those convicted of crimes," he said.

"What we are seeing is that Bahraini citizens convicted of crimes travel abroad and hire a lawyer to complete asylum requests, but they just want to have immunity and enjoy life in London."

He claimed abuse of the UK's political asylum system meant Bahrainis were unable to get visas on arrival there, unlike citizens of Qatar and the UAE.

"I am glad the UK is finally taking tough measures against those who abuse their policy and I strongly urge them to further review all the applications carefully before taking any decision," he said.

A British Home Office spokesman declined to comment on the specifics of the case yesterday.

However, he said people denied asylum were given a chance to leave voluntarily before action was taken.

"We believe those with no right to be in the UK should return to their home country and we will help those who wish to leave voluntarily," he said.

"However, when they refuse to do so we will take steps to enforce their removal at the earliest opportunity."

Secretary-general of the Bahrain Federation of Expatriate Associations Betsy Mathieson said "human rights handcuffs" had been placed on Western countries by entities such as the European Court of Human Rights.

However, she said security concerns must take priority over an individual's rights and the system should not be abused.

"It is my belief that every country has the right to put national security before human rights of the individual because terrorism is a global disease that no nation has immunity from, so we must all work together to manage and eradicate it," she said.

"Any country that finds foreign nationals committing acts of terror or masterminding and inciting acts of terror at home or abroad needs to be able to take appropriate action.

"For example, even if a foreign national is convicted of such a crime they are not able to easily deport them as they are entitled to up to 17 different appeals processes."

The UK Embassy in Bahrain said Mr Al A'ali's case was a matter for the Home Office and would not comment further, while the Bahrain Embassy in London could not be reached.
