
Thailand ’s caretaker premier called for the military to avoid violence as the army chief imposed martial law after more than six months of political turmoil that brought down an elected leader.

The imposition of martial law nationwide is not a coup, Army Chief Prayuth Chan-Ocha said on local television. The army is seeking to restore order and asks political groups to halt their protests, he said. There was an increased presence of soldiers and military vehicles in the capital Bangkok, although no curfew had been imposed.

A pedestrian walks past Royal Thai Army soldiers stationed on Ratchadamri Road in central Bangkok.

A pedestrian walks past Royal Thai Army soldiers stationed on Ratchadamri Road in central Bangkok.

Political polarization has escalated in the past decade over the role of Thaksin and his allies in a nation that’s seen 11 coups since the end of direct rule by kings in 1932. Thailand has been without a fully functioning government since December, when then-premier Yingluck Shinawatra, Thaksin’s sister, called snap elections in a bid to ease the unrest.

Anti-government protesters halted planned rallies today to assess the army’s decision, said Akanat Promphan, a spokesman for protest leader Suthep Thaugsuban.

The army said in a statement it would ban the broadcast of news that could “trigger fear among the public” and would take 11 satellite TV and radio stations off the air, including Bluesky, which is affiliated with the opposition Democrat party.

The baht fell 0.2 percent to 32.534 against the dollar as of 3:54 p.m., according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency slid as much as 0.6 percent earlier, its sharpest decline since March 20. The benchmark stock index fell 1.1 today after an early decline of as much as 1.6 percent.

The army acted a day after government data showed gross domestic product shrank 0.6 percent in the first three months of 2014 compared with a year earlier.

“Having the military in the headlines is never good for confidence but let’s also keep it in perspective, this also is not necessarily a new development in Thailand,” said Manpreet Gill, senior investment strategist at Standard Chartered Bank in Singapore .

The declaration of martial law is not a surprise, Thaksin said today on his official Twitter account.

“I hope no groups violate people’s human rights or further destroy the democratic process,” Thaksin said.

The army has ignored crimes committed by anti-government protest leaders, Pithaya Pookaman, a spokesman for the ruling Pheu Thai Party, said on Bloomberg Television. “The Army chief has not been very neutral as far as that goes,” Pithaya said.

Thailand is a constitutional monarchy and King Bhumibol Adulyadej , 86, has ruled since 1949. The monarch, whose portrait is hung in most homes and shops, was admitted to the hospital in September 2009, according to the Royal Household Bureau. The king moved in August last year to the Klai Kangwon Palace in the Hua Hin district of Prachuap Khiri Khan province.

A February poll was disrupted by Suthep’s followers and the government and election officials were unable to schedule a new one before Yingluck was removed on May 7 after a court ruled she abused her power in office. Suthep’s protesters have derailed plans for a July 20 election and the army had said previously it may use force to counter any escalation of violence.

Press spacebar to pause and continue. Press esc to stop.

U.S.

U.S.
