
FARIS Al-Rawi, candidate for public relations officer in the People’s National Movement (PNM) internal elections yesterday, expressed gratitude to political leader candidate Pennelope Beckles-Robinson for contesting the post, saying without her the elections would have been “stale”.

Al-Rawi said if there was no one to contest Dr Keith Rowley for poli­tical leadership, there would not have been a chance to see the mandate in action.

“I take my hat off to her, as my sister in politics, and I look forward to the end of today’s exercise and the beginning of the general election exercise which is just upon us,” said Al-Rawi.

Al-Rawi voted at the polling station at Skiffle Bunch panyard at Coffee Street, San Fernando, within the San Fernando West constituency.

Also voting there were San Fernando Mayor Kazim Hosein and Brian Manning, son of former PNM political leader Patrick Manning.

Al-Rawi said the hiccups experienced in the one-man-one-vote election process yesterday were inevitable. He said even his mother, Diane Seukeran, a PNM stalwart, was not initially on the list of voters for yesterday’s elections.

“My mom, who everybody knows was a member of Parliament and representative for San Fernando West, was not on the list. She went through the positioning of making sure her name was back on the list, etc. So it is not an unusual occurrence. Right in my own family we had several instances of them.

“So this being our first foray into a one-man-one-vote, it is expected that there would be a hiccup here or there. The key thing was to make sure that there was as broad as possible in its participation so as to get a democratic field. There was need to have as wide an election base as possible so we can get into this exercise.

“Our party is nearly 59 years old and I welcome the broadening of the democracy championed by Dr Rowley, but more particularly put into effect by the convention of the PNM on the floor of the convention,” he said.

Al-Rawi added the internal elections improved mobilisation of its members and democracy within the party.

“The PNM is on a march to improve its democracy today. We go into this election with several fragments, but we are going to come out of this election as one party. So we are all very much looking forward to the end of the election because we are going to move forward as a team. What has been phenomenal about the election has been the mobilisation.

“Dr Rowley I would like to take my hat off personally to, for bringing forward the contest for his leader­ship well before the (2015) general election, before it was due and for energising and mobilising the party. It has been a phenomenal experience,” he said.

Hosein told the media he anticipated victory for Rowley.

By 5.30 p.m., Hosein said San Fernando East MP Patrick Manning had not turned out to the polls to vote. “His name is on the list so he should be here,” said Hosein.
