
LOCALS and tourists were treated to a very special Sunday music session at the Elands Community Store when members of the fabulous "Black Train" played. Hailing from Lismore, the band played Bent on Food on Saturday night then headed to Elands for a wonderfully entertaining session on Sunday. Pictured are three of the satorially elegant band members belting it out for a delighted lunch crowd. The band specialises in "dirt bowl" music featuring double bass, mandolin, banjo, violin and wonderful vocal harmonies, and listening to them you'd almost swear you'd wandered on to the set of "O Brother Where Art Thou." The lads were very taken with Elands and prepared for their gig by trecking to the bottom of Ellenborough Falls for an invigorating morning swim. The locals loved the music and eagerly extended invitations to return.

A bygone Elander now dwelling in Newcastle returned for some home cooking and a birthday celebration last weekend. Luis Knight and his girlfriend Cassie Brack spent the weekend on the Bulga and took advantage of the beautiful weather on Saturday with a walk around the Falls with their adorable new labrador pup Baxter. Saturday evening was spent at Bent on Food enjoying the music of the afore mentioned "Black Train," and we extend many thanks to Donna Carrier and staff for their warm hospitality and a surprise birthday dessert for the guest of honour. Luis and Cassie are pictured with Donna delivering the sweet treat which was followed by a special "Black Train" birthday serenade.

JANE Watson headed to Sydney on the weekend for her flight to Bali in order to be the first to arrive there for the wedding of Rhonda Jones. Rhonda, who ran the Elands store for many years, settled in Bali a few years ago and love came calling in the form of her Balinese beau, Made (No, not Ketut!). The wedding takes place in June, and Jane's there early to help with preparations. A number of Bulga folk are following in June to bring a little bit of Elands to the celebrations and we wish Rhonda and Made all the happiness in the world. I look forward to posting photos of the big day in this column in June.

HUGE congratulations to part time Elander Georgia Watt who became engaged to long time boyfriend Beaumont Major last weekend. Mum Cheree is over the moon and the entire Elands community is stoked for them. Georgia and Beau were key players in the establishment of the Elands Co-op shop and were valued community members in the early days of getting things rolling. They've since moved to Sydney and occasionally pop up to visit Cheree and family. On behalf of us all I say "Go you good things!."
