
LAST season's Ipswich premier jockey Michael Cahill edged closer to the lead for the current season with his latest win at Bundamba.

Cahill guided home Execute at Dawn for Gold Coast trainer Desleigh Forster last Friday.

Despite the top weight of 58 kilograms for the 2150 metre three year old handicap, Execute at Dawn was well ridden to claim a comfortable win for connections.

IT is a short turnaround from last Friday to tomorrow's meeting at Ipswich although the renovated track appears to be handling the schedule very well.

Trainers and owners have given the track a massive thumbs up judging by the enormous interest in racing tomorrow.

A whopping 210 nominations were received and there have been nine races scheduled for the day.

The two year old field had to be split in two after attracting massive nominations.

These big numbers provide good signs for the Ipswich Turf Club and Racing Queensland overall, especially given that the race split was for two year olds - indicating high stocks of the younger generation of gallopers.

After four meetings back on the renovated track, all stakeholders are happy with the racing surface.

The only item mentioned has been the faster times being run.

THE annual scramble for tickets for the Ipswich Cup meeting has moved into top gear with four weeks until the big day.

The grandstand marquees have been fully sold out with a larger number than last year.

Infield marquee tickets are becoming hot property.

The large Corona Marquee is expected to host 3000 patrons on the infield and already there appears more interest in the day overall than in previous years.

This is great news given that Ipswich Cup Day has in recent times been the largest meeting of the Winter Carnival by attendances - attracting even more than Doomben when Black Caviar raced in the 10,000 three years ago.

HIGH quality multiple group 1 winning mare Streama on Saturday took out the Doomben Cup, the second Group 1 race on offer in the Winter Carnival.

It was Streama's fourth Group 1 in a glittering career that has netted the owners of the mare prize money in excess of $2.5m.

Saturday's win was the first Group 1 win for Streama outside of Sydney, with her previous top level victories being in the Flight Stakes, Australian Oaks, and George Main Stakes.

The placings in the Doomben Cup were filled by up and coming stayer Leebaz who is by Zabeel and trained by the Hawkes stable, and the Chris Waller trained Junoob giving a Sydney trained trifecta.

This week, the Group 1 race is the time-honoured Doomben 10,000.

Buffering is aiming to collect his first Queensland-based Group 1.

Rebel Dane, Spirit of Boom, Famous Seamus and Knoydart are all in the betting.

Following 10,000 day at Doomben the Winter Carnival moves to Eagle Farm for the Group 1 Queensland Oaks on May 31.

On June 7, Eagle Farm hosts its Super Saturday with the three Group 1 events of the Stradbroke Handicap, Queensland Derby, and T.J. Smith Stakes.

On June 14, is time for the Ipswich Cup - long regarded as the social race day of the Queensland Winter Carnival.

Help make the news! Share your photos, stories, events or just post a general notice to the community.

© Sunshine Coast Newspaper Company Pty Ltd 2014. Unauthorised reproduction is prohibited under the laws of Australia and by international treaty.

Refer to our helpful FAQ section for any problems you might be experiencing.
