
Explore these photos to understand the scale of what scientists say is the world’s biggest dinosaur, 130 feet long.

Take the elephant, today’s largest land-bound animal. Then stack 14 of them on top of one another. Then — and only then — would it be possible to conceive of the size of this mega-dino.

It wasn’t the fiercest dinosaur in the world. That title still belongs to the T. Rex — or, as we reported two weeks ago — perhaps the newfound P. Rex .

The remains were found near the central Argentine town of El Sombrero. Initially stumbled upon by a local farmer, they hint at a dinosaur that weighed 80 tons — 10 tons heavier than the previous record holder, the Argentinosaurus. Belonging to a sauropod subgroup called Titanosaur, it stalked the Earth nearly 100 million years ago, its long serpentine neck swaying to and fro, munching on the vegetation of Patagonia.

So for now the researchers are holding off on naming the dino. “It will be named describing its magnificence and in honor to both the region and the farm owners who alerted us about the discovery,” one of the researchers said.

Explore these photos to understand the scale of what scientists say is the world’s biggest dinosaur, 130 feet long.

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
