
Rural development companies have vowed to continue applying for future EU funding, despite facing abolition in July under radical government reform plans.

The news came yesterday as representatives of several local development companies (LDCs) launched a robust defence of their sector and vowed to fight Environment Minister Phil Hogan’s reform proposals.

“The message from the companies in Cork is ‘hands off’,” a spokesman said at a press conference in Cork.

Mr Hogan has ordered a full review of the 50 local development companies operating across the country after they were identified as local government quangos in Colm McCarthy’s An Bord Snip Nua report.

The taxpayer-funded bodies are charged with helping businesses and community groups to grow and carry out initiatives. They also administer EU-funded Leader programme grants.

However, Mr Hogan wants to privatise Leader funding and align LDCs with local authorities — a move that is being opposed by the representative body, the Irish Local Development Network.

He said the review is warranted because, in some cases, up to one third of their public funding is being spent on salaries and administration.

LDC representatives yesterday accused Mr Hogan of issuing a misleading statement in relation to the administration costs.

LDC representatives said almost 20 years of unprecedented development in rural communities will be lost, the expertise of LDCs will be dismantled, and the democratic deficit in  rural Ireland will be further exacerbated.

“LDCs were set up by community representatives on the introduction of Leader to Ireland,” the spokesman said.

They said any question of duplication of services was addressed though a process of cohesion during 2008, where the number of LDCs was reduced from more than 100 to 54.

Representatives said LDCs are subjected to the most rigorous scrutiny in the State and suggested that, if that standard of accountability in the Leader programme was mirrored in Government departments, the country would be in a far better place.

They added that the futures of City Partnerships have been assured, while rural communities are targeted under this reform plan.

Irish Examiner live news app for smartphones lets you quickly access breaking news, sport, business, entertainment and weather.
