
The ongoing war in Syria has crystallized divisions within the opposition jihadi  camp, a development that will have a tremendous effect on the future of global  jihad.

Despite the horrendous humanitarian catastrophe that is ongoing in  Syria, the division between the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) and  al-Qaida’s Syrian branch, the Nusra Front, could be good news for their  opponents in Israel and the West, as the infighting makes attacks on Western  targets less probable.

“The former Iraqi  branch of al-Qaida [ISIL] has now superseded [Osama] bin Laden’s network to  become the more important driving force behind the global jihad,” he  said.

But it is ISIL’s leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, and not  Zawahiri, who is the leader of global jihad today, argued Filiu.

Filiu,  who is a former adviser to the prime minister and minister of defense, explains  that after the US invasion of Afghanistan, when all the attention was on the  hunt for bin Laden, it was the Jordanian Abu Musab al-Zarqawi who was building  his own organization in Iraqi Kurdistan, which was called al-Tawhid  wal-Jihad.

The al-Qaida leadership worried that Zarqawi’s  mass killings against Shi’ite civilians would cause a backlash, but at the same  time did not want to lose the group that was leading the Iraqi insurgency,  argued Filiu.

After Zarqawi’s death in 2006, and that of the following  appointed leaders, the Iraqi Baghdadi took over the Islamic State in Iraq and  refused to pledge allegiance to Zawahiri after bin Laden’s death.

The  uprising in Syria gave Baghdadi the opportunity to use the networks that brought  fighters from Syria and to instead turn it around, and send jihadis to fight  Syrian President Bashar Assad’s forces.

Then, in 2013, he renamed his  organization ISIL, but the Nusra Front rejected the takeover of the Syrian  front.

“Their objectives were quite different, even  contradictory. The ISIL was fairly comfortable with Assad staying in  power for the time being, as it was more interested in building its own base,  while the Nusra Front was adamantly resolved to topple the dictator,” asserted  Filiu.

Filiu told The Jerusalem Post that he believes the struggle  between the two groups has nothing to do with pragmatism but – like Zarqawi of  yesterday and Baghdadi of today – is about the quest for absolute control on the  ground.

“While bin Laden of yesterday and Zawahiri of today accepted the ‘protection’ of Taliban patrons to develop their global networks,” it is the  ISIL that actually has a growing territorial hold, he said.

Filiu said the distinction between “global jihad” and “national jihad,” which sticks to state borders, was already clear in Iraq  between the “global” outlook of Zarqawi and the “national” insurgency that  included jihad propaganda and foreign volunteers.

When the Nusra Front  was confronted by ISIL’s attempt at a hostile takeover in April last year, the  group responded by pledging allegiance to Zawahiri, hoping to remove the  pressure from ISIL.

The Nusra Front however, discovered that the al-Qaida  leadership’s power was virtual, since it did not alleviate the pressure,  explained Filiu.

Aymenn Jawad al-Tamimi, a  Shillman-Ginsburg fellow at the Middle East Forum and a student at Brasenose  College, Oxford University, told the Post that he disagrees with Filiu’s  conclusion that ISIL fighters’ outreach is growing regionally as groups switch  their allegiance from al-Qaida to ISIL.

“None of al-Qaida’s official affiliates  in Somalia, the Maghreb or Yemen are planning to switch allegiance as Filiu  seems to imply,” though “there are of course pro-ISIL elements within al-Qaida  in the Arab Peninsula, al-Shabaab, etc., but they do not control these  organizations,” he continued.

“All that said, the level of foreign jihadi  support for ISIL is sufficient to ensure the group’s existence for the  foreseeable future,” he said, and any hope that Zawahiri has of marginalizing  the ISIL, as happened to the Armed Islamic Group in Algeria during the 1990s, is  unlikely to pan out.

Your comment must be approved by a moderator before being published on JPost.com. Disqus users can post comments automatically.

Comments must adhere to our Talkback policy . If you believe that a comment has breached the Talkback policy, please press the flag icon to bring it to the attention of our moderation team.
