
An inquiry into alleged Liberal Party slush funds threatened to descend into a "screaming match" on Monday as former New South Wales energy minister Chris Hartcher clashed with counsel assisting the Independent Commission Against Corruption's (ICAC), Geoffrey Watson SC.

ICAC commissioner Megan Latham was forced to intervene, telling the two men to "back off" after Mr Hartcher angrily rejected assertions by Mr Watson that he had been "instrumental" in setting up a sham company to launder funds from banned donors.

Mr Hartcher on Monday made a long-awaited appearance before the corruption watchdog's investigation into allegations of donations to the Liberal Party for favours.

An argument broke out when he was grilled about $4,000 worth of bank cheques made out to the Liberal Party allegedly laundered through the trust fund of his old law firm, Hartcher Reid, in 2011 and deposited into the account of IT firm Micky Tech.

The IT firm is owned by the partner of one of Mr Hartcher's staffers, Ray Carter.

Mr Watson questioned Mr Hartcher about asking his nephew, Sebastian Reid, to draw up the cheque to Micky Tech and then sending it to his electoral office.

Mr Watson accused Mr Hartcher of using his nephew as a conduit to launder money through the firm's trust account.

Mr Hartcher denied the accusation.

He repeatedly told the ICAC he "doesn't recall" anything about the transaction or a phone call he made to the firm the day before the cheques were deposited.

He also denied he asked Mr Carter to give false evidence about what eventually happened to the $4,000.

Mr Carter has previously told the inquiry that he withdrew the cash and gave it to Mr Hartcher.

Mr Watson put to Mr Hartcher that, "you pocketed the $4,000".

To which Mr Hartcher replied: "I reject that absolutely. I reject it absolutely and I resent it."

In a raised voice, Mr Watson shot back: "Don't you dare tell me you resent anything I say."

Ms Latham then intervened, saying: "Can we all just back off right now. I don't want things to degenerate into a screaming match."

Accusing the two men of "setting each other off", she described Mr Watson's outburst as a temper tantrum and said Mr Hartcher's comments were not helping.

Mr Hartcher has also denied setting up a secret Liberal party slush fund called Eightbyfive.

Mr Watson has suggested Mr Hartcher helped set up Eightbyfive in the lead up to the last state election to funnel illegal donations to the campaign's right wing Liberal candidates on the Central Coast.

The fund is alleged to have issued sham invoices to hide secret donations for political favours.

Asked if he set up Eightbyfive to wash funds that were illegally donated, Mr Hartcher said: "No."

Mr Hartcher told the ICAC he introduced his former staffer and alleged Eightbyfive founder Tim Koelma to Nabil Gazal senior of the company Gazcorp, and Nick di Girolamo, the former head of Australian Water Holdings (AWH).

Mr Hartcher said he introduced Mr Koelma to property development company Buildev because the company needed someone to advise on government relations.

He said he introduced Mr Koelma to them all as a "friend and counsellor".

Mr Hartcher replied with "an emphatic no" to a suggestion by Mr Watson that former NSW police minister Mike Gallacher made an introduction between Buildev and Eightbyfive.

He also denied collecting finances from the organisations for Eightbyfive and repeatedly denied taking money from prohibited donors for Liberal Party favours from a long list of people read out by Mr Watson to the commission.

"I did not do any favours for any person," he said.

Mr Hartcher also denied doing any corrupt deals for AWH, the company linked to disgraced former MP Eddie Obeid which was at the centre of a separate ICAC inquiry.

He also asked what evidence there was of any favours, saying that it was in the hope he could "restore his reputation".

Mr Hartcher's counsel said his reputation had been trashed by the generalities raised.

Ms Latham called on Mr Hartcher to "stop making speeches" and said that his counsel was doing it for him.

The commissioner became increasingly frustrated with Mr Hartcher's repeated denials, saying the hearing was not getting anywhere, and called for an adjournment.

Earlier, a $2,000 cash withdrawal slip from Eightbyfive was tendered to the hearing, as well as a cheque deposit for $68 and $2,000 into Mr Hartcher's bank account on January 24, 2011.

Mr Hartcher said the deposit slip was not in his handwriting and he did not know about it.

Mr Hartcher also said there was no reason why he should be receiving money from Eightbyfive.

He said he did not recall cheques given to him at a Liberal party fundraiser by Liberal party official John Caputo, who earlier testified that he had.

Mr Hartcher said it would be an undesirable practice to use a member of parliament to carry cheques, and that it was not encouraged by the Liberal Party.

He said that if he were given the cheques it would only be as kind of "post boy" to give them to his fundraiser, Mr Carter, the following day when he returned to the Central Coast.

Another suspended Central Coast Liberal MP - the member for Wyong Darren Webber, whose 2011 election campaign was allegedly bankrolled by Eightbyfive - also appeared at the inquiry on Monday morning.

Mr Watson became frustrated with Mr Webber when asking who gave him thousands of dollars in cash he deposited into an account in 2010 and 2011.

He said it could have come from his father or from Mr Koelma, but he "couldn't say", despite repeated requests from Mr Watson, who eventually asked if Mr Webber was "making up" his evidence.

Mr Webber said he did not declare payments from Eightbyfive to the tax office until the ICAC began investigating the company three years later.

He said the company engaged him on a monthly retainer before the 2011 state election, to provide political advice.

Both Mr Hartcher and Mr Webber have been sitting on the crossbench since last year, along with fellow Central Coast MP Chris Spence.

The public hearing is now entering its fourth week and is expected to sit again on Tuesday before adjourning until August.

Click or tap on the people and connecting relationships to explore the unfolding ICAC investigation.

A former member of the New South Wales Parliament, Mr Obeid was a Labor powerbroker who ICAC has previously found used his influence within the party to corruptly further coal mining interests for himself and his family.

The youngest son of Eddie Obeid. Eddie Obeid Junior was appointed director of strategic growth at Australian Water Holdings (AWH), and engineered the purchase of $3 million in shares in the company. He told ICAC that despite appearances he was only a consultant for the company and the share purchase was actually security against a loan for Nick Di Girolamo.

The middle son of Eddie Obeid. ICAC heard Moses Obeid allegedly boasted that the AWH water deal would make his family "over $100 million", a claim he has denied.

A fund raiser for the Liberal Party, Mr Di Girolamo joined AWH, giving himself a $1.1 million salary when he became chief executive and majority shareholder in the company. Mr Di Girolamo is being investigated by ICAC for billing salaries and expenses to Sydney Water, as well as his links with the Obeid family.

A Federal Liberal senator, he stood aside from his role as assistant treasurer after his involvement in AWH emerged. Senator Sinodinos served as director and chairman of AWH, and during that time also served as the finance director and president of the New South Wales branch of the Liberal Party. While Senator Sinodinos was involved in both organisations AWH made $75,000 in donations to the New South Wales Liberal Party. ICAC commissioner Megan Latham says it is unlikely a corrupt conduct finding will be made against Senator Sinodinos.

A former New South Wales Labor premier, Ms Keneally was unsuccessfully lobbied to push through a public-private partnership that would have benefited AWH. Ms Keneally also rejected a doctored Cabinet minute that aimed to ensure the public-private partnership would go through.

The Sydney Water corporation is a New South Wales Government-owned corporation charged with providing drinking water and wastewater services to Sydney, the Illawarra and the Blue Mountains regions.

Australian Water Holdings (AWH) is an infrastructure company that consults on water services. It is currently being investigated by ICAC over attempts by its management to procure a public-private partnership with Sydney Water that would have vastly increased the company’s value, as well as the billing of inappropriate payments and expenses to Sydney Water.

The former infrastructure minister in the New South Wales Labor government, who has admitted signing off on a doctored Cabinet minute that favoured AWH. Mr Kelly said he did not read the minute before signing it, but denied "wilfully turning a blind eye" to mistakes in the document. ICAC has previously found Mr Kelly engaged in corrupt behaviour.

The former ports minister in the New South Wales Labor government, Mr Tripodi has been accused by ICAC of involvement in the authorship of a 'doctored' Cabinet minute that favoured AWH, a claim he has denied.

The former managing director of AWH, Mr Rippon recruited Nick Di Girolamo to AWH because of his political connections. Among expenses AWH charged to Sydney Water was Mr Rippon's salary of $1.7 million.

The former chief executive of Sydney Water, Dr Schott questioned the exorbitant expenses charged by AWH to Sydney Water and eventually initiated legal action over them.

Mr De Aboitiz invested $1 million in AWH, and after discovering the state of the company's finances, raised concerns about the company's spiralling costs with Arthur Sinodinos.

A former Labor premier of New South Wales, who was lobbied by Eddie Obeid in 2008 to ensure that Sydney Water continued to deal with AWH.

A former Labor premier of New South Wales, who was lobbied by Eddie Obeid. ICAC also heard Mr Rees described AWH as "a bunch of crooks".

The former New South Wales Labor treasurer, who took over the role of AWH chairman from Arthur Sinodinos. Mr Costa told ICAC he was shocked at the company's spending, including an emergency $5 million cash injection being spent on back-paying directors, and attempted to bring the company's finances under control. ICAC counsel-assisting Geoffrey Watson SC has said Mr Costa's role seemed "to have been a positive one".

The political party of the current New South Wales and Federal governments.

The political party of the former New South Wales government.

A sub-faction within the right wing of the New South Wales Labor Party, headed by Eddie Obeid and named after Mr Obeid's beach house at Terrigal.

ICAC heard that in 2010 an expert consultant prepared a Cabinet minute - a document used by the government to make decisions - recommending a decision against a partnership between AWH and Sydney Water. Former Labor ministers Tony Kelly and Joe Tripodi are accused of corruptly changing the document to recommend the reverse, and attempting to resubmit it to Cabinet.

An investment banker, formerly with Goldman Sachs, who is a long-time associate of the Obeid family. Mr Brook provided evidence to ICAC about the sale of shares in AWH to the Obeids by Nick Di Girolamo, which Moses and Eddie Obeid Junior have called a loan.

A former New South Wales premier, Mr O'Farrell stood down in April 2014 after it emerged he had misled ICAC over the gift of a $3,000 bottle of Grange Hermitage from Nick Di Girolamo. He initially told ICAC he did not receive the bottle of wine, but after a handwritten note thanking Mr Di Girolamo emerged he said he had suffered a "massive memory fail" but would take responsibility and resign. ICAC counsel-assisting Geoffrey Watson SC said "on a personal level" he was sorry Mr O'Farrell had resigned over the matter and when he set out to question him he "in no way wanted Mr O'Farrell to lose his job".

An alleged slush fund set up by Tim Koelma, a former senior policy advisor to former New South Wales Liberal energy minister Chris Hartcher. The fund received $183,342 from AWH while Arthur Sinodinos was serving as deputy chairman or chairman.

A former senior policy advisor to former News South Wales Liberal energy minister Christopher Hartcher. Mr Koelma was also on $7,000-per-month retainer with AWH. Mr Koelma is among a group of people being investigated by ICAC over whether they solicited payments in return for political favours.

A former News South Wales Liberal resources and energy minister and current Liberal MP, Mr Hartcher resigned from Cabinet in December 2013 after ICAC raided his offices. He voluntarily withdrew from the Liberal Party after moves were put in place to suspend him and two other MPs over ICAC's decision to investigate claims they solicited money in return for favours.

The Premier of Queensland. ICAC was told Mr Newman met with Nick Di Girolamo in the lead-up to his re-election as lord mayor of Brisbane in 2007. In response to a request from Paul Nicolaou, a firm related to AWH made a $5,000 donation to Mr Newman's re-election campaign. A State Government spokesman said it was unlikely Mr Newman would have agreed to the meeting if he had known that a donation had been solicited, and the donation was paid back in March 2014.

The Queensland director-general of the Department of Premier and Cabinet, Mr Grayson was director of a company, Gasfields Water Management, that AWH owned shares in. Mr Grayson remains a partner in the restructured business, Gasfield Water and Waste Services, which has links to the Obeid family.

The former head of the Australian Hotels Association. Mr Nicolaou's company, Solutions R Us, was on a retainer with AWH for four years, during which time it was paid $225,000 that was billed to Sydney Water. Mr Nicolaou was also an executive of the Millennium Forum, the Liberal Party's fundraising arm, but stood down from both roles after ICAC alleged he was aware of a strategy to channel illegal political donations to the Liberal Party.

A New South Wales Coalition MP representing the Central Coast seat of Wyong. Mr Webber voluntarily withdrew from the Liberal Party after ICAC announced it was investigating claims that he, along with fellow MPs Chris Hartcher and Chris Spence, solicited money from various sources in return for favours.

A New South Wales Liberal MP representing the Central Coast seat of The Entrance. Mr Spence voluntarily withdrew from the Liberal Party after ICAC announced it was investigating claims that he, along with fellow MPs Chris Hartcher and Darren Webber, solicited money from various sources in return for favours.

A Federal Liberal senator representing New South Wales, who according to reports in News Limited papers spent several years investigating the Eightbyfive fund after learning a failed Liberal candidate making a $5,000 donation to the Liberal Party was told to donate to the fund.

A former staffer for former New South Wales energy minister Chris Hartcher. Mr Carter was named by ICAC when it announced it was investigating claims several New South Wales MPs were involved in soliciting money in return for favours. Mr Carter has admitted to the state's corruption watchdog that he knew he was collecting money from banned political donors.

A Liberal Party MP who ICAC alleged solicited an illegal $5,000 donation from a developer. Ms Ficarra has denied the allegations, but has voluntarily stood aside from the Liberal Party pending the investigation.

A Liberal Party trust that ICAC alleged was used to funnel prohibited donations to the Liberal Party from developers, who are banned from making donations.

A Wyong builder who brought allegations of an illicit donation to the attention of Liberal Senator Bill Heffernan. Mr Lusted said he was asked to make a $5,000 donation to central coast Liberal MPs, but not declare it, by Ray Carter, then an advisor to Liberal MP Chris Hartcher.

The former NSW Labor Treasurer, ICAC heard Mr Roozendaal was aware of an alleged bribe mining magnate Nathan Tinkler allegedly tried to give Labor MP Jodi McKay.

A one-time billionaire and former coal mining magnate, Mr Tinkler has been accused by ICAC of involvement in illicit donations to the Liberal Party. ICAC also heard allegations Mr Tinkler offered a bribe to Labor MP Jodi McKay.

ICAC alleges that Ms Wills, an associate of former Labor MP Joe Tripodi, worked as a consultant for Nathan Tinkler’s Buildev company, and was involved the distribution of leaflets making damaging allegations about then Labor MP Jodi McKay in the lead-up to the 2011 election.

A former Labor MP who told ICAC that prominent Newcastle businessman Nathan Tinkler offered her a bribe in the lead-up to the 2011 election.

The NSW Police Minister, ICAC has alleged Mr Gallacher was involved in the setup of a scheme to channel illicit donations from businessman Nathan Tinkler’s Buildev company. Mr Gallacher has now stepped aside as police minister.

A co-founder of Nathan Tinkler’s Buildev development company, Mr Williams is accused by ICAC of being involved in an attempt to channel banned donations to the Liberal Party, as well as dealing with NSW Labor MPs Joe Tripodi and Eric Roozendaal to unfairly advantage Buildev in the lead-up to the 2011 NSW election.

NSW MP, who was elected as a Liberal in the 2011 NSW election. Mr Cornwell stood aside from the Liberal Party resigned from Parliament after ICAC alleged he accepted $10,000 in election funding from Newcastle developer, and current Newcastle Lord Mayor, Jeff McCloy.

The State Member for Newcastle, who was elected as a Liberal in the 2011 NSW election. Mr Owen stood aside from the Liberal Party and resigned from Parliament after admitting to lying about a donation from Newcastle developer Jeff McCloy.

Mr Owen announced in May he would not contest the 2015 NSW election because it "appears highly likely" prohibited donors "contributed in some way" to his campaign without his knowledge.

A Newcastle developer, who is currently serving as the Newcastle Lord Mayor, Councillor McCloy has been named by ICAC as one of a number of developers who donated to the campaigns of several NSW Liberals, despite the ban on developer donations.

The NSW MP for Swansea, who stood aside after Newcastle Lord Mayor Jeff McCloy told ICAC he gave Mr Edwards cash for his campaign, violating the electoral funding laws. Mr Edwards will sit on the cross-benches, and released a statement saying he was looking forward to clearing his name.

Eddie Obeid Junior has worked for the Obeid family trust, a multi-million-dollar organisation that has benefited from Mr Obeid Senior's political connections. ICAC has heard Mr Obeid Senior lobbied senior Labor politicians over AWH on behalf of his sons.

Moses Obeid has worked for the Obeid family trust, a multi-million-dollar organisation that has benefited from Eddie Obeid Senior's political connections. ICAC has heard Mr Obeid Senior lobbied senior Labor politicians over AWH on behalf of his sons.

ICAC heard Eddie Obeid lobbied Nathan Rees, Kristina Keneally and Morris Iemma to help set up meetings for Nick Di Girolamo over AWH's business dealings with Sydney Water. He also admitted to ICAC it was "possible" he attended a meeting with Mr Di Girolamo, his son Eddie Obeid Junior, and then-treasurer Michael Costa regarding AWH.

ICAC heard Eddie Obeid lobbied Tony Kelly on behalf of AWH and his son in relation to a public-private partnership. Mr Kelly is accused of attempting to manipulate the government into approving a deal that would have netted the Obeids up to $60 million.

ICAC heard Eddie Obeid lobbied Joe Tripodi on behalf of AWH and his son. Mr Tripodi was a senior figure of the Terrigal sub-faction within the New South Wales Labor right headed by Mr Obeid. Mr Tripodi is accused of attempting to manipulate the government into approving a deal that would have netted the Obeids up to $60 million.

ICAC heard Eddie Obeid lobbied Kristina Keneally on behalf of AWH and his son Eddie Obeid Junior when she was premier, calling her at home. Ms Keneally told ICAC she confronted Mr Obeid about his son's employment in AWH, saying the proposal would have to stand on its own merits, to which he replied that there were people with Liberal connections involved as well. Mr Obeid initially told ICAC he never spoke to Ms Keneally about AWH, but changed his testimony after Ms Keneally gave evidence. Ms Keneally was a member of Mr Obeid's faction within the right wing of the ALP, the Terrigals, and was elevated to the premiership with their support.

Eddie Obeid allegedly told Labor MP Phillip Costa he should "sack the bitch" when referring to Dr Schott. Mr Costa told ICAC that when he took on the role of water minister in 2009, Mr Obeid lobbied him over the AWH deal and warned him to "keep away from Ms Schott, they're coming after her".

ICAC heard Eddie Obeid lobbied Morris Iemma over AWH in 2008 when Mr Iemma was premier of New South Wales. Mr Iemma told ICAC Mr Obeid called him and asked him to intervene to ensure that Sydney Water continued dealing with AWH, without disclosing that his family had links to the company.

ICAC heard Eddie Obeid lobbied Nathan Rees when Mr Rees was water minister in 2008. Mr Rees told 7.30 that Mr Obeid approached him on the steps of Parliament and said he should meet with Nick Di Girolamo over an issue he had with Sydney Water. Sydney Water was refusing to pay bills from AWH, and Mr Rees said he spoke to the head of Sydney Water, Kerry Schott, who said that AWH should pursue the matter in court.

ICAC heard Eddie Obeid lobbied senior Labor politicians including premiers Kristina Keneally and Morris Iemma on behalf of the company. ICAC also heard that Mr Obeid's family trust secretly owned 30 per cent of AWH, a fact he allegedly did not disclose to the politicians he was lobbying. The Obeids claim their shares in AWH are security for a loan, and do not constitute ownership.

Eddie Obeid is a former member of the Labor Party and was a member of the New South Wales Legislative Council from 1991-2011. During his time in politics he held several ministerial positions, but was predominantly a powerbroker within the party, heading the Terrigals, a powerful sub-faction within the New South Wales right that was named after Mr Obeid's beach house at Terrigal. Mr Obeid was thrown out of the Labor Party in 2013 after ICAC found he had engaged in corrupt conduct relating to mining leases in an area of New South Wales where the Obeids owned property.

According to ICAC Eddie Obeid used his influence with the Terrigals to attempt to further his family business interests on a number of fronts, including minerals exploration, several hospitality businesses owned in Darling Harbour, and through AWH's proposed agreement for services with Sydney Water.

Eddie Obeid lobbied Michael Costa over AWH when Mr Costa was New South Wales treasurer, introducing Nick Di Girolamo to Mr Costa in an attempt to resolve the dispute between AWH and Sydney Water. Mr Costa said he followed legal advice provided by the solicitor-general over the dispute. Mr Costa joined AWH after leaving politics, but said he did so only after ensuring there was no conflict in relation to his dealings with the company during his time as treasurer.

Nick Di Girolamo and Eddie Obeid Junior were school friends, and Mr Di Girolamo hired Mr Obeid Junior to work for AWH, putting him on a $350,000 retainer. They entered into an agreement for the Obeids to buy $3 million in AWH shares, giving them a 30 per cent stake in the company. Mr Obeid Junior told ICAC the $3 million was a loan to Mr Di Girolamo and did not constitute ownership in AWH, and Mr Di Girolamo told ICAC while he originally thought the purchase was a sale, in a later oral agreement it was confirmed to be a loan.

Moses Obeid's signature is on the document outlining the sale of AWH shares that Eddie Obeid Junior organised, despite Moses Obeid telling ICAC he only knew about AWH through what he read in the media. The agreement was for the Obeids to buy $3 million in AWH shares from Nick Di Girolamo, giving them a 30 per cent stake in the company. Both Moses and Eddie Obeid Junior told ICAC the $3 million was a loan to Mr Di Girolamo and did not constitute ownership in AWH. Mr Di Girolamo told ICAC he originally thought the purchase was a sale, but in a later oral agreement it was confirmed to be a loan.

Eddie Obeid Junior was brought on board to AWH by Nick Di Girolamo on a $350,000 retainer, but when giving evidence to ICAC he tried to minimise his role in the company. He told ICAC he only worked for the company "to a degree", and that he was "looking for opportunities in Queensland" to grow the business. At ICAC he was shown a contract appointing him director of strategic growth and asked if that meant he worked at AWH, to which he replied "it depends on what you mean by working there". ICAC heard he was involved in setting up key meetings with senior Labor figures, and present at meetings relating to AWH with members of the New South Wales Labor government such as Michael Costa.

Eddie Obeid Junior and Rod De Aboitiz were, along with Nick Di Girolamo, school friends. Mr De Aboitiz was brought into the company as an investor, putting $1 million into AWH, but became concerned about the company's financial situation. He told ICAC Mr Di Girolamo had reassured him about the issues around the company's finances related to cash flow and timing, but when he saw the figures firsthand the company's remuneration and 'soft' costs were out of control. Mr De Aboitiz told ICAC that after unsuccessfully trying to contact Mr Di Girolamo about the finances he spoke directly to Arthur Sinodinos, who was chairman of AWH at the time. He told ICAC Senator Sinodinos told him the board was on top of the costs.

The Courier-Mail reported that Jon Grayson partnered with AWH in the company Gasfield Water Management in 2011. The newspaper said that in 2012, after Mr Grayson took the job as director-general of the Department of Premier and Cabinet, he became one of six partners in a restructured version of the company, along with Eddie Obeid Junior and Nick Di Girolamo. The report said other shareholders in the restructured company, now called Gasfields Water and Waste Services, were Wayne Myers, the former head of AWH's Queensland operations; Dennis Jabour, the cousin of Eddie Obeid Junior; and Tony Bellas. The report said Mr Obeid Junior transferred his shares to Mr Jabour in August 2013.

Gardner Brook was friends with Eddie Obeid Junior's brother Moses Obeid, and told ICAC he went to a meeting at Moses Obeid's home attended by Joe Tripodi and Eddie Obeid Senior. Mr Brook also said Moses Obeid told him he believed the "large equity stake" the family had in Australian Water Holdings would reap the family "over $100 million". During Mr Brook's evidence to ICAC the lawyer for the Obeid family questioned his recollection, suggesting he had turned up at the meeting at Moses Obeid's home intoxicated and crying, a claim Mr Brook dismissed.

Gardner Brook was friends with Eddie Obeid Junior's brother Moses Obeid, and told ICAC he went to a meeting at Moses Obeid's home attended by Joe Tripodi and Eddie Obeid Senior. Mr Brook also said Moses Obeid told him he believed the "large equity stake" the family had in Australian Water Holdings would reap the family "over $100 million". During his evidence to ICAC, the lawyer for the Obeid family questioned Mr Brook's recollection, suggesting he had turned up at the meeting at Moses Obeid's home intoxicated and crying, a claim Mr Brook dismissed.

Moses Obeid's signature is on a document outlining the sale of AWH shares that Eddie Obeid Junior organised, despite Moses Obeid initially telling ICAC he only knew about AWH through what he read in the media. He later told ICAC he may have told "a little white lie" about how much he knew about AWH, but he still did "not know a great deal about Australian Water [AWH]". Gardner Brook, an associate of Moses Obeid's, gave evidence to ICAC that Moses Obeid told him he believed the "large equity stake" the family had in AWH would reap the family "over $100 million", an allegation Mr Obeid denies.

Moses Obeid, Eddie Obeid Junior and Rod De Aboitiz were, along with Nick Di Girolamo, school friends. Mr De Aboitiz was brought into the company as an investor, putting $1 million into AWH, but became concerned about the company's financial situation.

In a statement submitted to ICAC, Gardner Brook said he became friends with Moses Obeid in 2008, while working with him on a deal involving the Mount Penny coal mine. Mr Brook told ICAC he went to a meeting at Moses Obeid's home attended by Joe Tripodi and Eddie Obeid Senior. Mr Brook said Moses Obeid told him he believed the "large equity stake" the family had in AWH would reap the family "over $100 million". During his evidence to ICAC, the lawyer for the Obeid family questioned Mr Brook's recollection, suggesting he had turned up at the meeting at Moses Obeid's home intoxicated and crying, a claim Mr Brook dismissed. Mr Brook told the inquiry he had met Moses Obeid and AWH's chief executive, Nick Di Girolamo, to discuss the possible financing of a deal involving AWH, but that he had knocked them back because water deals were not "my space".

Nick Di Girolamo and Arthur Sinodinos knew each other through their roles in the New South Wales Liberal Party, and in 2008 Mr Di Girolamo approached Senator Sinodinos to become a director at AWH. Senator Sinodinos became a chairman of the company in 2011 with the aim that he would be able to have closer relations with the incoming Coalition government in New South Wales.

Nick Di Girolamo was appointed to the board of Sydney Water in 2013 for three years on a $100,000 salary. This appointment was made despite the fractious relationship AWH had with Sydney Water, which involved a dispute over $2 million in costs AWH had charged to the company.

Nick Di Girolamo was hired as AWH chief executive in 2007. He eventually owned 60 per cent of AWH and gave himself a salary of $1.1 million. He was brought into the company for his Liberal connections and aimed to transform it from a small, not-for-profit infrastructure company into a major company worth up to $250 million. ICAC heard Mr Di Girolamo took advantage of a poorly worded agreement with Sydney Water to increase the expenses charged to the organisation, boosting his salary and that of the other directors, as well as spending hundreds of thousands of dollars on political donations. Mr Di Girolamo's alleged plan to boost the value of the company was to convince Sydney Water to sign a public-private partnership with AWH to provide water services for north-west Sydney, without putting the contract out to public tender.

Nick Di Girolamo joined John Rippon at AWH in 2007, after buying a horse called Partners in Crime with Mr Rippon. Mr Rippon and the other owner, William Macgregor Fraser, had been handed the company for next to nothing as they were two of its longest serving employees. Mr Di Girolamo took advantage of a poorly worded agreement with Sydney Water to increase the expenses charged to the organisation, boosting his salary and that of the other directors, as well as spending hundreds of thousands of dollars on political donations. Mr Di Girolamo's plan to boost the value of the company was to convince Sydney Water to sign a public-private partnership with AWH to provide water services for north-west Sydney, without putting the contract out to public tender.

Kerry Schott told ICAC that she questioned the expenses being charged to Sydney Water by AWH while Mr Di Girolamo was chief executive of the company. She also said she warned Arthur Sinodinos that she thought Mr Di Girolamo and AWH might be dishonest before Senator Sinodinos took up his position with AWH.

Nick Di Girolamo and Rod De Aboitiz were, along with Eddie Obeid Junior, school friends. Mr De Aboitiz was brought into the company as an investor, putting $1 million into AWH, but became concerned about the company's financial situation. He told ICAC Mr Di Girolamo had reassured him about the issues around the company's finances related to cash flow and timing, but when he saw the figures firsthand the company's remuneration and 'soft' costs were out of control. Mr De Aboitiz told ICAC that after unsuccessfully trying to contact Mr Di Girolamo about the finances he spoke directly to Arthur Sinodinos, who was chairman of AWH at the time. He told ICAC Senator Sinodinos told him the board was on top of the costs.

Nick Di Girolamo had a long history as a fund raiser for the Liberal Party, and according to former AWH director John Rippon, was hired because of his Liberal connections.

Nick Di Girolamo had various interactions with Barry O'Farrell in his role as a Liberal Party fund raiser. Mr O'Farrell resigned after it was revealed he had misled ICAC about the gift of a $3,000 bottle of wine from Mr Di Girolamo. Mr O'Farrell initially denied ever receiving the bottle, which did not appear on his pecuniary interests register. However, after ICAC was presented with a handwritten note from Mr O'Farrell thanking Mr Di Girolamo for the wine, he resigned as premier. He returned to ICAC to say while he still did not remember receiving the gift, he conceded evidence indicated that he had. Mr O'Farrell met with Mr Di Girolamo and discussed AWH with him while in opposition in 2010.  When in government he also arranged a meeting with Mr Di Girolamo and his then finance minister Greg Pearce, to attempt to sort out the conflict between AWH and Sydney Water.

ICAC heard Nick Di Girolamo met with Campbell Newman in 2007 in a meeting arranged by Liberal lobbyist Paul Nicolaou. Mr Nicolaou agreed with an assertion from ICAC counsel-assisting Geoffrey Watson SC that $5,000 was the price required for Mr Di Girolamo to meet Mr Newman.

ICAC was shown records of dozens of phone calls and texts between Joe Tripodi and Nick Di Girolamo over 18 months.

Nick Di Girolamo and Paul Nicolaou both worked as fund raisers for the Liberal Party, and Mr Nicolaou was paid $5,000 a month to act as a consultant for AWH. He told ICAC he was retained to introduce Mr Girolamo to business contacts.

Nick Di Girolamo approached Arthur Sinodinos to become a director at AWH in 2007. Senator Sinodinos became a chairman of the company with the aim that he would have greater clout with the incoming Coalition government in New South Wales, but left the company to take up a Federal Senate seat at the end of 2011. Senator Sinodinos was paid a salary of $200,000 and stood to make up to $20 million if AWH was successful in securing the lucrative public-private partnership with Sydney Water. Senator Sinodinos was told by several people, including the chief executive of Sydney Water, that there was a problem with AWH's finances. He told ICAC he was unaware of allegations the Obeid family had a secret stake in AWH, or that donations were made by the company to the Liberal Party at a time when he was involved in both organisations.

Arthur Sinodinos and Eddie Obeid Junior both served on the board of AWH. In his ICAC testimony, Senator Sinodinos maintained he had very little to do with Mr Obeid Junior and was unaware of the extent of the Obeids' involvement in the organisation. However, ICAC heard Senator Sinodinos and Eddie Obeid Junior attended a meeting organised and attended by Eddie Obeid Junior in 2011. The meeting was with businessman John McGuigan - who was previously found to be corrupt by ICAC over his links to the Obeid family - to discuss Mr McGuigan investing in AWH.

Kerry Schott warned Arthur Sinodinos to be careful of the company he was keeping by getting involved in AWH as early as 2009, testifying to ICAC that she told Senator Sinodinos she thought Mr Di Girolamo and AWH might be dishonest. She said she warned Senator Sinodinos that the charges claimed by AWH were not appropriate and he should look into them.

Rod De Aboitiz told ICAC he spoke directly to Arthur Sinodinos, who was chairman of AWH at the time, about his concerns regarding the state of the company’s finances. He told ICAC that Senator Sinodinos told him the board was on top of the costs.

Arthur Sinodinos has had a long involvement with the Liberal Party. He served as chief of staff for former Liberal prime minister John Howard and after leaving that position he served as the treasurer and president of the Liberal Party's New South Wales branch. In November 2011 he was appointed to the Federal Senate and subsequently won a full term at the 2013 election. In the Abbott Government he serves as assistant treasurer, but has stepped aside from the role while the ICAC investigation is underway. Senator Sinodinos has denied knowledge of the amount of political donations given by AWH to the Liberal Party while he was involved in both organisations.

Arthur Sinodinos and Paul Nicolaou came into contact with each other through their roles in the Liberal Party. During his time as treasurer and president of the New South Wales Liberal Party, Senator Sinodinos met regularly with Mr Nicolaou, who was the head of the Liberal Party's fundraising arm. Despite their close working relationship, Mr Nicolaou told ICAC he never discussed with Senator Sinodinos the fact he was on a $5,500-a-month retainer with AWH.

ICAC heard Kristina Keneally told Tony Kelly to withdraw a Cabinet minute that had been altered to favour AWH's attempt to secure a public-private partnership with Sydney Water.

Kristina Keneally entered New South Wales politics in 2003 and took over as premier in 2009 after defeating Nathan Rees in a leadership spill. She was defeated at the 2011 New South Wales election by Barry O'Farrell, and resigned from politics in 2012.

Kristina Keneally, who was premier at the time the Cabinet minute was resubmitted, told ICAC the minute was "bad policy" so she rejected it. Ms Keneally said the minute, which was altered to favour AWH, would have resulted in a bad outcome for the people of New South Wales.

AWH was contracted by Sydney Water to provide and manage water and sewerage pipes in Sydney’s north-west, with a poorly worded agreement allowing AWH to charge all its costs to Sydney Water. As these costs escalated, Sydney Water refused to pay them, resulting in a protracted disagreement that saw AWH employees lobbying Labor MPs in attempts to place pressure on Sydney Water to pay the costs. ICAC has heard AWH was also attempting to enter into a public-private partnership with Sydney Water that could have seen the company’s value rise to $250 million. Sydney Water eventually entered into a much less valuable agreement in order to protect itself from legal action by AWH.

During his time as water minister, Tony Kelly's office produced a Cabinet minute regarding a public-private partnership between AWH and Sydney Water. ICAC heard the minute reversed independent advice recommending against a government partnership with the company. Mr Kelly told ICAC he did not even read the original Cabinet minute and did not know much about AWH.

Kerry Schott was managing director of Sydney Water between 2006 and 2011. During that time she raised concerns over AWH's spending and advised several water ministers that AWH's spending was exorbitant and inappropriate. Dr Schott asked the company for access to details on the costs the company was charging to Sydney Water but was rebuffed. She also advised Arthur Sinodinos, who she said she respected, against getting involved in the company.

The Cabinet minute related to a proposed public-private partnership between Sydney Water and AWH in regard to the supply of water and sewage services to north-west Sydney.

As one of the longest serving employees in AWH, John Rippon found himself in the position of owning shares in the organisation, which at that point was a not-for-profit organisation that could charge its costs to Sydney Water. AWH was originally set up by Stocklands and the New South Wales government, who passed the ownership onto Mr Rippon and William Macgregor Fraser. Mr Rippon brought Nick De Girolamo into the company, who allegedly embarked on the plan to use the contract with Sydney Water to try transform the organisation into a major infrastructure company.

Rod De Aboitiz became involved in the company as an investor, putting $1 million into AWH, but became concerned about the company's financial situation. He told ICAC that Nick Di Girolamo had reassured him about the issues around the company's finances related to cash flow and timing, but when he saw the figures firsthand the company's remuneration and 'soft' costs were out of control. Mr De Aboitiz told ICAC that after unsuccessfully trying to contact Mr Di Girolamo about the finances he spoke directly to Arthur Sinodinos, who was chairman of AWH at the time.

AWH made a series of significant donations to the Liberal Party, which it billed back to Sydney Water. The New South Wales division of the Liberal Party has refunded a donation of more than $75,000 made by AWH, and the North Sydney Forum, a Liberal Party-linked organisation, has also returned $33,000 in membership fees from AWH.

The Cabinet minute related to a proposed public-private partnership between Sydney Water and AWH in regard to the supply of water and sewage services to north-west Sydney, which would have resulted in AWH's value rising to $250 million.

ICAC heard $183,000 was paid by AWH to the Eightbyfive fund, which the fund's creator, Tim Koelma, said was for consulting work he did for Mr Di Girolamo.

ICAC heard $183,000 was paid by AWH to the Eightbyfive fund, which the fund's creator, Tim Koelma, said was for consulting work he did for Nick Di Girolamo. At ICAC Mr Di Girolamo denied his agreement with Eightbyfive was actually a sham designed to secure access to former energy minister Chris Hartcher.

The Courier-Mail reported that Jon Grayson partnered with AWH in the company Gasfield Water Management in 2011. The newspaper said that in 2012 Mr Grayson took the job of director-general of the Department of Premier and Cabinet and became one of six partners in a restructured version of the company, along with Eddie Obeid Jnr and Nick Di Girolamo. According to the report the other shareholders in this new company, Gasfields Water and Waste Services, were Wayne Myers, the former head of AWH's Queensland operations; Dennis Jabour, the cousin of Eddie Obeid Junior; and Tony Bellas. Mr Obeid transferred his shares to Mr Jabour in August 2013.

Paul Nicolaou told ICAC that as part of his employment by AWH he introduced Nick Di Girolamo to business and political figures, including Queensland Premier Campbell Newman, who was then lord mayor of Brisbane. Mr Nicolaou told ICAC he was not aware his salary was being billed to Sydney Water.

ICAC has accused Tony Kelly and Joe Tripodi of working together to "doctor" a Cabinet minute relating to AWH's proposed public-private partnership with Sydney Water, a claim both men have denied. ICAC counsel-assisting Geoffrey Watson SC also accused Mr Tripodi of turning his phone off and going to visit Mr Kelly at his home in Wellington in an attempt to escape phone taps. Mr Tripodi admitted visiting Mr Kelly that day, and told ICAC the AWH matter was discussed. However, he said his visit was unplanned as he was in the area researching lucerne prices for a friend.

Tony Kelly was a member of the New South Wales Parliament from 1997 to 2011. He had his Labor Party membership terminated after an ICAC investigation found he had engaged in corrupt conduct while he was New South Wales lands minister, relating to the government's purchase of a property in northern Sydney.

Mr Kelly acknowledged he signed the new document, but said the new version was "produced" by a policy adviser and his chief of staff, with input from former infrastructure minister Joe Tripodi.

Joe Tripodi was a member of the New South Wales Parliament from 1995 until 2011. He served as a minister in several governments, but is best known for his role as a powerbroker in the dominant right-wing sub-faction, the Terrigals.

During his time in politics Joe Tripodi was, along with Eddie Obeid, the head of the Terrigals, and played a role in the appointment and dismissal of several premiers including Morris Iemma, Nathan Rees, and Kristina Keneally.

Joe Tripodi has denied drafting the document while he was a back bencher, but conceded he had given then water minister Tony Kelly's staff some draft notes on the subject that he had been compiling while he was water minister.

In an email to AWH directors Arthur Sinodinos and Nick Di Girolamo, John Rippon referred to Kerry Schott as a "bitch", saying she was standing in the way of AWH's public-private partnership with Sydney Water.

ICAC heard that Tim Koelma was the source of an anonymous complaint against Kerry Schott and Sydney Water executive Ron Quill alleging they were corrupt, but a subsequent investigation showed they were not. Mr Koelma's lawyer has confirmed to ICAC that Mr Koelma was the source of the complaint. Mr Koelma has admitted he wrote to ICAC under the guise of "a long-time employee" of Sydney Water, claiming the state-owned company had a culture of "under the table deals, preferential treatment and kick backs".

Morris Iemma joined the Labor Party as a teenager before being elected to the New South Wales Parliament in 1991. He led the Labor Party as premier from 2005 to 2008, but resigned after losing factional support within the party.

After serving as a staffer for several New South Wales Labor ministers, Nathan Rees was elected to the New South Wales Legislative Assembly in 2007, and took on the roles of water minister and emergency services minister. He became premier less than two years after entering politics, succeeding Morris Iemma after he resigned. Mr Rees resigned as premier in 2009 after a successful spill motion against him.

While Nathan Rees took the job of premier with the support of the Terrigals, that support evaporated after he attempted to reduce their influence by seeking support from the Labor Party to appoint his own Cabinet, and sacked Terrigal ally Ian Macdonald. Ahead of a spill motion that resulted in him standing down he exposed the Terrigals' influence, stating in a press conference that "any challenger will be a puppet of Eddie Obeid and Joe Tripodi".

Kerry Schott told ICAC that during Mr Rees' time as water minister he referred to AWH as a "bunch of crooks", and that Mr Rees was supportive of Sydney Water in its dispute with AWH. Mr Rees said he did not remember using that phrase, but that Dr Schott's memory might be better than his.

Michael Costa served as a member of the New South Wales Legislative Council from 2001 to 2008. Between 2006 and 2008 he was the New South Wales treasurer, quitting politics after being dumped as treasurer over his failed push to privatise the state's electricity assets.

Michael Costa was a member of the Terrigals faction during his time in state politics, and had a close relationship with the head of the Terrigals, Eddie Obeid.

Eddie Obeid lobbied Michael Costa over AWH when Mr Costa was New South Wales treasurer, introducing Nick Di Girolamo to Mr Costa in an attempt to resolve the dispute between AWH and Sydney Water. Mr Costa said he followed legal advice provided by the solicitor-general over the dispute. Mr Costa joined AWH after leaving politics, but said he did so only after ensuring there was no conflict in relation to his dealings with the company during his time as treasurer.

Barry O'Farrell has been a member of the Liberal party since 1980, serving as an MP in the New South Wales Parliament from 1994. Mr O'Farrell led the New South Wales Liberal Party from 2007 and was elected premier in 2011, but still currently retains the seat of Ku-ring-gai.

Chris Hartcher has represented the seat of Terrigal for the Liberal Party since the 2007 election, and was resources minister between 2011 and 2013. Mr Hartcher resigned from the Cabinet after ICAC raided his office and launched an investigation into allegations of corrupt conduct, including relating to AWH.

Campbell Newman represented the LNP (the combined Liberal and National Parties in Queensland) as Brisbane lord mayor between 2004 and 2011, before resigning to challenge for the role of Queensland premier from outside Parliament. Standing for the Brisbane seat of Ashgrove, Mr Newman led the LNP to a record victory in 2012.

Before taking on his role as chief executive of the Australian Hotels Association, Paul Nicolaou headed up the Millennium Forum, a fundraising body for the Liberal Party. He told hospitality publication The Shout that he was hired as chief executive of the Hotels Association because of his links to the Liberal Party.

As the dominant sub-faction within the right wing of the New South Wales Labor Party, the Terrigals were the most powerful political force in New South Wales politics during much of the 2000s. They were involved in the removal and appointment of several premiers, including Morris Iemma, Nathan Rees and Kristina Keneally.

The business Eightbyfive was set up by Tim Koelma, allegedly as a slush fund that was used by New South Wales Coalition MPs Chris Hartcher, Darren Webber, and Christopher Spence. Mr Koelma told ICAC the money paid by AWH to Eightbyfive was for consulting and media work he did for AWH chief executive Nick Di Girolamo.

Tim Koelma worked for Chris Hartcher as a senior advisor, but resigned over possible breaches in electoral funding laws linked to a donation made to the alleged slush fund Eightbyfive that Mr Koelma had set up. ICAC is investigating allegations that payments to Eightbyfive from AWH resulted in Mr Hartcher favouring the company’s interests.

Jon Grayson is the Queensland director-general of the Department of Premier and Cabinet, and was picked by Mr Newman for his business experience.

Paul Nicolaou arranged for Nick Di Girolamo to meet with Campbell Newman in 2007 when Mr Newman was Brisbane lord mayor. ICAC tabled an email from Mr Nicolaou requesting a $5,000 donation to Mr Newman's re-election campaign in exchange for the meeting. Mr Nicolaou agreed with an assertion from ICAC counsel-assisting Geoffrey Watson SC that $5,000 was the price required for Mr Di Girolamo to meet Mr Newman.

ICAC is investigating claims that Darren Webber and Chris Hartcher received and failed to disclose political donations from companies, including prohibited donors, and "favoured the interest of those responsible for the payments".

ICAC is investigating the claims Chris Spence and Chris Hartcher received and failed to disclose political donations from companies, including prohibited donors, and "favoured the interest of those responsible for the payments".

Ray Carter was suspended from Chris Hartcher's office in 2012 over the donation claims after the Liberal Party referred Mr Carter and Mr Koelma to the electoral authorities alleging they had breached electoral funding laws. Mr Carter has admitted to ICAC he knew he was collecting money from banned political donors. He told ICAC Mr Hartcher gave him a "free run" so was not "sanctioning" the practice was aware he was fundraising and knew who some of the donors were.

After learning of the existence of Eightbyfive, Bill Heffernan called the number listed on the donation from a failed candidate and spoke to Tim Koelma. Senator Heffernan reported Eightbyfive to ICAC, saying property developers on the New South Wales central coasts were being told to contribute to the slush fund, in what he considered a breach of political disclosure laws.

Darren Webber has represented the Central Coast seat of Wyong since the 2011 New South Wales election.

Senator Heffernan reported Eightbyfive to ICAC, saying property developers on the New South Wales Central Coast were being told to contribute to the slush fund, in what he considered a breach of political disclosure laws.

Chris Spence was elected to the seat of The Entrance at the 2011 New South Wales election. Mr Spence had previously been affiliated with One Nation, unsuccessfully standing as a candidate twice.

Marie Ficarra was elected to the New South Wales Legislative Council in 2007. She had previously held the seat of Georges River in the New South Wales Parliament between 1995 and 1999.

ICAC counsel assisting Geoffrey Watson SC told the inquiry Marie Ficarra was "complicit in the Eightbyfive scheme", but in a statement Ms Ficarra denied the allegations, saying her record against developers, lobbyists and speaking out against corruption was well documented in the New South Wales Parliament.

In the lead-up to the 2011 state election, the Free Enterprise Foundation donated $700,000 to the New South Wales Liberal Party. ICAC counsel-assisting Geoffrey Watson SC told the inquiry "prohibited donations were made to the Free Enterprise Foundation, then remade to the Liberal Party. The Liberal Party then simply disclosed a donation from the Free Enterprise Foundation, thereby disguising the true source of the money". ICAC alleged the attempts to disguise illicit donations was well known by senior Liberal Party figures, including the party's acting New South Wales director, Simon McInnes, and Paul Nicolaou, who formerly headed the New South Wales Liberal Party's main fundraising organisation.

Paul Nicolaou stood down from his role as the head of the Millennium Forum, the Liberal Party's fundraising arm, after ICAC alleged he was aware of alleged attempts to channel illegal political donations to the Liberal Party through the Free Enterprise Foundation. In the lead-up to the 2011 state election, the Free Enterprise Foundation donated $700,000 to the New South Wales Liberal Party. ICAC counsel-assisting Geoffrey Watson SC told the inquiry "prohibited donations were made to the Free Enterprise Foundation, then remade to the Liberal Party. The Liberal Party then simply disclosed a donation from the Free Enterprise Foundation, thereby disguising the true source of the money".

Bill Heffernan mentored builder Matthew Lusted in a failed attempt to run for preselection on the Central Coast seat of Dobell. After Mr Lusted made his donation to Eightbyfive he told ICAC he brought it to Mr Heffernan's attention who reported the alleged slush fund to ICAC.

Matthew Lusted told ICAC he was approached by Ray Carter to donate $5,000 to the campaigns of several Liberal Central Coast MPs, but reported the donation to Senator Bill Heffernan after becoming suspicious over its nature. Mr Lusted told ICAC he got his company's financial officer to contact Mr Carter to arrange the details, but became suspicious when he saw payment was made out to Eightbyfive, an alleged Liberal Party slush fund. Mr Carter worked for Liberal MP Chris Hartcher alongside Tim Koelma, who started the slush fund.

Matthew Lusted told ICAC he reported a Liberal donation to Senator Bill Heffernan after becoming suspicious over its nature. He told ICAC he got his company's financial officer to contact then Liberal staffer Ray Carter, who solicited the original donation, to arrange the details, but he became suspicious when he saw payment was made out to Eightbyfive, an alleged Liberal Party slush fund. The counsel representing Tim Koelma, who started Eightbyfive, at ICAC put to Matthew Lusted the $5,000 had been paid to Mr Koelma in exchange for advice he gave Mr Lusted, and Mr Lusted reported it as an undeclared donation as retribution for not getting preselected for the Liberal Party. Mr Lisgted denied those allegations saying he had never met Mr Koelma and could not have received any advice from him.

Matthew Lusted told ICAC he reported a Liberal donation to Senator Bill Heffernan after becoming suspicious over its nature. He told ICAC he got his company's financial officer to contact then Liberal staffer Ray Carter, who solicited the original donation, to arrange the details, but he became suspicious when he saw payment was made out to Eightbyfive, an alleged Liberal Party slush fund. The counsel representing Tim Koelma, who started Eightbyfive, at ICAC put to Matthew Lusted the $5,000 had been paid to Mr Koelma in exchange for advice he gave Mr Lusted, and Mr Lusted reported it as an undeclared donation as retribution for not getting preselected for the Liberal Party. Mr Lusted denied those allegations, saying he had never met Mr Koelma and could not have received any advice from him.

Bill Heffernan has represented the Liberal Party for NSW in the Federal Senate since 1996. Before he joined the Senate he was state president of the NSW Liberal Party for several years, and had been active in the party previously.

Jodi McKay told ICAC that Eric Roozendaal was aware of an attempted bribe made to her by Newcastle businessman Nathan Tinkler. She told ICAC that when she spoke to the then NSW treasurer about opposing a development of Mr Tinkler's he asked: "Haven't you spoken to Tinkler?", and when she told him she would not support "what he was doing", he told her "Don't say things like that over the phone". Ms McKay told ICAC she reported the attempted bribe to ICAC and the NSW Police.

ICAC heard allegations from former Labor MP Jodi McKay that Mr Roozendaal was aware of an attempt by Nathan Tinkler to bribe her, and that after she raised the allegations Mr Roozendaal's office continued to support Mr Tinkler's efforts to develop coal loader facility.

Eric Roozendal is a former Labor member of the NSW upper house, who served as NSW treasurer between 2008 and 2011.

Jodi McKay told ICAC that Nathan Tinkler attempted to bribe her in the lead-up to the 2011 election, and that then NSW treasurer Eric Roozendaal was aware of the attempt. Ms McKay told ICAC that after she became aware Mr Tinkler donated $50,000 to her campaign in the lead-up to the 2007 election she felt it was morally wrong to discuss development plans with him. Ms McKay told ICAC she reported the attempted bribe to ICAC and the NSW Police.

ICAC assisting Greg O'Mahoney told Jodi McKay that Anne Wills was involved in the distribution of damaging leaflets in the final days of the 2011 NSW election campaign, designed to ensure Ms McKay would lose her seat.

ICAC alleged that Anne Wills worked as a consultant for Nathan Tinkler's Buildev development company.

ICAC alleged that Anne Wills was an associate of Joe Tripodi and the pair were behind the distribution of damaging leaflets, funded by Nathan Tinkler's Buildev company, in the final days of the 2011 NSW election campaign designed to ensure Ms McKay would lose her seat. In the lead-up to the 2011 NSW election Ms Wills and Mr Tripodi were also involved in efforts to halt a container development in Newcastle in order to help  Buildev, and to support an alternative Buildev development.

Jodi McKay is a former member of the NSW Labor Party, who represented the seat of Newcastle between 2007 and 2011.

Darren Williams is the co-founder of Buildev, Nathan Tinkler's development company.

ICAC counsel assisting Geoffrey Watson alleged that Darren Williams and Mike Gallacher had a "longstanding relationship", and the pair "hatched a corrupt scheme to make donations to the Liberal Party."

Mike Gallacher stepped aside as police minister after being named at ICAC. He has been a member of the NSW upper house since 1996.

ICAC alleges that Mr Gallacher was involved in the set-up of the alleged Liberal slush fund Eightbyfive, which was allegedly used to channel banned donations from developers to the Liberal Party.

ICAC alleged that Joe Tripodi was part of a plan to distribute damaging leaflets in the final days of the 2011 NSW election campaign, designed to ensure Ms McKay would lose her seat.

ICAC has heard allegations Mike Gallacher and former energy minister Chris Hartcher hatched a plan to hide donations from a company controlled by mining magnate Nathan Tinkler to alleged Liberal slush fund Eightbyfive.

ICAC heard Chris Hartcher and Nick Di Girolamo exchanged hundreds of text messages between 2011 and 2012, but Mr Di Girolamo denied his agreement with Eightbyfive was actually a sham designed to secure access to Mr Hartcher.

ICAC alleges that Mr Tripodi, and Eric Roozendaal, who was then the NSW treasurer and ports minister attempted to halt a container development in Newcastle in order to help Nathan Tinkler's company Buildev, and to support an alternative Buildev development in the lead-up to the NSW state election. Notes, written by an assistant to Buildev executive David Sharpe say that 'Joe' was 'going to get Eric to stop Anglo deal going through', a reference to Anglo Ports being chosen to build a container terminal on government land.

ICAC alleged that Mr McCloy approached then Liberal candidate Mr Cornwell in the lead-up to the 2011 NSW election and gave him $10,000 in cash in the back of his car for Mr Cornwell's campaign. Mr Cornwell passed on the money to the head of the Liberal Charlestown branch Bob Bevan.

Tim Owen resigned from the NSW Parliament after admitting to accepting $10,000 from Mr McCloy during the 2011 election campaign. Mr Owen initially told ICAC he received the money from Mr McCloy, but returned it to his letterbox, but later admitted he had used the money in his campaign. Mr Owen also told ICAC he had several recent meetings with Mr McCloy, and at one of the meetings the two men agreed they would both falsely tell the inquiry Mr Owen had returned the cash.

Andrew Cornwell stepped aside from the NSW Liberal Party after ICAC alleged he accepted a banned campaign donation from a Newcastle developer. He was elected to the NSW Parliament in 2011.

Tim Owen stepped aside from the NSW Liberal Party after ICAC alleged he accepted banned campaign donations from Newcastle developers. Mr Owen was elected to the NSW Parliament in 2011, but announced in May he would not contest the 2015 NSW election because it "appears highly likely" prohibited donors "contributed in some way" to his campaign without his knowledge.

ICAC alleges that Mr Tripodi, and Eric Roozendaal, who was then the NSW treasurer and ports minister attempted to halt a container development in Newcastle in order to help Nathan Tinkler's company Buildev, and to support an alternative Buildev development in the lead-up to the NSW state election. Notes, written by an assistant to Buildev executive David Sharpe say that 'Joe' was 'going to get Eric to stop Anglo deal going through', a reference to Anglo Ports being chosen to build a container terminal on government land.

ICAC alleges that Eric Roozendaal, who was then the NSW treasurer and ports minister attempted to halt a container development in Newcastle in order to help Nathan Tinkler's company Buildev, and to support an alternative Buildev development in the lead-up to the NSW state election. Notes, written by an assistant to Buildev executive David Sharpe say that 'Joe' [Tripodi] was 'going to get Eric [Roozendaal] to stop Anglo deal going through', are according to ICAC a reference to Anglo Ports being chosen to build a container terminal on government land.

ICAC alleges that Mr Tripodi, and Eric Roozendaal, who was then the NSW treasurer and ports minister attempted to halt a container development in Newcastle in order to help Nathan Tinkler's company Buildev, and to support an alternative Buildev development in the lead-up to the NSW state election.

ICAC alleges that emails and text messages obtained by ICAC indicate Darren Williams was involved in the payment of at least one of Tim Owen's campaign staff, which would constitute a banned political donation.

Lord Mayor Jeff McCloy told ICAC he gave Mr Edwards about $1,500 cash for raffle tickets and another $10,000 in cash for his campaign before the last election. Mr McCloy is a developer and therefore has been banned from donating to NSW state campaigns since 2009. Mr Edwards said in a statement he would stand aside from the parliamentary Liberal Party and sit on the cross bench, but looked forward to clearing his name.

Garry Edwards represented NSW central coast seat of Swansea for the Liberal Party from the 2011 election until his decision to stand down over allegations raised at ICAC that he accepted money from Newcastle Lord Mayor and developer Jeff McCloy.

If you have inside knowledge of a topic in the news, contact the ABC .

An aid worker becomes a little girl's sole guardian after Ebola wipes out a family in Sierra Leone.

This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.
