
Natasha Christian Journalist Young journalist and sane cat lady with a passion for online news and the quirkier things in life.  Based in Maroochydore.

UNITED IN INK: Women at the All The Tattooed Ladies event at the New Globe Theatre in Brisbane on Sunday.

CAREERS can be forged despite what's on your skin.

That's the message hundreds of tattooed women wanted to spread on Sunday when they signed a petition directed at the Channel 7 program Sunrise.

The petition was in response to comments by etiquette consultant Anna Musson, who said men did not find women with tattoos attractive and that people made negative assumptions of the women who had them.

Katie Reidy, of Melbourne, and Bettie Butcher, of Brisbane, felt compelled to get inked women together to protest at the comments by creating All The Tattooed Ladies events in their respective states.

They said many professional tattooed women had come forward, including lawyers, educators, doctors and more.

"Tattooed women aren't any different from other women, they just have tattoos," Ms Reidy said.

More than 1500 people have also put their name to an online petition which will be sent to Sunrise.

Sandstone Point pin-up model and real estate property manager Jade Halley, aka Belle Amour, was one of many who attended the All The Tattooed Ladies event in Brisbane.

"I think the amount of support we had, even from girls and men with no tattoos, showed that not all 'clean skinned' people have the same view as this particular woman," Ms Halley said.

"Everyone's idea of attraction is different and I don't think how we choose to present ourselves is a reflection of how successful we can be."

Ms Butcher said the events also raised money for the children's charity White Lion.

Help make the news! Share your photos, stories, events or just post a general notice to the community.

© Sunshine Coast Newspaper Company Pty Ltd 2014. Unauthorised reproduction is prohibited under the laws of Australia and by international treaty.

Refer to our helpful FAQ section for any problems you might be experiencing.
