
A BAHRAINI teenager who died in an explosion on Friday was planting a bomb targeting policemen, it has been revealed.

Ali Faisal Al Akrawi's right leg was blown off during the blast, which happened at around 9am in Sitra.

Residents alerted police after hearing a loud explosion and when officers arrived on the scene, they saw an injured person being carried away.

An initial examination of the area revealed bloodstains on the ground as well as damage to a car and the wall of a house.

Mr Al Akrawi, who was a fugitive convicted in absentia for rioting and vandalism, was taken to Salmaniya Medical Complex (SMC), where the 19-year-old was pronounced dead.

The Interior Ministry said yesterday that an investigation into the explosion was still ongoing and the full details were not known.

However, sources confirmed to the GDN that Mr Al Akrawi was in the process of planting an explosive when he was fatally injured.

"The teenager was placing a bomb targeting policemen when it exploded," the source said.

"He sustained multiple critical injuries in the blast."

"His face was completely damaged, left eye severely injured, his right leg blown off and left leg seriously injured."

"The case is still under investigation and no more details are available at the moment."

"Details will be revealed after getting reports from CID and Public Prosecution."

The GDN reported yesterday Mr Al Akrawi's mother's confession that her son was a member of the outlawed terrorist group Coalition of February 14.

In a YouTube video uploaded by the group, she described her son's death as a "sacrifice for Bahrain".

Mr Al Akrawi's cousin said yesterday that they had received his death certificate, which confirms that he  died of critical injuries  in an explosion.

"His parents are in deep shock, as they lost their only son," the cousin said.

"We are also waiting for police to reveal details about the explosion."

"We admit that Ali was involved in rioting and vandalism, but we have no clue how he got involved in this blast.

"He was a good boy - who was friendly, outgoing and a good student, but he dropped out of school a year ago after being involved in rioting."

Mr Al Akrawi's body was released by authorities yesterday and buried in Wadiyan graveyard, Sitra.

Present during the funeral were his parents, relatives and neighbours.

His parents maintain that Mr Al Akrawi was an innocent victim and prayed for his soul to rest in peace.

Following the funeral, clashes broke out in  Sitra between rioters and police.
