
Delegates also voted to endorse reform to documentation laws to allow greater recognition for trans* and intersex Victorians, rolling the Safe Schools Coalition out to all Victorian public schools, and dedicated housing assistance for LGBTI people at risk of homelessness, among other issues.

A change to Victorian law to legalise same-sex adoption would bring Victoria into line with NSW, Western Australia, Tasmania and the ACT.

Victorian Labor spokesperson on LGBTI equality Martin Foley argued the newly-endorsed position on same-sex adoption was a highlight of the platform and supported unanimously.

“It will at last place the hundreds of families and potentially thousands of children and their loving families currently operating in a grey nether land of legal uncertainty and discrimination in a position where we might not only catch up with other parts of Australia but even take the lead on the issue,” Foley told the Star Observer.

Children living under permanent care orders, in step-parent families, in foster families, and children born through international surrogacy arrangements, are some of those living with same-sex parents who would would benefit from the proposed reforms.

Rainbow Families Council applauded the new platform, but also highlighted the current legal differences between the states on adoption law.

“There are currently children living in Victoria who are being discriminated in purely because of the state or territory their family lives in. This has got to end,” a spokesperson told the Star Observer.

Victorian Gay and Lesbian Rights Lobby co-convenor Corey Irlam was encouraged by the platform’s engagement with LGBTI issues and inclusiveness.

“From schools to older people, to families and singles, should the ALP get in we look forward to an improved suite of outcomes for LGBTI Victorians,” Irlam told the Star Observer.

Prahran state Liberal MP Clem Newton-Brown said he was currently investigating the issue of same-sex adoption in Victoria.

He told the Star Observer that while he personally supported reform in the area, further research was required before the state Coalition Government could look at developing a position on the issue.

“This year I have been working with a Monash University intern to prepare a paper on the issue of same sex adoption and in particular the interests of children in ‘rainbow’ families,” Newton-Brown said.

“Personally, I believe that there are compelling arguments to support same sex adoption as being in the interests of children in many scenarios such as those in long term foster care and those conceived through surrogates.

Victorian Premier Denis Napthine flagged in a press conference he is open to legal reform on same-sex adoption.

Legal disparity between the states on adoption was highlighted earlier this month when the Federal Government announced an intercountry adoption agreement with South Africa . Although it is the first such agreement to include same-sex couples, many could still face legal barriers at the level of state and territory law.

© Star Observer 2014 | Pick up the next Star Observer monthly magazine September 26 or Join us on our Facebook page and Twitter feed.

Sad to see this matter being pursued through law. Must be that voters do not want to see this happen, that is why they sought a change of government at the last election. If as much effort went into keeping children with their mother and father, as does with a strange family, there would be more benefit to those children concerned, than is being espoused here.

To Clem Newton-Brown ….. why reinvent the wheel …. a 2008 report from the Victorian Law Reform Commission recommend legislation be changed to allow same-sex adoption.

The ALP is to be applauded for adopting such a broad pro-equality agenda for the State election.

From the sounds of things we should assume that the Coalition will NOT be supporting same-sex adoption.

I’m sure Clem’s a nice guy but his remarks sound like typical weasel words that Liberal politicians make to try to win LGBTI people over in their electorate, despite the fact they never intend to vote for LGBTI equality in the Parliament.

This is the same approach that Clem took towards equal opportunity laws.  In Prahran he says he supports LGBTI equality, but in Parliament he voted to remove discrimination protections and make it easier to sack LGBTI people or refuse them services, just for being who they are.

It’s a shame that the Liberal Party has been taken over by right wing extremists like Cory Bernardi and Tony Abbott.  It used to be a party that valued individual freedom, but not any more.

Enough of your obfuscation.

Stop being a coward and have the courage to be up front with LGBTI people. We are not as stupid as you apparently think we are.

Copyright © Star Observer 2014. All rights reserved.
