
DA leader Helen Zille has come out guns blazing accusing her detractors of planting false information in the media about the succession battle in the party.

There was a big backlash on social media Twitter yesterday after Zille reportedly launched a scathing attack on Lindiwe Mazibuko saying she (Zille) had “made” Mazibuko and “saved” her.

It was reported that Zille added that Mazibuko was “nothing” without her at the party’s federal executive meeting held in Johannesburg on Friday.

Zille yesterday denied the reports and instead went for the jugular against her detractors in the party. In her online weekly newsletter, Zille said she played open cards with members of the federal executive council at the weekend meeting in Johannesburg.

“At the meeting, I answered questions dispassionately and accurately. “We also discussed the problem of selective leaks from the Fedex to advance personal agendas in the DA’s succession race,” she said.

It was reported yesterday that Zille launched an astonishing attack on Mazibuko after she pulled out of leading the DA in Parliament and took a break from politics.

She said since some leaders of the DA had chosen to speak out publicly on what went down at the meeting she was obliged to respond.

Asked whether he would challenge Zille at the party’s next conference DA leader in the Eastern Cape Athol Trollip said he was not even thinking about that. The DA conference is scheduled late next year.

“I have given no thought at all. It’s too far away,” said Trollip, who was leader of the DA in Parliament until October 2011. Analyst Steven Friedman said the latest developments in the DA showed there were divisions. The indications were that senior leaders like Trollip and Wilmot James could challenge Zille at the next conference.

He said the allegiance was so odd in the DA he would not be surprised if Mmusi Maimane could also take on Zille at the conference.

“There is no doubt that the future of the DA leader is under question. The question is whether her leadership is facing a challenge and the answer is yes,” said Friedman.

“But I don’t think this is the implosion of the DA. The DA is not created by an individual. It does not revolve around an individual. It represents a constituency. “What this does indicate is that there is a serious fight or battle about the direction of the DA.

On Twitter, #ThingsHelenMade, was one of the top trending topics yesterday as South Africans took to social media to voice their views on remarks by the DA leader about Mazibuko. Reacting to the report, Mpho Nkadeimang tweeted: “Professional blacks” were made by Zille.
