
ONE of the suspects responsible for mauling to death Alfie Ducayag, who was allegedly mistaken as a shoplifter inside the Metro Gaisano, was arrested by the Fuente Police Station yesterday dawn.

Jeffrey Aquino was arrested using a warrant of arrest issued last April by Judge Wilfredo Navarro of the Regional Trial Court (RTC) Branch 19, Cebu City.

Aquino, in an interview with the media yesterday, said he was supposed to surrender to the National Bureau of Investigation (NBI) yesterday afternoon, but was arrested first by the police.

Aquino was apprehended on B. Rodriguez, Barangay Sambag II at 5:30 a.m. while fetching his girlfriend.

The other suspect, Mauricio Doblados, is still at large.

Doblados and Aquino, former security personnel of Metro Gaisano, were tagged as responsible for the death of Ducayag in April 2013.

Ducayag was accused of shoplifting by the mall’s security personnel and was allegedly brought to the security office where he was reportedly mauled to death. It turned out that Ducayag had paid for the pair of slippers he was accused of stealing.

Ducayag’s mother, Fe, and sister, Aiko, who had a timely visit at the CIDG 7 office inside the Cebu City Police Office (CCPO) headquarters, were surprised by Aquino’s arrest.

“We are here (CCPO) to ask help from the police in arresting the two suspects and we are happy and thankful that the police already arrested one of them,” said Fe in an interview with the media yesterday.

She also appealed to Doblados to surrender to the police instead of hiding.

“Dili na lang unta nato lisud-lisuron pa ug hinaot na mo-surrender na lang siya (Doblados). Kami tawo ra mi, kung mangayo siya ug pasaylo, mapasaylo namo siya pero magpadayon gihapon ang kaso (Let’s not make it difficult and we hope he’ll turn himself in. We’re just human, and if he should ask for forgiveness, we’ll forgive him, but we’ll pursue the case),” expressed Fe.

Aquino’s presence in Barangay Sambag II was monitored by the Fuente Police Station’s warrant server PO2 Gelo Destacamento.

Chief Insp. Wildemar Tiu, who just took office as the new Fuente Police Chief yesterday, told the media yesterday that Aquino was previously arrested by the City Intelligence Branch (CIB) in April last year for the suspect’s involvement in Ducayag’s death.

But Aquino was later released after Ducayag’s family did not cooperate with the police since they chose that the NBI should handle the case that time.

Tiu added that after the warrant came out, Aquino seldom left the house and was usually away, until yesterday when they had the chance to arrest him.

Aquino is currently detained at the Fuente Police stockade.

Published in the Sun.Star Cebu newspaper on May 20, 2014.

DISCLAIMER: Sun.Star website welcomes friendly debate, but comments posted on this site do not necessary reflect the views of the Sun.Star management and its affiliates. Sun.Star reserves the right to delete, reproduce or modify comments posted here without notice. Posts that are inappropriate will automatically be deleted.

Forum rules: Do not use obscenity. Some words have been banned. Stick to the topic. Do not veer away from the discussion. Be coherent and respectful. Do not shout or use CAPITAL LETTERS!
