
Navy Petty Officer Johnny Padron said he was shaking when he crossed the door to the media center of his 7-year-old daughter's North Naples school in uniform, flowers in hand, to tell her he's home early.

When Melanie celebrated her birthday or Christmas, her father was at the other side of a computer screen, her mother said.

When Padron showed up Monday at Vineyards Elementary School, the first-grader ran to him, hugged him for a long time and cried.

"She wouldn't let me go," said Padron, who flew in from Bahrain on Sunday. "I was just tears, no words."

Padron, 35, explained that in his 10 years of service, this was the first time that he had been separated from Melanie; his 1-year-old-son, Evan; and his wife, Miriam. He had served before in Italy, but his family was with him, he said.

"I missed him," said Melanie, still thrilled after the encounter. "I'm really happy."

Padron said that when he was overseas, he thought about coming back to his family all the time.

"They say that we (military) sacrifice, but they sacrifice a lot, too," he said. "My ... son was only seven months when I went."

He also found Melanie had grown up since he said goodbye to her a year before.

Miriam Padron recalled that her daughter had dreams about her father coming home. In those dreams, Melanie would pick him up at the airport.

"When she woke up and she realized it was a dream, she cried," said Miriam Padron.

Miriam and Johnny Padron, a military police petty officer first class, planned to surprise their daughter for months. They looked at videos of homecomings on YouTube, and they told Melanie that he would be coming back weeks later than the actual date.

Melanie once asked if her father would surprise her.

"I was very nervous and overwhelmed," said Miriam Padron. "I had my countdown and she had her own countdown."

On Sunday, they sent her to sleep at a cousin's house so they could surprise the next morning.

Before Padron entered in the school's media center, a teacher was reading Melanie and other students the book ‘My Dad's a Hero,' which talks about a father who is serving in the military away from school.

"I was just wondering how long it was gonna take her to realize I was standing there," said Padron.

It took some time, but she eventually saw him, waved and ran to him. Her mother and her brother came in as well.

Miriam said it was hard for her not to have his husband at home when Evan started to talk.

She recalled that the first word that came out of Evan's mouth was "dad," and that every time her husband called, Evan would say, "It's daddy."

"When he started walking and saying a few words, my wife taped it so I could see him," said Padron. "It was hard, but at least I could see him."

He said that Skype and the new technologies make it easier to be away from his family, which was essential for him.

"During Veterans Day and Memorial Day, they would always send me pictures, they wrote things like,‘We love you daddy,' ‘You are a hero,'" he said.

Padron said he needs to reconnect with his family. He will be home for one month, and then he will depart to Guantánamo Bay, Cuba.

This time, his family will follow him, said Miriam.

Now that they are together again, both parents plan to take their children to Disney World. But the one thing Melanie wanted to do on Monday evening with her father was far homier.

"I want to watch TV with him," she said.

Ready to subscribe to the Naples Daily News? Choose between a Premium or Digital subscription below.

Need Help? Call us at 1-888-878-6842.
