
The Africa Centres of Excellence (ACE) for West and Central Africa Regions on Monday held its second Project Steering Committee meeting to deliberate on its progress report.

The meeting, held a day before the official launch of ACE’s Project, was attended by members from participating countries, including Ghana, Nigeria, Togo, Benin, Burkina Faso, the Gambia, Senegal and Cameroun.

The development objective of the ACE Project is to support the recipients to promote regional specialization among participating universities in areas that address regional challenges and strengthen the capacities of these universities to deliver quality training and applied research.

The first component of the project would be to strengthen 19 centers of excellence in selected higher education institutions to produce highly skilled graduates and applied research to help address specific regional development challenges.

While the second component, seeks to enhance regional capacity, evaluation, and collaboration, so as to promote regional capacity and evaluation which would be financed through the World Bank’s International Development Association grant to the Association of African Universities (AAU).

Out of the first 15 Centres of Excellence, Ghana had three, Nigeria seven, whereas Senegal, Togo, Benin, Burkina Faso and Cameroun had one each.

The ACE Centres in Ghana include Agriculture and Health at the University of Ghana and Water and Sanitation at the Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology.

Nigeria and Senegal have, however, decided to fund additional three centres and one centre of excellence from their own resources, bringing the number of selected centres of excellence to 19.

Professor Etienne E. Ehile, AAU Secretary General, in his opening remarks observed that the ACE Project is a laudable initiative, which should be supported by all to succeed.

He said the project had been designed and conceived with a view to making higher education work for the development of Africa through building a strong foundation for excellence by attracting the best brains in terms of students and faculty.

He said the AAU, as a Regional Facilitating Unit of the ACE Project, would do everything possible to ensure that the aims and aspirations of the project were achieved with the support of the World Bank.

He urged African countries to embrace the tasks of overall guidance, evaluation and implementation of the ACE Project, and to work together to address their regional development challenges.

Mr Andreas Blom, World Bank’s Lead Economist responsible for Africa Education said the project must benefit students, their countries and the sub-region as a whole.

Madam Himdat Bayusuf, World Bank Education Economist, said the ACE Project is the solution to Africa’s water, sanitation and food insecurity problems.
