
May 19, 2014, 12:30 p.m.

Young butchers across Australia will compete for the title of Australia's apprentice butcher of the year.

Young butchers across Australia will compete for the title of Australia's apprentice butcher of the year.

The competition will be held during the Australian Lamb Expo, LambEx, in Adelaide, from Wednesday, July 9, until Friday, July 11.

All eyes will be on the exhibition stage during day two, when second and third year apprentices compete for the Australian Meat Industry Council's (AMIC) National Apprentice of the Year Competition.

Apprentice butchers across Australia will compete for the title of Australia's apprentice butcher of the year, at the 2014 LambEx.

In order to be eligible, the second and third year apprentices must be working for an independent local butcher, and currently studying a Certificate 3 in Meat Processing (Retail Butcher).

The six apprentice butchers will earn points as they battle for the top spot, there they will be provided with a mystery box, which will include whole muscle meat, fresh and dry ingredients, plus a mystery item.

As they race against the clock, they'll demonstrate their butchers skills to the crowd, vying for the prestigious title.

The competition will run over two hours, with 15 minutes for preparation, another 15 minutes to assess the boxes contents and organise a work plan, then 1.5 hours to prepare four or more value-added products.

AMIC President, Paul Sandercock said the three judges will not only assess the competition but rill also provide encouragement.

“This competition is designed to create opportunities for the ongoing development of young people in the Australian meet industry.” Mr Sandercock said.

Points will be rewarded for preparation, food safety, equipment use, products knowledge, ingredient use, as well as the creativity and practicality of the products made.

LambEx Chairman, Allan Piggot, is pleased the AMIC apprentice competition will be held at the 2014 LambEx.
