
Egyptian retailer and distributor B.tech is one of hundreds of top retailers and e-tailers attending this week’s DISTREE Middle East event in Abu Dhabi. B.tech offers electronics and technology brands access to Egypt’s consumer markets through an extensive network of 58 in-country branches, from Marina in the north coast and Hurghada on the Red Sea, to Suhag and Aswan in the south.

B.tech will use its participation at DISTREE Middle East to meet senior executives from multiple vendors in one place at one time, develop new business strategies and form new partnerships. B.tech will also meet other retailers from across the wider Middle East region.

“We are the only company that has a credit system for electronics in Egypt, more than 90 vehicles for product delivery for customers and dealers, plus 53 service centres covering the whole nation,” he added.

B.tech is active in terms of e-marketing providing a live chat service to answer customer queries through its website. The company also operates a call centre offering sales support and customer services.

“We are facing issues in terms of the margin situation because it’s not matching our retail expenses and we expect full support from the vendors to enhance the margin and marketing support,” said Farha.

The number of internet users in Egypt continues to rise and now exceeds 36 million, leading to an increase in e-commerce activity. B.tech plans to stay ahead of the curve with the introduction of new website features and enhanced logistics.

The company has grown revenues at an impressive 40% per annum for the last three years. B.tech continues to see challenges in the Egyptian retail channel, but remains determined to overcome them and deliver continued business growth.

“Competition between the power retailers is an issue in Egypt and we also have to contend with the political and economic situation. However, we are always looking to provide solutions and a retail offering that can satisfy Egyptian consumers,” concluded Farha.

Channel EMEA is an official global media partner of DISTREE Events, including DISTREE Middle East.

DISTREE Middle East is the ultimate professional networking event for senior executives from the consumer electronics, digital device and ICT products retail channel in the Middle East region. DISTREE Middle East is a focused event for retail executives based on the successful concept of bringing high-level buyers from emerging markets into productive contact with vendors.

Not only is DISTREE Middle East a powerful business platform, it is also an annual networking function allowing vendors to meet face-to-face with both existing and potential new retail partners from across the Middle East, plus North Africa and the CIS region.
