
YEREVAN (Arka)—Five people were wounded on Saturday when firearms were discharged at an outdoor market in Yerevan. The five injured were hospitalized.

According to some sources, the victims were passersby at Yerevan’s “Vernissage” outdoor souvenir and artwork market, commonly visited by tourists. Eyewitnesses say the shooting started after a quarrel between two or more individuals.

Criminal proceedings were instituted on two penal code charges, illegal purchase and use of firearms and hooliganism leading to injury, the head of the first investigative department of Yerevan’s Central District Police, Edgar Aghayan, said.

Comments are welcomed and encouraged. Though you are fully responsible for the content you post, comments that include profanity, personal attacks or other inappropriate material will not be permitted. Asbarez.com reserves the right to block users who violate any of our posting standards and policies.

The shooter ended up being the son of an MP who started shooting because of a parking spot. He was relieved of any punishment despite turning himself in.

Let’s hope that none of us get in the way of an oligarch or an MP when they’re in a rage: it could cost us our lives and there will be no punishment whatsoever for the perpetrator thanks to his social status. Then we wonder why we’re in the utter shit that we’re in, and why no country wants to have anything to do with us in terms of serious economic or political partnership. Nobody will care for Armenia if Armenians themselves don’t care about each other, and the blatant double standards that the Oligarchs’ state-within-a-state has created for Armenia. The oligarchs and MP’s can do whatever they want, face no consequences for their actions, and continue to steal from the government, while ordinary people are encouraged to leave and even abandon their citizenship for Russian passports, forbidden from having a free press, deprived of free and fair elections and the like. This is the “prosperous” state you all hope to create? Get real!
