
Lamprell, a leading provider of diversified engineering and contracting services to the onshore and offshore energy industry, announced Monday the completion of construction on a further jackup, and its delivery to Abu Dhabi’s National Drilling Company (NDC), on time and on budget.

The contract for this latest NDC rig was signed in October 2011 and this is the fourth rig in a series of six identical rigs being built and delivered by Lamprell to NDC. All six rigs have been or will be designed according to the Cameron LeTourneau Super 116E (Enhanced) Class design. The new rig has been delivered to the client following the delivery of the third drilling unit , Qarnin (200' ILC) , in February of this year. The remaining two rigs for NDC are all proceeding on schedule and will be delivered as planned in late 2014/early 2015.

This new rig for NDC is the ninth Super 116E jackup drilling unit that Lamprell has completed for various clients during the last six years. The jackup will be officially named, and completion will be marked, at a ceremony at Lamprell’s Hamriyah facility in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) towards the end of May, before departing for operations at its drilling location in Abu Dhabi.

“NDC is committed to continuous improvement and sustainable growth. Significant achievements have been made during the expansion of our company fleet and the development and quality of our services. These improvements were made to meet the increased demand for drilling services and to strengthen our capability to perform all types of drilling operations with complete efficiency and competency.

This new rig, similar to the previous three rigs already delivered by Lamprell, is a significant addition to NDC’s offshore rig fleet and will support our efforts in meeting our clients’ needs and expectations, now and in the future, by providing superior, competitive and quality services.

“Lamprell continues to execute well in its core markets, building on the successes in 2013, and in the key new build jackup rig market.

Generated by readers, the comments included herein do not reflect the views and opinions of Rigzone. All comments are subject to editorial review. Off-topic, inappropriate or insulting comments will be removed.

Your comments have been received and will be posted after being reviewed. If you have any questions, please feel free to contact us.

RigLogix can provide the information that you need about the offshore rig fleet, whether you    need utilization and industry trends or detailed reports on future rig contracts.  Subscribing    to RigLogix will allow you to access dozens of prebuilt reports and build your own custom reports    using hundreds of available data columns. For more information about a RigLogix subscription,    visit www.riglogix.com .
