
Share This Story!

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

A Faithful Workers Class is pictured on Easter Sunday, 1922, at Central Christian Church.

At Central Christian Church, on the same Midtown corner where it was established in 1889, even the stained glass windows hold meaning.

"Those were all given when we remodeled the sanctuary in the early '60s, in memory of people," said Shirley Musser, 70, a lifelong member, church elder and director of visitation. She recalls when one set of windows was dedicated to the memory of her four grandparents.

Those windows look out on a world much different from the one seen from its sanctuary in 1889. As the Disciples of Christ congregation marks its 125th anniversary this year with several special events — kicked off with a neighborhood party May 10 — members celebrate that it remains on the same lot donated by the niece of Springfield founder John Campbell, Matilda "Tillie" Golden Campbell Weaver.

At the church, glass cases hold historic treasures like a silver communion set once used by Alexander Campbell, a founder of the 19th-century Restoration Movement, and a preaching robe worn by the Rev. W.E. Harlow, one of the church's first pastors.

Central Christian Church is more than a Springfield landmark. It also celebrates its growth and community presence today as it continues ministries of music and outreach to neighborhood children and families.

At the May 10 neighborhood party celebrating the church's anniversary, several people spoke to a crowd in the fellowship hall. Mayor Pro Tem and Zone 1 Councilman Jeff Seifried said Central Christian has been "instrumental to this community."

"It's been a place for people to lean on in the hard times and the good times, and we're all thankful," Seifried said.

"The trend is to go invest elsewhere because it's cheaper to build a new building," he added. "And they have made a commitment to stay in this area."

Within the first couple of hours, the party drew an estimated 1,000 residents to the church. Parents and their young children accounted for most of that number, as kids had their faces painted, tried their luck at carnival games or climbed on inflatable play sets in the parking lot.

"I do think it's a good thing to help out the community," said 28-year-old single mom Candace Hall as her 5-year-old son Davien, a Weaver Elementary kindergartner, played.

Inside, free haircuts were offered and at least a dozen agencies had set up tables. The party drew the community together, said Anthony Parks, who talked with neighbors as his 7-year-old daughter, Ieashia, had her face painted.

"Some churches don't do that," he said. "This is one of the churches besides the Salvation Army that helps the community."

Like most churches, though, Central Christian has seen good years and bad.

In its history room, a black-and-white photograph from 1921 shows hundreds of people spilling from the entrance to the lawn around the original church.

"In the history, they talk about having 1,500 people here," said Rev. Ron Routledge, Central's transitional minister. "I don't know how they got them in."

Just six years later, the current building might have belonged to a St. Louis bank if some members hadn't pledged one extra dollar a month during the Great Depression to pay the mortgage.

The same club — call the 200 Club — bought the custom-built pipe organ still played today by organist Pat Pennel.

For many years, Central Christian's music ministry has been important, with the church offering music scholarships to area college students and supporting both a chancel choir and a handbell choir.

Although attendance among some 400 members has fluctuated, on Mother's Day, the handbells chimed from the balcony for a congregation of close to 200 — a promising increase, like the 250 in attendance at Easter, Musser said.

"There's a new energy and enthusiasm," she said. "I mean, everyone's talking about it, so I know it's not just me."

Still, during some years, talk turned to the prospect of moving out of Midtown. Musser spoke fondly of the Rev. Mike McGinnis, who came to the church in the early '60s, when attendance was faltering.

McGinnis, who died last year, was the church's 25th pastor, and of 29 Central Christian ministers so far, he was the one who stayed the longest — 35 years, until 1997.

"When Mike came to our church in 1963, he was told that Central Christian was a dying church," Musser said.

But with often-humorous sermons that somehow reached Disciples, worshippers who can be "all over the place on their theology, from very conservative to very liberal" and with youth programs that drew kids even from neighboring towns, McGinnis helped re-energize the congregation, Musser said.

After he left, Central Christian searched for a way to make a difference in its own neighborhood. Troubled by the fact that one of her former students at Rogersville was living at the Missouri Hotel, Musser, a retired elementary teacher, worked with then-Boyd Elementary Principal Alana Lyles to start the after-school program Culture Club in 2000.

At first, volunteers offered homework help and supervised play for students from the school down the block; now, full meals are also served three times a week to an average of 32 kindergarten through fifth-grade students.

The church added meals to Culture Club's menu because some noticed that children living at the Missouri Hotel were pocketing snacks to eat later, said Greg Walton, Central Christian's board chair.

"These kids were putting bananas in their pockets," Walton said. "That was their dinner."

The church has been drawing on its endowment fund for the past three years to help meet more of the community's needs, Walton explained. "I told them, 'We've got to do something besides sit on money,' " he said.

Last year, for example, Central Christian paid for improvements to security systems at Boyd and Weller elementary schools, for summer camp tuition for Culture Club kids and for 25 tents and sleeping bags or blankets for Rare Breed, Springfield's day shelter for homeless youth.

This year, Central Christian has budgeted $43,000 for community betterment efforts, Walton said.

In turn, the church is beginning to see more neighborhood residents in its pews.

Historic symbols like sanctuary windows dedicated to loved ones may hold meaning to Musser and others, but the church's mission from Washington and Division means more to them.

The building is "not just for us," Musser said. "It's for the community."

"I just want to say that we always are striving to be a beacon of light that shines on that corner, and to help and reach out and be the church that God really wants us to be."

Central Christian will continue to celebrate 125 years as a church this fall at three special Sunday services, "Yesterday, Today and Tomorrow." Details are still in the works, but all services will begin at 9:30 a.m.

•  Sept. 7 is the "Yesterday" service, focused on church history. Classic cars will be on display, and members will dress up in old-fashioned clothing.

Oct. 5, for "Today": The Rev. Phil Snider will be the guest minister.

Nov. 2, for "Tomorrow": Central youths will lead the service.
