
The Prince of Wales and Duchess of Cornwall are in the North American country to attend a number of anniversary events.

The Prince of Wales and Duchess of Cornwall have arrived in Canada for a four-day tour that will see them help the Commonwealth country celebrate several anniversaries.

Charles and Camilla flew into Halifax, Nova Scotia, where they were met by dignitaries and the waiting media.

The royal couple will take part in events to mark the First World War centenary and the 150th anniversary of the Charlottetown Conference which led to the Canadian Confederation.

They will also attend numerous other events as representatives of the Queen.

As she stepped off the plane, the Duchess, wearing a cream silk dress and golden black tweed coat, was carrying a black clutch bag given to her by a Canadian friend.

Their first event was a reception with the Governor General of Canada, David Johnston at Halifax's Government House.

Asked to stand in a different position for the official photocall, the Prince said: "This is like musical chairs."

The Governor General replied: "You will accuse us of cruel and unusual punishment."

To mark the royal tour, Charles has been appointed to the Queen's Privy Council for Canada - 57 years after the Prince's father, the Duke of Edinburgh, was given the honour.

During their visit to Halifax, the royals will watch military personnel take part in the Grand Parade on Victoria Day, the Canadian national holiday to honour Queen Victoria's birthday.

Charles will deliver a speech at the parade and lay a wreath at a cenotaph to commemorate those killed in the First World War.

The Prince and Duchess will visit a military family resource centre in Halifax which provides support to some 20,000 local servicemen and women and their family members.

The royal couple will have tea with Second World War veterans and war brides at the Canadian Museum of Immigration at Halifax's Pier 21, which served as a departure point for half a million military personnel during the war.

Around 44,000 women, mostly British, and 22,000 children arrived at Pier 21 between 1942 and 1948 after a high number of wartime romances.

Charles will meet vendors at local farmers' market in Halifax, while Camilla will see the work of a project which helps victims of domestic violence.

The Prince and Duchess will also visit Pictou County for an event to celebrate Celtic heritage in Nova Scotia.

During their tour of Canada, the couple will travel to Charlottetown, Bonshaw and Cornwall in Prince Edward Island and Winnipeg in Manitoba.

It is the third time they have travelled to Canada together and marks Charles's 17th official visit to the country.
