
May 19, 2014, 10:45 p.m.

WHEN ‘‘Stumpy’’  and ‘‘Gadget’’  heard that  Novocastrian cancer survivor  Sandra Henderson had a bucket list, and that one of the items was to go for a ride on a motorcycle trike, they knew what to do.

WHEN ‘‘Stumpy’’ (Cessnock resident Tony Sheehan) and ‘‘Gadget’’ (Alan Parkin, from Sydney) heard that  Novocastrian cancer survivor  Sandra Henderson had a bucket list, and that one of the items was to go for a ride on a motorcycle trike, they knew what to do.

Both are members of the Military Brotherhood Motorcycle Club, an Australia-wide organisation formed to help vets and their families.

‘‘Sandra has a services connection,’’ Hunter sub-branch president  Stumpy (so called because he’s missing a part of his finger) said.

‘‘She  lost a leg to cancer in 1987, is confined to a wheelchair and has been suffering ongoing health issues.

Gadget has just had a trike made.

 ‘‘I spoke to Tony and said, ‘Let’s do this ride’,’’ Gadget said.

Sandra had first mentioned the bucket list to girlfriend Christina Martinac about two or three years ago. Being in a wheelchair, there’s a lot of things Sandra can’t do.

Christina said she thought she could make it happen: she knew  someone in Queensland who knew someone in the Ipswich branch of the Military Brotherhood, who posted it on their website.

‘‘I think that’s where Gadget saw it and from there he  spoke to Stumpy,’’ Sandra said.

So, on Saturday, May 17, at 10.30am, nine mighty motorbikes roared into  Sandra’s suburban street just north of Newcastle  and picked her up.

‘‘It was great,’’ Sandra said. ‘‘I’d never met any of them until they arrived.

Sandra’s husband jumped in the support car  while 14-year-old son Victor jumped  on the back of Stumpy’s 2300cc Triumph Rocket and they set off to Morpeth for lunch at Crisada’s River View Cafe.

‘‘It was amazing,’’ Sandra said. ‘‘I had a ball. It was the first time I’d been on a bike since losing my leg. Just with the wind blowing in my hair and being able to have a look around at the surroundings. It was magic.

From Stumpy and Gadget’s point of view, it was pleasure to be able to help out.

‘‘We took video with cameras on the back of Gadget’s helmet and the front of mine so we could film Sandra’s reaction and we’re making a DVD of it for the family,’’ Stumpy said.

 Riders from Sydney and  the valley joined in the run.

 Stumpy is ex-Navy, having done peacekeeping work in Bougainville on HMAS Brunei.

Westy (Guy Westgate), who lives in Denman, served in Timor. Gadget is in the Army medical corp.

 ‘‘We had another member who is a   current senior paramedic in the Army, so there was nothing to worry about if anything went wrong on the day,’’ Gadget joked.

The Military Brotherhood Motorcycle Club is always looking for new members.

‘‘First and foremost our role is to help out veterans,’’ Tony said.  ‘‘We’re not a club that’s limited to any one type of bike.

‘‘To be a full member you  have to ride a machine bigger than 600cc.

The number one item on Sandra’s bucket list is to do a bungy jump but, with her leg and heart condition, she’s not sure if that will ever happen.

‘‘Still, they say you only live once, but given all the things I’ve gone through, I know that’s not true,’’ she said.

Another thing she would love to see, being originally from the Atherton Tablelands in Queensland, is a Broncos game  on   home turf at Brisbane, and a State of Origin game.

 Given the generosity of people like Stumpy, Gadget and the guys from the MBMMC, you never know what’s possible.

‘‘They were a lovely bunch of guys,’’ Sandra said.
