
THE Cebu Provincial Board (PB) urged officials to check if district hospitals are not taping the mouths of babies, like what happened in Cebu Puericulture Center and Maternity House (CPCMH).

The PB condemned the act of CPCMH’s staff who is accused of taping a newborn’s mouth last week.

Couple Ryan Noval and Jasmine Badocdoc complained after seeing the mouth of their baby sealed with a plaster inside the CPCMH.

The nurse that time allegedly taped the baby’s mouth because the baby would stop crying.

Noval and Badocdoc sought the help of the Department of Health (DOH) yesterday to compel the hospital to release the results of their investigation.

The Commission on Human Rights (CHR) Central Visayas said that if the hospital refuses to name the nurse who allegedly taped Noval’s son, they will be forced to file a case against the hospital officials.

But the hospital’s lawyer reiterated his challenge to Noval to file a case against the institution rather than issue statements to the media.

At 2:30 p.m. yesterday, Noval and Badocdoc met with DOH 7 Director Jaime Bernadas.

The couple had sought the DOH’s intervention more than a week after they saw their baby’s mouth taped inside the hospital.

In an interview, Noval denied allegations of the hospital’s lawyer Cornelio Mercado that they are making the issues up.

He said he expected the nurses involved in the incident to issue a denial.

“We expected that. That’s how they protect the institution,” Noval said.

But Noval and partner said the hospital has not been responsive as they have expected.

“Instead of talking to us, we are chasing them,” Badocdoc said.

Noval said that once the report is out, they will file the appropriate charges.

Two resolutions, authored by PB Member Arleigh Jay Sitoy, was passed by the PB during their regular session yesterday.

The PB asked Cebu Provincial Police Office Director Noel Gillamac and Provincial Social Welfare and Development officer-in-charge Mark Tolentino and Professional Regulation Commission to check the district hospitals.

In an interview, Sitoy said the incident did not happen in the jurisdiction of the Province but it will serve notice to the rest of the district hospitals.

Sitoy said an investigation will warn district hospitals against committing similar offenses.

“It could apply to all. It could apply to the district hospital. It could apply to other hospitals in the Province of Cebu. We need this practice if it exists,” Sitoy said.

In a separate interview, Bernadas urged the hospital to submit the results of their internal investigation.

“It would be judicious on their part to provide their side of the story. If I were in their institution, I shouldn’t prolong the submission of the report,” Bernadas said.

Lilibeth Llona, CHR 7 investigator, said the hospital has the responsibility to reveal the names of those involved in the incident or face liabilities.

Speaking in behalf of the hospital, Mercado told Sun.Star Cebu they will submit the results of the investigation to the DOH today, regardless if Noval or Badocdoc doesn’t execute an affidavit.

But he urged Noval to file the case against his client to ensure that both sides of the issue will be heard in a proper forum.

“Simple ra gyud ang among request: File the case so we can defend ourselves properly. Don’t take your case before social media,” Mercado added.

Published in the Sun.Star Cebu newspaper on May 20, 2014.

DISCLAIMER: Sun.Star website welcomes friendly debate, but comments posted on this site do not necessary reflect the views of the Sun.Star management and its affiliates. Sun.Star reserves the right to delete, reproduce or modify comments posted here without notice. Posts that are inappropriate will automatically be deleted.

Forum rules: Do not use obscenity. Some words have been banned. Stick to the topic. Do not veer away from the discussion. Be coherent and respectful. Do not shout or use CAPITAL LETTERS!
