
BEAUTY QUEEN: Marisca Nagel, 17, was crowned Miss Hamilton after a night of glitz and glamour.

First-time entrants and an engineering and commerce student took out Hamilton's latest round of beauty titles after a night of glamour on Saturday.

Miss Hamilton, Miss Teen Hamilton and Miss Supranational won their titles at the Rototuna Community Church Hall in front of a crowd of around 200.

Around 12 girls competed in categories from swimwear to interviews.

Miss Hamilton was the first pageant Cambridge girl Marisca Nagel, 17, entered - and she took out top honours.

''I've always just wanted to try something like it... thought that I would give it a go just for the experience and see how it turned out. And it turned out alright, I guess,'' she said.

It took until Monday for the win to sink in, the Year 13 high school student said.

She will head to Auckland to compete in Miss Queen of the World in August.

And once she finishes school, her sights are set on a career in conservation.

''It's a bit of a passion. I've always had a thing for just looking after animals and the environment.''

First-time entrant Allaynah Hill , 14, took out Miss Teen Hamilton and will head to the national competition in July. The new Miss Supranational category was taken out by Hayley Haskell , 17 - last year's Miss Teen Hamilton.

Haskell is now studying engineering and commerce at the University of Auckland and will go to Poland later in October for the international Miss Supranational competition.

''It's one of the grand slam beauty pageants. So it's one of the top five of the world's major beauty pageants,'' she said. ''In my case, being good at maths and science doesn't stop me from doing these sorts of pageants.''

Hamilton coordinator Sheryl Oliver said contestants loved the experience.

''They love the dressing up. They love the experience of being on stage. But the girls have got to, have to want to do it themselves. You can't push anyone into it. It's something they've got to feel passionate about,'' she said.

Once they had hair and makeup done and put their dresses on, ''they just shine''.
