
Their house rent accrued, culminating in a court order forcing them out of their flat. They had not paid their rent for 10 years, amounting to Dh240,000.

A man sued his three sons claiming they did not shoulder the domestic expenses of the family and demanded that they pay their share of the rent and utilities for the past 10 years amounting to Dh530,000. The Abu Dhabi Court of Appeals ordered the three sons to pay Dh200,000, which an appellate court overturned recently.

The three adult sons defended themselves saying their father had not spent any money on them for a long time.

They claimed that their elder brother, who died 10 years ago, became the breadwinner of the family after their father deserted their mother and stopped supporting them financially.

They produced documents which purportedly showed that their late elder brother paid the rent of their house.

Their house rent accrued, culminating in a court order forcing them out of their flat. They had not paid their rent for 10 years, amounting to Dh240,000.

The three brothers did not deny that they signed an agreement with their father agreeing to shoulder 70 per cent of the domestic expenses.

The three men claimed in court that they were too young to get a job then, while their father was a wealthy man. When the father took the case to the Abu Dhabi Court of First Instance, it was dismissed because he failed to support his claims with documents. In the Court of Appeals, the father presented the salary certificates of his sons.

The appellate court ordered the sons to pay their father Dh200,000 as their share of the bills.

The three sons then moved the Court of Cassation, which overturned the lower court’s verdict saying that the fact that the three sons were juveniles 10 years ago was not taken into account. “They were staying in the country on visas sponsored by their father then and as per residency rules, they were not allowed to work. As per the law, the father should bear the expenses as long as they are under his sponsorship,” the court ruled.

The appellate court also revoked the agreement the father signed with his sons on the grounds that it was not notorised. The court also ruled that the salary certificates the father presented in court were issued recently.
