
One of Australia’s most influential commercial galleries of the 1960s is the subject of an exhibition opening at The University of Queensland Art Museum on Saturday, 31 May.

Remembering Brian and Marjorie Johnstone’s Galleries celebrates the social and artistic roles played by the Johnstones through The Marodian Gallery, 1950–1952, and The Johnstone Gallery, 1952–1972.

UQ Art Museum Director Dr Campbell Gray said The Johnstone Gallery was a vibrant hub for the visual arts and played a key role in Brisbane’s cultural life during the 1950s and 1960s, despite the city being dismissed by some as a backwater.

“The exhibition is part of a series focusing on aspects of Queensland’s art history, and will focus attention on the enterprising character of the Johnstones and their dealings with the top contemporary artists of their era,” he said.

“For visitors, the rich array of documents and ephemera – including gallery scrapbooks – will either provide an enticing entry into this important cultural history or bring back fond memories."

Exhibition curator Dr Nancy Underhill has combined a range of artworks sold through the gallery with photographs, personal letters, newspaper articles and reviews, exhibition catalogues and video interviews with key artists and friends of the Johnstones.

Dr Underhill said she was introduced to Australian art when she arrived in Brisbane from New York in 1963, and made many lasting friendships through The Johnstone Gallery.

“Put simply, The Johnstone Gallery was one of Australia’s most influential commercial galleries by the late 1960s and established Brisbane’s present-day reputation for innovative, honourable and stylish art dealing,” she said.

State Library of Queensland CEO and State Librarian Janette Wright said the impact of the Johnstones spread far beyond their gallery walls.

“The Johnstone Gallery records allow us to glimpse into the personal lives of Brian and Marjorie, their beloved dog Lindy and their passion for the theatre – which led to the establishment of the Twelfth Night Theatre – and their many other interests,” she said.

The exhibition has been drawn from a range of public and private collections, and includes 66 works by 46 artists, such as Jean Bellette, Charles Blackman, Arthur Boyd, David Boyd, Rupert Bunny, Ray Crooke, Lawrence Daws, Robert Dickerson, Russell Drysdale, Donald Friend, Keith Looby, Pamela Macfarlane, Jon Molvig, Mervyn Moriarty, Sidney Nolan, Margaret Olley, Joy Roggenkamp, and Kath and Len Shillam.

The illustrated exhibition catalogue includes essays by Dr Underhill and Louise Martin-Chew, a freelance writer who completed her Masters thesis on The Johnstone Gallery.

Dr Underhill was the Foundation Head of Art History at UQ from 1978 to 1994 and the first Director of the UQ Art Museum from1976 to 1995.

Dr Underhill will give a guided tour of the exhibition on at 6pm Wednesday 11 June.

The exhibition continues to Sunday, 17 August 2014.
