
Due to weather related issues, in some areas there may be delayed deliveries of your Monday issue of the NewsTribune.

If road conditions are severe enough, your delivery person may not be able to deliver your NewsTribune at all on Monday.

In this case, your Monday edition will be delivered with your Tuesday newspaper.

We ask you to be understanding for the safety of our carriers.

Lily Rosploch smiles at her dad after finishing her meal Satruday at Culver's in Peru. The store promised the Rosplochs 25 percent of the day's total sales and 100 percent of proceeds from Lily's favorite flavor of frozen custard — chocolate. Lily will turn 5 at the end of June and is undergoing chemotherapy in preparation for a more aggressive cancer treatment called MIBG therapy.

Lily Rosploch watches for her mother’s response to her younger sister Mya’s demands Saturday while the family shared a meal at Culver’s in Peru.

Lily Rosploch of La Salle was the guest of honor at Culver’s in Peru on Saturday, but the almost-5-year-old was excited about something else: grilled cheese, French fries and ranch dip.

“That’s what she’s pumped up for,” her mother, Maria Rosploch, said Saturday afternoon while Lily was at home, supposed to be napping.

Twenty-five percent of Saturday’s sales at the Culver’s in Peru was donated to the Rosplochs to help Lily in her fight against neuroblastoma. One hundred percent of the day’s proceeds from sales of Lily’s favorite flavor of frozen custard — chocolate — also will go to the family.

Community support has been high for Lily since she was diagnosed on her third birthday, and Saturday was no exception. The restaurant was full even between the lunch and dinner hours.

Lily’s parents were at the store all day, and supporters helped out by selling T-shirts, waiting tables and even dressing as Mickey Mouse to attract a crowd. Among those who ate out to support Lily on Saturday were other families of St. Jude patients the Rosplochs have met along the way.

Lily was declared cancer-free in November, but the cancer reappeared in February just before the family went on vacation. Her father, Mike Rosploch, said the signs were the same: Lily was eating less and experiencing some pain in her face, which is where neuroblastoma goes to hide.

After undergoing chemotherapy, Lily has been feeling better and was able to enjoy her supper at Culver’s.

“She’s her little sassy self,” Maria said.

Lily is scheduled for more chemotherapy on Monday and Tuesday. The cancer grew quickly this time and got too big for radiation to be effective. Now, she is preparing for a relatively new treatment for advanced neuroblastoma: metaiodobenzylguanidine (MIBG) therapy.

The therapy will consist of a radioactive shot aimed directly at the cancer.

The toughest part about MIBG is that Lily will have to be in a lead-lined room, basically alone, for three days. She will be able to communicate with her parents via FaceTime, so she has been practicing using the app on an Ipad at home.

“We’re up to a 10-minute conversation, then she’s done,” Maria said, adding that Lily will carry the Ipad into the next room to find her mom while they are talking.

She will need to keep practicing, because the first day of the treatment, each of her parents will be allowed to be in her room for only 15 minutes. The second day they might get 30 minutes, Mike said.

Doctors have told the family there is no cure for neuroblastoma, but there is a one in three chance this therapy will help Lily.

If it works, they may do another one. If it doesn’t work, there are other treatments she can try.

Lily will be 5 at the end of June, but her parents aren’t thinking about kindergarten yet.

Lily’s sister, Mya, will be 2 in August, and the treatment will be a challenge for her, too.

Mike said the most difficult thing is not being in control of what happens.

The MIBG treatment is not scheduled yet; doctors have to wait and see when Lily’s body is ready for it.

“We need a miracle,” Mike said.

If you'd like to comment on this article, please log in or click here to subscribe.

Click on a logo above to visit the Miller Media Partner Website.

Copyright 2014 NewsTribune, LaSalle, Illinois. All rights reserved.
