
Tuesday 20 May 2014 12:12 p.m.

John Banks' defence lawyer has labelled Kim Dotcom a "liar" as the internet millionaire gave a fiery testimony in the Auckland High Court.

Dotcom had earlier described his confusion and anger after being told to split a $50,000 donation so it could be kept anonymous during Banks' failed 2010 mayoralty campaign.

However, during cross-examination this afternoon, David Jones QC called Dotcom a "Mega Manipulator", who "wanted to bring down the Government and destroy John Banks".

Mr Jones and Dotcom verbally attacked one another repeatedly, with Justice Edwin Wylie interjecting several times to prevent Dotcom from arguing.

Mr Jones quizzed Dotcom on his chequered past, including his Robin Hood-like activities as a teenager. The Mega founder told the court he would hack credit card numbers belonging to banks, credit card companies and similar institutions to gain access to their money – justifying the crime by saying he did not want to harm any individuals and paying penance by working for those he ripped off.

"All the corporations which I had hacked later hired me to help them," he said.

"I made up for them by helping these corporations be safe."

Dotcom also outlined the circumstances which led to his conviction on insider trading charges in his native Germany.

Dotcom maintains he was innocent of the crime but claims he accepted a plea deal to save himself from years of litigation by German prosecutors.

"So you were dishonest in dealing with the dishonesty charges?" Mr Jones asked.

At one point Dotcom appeared to grow agitated and asked Mr Jones "when are we talking about Mr Banks? Because I am being asked a lot about me".

After a brief adjournment for lunch, the pair continued their back and forth – with Mr Jones accusing Dotcom of reconstructing history based on cheques dated June 9, 2010 – and that the meeting with Banks actually occurred on June 5.

"Who donates two cheques of each $25,000? I mean, that makes no sense."

Dotcom said he revealed the information about the donation after Banks "lied" on television and abandoned the pair's friendship following Dotcom's arrest in 2012.

Mr Jones repeatedly accused Dotcom of making the revelations about Banks in an attempt to undermine the Government's extradition proceedings, a claim Dotcom strenuously denied.

"If you call telling the truth fighting, then that's correct. But I'm telling the truth."

'He said he wanted to keep it anonymous'

Giving evidence for the Crown this morning, Dotcom described meeting the former ACT Party leader and offering to donate the amount to his ill-fated 2010 campaign for Auckland's mayoralty.

Dotcom said he first met Banks in April of that year and raised the issue of obtaining residency, with Banks saying he wanted to assist Dotcom and his family. No specifics of how he would help were mentioned.

"I thought it was a generous offer because I did not ask for it and he didn't ask for anything in return," Dotcom told the court.

He says he sought legal advice and was told to rebuff Banks' offer in case Immigration New Zealand had issues with it. Dotcom says he emailed Banks and told him of this.

However, he met with Banks again and offered to make a $50,000 donation to his campaign as he was pleased with Banks' efforts to welcome him to the country. He said he thought the politician could help him network as he looked into the New Zealand technology market for possible business ventures.

"I wanted to support Mr Banks because he had been very friendly to me," Dotcom said.

"I thought that Mr Banks would have a good contact network [...] I think that could have been interesting down the road."

Dotcom says Banks accepted his offer and Dotcom sent his former bodyguard Wayne Tempero to help prepare a cheque. However, Banks requested he make it two $25,000 cheques, which annoyed the millionaire.

"I was irritated, I was wondering why and he said he could then keep it anonymous. I couldn't understand why he wanted it anonymous because I was prepared to give it to him with my name attached," Dotcom said.

"He said he wanted to keep it anonymous because he said, 'down the road, if I help you Kim, it is better that nobody knows about your donations'."

Dotcom said there were two witnesses to the conversation; Mr Tempero and his butler.

Dotcom says Banks attended several events at his Coatesville mansion, including a birthday party.

He alleges Banks also offered to talk to Maurice Williamson about an application to the Overseas Investment Office made by Dotcom to buy the house, which he had been renting up until that point. Dotcom received an update from Banks on the application's process, which was ultimately declined due to Dotcom's historic charges of insider trading.

'I never knew who Dotcom was'

Earlier this morning, the woman who presided over Banks' ill-fated campaign, Michelle Boag, told the court Dotcom's name was never mentioned to her by anyone on the team – including Banks.

"I never knew who Kim Dotcom was until he was arrested."

Ms Boag said she became aware of a $15,000 donation made by SkyCity after the financial return was filed.

She said she has known Banks since 1978 when he first ran for the National Party.

"I wouldn't call us close friends but yes he's been a friend for most of that time."

Ms Boag painted a picture of Banks as a kind-hearted man, always willing to help her with various charity campaigns.

"[He is] very direct, very forthright and he's one of the most generous people I have ever met in my life."

She denied having any responsibility in the finances, but was the main person responsible for initiating donation campaigns.

The morning began with a continued cross-examination of Lance Hutchison, the campaign's finance manager.

The Local Electorate Act makes it illegal for donations to be listed as anonymous if the candidate knew who made them. Mr Hutchison yesterday stated while Banks may have known about a donation from Sky City, the donation could be listed as anonymous because he would not have known the amount.
