
Share This Story!

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

I had not seen her for 14 years, but when I saw her in the airport, she had not changed a bit, still the classic, slender beauty I had met years ago in a faraway land. Now she had a husband and two sons and lived in another country, foreign in many ways.

My wife and I traveled to Vancouver, BC, to meet and visit with my friend and her family. Katya had married and had one son before moving from Russia to Canada. We had stayed in touch over the years via email promising to visit each other if ever we could, and the time to visit had finally come this past week.

Vancouver is as international as any metro area with most inhabitants from somewhere else. Only First Nation citizens, as native Indians prefer to be called, are true Canadians. All the new friends we’ve met here so far are from other countries.

Saturday night we enjoyed a wonderful meal at a Persian restaurant where Alex (Katya’s husband) introduced us to his friend and former co-worker who is originally from Iran. Navid is married to Marina who is from Lithuania, of course. Fortunately for us, all spoke English with colorful accents. I was amazed how quickly we became close friends sharing information and views about everything from parenting and business to politics and government.

Sunday we visited with another new friend who is from Armenia, and coincidently married to a man from Armenia who was traveling on business in Australia. Karina and Katya had become friends, and Armina, Karina’s daughter, had become Nikita’s (Katya’s son) ballroom dance partner a year or so earlier. Trophies and videos of the pair dancing proved they were naturals gliding across the ballroom floor as if they had been coupled together for a lifetime even though they are only 10 years old. So mature and graceful on the dance floor!

We invested the afternoon (on this ‘vacation’ we didn’t ‘spend’ time) meeting another of Katya’s friends, Rosi, who is originally from Costa Rica. She’s a very communicative Latina with one parent from Italy and the other from Spain. But, she’s lived in Canada for many years.

Monday morning after we said ‘good byes’ to Katya, Alex, Nikita, and little Daniel (Katya’s youngest son), our waitress served us very well and personably inquired how someone from Mississippi had become friends with someone from Russia who was living in Canada. It’s complicated…. Our waitress, Natalia, is originally from Romania. One of her sisters had taught English in Korea until paying off her college loans and moving to Columbia to be with her other sister who was a missionary with her husband and children at the time. That sister and family have since returned to Canada, while the first sister found a Columbian husband and has settled there.

Americans rarely understand we make up only 5-percent of the world’s population. Yes, our government and politicians continue to produce scandals, phony or not, and mislead our citizens with help from politically slanted media who share political agendas. The rich and powerful pull strings on puppet rulers, while real people all over the world want to work and raise families in peace without tyranny from government interference.

The world needs less government so real people can meet and invest in living peaceably together. One day that will happen, but not while the rich and powerful pull the strings.

I took a trip to Canada to reconnect with a friend from Russia … and met the world.
