
MILWAUKEE (WITI) — Despite the plea for peace from city officials during “Ceasefire Week” — we saw an 11-year-old girl become the victim of violence on Milwaukee streets — and Ceasefire Week ended Sunday, May 18th with a triple shooting in which two people were killed. On Monday, May 19th, the Black Male Achievement Advisory Committee and Milwaukee Mayor Tom Barrett met with those living near 4th and Locust — because they say they need the help of neighbors to put a stop to the violence.

“We all have a role to play about changing the conditions that exist in this city,” 1st District Alderman Ashanti Hamilton said.

Hamilton is the chair of the Black Male Achievement Advisory Committee.

“What makes a person so frustrated that they have such a depraved heart that they don`t even care that an 11-year-old is in his crossfire?” Hamilton said.

The goal of Monday’s meeting was to delve into the root of the violence problem — and identify the issues that lead to violence — while informing the public of the Black Male Achievement Advisory Committee’s current efforts.

Residents passionately expressed their concerns to city leaders.

Mayor Tom Barrett didn’t deny that hard-earned money helps kids stay off the streets.

“I gave Jermaine $20 to clean up the neighborhood on a Saturday three weeks ago. He worked hard for four hours. On the second week, we had six black boys show up to clean up,” Mayor Barrett said.

Mayor Barrett says the city is trying to create jobs. He has said that giving people something to do — helps to keep them out of trouble.

“We are going to have 25 individuals — 18 of them central city residents who are going to be assisting our Department of Public Works crews filling potholes and helping with road repairs. Three to four days a week, I am calling businesses — asking them to contribute to our summer internship program. We are going to try to hire as many kids as we can,” Mayor Barrett said.

Mayor Barrett says the city is trying to find ways to partner with community members to get into foreclosed homes.

He says he understands the urgency — and encourages those in neighborhoods affected by violence to take action — and work for change.

Meanwhile, Milwaukee Alderman Bob Donovan and Mike Crivello — the head of Milwaukee’s Police Association held a news conference on violence in the city on Monday.

They say now is the time for Mayor Barrett and other city leaders to act before the violence gets any worse.

They say the police force is understaffed, and officers are being put in very dangerous situations.

“One man squads responding to incredibly dangerous situations, situations where they may choose to or may have to wait down the block for another officer to come — why not have that officer in the car? I’ll tell you why — because we don’t have enough officers,” Crivello said.

Crivello says the Milwaukee Police Department is about 225 officers short of a full department of over 1,800 officers.

You are talking about people who don’t want to work.  Why work when you can get whatever you need through government programs?  Stop making excuses.  These thugs were raised without values.  Poor and unemployed comes in all races, not just black.  I was raised very poor, but I was still taught respect, values and morals.

Ummm…. if Barrett had any clue how the real world works he would understand business fundamentals and know what a ‘root cause analysis’ is.  And if he did an RCA on the violence in the inner city he would find it isn’t caused by lack of jobs.  But he and all the other clowns making excuses are just too clueless to figure it out.

Are you kidding me?  I just watched this news cast.  Since his “Ceasefire” didn’t work, he thinks putting 25 people to work is going to help?  Fixing potholes?  Again…WHAT???  How is that going to stop violence against the good people of Milwaukee?  Those 25 jobs are going to cure the violence?  We need someone who actually comes up with good ideas. The potholes need to be fixed, but I think his idea is just stupid…period.  Plus…shouldn’t a “Ceasefire” be every day, all year long?..not just a week or so?  It’s like he’s treating it like prom week or something.

“Three to four days a week, I am calling businesses — asking them to contribute to our summer internship program.” Why is Barrett WAISTING time calling employers, making calls for people that dont want to work in the first place. The stupidity is just incredible! They were missing Flynn, that would have completed their dog and pony show.

Put a 10 year mandatory minimum sentence for ANY VIOLENT CRIME. I bet they think twice before doing it! Post billboards around the city about the 10 year minimum sentence for violent crimes. And give the judge the ability to sentence the offender to more than the minimum.

Starts with the family.  Raised living off the government, no values or discipline.  We will continue to pay for it all.  You cannot stop a social disease.

bderk.

Mr. Barrett he needs to start at the schools not churches to discuss control gun issues.

Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
