
Subscribe and get the best from the week.

“Fail fast” is an overly used and loaded adage. Entrepreneurs don’t wake up and ask themselves “How can I fail today?” What’s important is not to embrace failure, but to figure out how to manage it.

As an educator at Launch Academy , one of the hardest things I deal with are students grappling with failure. Our program attracts and admits overachievers, who, like entrepreneurs, are very hard on themselves. What’s unexpected about our program and in entrepreneurial endeavors, is that failure is expected. How we face it is what defines us. Below, I share the recipe for failure we convey to our students.

Try. Theodore Roosevelt, one of the toughest and most interesting executives of our history, tells us that, “It is hard to fail, but it is worse never to have tried to succeed."

Own your failure. While willing your creation or your new skills into existence, you will stumble across the way, and those that follow you will struggle as well. Take ownership of your part in failure. If you make excuses for yourself or blame others, no good can come of an already concerning situation.

Apologize authentically. As part of owning your failure, be authentic to those you may have wronged. There is nothing more infuriating for your customers than the corporate “we apologize for any inconvenience.” As an example, if your email service went down, it would be better to hear, “We know email is critical to your business, and we feel terrible for the disruption. We’ll update you as soon as we resolve the issue to get you back up and running.” Always acknowledge the problem and stress you understand the importance of solving it.

Perform a transparent retrospective. In corporate sillyspeak, one might call this a post mortem. This term needs to go away. Unless you’re in the healthcare business, it’s unlikely anyone died as a result of your failure. In software development, we use the term retrospective when we refer to a meeting where we look back at what went well and what went wrong in the management of failure. Involve stakeholders in this process, and be transparent in sharing what you’ve learned with your employees and your customers.

Teach others. We have a saying at Launch Academy, “to teach is to learn.” Take the insight you’ve gleaned from your retrospective and share your tribulations. It will benefit others in that they can learn from your experience, and it will provide you with closure.

As entrepreneurs, our businesses move too quickly to dwell on failure. Use this framework as a means to learn and move on, having benefited from the experience. Let’s not be confused anymore; failing isn’t fatal.

How embracing this convenient, easy-to-adopt growing checkout practice can expand and enhance your customer service, right from your smartphone or tablet.

Online marketing expert Neil Patel shares his best tips for getting an edge on your competitors.
