
Gasoline prices in Florida continue to decline as a result of sufficient crude oil supplies along the Gulf Coast, AAA officials said.

However, prices haven't dropped further because demand has reached its highest level since 2009, according to the federal Energy Information Administration.

The national average for a gallon of regular unleaded gasoline fell by a penny from the prior week to $3.65 per gallon. The average price in Florida dropped 3 cents per gallon last week to $3.64, AAA said.

A year ago, the price in Florida was $3.47 per gallon and $3.62 nationally.

"AAA has forecast gas prices to be at or near last year's levels during the Memorial Day holiday weekend," said Mark Jenkins, spokesman for AAA—The Auto Club Group. "However, the margins of decline have been modest in the past week and prices could be slightly higher than a year ago. Even still, gas prices at these levels are not enough to keep people from traveling during the holiday."

More than 31.8 million Americans will fill their gas tanks and take a trip of 50 miles or more this Memorial Day weekend, AAA said.

Hertz officials will present the design for their planned 5,000-square-foot sales center facility during a special meeting of the Estero Design Review Committee at 5 p.m. on Wednesday, May 21.

Hertz is constructing its global headquarters at the intersection of U.S. 41 and Williams Road, with plans to occupy the building in late 2015. The sales center will be at the southwestern section of the property.

The meeting will be held at the Estero Community Park Recreation Center, 9200 Corkscrew Palms Blvd., and is open to the public.

Stand-Up MRI of SWFL has been awarded a three-year term of accreditation in magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) as the result of a recent review by the American College of Radiology.

The ACR gold seal of accreditation represents the highest level of image quality and patient safety.  MRI is a noninvasive medical test that utilizes magnetic fields to produce anatomical images of internal body parts to help physicians diagnose and treat medical conditions.

Fifth Third Bank (South Florida) collected 6,640 pounds of food this year during its annual "Feeding our Communities" food drive in Collier County. Fifth Third partnered with The Salvation Army for the drive.

The company exceeded its goal of 5,300 pounds. The food collected throughout the drive equals 26,560 meals for families in seven counties, according to a news release.

"Feeding our Communities" is a component of Fifth Third Day on May 3, an annual event when the bank celebrates its heritage by giving back to the community.

AmeriQuest Business Service is opening its first Naples location at the Vanderbilt Financial Center, 9045 Strada Stell Court.

The company recently signed a seven-year lease to occupy 5,674 square feet on the third story of the five-story building.

AmeriQuest is a business process outsourcing company serving more than 1,500 customers throughout North America. The company is a tech-enabled BPO that provides financial supply chain automation and fleet management services.

The Naples location will be AmeriQuest's second in Florida, with another office in Coral Springs. The company also has offices in New Jersey, Illinois, Georgia and Virginia.

Return to naplesnews.com throughout the day for the latest local business news.

Ready to subscribe to the Naples Daily News? Choose between a Premium or Digital subscription below.

Need Help? Call us at 1-888-878-6842.
