
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

BALDWINSVILLE, NY -- Veteran Central New York chef Eric Rose is planning to open a new Northern Italian-influenced restaurant in a spot along the Seneca River.

Basta Viaggio Italiano will be at 7 Syracuse St., in the spot formerly occupied by the Lake Effect bar. Rose expects to have a soft opening by mid-summer, and roll out the full concept by the end of summer.

The menu will reflect the cuisine of northern Italy, Rose said, especially the Emilia-Romagna region (home to cities like Bologna and Modeno).

"It will be unlike almost every other Italian restaurant around here," Rose said. "No red sauce dishes -- except maybe spaghetti and meatballs for the kids. We'll have braised dishes, lots of olive oils, cheese, homemade pasta."

Some people might consider it "higher end" Italian, Rose pointed out, but in Italy it would be called "peasant food."

You can get sneak peak at some of the menu items Rose plans Tuesday at Mohegan Manor, 58 Oswego St., Baldwinsville. Rose plans to collaborate with Mohegan Manor chef Jason Jessmore on dishes like a veal saltimbocca-style ravioli, gnocchi with spicy Italian sausage and rapini, and a polenta dish.

Seatings will be  5 to 9:30 p.m. Tuesday, but space is limited. Call Mohegan Manor at  857-0079 to reserve a space. The cost is $36.

Rose is currently a professor in Onondaga Community College's culinary program, and runs a restaurant consulting business. He previously worked as a chef and restaurant consultant for the food distributor Sysco, and also helped open the lodge at the Welch-Allyn facility in Skaneateles.

He also has made guest chef appearances at Asti, an Italian restaurant on North Salina Street in Syracuse.

Rose has done considerable working renovating the old Lake Effect building, which closed last year.

© 2014 Syracuse Media Group All rights reserved ( About Us ).

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
