
Welcome to your Monday morning briefing. Let us ensure you’re up to speed on what’s happening and are prepared for the day ahead.

Worried food industry bosses are on a multi-million euro mission to save our spud amid fears the nation’s most popular staple is falling out of favour.

Labour leader Eamon Gilmore has defended the Coalition’s record in tackling homelessness after social justice campaigner Peter McVerry predicted that the crisis will "bring this Government down".

A Garda reservist has been arrested and questioned in connection with allegedly harassing an ex-girlfriend and using the Garda computerised intelligence system, Pulse, to check who she was seeing.

The death of actor Philip Seymour Hoffman by an accidental drug overdose in February has not sidelined production of the latest installment of Hunger Games, its director said.

A Turkish court ordered three suspects to be kept in custody yesterday on a provisional charge of "causing multiple deaths" in last week’s mine disaster, as the last of the 301 victims were buried.

Mickey Harte has blasted the GAA for creating confusion in the way in which games are being officiated.

The Pat Buckley-trained Mind The Net set the standard in Saturday’s third-round heats of the English Greyhound Derby, when coming from behind the pace to take the third heat.

Bank of England governor Mark Carney gave his strongest warning yet about the risks of a British housing bubble and said the bank was looking at new measures to control mortgage lending amid a shortage of home building.

THE trainer, a lovely curvy woman in tight lycra whom I have expressly picked out from a line up in the gym, because she looks normal rather than someone who exists on egg white omelette and kale, assumes I have engaged her because I want to be thinner.

The King of Pop and a likely successor, Justin Timberlake, ruled the Billboard Music Awards in Las Vegas.

Designer John Rocha has retired from London Fashion Week after almost 30 years. Rachel Marie Walsh remembers his fashion highlights.

There is cause for concern for Labour ahead of this Friday's local and European elections, with the publication of two new opinion polls.

Irish Examiner live news app for smartphones lets you quickly access breaking news, sport, business, entertainment and weather.
