
'Dancing Crossing Guard" addresses a community of supporters gathered Sunday, May 18 at Dufferin Street at the corner of Gordon Street for a dancing protest and music video shoot in support of Byers.

The community gathered on Sunday, May 18 at Dufferin Street at the corner of Gordon Street for a dancing protest and music video shoot on support of the "Dancing Crossing Guard" Kathleen Byers.

"Dancing Crossing Guard" Kathleen Byers takes to the street at Dufferin Street at the corner of Gordon Street during a dancing protest and music video shoot.

The community gathered on Sunday, May 18 at Dufferin Street at the corner of Gordon Street for a dancing protest and music video shoot on support of the "Dancing Crossing Guard" Kathleen Byers.

Sunday drivers on Dufferin Street witnessed quite a sight Sunday afternoon when more than a hundred people, many in colourful costumes, enthusiastically danced their way across the street each time the signal changed.

It was an event titled “Menace to Society: Kathleen The Dancing Crossing Guard edition”, and was held in solidarity and in support of Kathleen Byers, the Brockton Triangle dancing crossing guard who was reprimanded and later suspended for busting a move while helping children cross the intersection on Dufferin Street at the corner of Gordon Street, between Dundas Street West and Queen Street.

The Brockton Triangle resident is widely known as the Dancing Crossing Guard. She has held the job for 10 years and for the past four years, she has spent her morning, lunch and afternoon shifts shimmying and dancing.

On Dec. 4 she got a call from her coordinator telling her the Toronto Police Service, which oversees the city’s crossing guards, asked her to stop dancing.

At that time, area children, parents and supporters held a few protests. The police and Byers came to an agreement on when and where she could dance and the dust seemed to settle.

That was until last Tuesday when Byers resigned from her crossing guard job after she was suspended because, according to police, she didn’t heed warnings to stop dancing on the job and for appearing in a music video for the band Born Ruffians wearing a crossing guard reflective vest and carrying a stop sign.

“When I come to work, every single time... morning, noon and night, I am so filled with joy that I just can’t keep my feet still,” Byers said.

Byers said she believes children need to be taught they shouldn’t be afraid to be themselves and be creative, and she does that through dance.

The turnout at the protest, Byers said, spoke volumes to her and showed her that others supported her in her decision to dance.

Vanessa Dunn was the lead organizer of the community dance party. She said she, like others in the community, felt enraged and embarrassed for the city when this happened to Byers.
