
: COSR ), announced today that its wholly-owned subsidiary, Co-Signer.com, the nation's premier provider of residential rent assurance, has continued to receive overwhelming tenant demand for its service product nationwide. To meet this ongoing interest Co-Signer.com has identified and started training its first team for its Direct Landlord Outreach program.

The Direct Landlord Outreach program is a concentrated direct marketing door-to-door effort by a coordinated team of seasoned professionals reaching out to landlords, leasing agents and others responsible for leasing of single family homes and residential units. The goal of the Direct Landlord Outreach program is to increase the number of landlords readily and regularly referring tenants with marginal credit to Co-Signer.com and accepting pre-approved tenants from Co-Signer.com to fulfill their vacancies and reduce the Company's backlogged demand from tenant clients. The Direct Landlord Outreach program reintroduces its 3 and 6 month service products and shows how to leverage all of the benefits available by incorporating Co-Signer.com's residential rent guarantees into their daily routine. The Direct Landlord Outreach program will be monitored weekly to evaluate its results and modify the program as necessary to maximize its reach and ultimate success. Upon its success, the program is scheduled to be introduced into the other 24 top national metro residential leasing markets and targeted localities as driven by consumer demand.

This pilot starts June 1, 2014 in Michigan which has a population of over 9.8 million people with half in the Greater Detroit-Warren-Livonia area. Michigan's housing market is one of the top 10 states for residential leasing and is home to one of the top 50 property management companies in the nation, according to statistics provided by the National Multiple Housing Council, www.nmhc.org  and the United States Census Bureau, www.census.gov . Michigan has a slowly recovering economy that makes Michigan a good candidate for the launch of the pilot program.

"We are very pleased to have had a consistent demand for the past year for our residential cosigning services. We believe it is our mission to help our customers find their new leased home despite their financial histories. We represent 'good people who have less than perfect credit.' Landlords now have an opportunity to work with Co-Signer.com to fulfill their vacancies with 'good' tenants who would appreciate a second chance," said Kurt Kramarenko, CEO and President of Co-Signer, Inc. "Our call center and sales programs have done a great job trying to fulfill all the interest we have received. We simply find that we need to do more. Our experience and research demonstrates that we need to expand our efforts with a stronger 'push' market approach. The Direct Landlord Outreach program will engage landlords who have signed referral agreements or have expressed an interest in our service product and whom struggle internally with the implementation of our program and to the many more landlords who are not familiar with Co-Signer.com and our new property management service product."

The Company explained the Direct Landlord Outreach program targets landlords and residential properties geographically based on current tenant demand and the need for service product acceptance and adoption with support from the company's call center and working in tandem with the infield market professionals introducing and training landlords on how to use Co-Signer.com daily. The Direct Landlord Outreach program will train your manager or leasing agent and help you incorporate the Co-Signer.com service product into your daily business regimen.

"Historically, once a landlord uses our service program they continue to accept and use our residential rent assurance programs," said Steve Campbell, Vice President of Operations. Campbell added, "We look forward to reaching out to the many landlords throughout Michigan and hope they will to come to understand and appreciate our 'no cost' service to them simply by accepting our contracted residential rent guarantee we provide to our tenant client."

For landlords, property managers and tenants seeking more information about the Company's subsidiary that provides residential rent assurance commonly known as rent guarantees, please visit www.Co-Signer.com . If you are suffering with a vacancy problem or unable to reduce your annual eviction rate despite using a tenant screening service and experienced attorneys, Co-Signer.com invites you to contact them at info@co-signer.com  or call them today at (855) 267-4461.

About Co-Signer, Inc.

Co-Signer, Inc. is a financial and real estate services company. Its wholly-owned subsidiary, Co-Signer.com, Inc. is the nation's premier commercial provider of residential rent assurance services offering rental guarantees on behalf of tenant clients to landlords, property managers, leasing agents and others that may be responsible for residential leasing. Co-Signer.com, Inc. provides its fee based tenant service to those who may have no, poor or bad credit due to a short sale, a bankruptcy, inconsistent employment, a long-term health issue or other circumstances. Typically these tenants are able to afford the rental payment for the new residence they seek. However, superficially their credit scores and financial profile do not readily qualify them with the prospective landlord. Cosigning services are available whether the tenant seeks a single family home, condominium, townhouse, or apartment anywhere in the United States. Co-Signer.com, Inc. uses a proprietary underwriting process with state of the art information services to achieve low default ratios that maximize company profitability.

The Company's business strategy is to make the use of commercial rent assurance the U.S. industry standard by focusing its resources and market awareness efforts on landlords and property managers, educating them on the simplicity and value of the Company's service that facilitates housing for tenants and maximizes occupancy rates and cash flow for landlords. With almost 39,000,000 rental units in the United States and 1 out of every 4 adults having poor or bad credit, the demand for commercialized cosigning services provides a real growth opportunity.

Certain statements in this news release may contain forward-looking information within the meaning of Rule 175 under the Securities Act of 1933 and Rule 3b-6 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and those statements are subject to the safe harbor created by those rules. All statements, other than statements of fact, included in this release, including, without limitation, statements regarding potential future plans and objectives of the Company, are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. There can be no assurance that such statements will prove to be accurate and actual results and future events could differ materially from those anticipated in such statements. The Company cautions that these forward-looking statements are further qualified by other factors. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any statements in this release, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.

© Copyright Marketwire L.P. All rights reserved.
