
It is with great pleasure that I welcome you all to this Conference on Social Policy Innovation. I am delighted to see such a distinguished and diverse gathering here.

Innovation is, in my view, one of the key features of our work on social policies in the future, which promises truly stimulating discussions over the next two days.

I would particularly like to thank Minister Pedro Mota Soares for being here. Your presence here shows how important social policy innovations are for delivering better social and employment outcomes.

Social policy innovation is crucial to realising our vision of Europe, the vision that the Europe 2020 Strategy seeks to build — a Europe based on a social market economy fit for the 21st century and capable of fostering smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.

To accomplish this, the Member States set themselves a number of targets, including lifting at least 20 million people out of poverty and ensuring that 75% of those aged 20-64 are in employment and that at least 40% of young people earn a third level degree by 2020.

We need to realise that we are not meeting these targets; on the contrary, the poverty situation is the most striking: the number of people at risk of poverty or exclusion has risen by 6.6 million. In 2012, 123 million Europeans were living in poverty or facing the risk of social exclusion.

We face enormous challenges — long-term unemployment, population ageing, growing inequality within and between Member States, a weakening of Europe’s competitiveness. We can rise to these challenges by identifying the underlying structural causes and making the necessary reforms in line with the Employment Package, the Recommendation on establishing a Youth Guarantee and the Social Investment Package.

The time for action is now. Social policy innovation needs to be embedded in policy-making and linked to social policy priorities.

Over the next two days this conference offers a unique opportunity to discuss how to maximise the positive impact of social policy innovation in addressing the long-term structural difficulties facing our welfare systems and in strengthening the fragile economic recovery under way.

Under my portfolio the EU has been supporting social innovation over the past years through the European Social Fund and the Progress programme.

With Progress alone, from 2009 to 2013, around 20 million euro was allocated to a total of 45 projects across the Member States to find innovative responses to rapidly changing social situations.

Over the last few years the focus has shifted from supporting innovative community projects and transnational cooperation to enabling services, investing in children and ensuring access to quality healthcare and long-term care.

In 2010 and 2011, 2.5 million euro went into 10 pilot projects requested by the European Parliament. They highlighted the role of social enterprises in fostering labour participation for disadvantaged and excluded groups. They also showed that social enterprises play a vital role in strengthening local communities and authorities by using local solutions when developing social policies. And they emphasised the importance of innovative partnerships between social enterprises, public institutions and commercial enterprises.

The social business initiative presented by the end of 2011 recognised that social enterprises are drivers of change. By offering innovative ways of delivering on social policy and creating sustainable jobs they contribute to greater employment and social inclusion. I am glad to see here among the participants many that contributed to this year’s successful Strasbourg conference.

Ladies and gentlemen,

The best way to demonstrate that social policy innovation not only improves EU citizens' lives in the short term but also feeds into social policies in the longer term is to look at concrete projects.

One example is the ESF supported Dain project in the UK, which aimed to combat digital exclusion, reaching individuals without basic digital skills or access to the Internet. The project is a good example of innovative and sustainable investment in human capital and the promotion of social inclusion. The digital activist volunteers were recruited from disadvantaged groups to engage over 3000 digitally excluded individuals in activities to promote e-inclusion.

My second example is a project-collaboration by Italy, Romania and Bulgaria introducing a new professional figure, the ‘Social Intermediary’ to ensure a smooth transition out of institutional care for young people. The use of social intermediaries was considered successful and the project recorded improved socialising and relationship skills of the young people involved. In 2012 when the project supported by Progress ended, a major bank continued working with the municipality of Bologna and has since proposed to replicate the project in Rome.

This demonstrates that municipalities and the private sector can successfully work together to secure social outcomes. And that it can feed into the Commission's policy work. In this particular case the experience with the project helped to develop the 2012 “Common European Guidelines on the Transition from Institutional to Community-Based care”.

My third example is the "Social Innovation and micro-savings in Europe", which looked at the role of financial inclusion in social investment strategies. Three pilot interventions in Belgium, France and Hungary were tested to promote savings among low-income and impoverished people (micro-savings). The project helped build a joint knowledge base on social policy innovation and micro-savings in Europe. This has had a lasting positive impact on individuals, especially in France, and led to the creation of the European Financial Inclusion Network (EFIN) in 2013.

Lastly, there are the projects building innovation eco-systems and exploring partnerships with actors in the social economy. One example is the Social Innovation Park by DENOKINN, the Basque Centre for social and corporate innovation, which brings together social enterprises, public authorities and the private sector.  By adding a social dimension to the building of an electric car, Hiriko, it assisted a large group of previously socially excluded people in re-entering the labour market.

These projects and the many others have highlighted some key lessons the Commission considers vital for the future development of social innovation.

First of all, public authorities should be involved in social policy innovation to a greater extent with a view to effective scaling-up and improving sustainability. I am delighted to see so many delegates from public authorities here today to discuss how best to promote innovative partnerships between public authorities and relevant stakeholders.

Secondly, the policy objectives should be an integral part of the used methodology and social outcomes should be measured.

Thirdly, as I already mentioned, we need to recognise and support more strongly the role of social entrepreneurs in devising innovative solutions, particularly when working in partnership with public authorities.

Finally, we see that social policy innovation can only play its role to the full throughout the EU if we further invest in capacity-building to ensure that all Member States are fully involved.

But also from a broader policy perspective further work is needed. We need to better embed social policy innovation in the policy reforms we are calling for under the European Semester and link the outcomes to policy priorities. This endeavour is already under way. We will be looking at how Member States are using social policy innovation as a tool in the design and implementation of their social policies when responding to Country-Specific Recommendations and in the drafting of their National Reform Programmes.

We have asked Member States to provide information on social policy innovation in the National Social Reports they will be presenting to the Social Protection Committee. This will help to assess the extent to which social policy innovation has played a role in the reforms we have been calling for in the Social Investment Package.

Ladies and gentlemen,

Funding plays of course a crucial role and for the 2014-2020 period we have managed to bring our EU financial instruments, such as the European Social Fund, further in line with our policy priorities.

During the current financing period at least 20% of the European Social Fund will be allocated to social inclusion. In addition, Member States receive specific Social Fund resources once they have identified the themes for social policy innovation according to their specific needs in their Operational Programmes and during implementation.

The EU Programme for Employment and Social Innovation — or EaSI for short — also provides targeted support for social policy innovation projects. The overall budget will be approximately 919 million euros. Under the innovation axis of the new programme, the Commission will support the design, evaluation, and larger-scale implementation of new social policy initiatives in line with the Social Investment Package. It will do so by strengthening public-private partnerships in social policy reforms and investing in human capital.

The first call for proposals is about to be launched and will amount to approximately 9.2 million euros overall. It will focus on social policy innovations that support reforms in social services and will pay special attention to one-stop-shop approaches in service delivery, improved personalised care and partnerships.

EaSI will also facilitate access to finance for social enterprises. From 2014 to 2020 at least 86 million euros will be available for funding social enterprises through quasi-equity, loan instruments and grants of up to 500 000 euros.

With all these programmes and policies in place we have to bear in mind the need for EU policy guidance and support to be available at the right time and place.

To do so, we are financing a consortium to help Member States in their efforts to innovate and modernise social policies.

Ladies and gentlemen,

In conclusion let me shortly outline what I believe the next steps should be.

We need to ensure that Member States have the capacity to implement social policy innovation and that the outcomes feed into social policy reform. The importance of fostering strong partnerships between the private sector, civil society and social entrepreneurs in achieving this cannot be overstated.

I hope that this conference will go some way towards forging these new partnerships.

As I mentioned at the start, we definitely need new and innovative approaches to help us meeting the targets of the Europe 2020 strategy.

And there will be more opportunities for you to contribute to the development of this field once this Conference is over.

As you may know, we published a Communication entitled “Taking stock of the Europe 2020 strategy” on the 5th of March. It opened an EU-wide public consultation on the Strategy to canvass the views of all interested parties, including the Member States, the European Parliament, the social partners, civil society and other stakeholders.

This consultation represents a unique possibility to give a stronger place to social policy innovation in a renewed Europe 2020 strategy. I therefore encourage you, social innovators and social entrepreneurs in particular, to let your voice and views heard.

Ladies and gentlemen,

This conference, only a few days before the European elections, can lay the groundwork for the way social policy innovation will be approached under the next Commission.

More generally, we are at a defining point in the development of the European Union. We must seize the opportunity to encourage social investment and lay the groundwork for a sustainable social Europe for future generations.

I wish you a very fruitful conference.
