
A minibus crashed into Sharjah Islamic Bank office on King Faisal Road in Sharjah on Monday while trying to avoid colliding with a taxi.

Sharjah: A minibus crashed into the Sharjah Islamic bank branch on King Faisal Road on Monday after swerving to avoid a taxi.

Although there was severe damage to the building there were no injuries, police said.

A Sharjah police official told Gulf News that the bus driver had intended to push the brake after avoiding the taxi but accidently stepped on the accelerator, sending the bus into a wall of the bank.

The incident was reported to police around 10.30am.

Police arrived at the scene of the incident and had to remove the minibus from the bank with a crane.

The collision and removal of the vehicle caused heavy damage to the offices of the deputy director of the bank as well as the office of a director, a bank spokesperson told Gulf News.

Minibus drivers are usually rash and negligent, they are more on phone and talking to passengers. The speed limit for minibus must be reduced to 70km/hr and speed governors must be mandatory.

there shall be some constant vigil on road to catch and punish irresponsible drivers. It is a common to find drivers tailgating, flashing lights at you even though you are driving on a decent speed, changing tracks without indicators  and without considering vehicles on next track etc and the list goes long.

It is a very serious matter which was not noticed, The Taxi Driver's r very rough while driving.They stop suddenly wherever they get passenger putting car behind in a BIG TEST to control the car. The Taxi management should instruct Taxi Drivers.

what we start noticing in the road recently, the majority of the drivers and specifically cars are not using their car signal. in the roundabout for example you have to guess if they are making an U-turn or going straight. it became  like a fashion these days to not use signal.  we should enhance the self responsibility for our safety and others.

In my opinion and driving experience of more than 9 years in UAE, the accidents by heavy vehicles are caused by lack of sleep, work stress and huge targets to meet. Although, there have been several incidents where these drivers just misbehave out of some frustration or temper issues. Authorities should pay attention to this matter on urgent basis by setting up rules for private companies to not overburden the drivers. It even highly risks the lives of other people. Such cases are increasing for around last 3 years or so.   I have even placed the 'baby on board' sticker but no one bothers. People just want to enjoy tailgating, scaring other drivers and show off their driving skills .

These types of accident happen when drivers do not pay attention to the road and what is happening around them. I notice many drivers talking with a passenger/s and looking at him/her, removing his eyes off the road ahead. Also it is common practice by taxi drivers to stop wherever they wish to pick a passenger. Taxi drivers have to be disciplined regarding this accident-leading practice. BTW, that looks like a van, not a mini bus.

It is not about the type of vehicle which causes the accident, it is the type of driver. Some have high driving standards and are not complacent about road safety, however others are. Whichever vehicle they are in, they can pose a danger.  Any tougher regulations should be against the driver, not the vehicle.

Most of the major accidents are happening for the mini buses. The design and the body was not good it seems to be. If you take the major accidents list (which i saw the photos in gulfnews) are all happend for the minibuses.

It's true that driver's license should be issued by carefully examining the person. However, due to lack of sleep, and stressful routine of daily life, we are not able to concentrate well. Taxi drivers work long working hours and the pressure of work forces them to complete their daily targets and thus leading to accidental mistakes. I hope everyone gets recovered from this unpleasant incident.

Thank God there were no injuries although some loss of properties.  It was an accident and the minibus driver after all tried to avoid another accident with a taxi where there could have been fatalities.  But what I liked the most is Mr.Sreenadh's comment on the accident and this guy is wow.  Good sense of humour.

There are several aspects to this phenomenon going on, first the companies hire drivers who are not well trained, driving a minibus / pick up / 4x4 is different then driving a regular car or sedan. secondly most of the drivers are over worked which results in fatigue and continuous zombie like trance.  Need to improve the training and working conditions.

Everyday day we see new Mini Bus accident series...it seems this series is endless.

Add to the previous comments, this morning while I was on my way to the office, after the green signal on at Zulekha Hospital Signal at Al Qusais, I didn't wait a second and started my car, still the man behind my car was making horn and disturbing. People don't want to wait for a second and some of them are really enjoying after irritating the other drivers. This is really unacceptable.

All the mini buses should be controlled not to cross 100kmph.    Some are and many are not.    This week I witnessed a 15 seater  clocking over 150kmph on Sh. Zayed near Jebel Ali tailgating a Mercedes.

Probably, the drivers are frustrated as they are underpaid.

There are day when I am really angry at my bank. But not this angry to drive my car into it. Hope the bank improves their service after this incident.
