
OTTAWA, ON--(Marketwired - May 19, 2014) -  Planning a meeting at the Ottawa Marriott Hotel has always been an exciting prospect. Its ample square footage complements the area's abundance of attractions for a destination that just about everyone finds appealing. But times are changing, and meeting planners will find that this conference centre in downtown Ottawa is at the helm of a veritable revolution. Case in point is its latest promotion, which features free iPad Minis with qualified meetings and a state-of-the-art app, all of which speaks to the new way business is done.

As one of the most upscale downtown Ottawa hotel deals around, the iPad Group Promotion offers meeting planners of eligible groups a complimentary iPad Mini when they book a meeting during select value dates. Even those who can't accept the iPad can feel good knowing that the hotel will donate one (chock full of educational games) in that person's name to the Children's National Medical Center.

While busy meeting planners will find plenty of uses for an iPad Mini, the hotel ensures that they can put it to immediate use during their conference within this Ottawa meeting space . That's because meeting planners can access Marriott's new Meeting Services App for their conferences. The app allows planners to work with designated event planners at the hotel to make real-time changes and requests, even if the meeting is underway. So if a planner learns there will be 20 more attendees for an afternoon event, getting more chairs is just a few taps on the iPad away. Should delegates need more coffee or a thermostat change while the conference is in progress, no problem. The meeting planner can simply contact the hotel's staff via the app, make the request and have it resolved, all without ever leaving his/her chair.

Even with all the new technology and service swirling about this modern property, there are still a few old-school features that continue to be relevant today. The hotel's 35,000 square feet of meeting space, for example, offers a variety of flexible options, from traditional ballrooms, to a two-level salon with natural light and beautiful views. Also unique among hotels near downtown Ottawa, this property features 5,000 square feet of revolving event space, Summit, which boasts breathtaking views of the city skyline. Some things, after all, are simply timeless.

Welcoming guests with a distinctive blend of luxury and convenience, the Ottawa Marriott Hotel is ideal for everyone from the business traveler to families. Not only is the property's downtown location next to everywhere visitors want to be, whether that's the Ottawa Convention Centre, Parliament Hill or the ByWard Market, but there's plenty to tempt guests on-site as well. The hotel's "spin" Kitchen & Bar serves delicious, fresh comfort food, along with a side dish of political commentary from 4 to 7 p.m., courtesy of Canada's top journalists and pundits. The newly expanded Starbucks, meanwhile, provides liquid energy for guests who want to take advantage of the hotel's health club, indoor pool, games room or Kids' Zone. And the 480 guest rooms and six suites make one's personal time feel like a retreat with luxury linens, complimentary Wi-Fi access and a sense that this is Canada at its finest.

With 500 hotels and resorts in nearly 60 countries around the world, Marriott Hotels is evolving travel through every aspect of the guest's stay, enabling the next generation to Travel Brilliantly. Boldly transforming itself for mobile and global travelers who blend work and play, Marriott leads the industry with innovations, including the Greatroom, Future of Meetings and Mobile Guest Services that elevates style & design and technology. All Marriott hotels participate in the award winning Marriott Rewards frequent travel program that allows members to earn hotel points or airline miles for every dollar spent during each stay. For more information, visit www.MarriottHotels.com .

To join the ongoing Marriott conversation, like us on Facebook ( Facebook.com/Marriott ) and follow us on Twitter ( Twitter.com/Marriott , @Marriott).
