
They're all on General Motors' list of banned words for employees who were documenting potential safety issues.

The  revelation of the 68-word list is one of the odder twists in GM's  ongoing recall of 2.6 million older-model small cars for defective  ignition switches.

On Friday, the U.S. government slapped GM with a  $35 million fine for failing to report the deadly defect for more than a  decade. The government also released a 2008 GM training document that  includes the list and warns employees to stick to the facts and not use  language that could hurt the company down the road.

The word “defect,” for example, “can be regarded as a legal admission” and should be avoided, the company document says.

Adjectives like “bad,” “terrifying,” “dangerous,” “horrific”  and “evil” are on the list. So are unflattering terms like “deathtrap,”  “widow-maker” and “Hindenburg.” Even seemingly benign words like  “always” and “never” made it on the list.

From there, it veers  into the extraordinary. “Kevorkianesque” — as in the late  assisted-suicide activist Jack Kevorkian — and “Corvair-like” — a  reference to the GM car once called “unsafe at any speed” by Ralph Nader  — are on it; so is “apocalyptic,” “grisly” and “rolling sarcophagus.”  Phrases like “unbelievable engineering screw-up” and “potentially  disfiguring” were also discouraged.

GM said flowery language  simply wasn't helpful in getting to the root of a problem. Saying “This  is a lawsuit waiting to happen,” for example, isn't as useful as saying,  “Windshield wipers did not work properly.” But it also warned that  language could be misinterpreted later by someone outside the company.  Employees were asked to think how they would feel if something they were  writing was reported in a major newspaper.

David Friedman, the acting chief of the National Highway  Traffic Safety Administration, said Friday that the materials were part  of a larger problem at GM, where engineers were reluctant to send  documents with words like “defect” up the chain of command.

“The fact that GM took so long to report this defect says there was something very wrong with the company's values,” he said.

GM said Friday that employees are now encouraged to discuss safety issues.

“We  encourage employees to be factual in their statements and will continue  to work with NHTSA to improve our safety processes,” the company said  in a statement.

But Clarence Ditlow, executive director of the  non-profit Center for Auto Safety, said what GM did isn't unusual.  Automakers are required by federal law to report safety defects to the  government within five days of discovering them, so they're careful not  to use language that will trigger that law.

Komentar yang diutarakan melalui laman sosial ini adalah milik peribadi dan tanggungjawab pemilik akaun laman sosial ini. Malaysia Chronicle tidak bertanggungjawab diatas segala komentar yang disiarkan dibawah. Para komentar dinasihatkan bertanggungjawab dalam menulis dan elakkan komentar berbaur perkauman, seksis, serangan peribadi, lucah ataupun menghina.

Komentar yang berbentuk "drama bersiri", yakni salin & tampal artikel pihak ketiga secara bersiri ataupun komentar yang keluar tajuk juga ditegah dan akan dianggap sebagai penyalahgunaan kemudahan komentar ini.

Harap maklum bahawa anda perlu log-masuk melalui Facebook, Yahoo, MSN atau akaun sosial media yang disediakan untuk meninggalkan komentar. Juga maklum bahawa terpulang kepada jalur-lebar di kawasan-kawasan tertentu, komentar anda mungkin tidak akan disiarkan dengan serta-merta.
