
Harrisburg City Council discussed some potential improvements to the town during Thursday's regular meeting, including a possible rooftop patio on a restaurant, a new housing complex and some possible solutions to flooding of businesses on Small Street.

Harrisburg City Council discussed some potential improvements to the town during Thursday’s regular meeting, including a possible rooftop patio on a restaurant, a new housing complex and some possible solutions to flooding of businesses on Small Street.

Wooded Hills Bar and Grill Owner Scott Stout wants to renovate the rooftop of the building on Poplar Street to serve as a rooftop patio that will have a roof and doors for summer and winter use. The business also intends to replace awnings on front and side exteriors to increase curb appeal. The renovations are anticipated to cost a total of $125,500.

Developer Andy Freebourn proposes the purchase property at 820 Dorris Heights Road to building four new multi-residential buildings — two seven-plex buildings and two eight-plex. The area he wants to purchase is an old mobile home park. The total costs including land purchase, demolition, construction and architectural and engineering fees is estimated at $2,320,000.

Downtown TIF administrator Keith Moran recommends to the TIF board the city reimburse 60 percent of the net TIF revenues generated by Wooded Hills not to exceed $25,000. He recommends reimbursing the Freebourn project 50 percent not to exceed $150,000. Council agreed to both, noting the votes only approve the proposals for consideration.

Another downtown improvement could prove costly for the city and involves the sidewalk and retaining wall on the south side of the old Hart Building, owned by Dr. Thomas Vanacker. Vanacker has renters lined up for basement offices in the building, but is experiencing basement flooding. On the south side the sidewalk and retaining wall are deteriorating and are the city’s responsibility to maintain. City Engineer Jim Brown said one company estimated the cost for fixing it would be about $30,850.

“Actually, the city sidewalk is a bit complex. If we mess with it it has to be handicapped accessible and making it handicapped accessible is going to be difficult to do,” Brown said.

A group of Small Street-area business owners attended the meeting to see what the council might do to control flooding along the street. The flooding comes from the West Harrisburg drainage area. Brown suggested setting up a meeting with Illinois Department of Transportation to work with IDOT watershed areas along the state Route 13 bypass. He believes if these watersheds could be developed into detention basins they could hold back 3 to 4 feet of water.

Council tabled approving a revised video gaming ordinance and liquor ordinance drawn up by City Attorney Todd Bittle. Illinois law allows for — and one business has shown interest in — businesses that have video gaming to also be able to sell alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises. The ordinance would require any such businesses to keep the machines in a separated room and also involves the creation of a new type of liquor license classification. Commissioner Dale Fowler said he would like to table the ordinance alterations for the next meeting so he has a chance to review the changes.

Page 2 of 2 - Council authorized engineer Jim Brown to draw up a map encompassing all lots on Harrisburg Lake to benefit Street and Public Properties Superintendent Rick Brown.

Arla Wasson of Legence Bank gave a donation of $500 to benefit the Harrisburg Police Department K9 Unit.

Street and Alley Commissioner John McPeek noted Friday was the final day of the leaf and limb pick up program.

Council approved allowing Roy Adams apply for a federal Community Development and Assistant Program grant for home renovations on the north end of the city, a grant he applied for and was denied in 2013.

Water Superintendent Kelly Hefner announced Saline Valley Conservancy District would pay $58,729 for accrued but unpaid pass through charges for using the city’s water system to provide water to areas outside of the city limits.

Council hired Ryan Collins for summer help working no more than 90 days.

Council authorized Mayor Ron Crank to sign a contract for purchasing two properties: $50,000 to Bill and Elizabeth Hart for property along state Route 13 east of the city through a Federal Emergency Management Agency flood mitigation program and property owned by Leon Russell across the street from Steam Cafe using Downtown TIF funds for a parking lot.

Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.

Your privacy is important, read our privacy policy.

Original content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted.
