
AMC has ordered three reality series including All-Star Celebrity Bowling, which sounds ridiculous but could be a lot of fun with the right guests (the pilot features Jon Hamm and the cast of Mad Men playing against Chris Hardwick‘s Nerdist pals).

EW reports that Michael Malarkey will be a series regular on The Vampire Diaries next season. I’d be happier if Malakey weren’t so infuriatingly good at being such a hate-inspiring character, but he’s a great addition to the cast.

Oh, Enzo, why can’t you be pretty and bearable? You too, Damon.

TVline talked with Grimm producer David Greenwalt. There’s good news for those of you enjoying the dynamic Trubel has added to the show. That’s great news, now I’m keeping my fingers crossed they can build on that excellent finale.

There’s a Bob’s Burgers comic in the works. The first issue goes on sale in August .

EW declares Gotham the most exciting new comic book show while naming Constantine and Marvel’s Agent Carter the least exciting, which only makes sense to me if they wrote it on opposite day.

Michael Weatherly just signed a deal that will keep him at NCIS for two more years .

The Big Bang Theory wrapped its season with its most-watched season finale , but Sandra Oh‘s farewell episode of Grey’s Anatomy didn’t provide a significant bump.

We’re at that time of the year when most shows have wrapped while the summer schedule hasn’t started up yet. It’s a good time to clear out that DVR.

It’s been a while since I’ve seen any of Port Charles’ gays in the daily episode descriptions. Today, Julian calls for a three-day (in our time) family dinner to make a big announcement. I’m just guessing that will include Julian’s biological son Lucas .

The aspiring drag superstars reunite to look back at the past season and to announce the winner.

The variety show has a long and important history on TV. Unfortunately, it’s been a while since TV has had a hit variety show. Saturday Night Live alum Maya Rudolph steps in to try to revive the genre, helped with visits from Sean Hayes , Kristen Bell, Fred Armisen and Craig Robinson.

Jim talks with the creators of The Good Wife. I hope this isn’t one of those times when I end up wondering if they’re talking about a completely different Good Wife than the one I’m watching.

The “Elevator” saga continues tonight as Louie plans a day out with the new friend he made during the crisis for the stuck elevator. Don’t get your hopes up for more Ellen Burstyn, it looks like they’re talking about her deep-sleeping, pie-making niece.

Eric Stonestreet is on tonight’s guest list. I’m guessing he’ll be discussing the second half of the Modern Family wedding finale.

Ricky Martin faces Andy‘s questions tonight.

Out funnywoman Fortune Feimster makes her @Midnight debut tonight.

Tomorrow promises “havoc”at Julian’s dinner. That better not lead to a Lucas-trampling stampede.
