
Through its generous sponsors, Meetings & Event’s Australia have been able to send 18 young professionals to the 2014 Annual MEA National conference in Kuala Lumpur free of charge. The scholarship winners receive airfare, accommodation and conference registration.

MEA offers three scholarship categories with various criteria and application requirements. These scholarships are a fantastic opportunity for the recipients, many of whom have not attended the conference before.

In cooperation with Ungerboeck Software International, the Young Professionals Scholarship acknowledges the work of young people within the industry. Fred Lazerinni, from Ungerboeck, says, “we like to sponsor the young professionals within the industry and support them as they grow. It is great to give them a chance to go to this conference that they would otherwise not attend. We are very proud of doing this and supporting them at the start of their career”. Peter Lyons one of the winners of the Young Professional Scholarship says “the scholarship has given me the opportunity to attend my first national MEA event, which will further my career by building stronger professional networks and learning about industry news and trends. The scholarship is also a win-win for all as I’m able to share what I learnt”.

The FlyMEA scholarship, sponsored by Scene Change, encourages the creative minds of young industry professionals. This year Scene Change asked potential recipients to write 100 words on the subject “If I ruled the meetings industry”.

Katherine Halliday, one of this year’s winners, said she was excited to actually attend an event rather than manage it, “this scholarship means that I will get to experience a world class conference which I am thoroughly excited about. Working in the industry for over seven years this will be my first conference I have attended instead of managing.

Sponsored by Lateral Event Management and the MEA Victorian Branch Committee, Student Scholarships are awarded to outstanding students in their final year of study. One is this year’s recipients, Alana Raco said, “winning the student scholarship to me means having the opportunity to start my career in the industry I'm so passionate about. Through the countless networking opportunities, respected advice and forums provided by attending the MEA National conference. This will enable me to gain diverse exposure, extensive knowledge and invaluable experience within all forms of the events industry”.

The attention to detail and high level of service offered, have made this Emirates flight experience excellent all round.

You may have noticed e-Travel Blackboard has had a make-over? We're under new management and everything’s had a scrub & polish.

To start we've given our name a lift. Introducing ETB News - Global Travel News and Tourism News.

We’ve merged our five international sites into one www.etbnews.com .

We’ve listened to your feedback and now offer tailored newsletter subscriptions. Don’t forget to change your newsletter preferences or subscribe it’s FREE!
