
Maralee Johnson died on March 21. She worked for the Illinois Beef Association for 23 years, serving as the executive vice president for the past 13 years.

SPRINGFIELD, Ill. — Some Illinois cattlemen may be unaware of the amount of work that was conducted on their behalf by Maralee Johnson as the executive vice president of the Illinois Beef Association.

“She took (Environmental Protection Agency) issues personally, and she went to bat for a lot of producers on EPA issues,” said Jeff Beasley, a Creal Springs cattleman and president of the Illinois Beef Association.

Johnson, 61, died on March 21. She worked for the IBA for 23 years, serving as the executive vice president for the past 13 years.

“I think there are a lot of people around the state and throughout the Midwest who probably didn’t know she was out there working diligently and as hard as she was on their behalf,” agreed Mark Gebhards, executive director of the governmental affairs and commodities division of the Illinois Farm Bureau.

Gebhards worked closely with Johnson over the past 20 years, including 10 years with his position at the Illinois Pork Producers Association prior to his current position at IFB.

In addition, Gebhards said, Johnson was a tremendous promoter.

“She had a presence here, and she will not only be missed by folks in the beef industry, but by all her colleagues in the agricultural industry, including me,” added Jim Kaitschuk, IPPA executive director.

Since joining the IPPA nine years ago, Kaitschuk said he worked with Johnson extensively on environmental and animal welfare issues.

The Ribeye Corral at the Illinois State Fair was a high priority for Johnson.

“You knew where you would find her,” said Steve Foglesong, who manages a cattle operation near Astoria.

“On more than one occasion when there were controversial issues, she’d bounce back and forth from the fairgrounds to the capitol,” Foglesong said. “Or she would have meetings on the fairgrounds with people from the capitol to try to take care of producer’s needs.

In addition to state issues, Johnson also worked for Illinois cattlemen on national policies.

Since most Illinois cattlemen also are corn producers, ethanol was one issue where NCBA policy was different from Illinois’ members.

Foglesong added that Johnson understood the power of building coalitions.

“She would grab folks from Iowa, Missouri, Indiana and put them together with Illinois to make their voices heard,” he said. “She tried to make sure anybody who wanted to be involved in the cattle industry had a place, and she tried to help them make a profit.

“Maralee has left a legacy for not only the beef industry, but for all the agricultural associations in Illinois,” Kaitschuk said.

Prior to joining the IBA Board of Governors about six years ago, Beasley said Johnson helped him solve a situation he had with his Environmental Quality Incentives Program contract.

Taking an issue personally was common for Johnson, Beasley said.

Johnson was one of the reasons Beasley chose to become more involved with the IBA.

“Knowing that I was going to work with Maralee is one of the reasons I decided to get into leadership because I knew how she managed affairs, how easy she was to work with and how important things were to her,” he said. “I looked forward to working with her to help the Illinois beef industry.

“She was unique. She was not just respected or not just liked — she was both,” the IBA president added.

Memorials to Maralee Johnson can be made to the Maralee M. Johnson Ag Scholarship Fund. Send contributions to the Illinois Beef Association, 2060 W. Iles Ave., Suite B, Springfield, IL 62704, with a not e in the memo , Maralee M. Johnson Ag Scholarship Fund.
