
The Duchess of Cornwall and Prince of Wales arrived at CFB Winnipeg amidst fog and rain, greeting a throng of VIPs including Premier Greg Selinger and Mayor Sam Katz.

Upon their arrival the couple went to their reception at Government House.

Wednesday morning they will meet with Prime Minister Stephen Harper at Stevenson Hangar and will end in the evening at the legislature.

From learning about the history of Winnie the Pooh to a tour of Innovation Alley and a meet and greet with polar bears, they will naturally be receiving the royal treatment in Winnipeg.

Earlier Tuesday, the couple visited a youth parliament at Province House in Prince Edward Island, where Prince Charles spoke of inspiring youth to take charge of Canada's future.

"The more you challenge, inspire and motivate young people to work in the service of others, the more it builds their self confidence and self esteem," he said in a speech Tuesday morning at the Confederation Centre of the Arts after being awarded the Symons Medal for his contributions to Canada.

During his speech, Prince Charles recalled his mother's 1992 Canada Day address in Ottawa.

At the time she said, "You have inherited a country that is uniquely worth preserving. I call on you all to cherish this inheritance and protect it with all your strength.

"I have every confidence Canadians took her words to heart," Prince Charles said.

Prince Charles also planned to visit Bonshaw Provincial Park Tuesday, while Camilla was going to meet with staff and residents of Prince Edward Home, a long-term care facility.

The royal couple would then visit Cornwall where, he said, "we couldn't possibly feel more at home."

The royals are on a four-day tour of Canada. They landed in Halifax on Sunday evening and toured the province before stopping in Prince Edward Island. Later on Tuesday, arriving in Winnipeg.

The tour, which is expected to cost taxpayers more than $720,000, wraps up Wednesday.

10:20 a.m. Arrive at Red River College's Stevanson Hangar for event with Prime Minister Stephen Harper.

11:35 a.m. Arrive at the Pavilion Gallery Museum at Assiniboine Park, where they will discover the history of Winnie the Pooh and its connection to Winnipeg while meeting children.

12 p.m. Charles and Camilla split up for a few hours, with Charles heading to the Journey to Churchill exhibit at Assiniboine Park Zoo to feed polar bears.

12:15 p.m. Camila visits the Royal Winnipeg Ballet.

12:55 p.m. Charles visits Place Bernadette Poirier in St. Boniface to, amongst other things, unveil a plaque officially opening the facility.

1:45 p.m. Charles tours Innovation Alley in the Exchange District.

1:45 p.m. Camilla arrives at the Assiniboine Credit Union.

2:50 p.m. Charles meets up with business and development leaders in a pair of meetings at Red River College.

4 p.m. Charles meets with His Royal Higness's Regiments, the Royal Winnipeg Rifles, and the Air Reserve of Canada at the Fairmont Winnipeg Hotel.

4:30 p.m. Charles meets with members of the RCMP.

6:05 p.m. Charles and Camilla meet with members of the Queen's Own Rifles of Canada at the Fairmont Winnipeg Hotel.

7 p.m. Arrive at the legislature, where Charles will give a speech at the Order of Manitoba investiture.

7:55 p.m. Attend an official farewell to Canada and Manitoba ceremony on the legislative grounds.

8:40 p.m. Arrive at CFB Winnipeg, where they will view a recently restored 1928 Fokker Super Universal.

8:55 p.m. Fly home.

If you already have an account on this newspaper, you can login to the newspaper to add your comments.

By adding a comment on the site, you accept our terms and conditions and our netiquette rules.

Share your story, photo or video about something you've seen.

Choose among a variety of subscription packages and stay up to date with convenient home delivery and our on the go digital e-edition.
