
May 20, 2014, 8 a.m.

I would like to congratulate Nick Xenophon for taking up the cause for farmers.

Senator Nick Xenophon and independent member of the Legislative Council John Darley  with Saving our Sustainability chairman Milton Stevens.

I would like to congratulate Nick Xenophon for taking up the cause for farmers here on Eyre Peninsula.

The SOS Group have been sending out an SOS for some time now about how mining will affect us here on EP.Nick Xenophon is the only one to step up to help. Rowan Ramsey is conspicuous by his absence and Peter Treloar appears to be toothless.

As Nick said in the Times (Tuesday, April 29) the government have their heads buried deep in the "mineral sands".

Their heads are buried so deep they cannot see what mining will do to people's lives here on EP. Farmers who were here first.

The government ignore the fact that Eyre Peninsula grows 10 per cent of Australia's wheat and produces mountains of wool and meat.

The Koppio Hills are a prime fat lamb raising district and Lower Eyre Peninsula is a precious reserve that takes stock from other parts of EP in times of drought.

Agriculture has provided wealth for all towns and communities including Port Lincoln and will continue to do so indefinitely if our land is looked after.

Iron ore dust will get into the wool, making it unsaleable - ask the farmers adjacent to Iron Duke about their wool; they can't sell it and you could scour pots with it.

Iron ore dust will taint our wheat, lowering it's value.

Iron ore dust will get into our waterways affecting our underground water supply.

They can't see that our clean pollution free aquaculture industry (tuna, scallops, mussels, oysters) could be affected. This industry is worth more to Eyre Peninsula than any short-term mining will ever be. The life of these mines is only about 30 years.

It will affect Port Lincoln's tourist viability as well. Take the other Monday when there was a strong northerly wind, there was dust everywhere over Port Lincoln. If mining goes ahead that dust would be laden with iron ore dust and we will end up looking like Whyalla.

As seen in a Centrex Metals Ltd ASX announcement on May 1, 2014: "Centrex Metals' Fusion Project comprises a 50km long magnetic banded iron formation on the Southern Eyre Peninsula.

"The Koppio Area is only 14km of the overall magnetic trend."

In other words the project stretches from Bratten Way in the north to Greenpatch Hill/Charlton Gully in the south, which is right on Port Lincoln's doorstep.

The statement goes on to say that they will "commence exploration of additional deposits within the Fusion project area to reduce the required depth for the initial mining life".

Some farmers won't sign up with the mining companies, they want to remain farmers and to pass their farms on to the generations to come.

As a result these people are hounded by mining companies via letters, phone, email and being threatened with court action.

Some farmers' homes are too close to mining pits and they could be forced to move. These people were here first and have viable businesses all of which they are expected to hand over to mining companies.

If mining goes ahead their property values could drop by 50 per cent.

But worse than all that, what about the Yallunda Flat Show? Will that still be there? Port Lincoln people usually enjoy a beautifully scenic drive through the picturesque Koppio Hills to get to the show.

If mining goes ahead that road is destined to be at the bottom of a mining crater surrounded by massive rock dumps. People will be forced to go the boring bitumen way.

Port Lincoln residents need to realise the battle is not just the farmers'. It's a battle for our way of life here in Port Lincoln too.

We are all in this together.
