
For more information about launches, visit www.faa.gov/data_research/commercial_space_data .

Posted: Sunday, May 18, 2014 9:31 pm | Updated: 6:04 pm, Tue May 20, 2014.

At an XCOR Aerospace reception last year at Midland Tower, Chief Executive Officer Jeff Greason delivered a line that could shape the future of Midland’s westside development.

That’s a tall task for a city feeling the growing pains of a fast-growing economy. But Midland International Airport — expecting a spaceport license this year — has started laying the foundation for future airport zoning.

Maps of proposed overlay zones to protect from encroaching developments show a big red X over the airport stretching into northwest and southwest Midland.

A risk analysis study shared that day explained why: If Midland’s airport becomes the first in the world to offer both commercial and space flights from its runways, it has to be safe for the public.

“If there’s any one thing in a licensing application process, the only ‘thou shalt’ you really have to deal with is making sure you’re protecting people on the ground to a standard level,” said Stephen Matier, senior engineer and president at Silverwing Enterprises in New Mexico.

Before the federal government issues any spaceport operator licenses — there are eight on the books as of May — airports and operators must submit a safety review, with one flight track surpassing government standards for federal approval.

Spelling out the risks of spaceflight with formulas, flight path trajectories and failure rates during the April meeting, Matier explained that any change in the formula — including an increase in “belly buttons,” or people on the ground — could impact the safety of proposed flight tracks.

That means the airport and private space company must look at future population growth in the Midland-Odessa area and form some “what-ifs” for particular areas, such as housing projects, Wal-Marts and other developments, Matier said.

City leaders even discussed the impact to oilfield operations such as drilling rigs and fracturing ponds, wondering if operators will have to start carrying “space vehicle insurance” to protect against accidents.

At a Spaceport Development Corp. meeting last week, Kaplan Kirsch & Rockwell LLP consultant Peter Kirsh shared the results of a land use compatibility study, meant to protect airports from people and people from airports.

Kirsh said with only eight operator licenses on the books — and none being at a commercial airport — there are few precedents to follow.

“It’s a lot of judgment calls,” he said.

Still, there’s a lot at stake for the future of the spaceport if operators or cities don’t get the zoning right.

During the same meeting, Esterly said high-density residential developments could pose a problem in the big red X, which stretches past State Highway 158 in the northwest and West County Road 140 in the southwest.

What that means for a city growing in a northwest direction is uncertain. A current city plan projects small to medium growth in areas west of Loop 250 and large growth in the Tradewinds area.

Spaceport Development Corp. President and District 2 Councilman John Love III expects more steps in the development process,

During the April meeting, District 1 Councilman Jeff Sparks asked for a list of commercial structures that could be developed in that area.

But XCOR’s Greason, who has a vested interest in protecting future flight corridors, doesn’t expect any conflicts in the zoning process.

Still, airport, city and company officials are banking on having commercial and space flights out of the same airport.

SpaceX has very little development around its Spaceport America launchpad in southern New Mexico, which means potential space passengers must first catch commercial flights to airports that are miles away.

“Midland will have the best of both worlds: commercial space flights and commercial flight packages for companies,” Love said.

At an airport board meeting in April, Esterly envisioned a 40-acre spaceport industrial park along the south end of the airfield that features clusters of aerospace companies such as Orbital Outfitters and Trace Engines.

Esterly plans to attend the annual Space Symposium in Colorado Springs, Colorado, with more than 150 global exhibitors from all sectors of the space industry, to recruit companies.

“We just need to make sure we are ahead of that curve,” he said.

Posted in Top stories , Business on Sunday, May 18, 2014 9:31 pm. Updated: 6:04 pm.

Welcome to the discussion.

Texas53 posted at 5:48 pm on Wed, May 21, 2014.

Watchdog113 posted at 9:57 am on Mon, May 19, 2014.

BeeBee posted at 11:11 pm on Sun, May 18, 2014.
