
Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own.

Options For Income is a contributor page created by the editors of Stock Options Channel, a stock options research Website. Our site includes a number of features that allow investors to dig deeper into interesting stock options opportunities, including our proprietary YieldBoost ranking system. Some of these actionable ideas will appear on this Forbes contributor page each day.   The site and our articles focus on selling option contracts and collecting premium income in the hope that they won’t be exercised and thus will expire worthless. It’s an income generating strategy currently employed by many of the most sophisticated money managers and hedge funds. Now StocksOptionsChannel.com and Forbes offer this information in an easy to use and understand format.

Investors in Nippon Telegraph & Telephone Corp. ( NYSE: NTT ) saw new options become available today, for the July 19th expiration. At Stock Options Channel , our YieldBoost formula has looked up and down the NTT options chain for the new July 19th contracts and identified the following call contract of particular interest.

Considering the fact that the $30.00 strike represents an approximate 5% premium to the current trading price of the stock (in other words it is out-of-the-money by that percentage), there is also the possibility that the covered call contract would expire worthless, in which case the investor would keep both their shares of stock and the premium collected. The current analytical data (including greeks and implied greeks) suggest the current odds of that happening are 72%. On our website under the contract detail page for this contract, Stock Options Channel will track those odds over time to see how they change and publish a chart of those numbers (the trading history of the option contract will also be charted). Should the covered call contract expire worthless, the premium would represent a 0.53% boost of extra return to the investor, or 3.15% annualized, which we refer to as the YieldBoost.
