
Last week, we remembered those who fought to end racial segregation in our schools, and specifically Rev. Oliver L. Brown and his family, who were champions in this cause to move our nation forward.

We are forever indebted to them for their willingness to stand up for what is right, and fulfill the promise of the abolitionist founding of our state. But, just as important to me and many Kansans is the example set by Rev. Brown.

This 32-year-old minister and railroad welder faced down the injustice of segregation so his 8-year old daughter, Linda, could attend a good neighborhood school instead of the segregated school miles from his house.

Anniversaries like this not only remind us of the legacy of those who took a stand to make our country a better place, but they should also serve as a moment where we honor all parents who make great sacrifices to improve the lives of their children.

I was honored to deliver remarks regarding the landmark Brown v. Board of Education case at an event to commemorate the 60th anniversary of the decision.

During the ceremony, I presented the Brown v. Board of Education National Historic Site with a letter signed by 173 members of the House of Representatives on both sides of the aisle as a testament to the historic decision and to remind us all that issues which once divided can be resolved to accomplish a more just nation.

I recently traveled to Lawrence High School to congratulate the finalists of this year’s Congressional Art Competition.

Eastern Kansas is full of talent. I received more entries this year than ever before. A special congratulations to first-place winner Amaiya Reeder, of Lawrence High School, and all the students who entered the competition this year.

Amaiya’s piece, titled “Touching My Identity,” will be showcased in the U.S. Capitol for a year, and she will have the chance to visit D.C. to view her art on display. She clearly has an eye for creativity and a bright future.

For National Small Business Week, I visited a number of small businesses in Osawatomie.

After conversations with employees and small business owners, it's evident folks who work hard in towns like Osawatomie deserve our support and respect, not more government regulations to hold them back.

A special thanks to Mayor Mark Govea for taking me around town and to all the businesses.

This week I hosted coffees in Ottawa and Pleasanton. We had engaging discussions on the House’s efforts to balance our nation’s budget, the need to cut spending, and the need for more aggressive oversight of the administration. Thanks to everyone who came out to join me.

Senator Dole stopped by Topeka last week and I enjoyed hearing from him again.

It's always a pleasure to spend time with my good friend, who never fails to make a crowd smile.

Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.

Your privacy is important, read our privacy policy.

Original content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted.
