
Pediatricians have a new prescription for schools: later start times for teens.

VICTORIA - Google Earth may soon extend it global gaze to some of the most remote First Nations territories in Canada.

"I've always wanted to do that!" This was the standard response from anyone who learned I was riding Via Rail's Canadian from Vancouver to Toronto this summer.

At least four people – including former Ottawa police chief Sen. Vern White – are vying to replace MP Gordon O’Connor as the Conservative candidate in Kanata-Carleton in the next federal election, according to The Hill Times.

Rumours have long circulated that White would seek a federal seat. He told the political publication he is seriously considering a run for the nomination if O’Connor confirms he won’t seek re-election.

WINNIPEG — Canada’s aboriginal affairs ministers want the country’s premiers to look at compensation, counselling and repatriation for thousands of aboriginal children adopted into white families during the so-called ’60s Scoop.

Manitoba Aboriginal Affairs Minister Eric Robinson said it’s time for a national discussion about the thousands of aboriginal children who were taken from their communities and raised in non-native households from the 1960s to the 1980s.

It’s estimated that up to 20,000 aboriginal children were removed from their homes by child welfare services and placed with non-aboriginal families. Many consider the adoptions an extension of the residential school system, which aimed to “take the Indian out of the child” and was frought with abuse.

The federal government has been placing robocalls to its own offices to see who answers. The calls are meant to ferret out and cancel the thousands of unused telephone lines that cost taxpayers millions each year. So far, the robocalls have located at least 8,000 of them.

The project, carried out over the last year, aimed to locate government lines that no one ever picks up, whether because of previous workforce downsizing, an office move or other reasons. Shared Services Canada, the agency in charge, has no master list of orphan telephone numbers for its 43 client departments.

So it offered an auto-dialler system to the RCMP, Health Canada, Treasury Board and other big departments, allowing them ring their own office numbers to find out whether anyone lifts the receiver at the other end.

The agency can then use another automated system to help verify whether each inactive line is permanently idle.

An internal RCMP study found 322 incidents of corruption within the national police force over an 11-year period, according to information released to the Canadian Press. The most common type of corrupt behaviour was improper disclosure of police information, sometimes to family members or friends.

Fraud and falsifying evidence, fixing tickets and protecting illegal activities were also among the types of corruption found. The RCMP undertook the study, dubbed Project Sanction, to help identify trends with a view to developing an anti-corruption strategy. The study covered the period 1995 to 2005.

The RCMP says it has since adopted many of the report’s recommendations, adding there is no evidence that corruption is a significant issue within its ranks.

– Citizen news services.
