
By using this website, you consent to our use of cookies. For more information on cookies see our Cookie Policy .

Aer Lingus has claimed that revised rosters being sought by cabin crew at the airline would see them receive an additional 32 paid days off.

Aer Lingus has claimed that revised rosters being sought by cabin crew at the airline would see them receive an additional 32 paid days off.

The airline strongly criticised a planned 24-hour strike by cabin crew which is scheduled to go ahead on Friday 30 May, the start of the June bank holiday weekend. It said the strike was “unjustified and unnecessary” and would cause maximum disruption to the travelling public.

Aer Lingus said that 28,000 people had been booked to travel on the day of the stoppage.  It said it would normally expect to carry more than 40,000 passengers on the Friday of the June bank holiday weekend.

The airline rejected as “misleading” claims made by the trade union Impact, which represents the cabin crew, that existing rosters were unworkable.

It said these allegations were extremely misleading .

Impact has proposed that cabin crew should be rostered to work the same pattern and flights currently worked by the pilots.

It has said that at present cabin crew can work up to 60 hours in a seven day period, resulting in shift patterns of six working days and one rest day, followed by six more working days .

The union has proposed that for a trial period cabin crew would move to the same summer leave arrangements as for the pilots. It suggested annual leave would be rostered into this pattern and cabin crew would be entitled to two blocks of leave during the summer, in a similar arrangement to that applying for pilots.

The union has proposed that each of these blocks appear on the roster of 11 consecutive days free of duty.

Aer Lingus said the issues in dispute should be addressed through the normal negotiation process, which was already underway within the company.

It said the threat of strike action was “pre-emptive, unwarranted and an extremely unfair imposition on the travelling public, the tourism industry, exporters and business travellers”.

The airline said that allegations by Impact representatives about unworkable rosters using extreme examples of 60 hour working weeks and 16 hour days were e extremely misleading and did not bear any resemblance to actual rosters at the company.

“ A detailed analysis of actual Aer Lingus rosters over the last 12 months shows that the average working week for cabin crew was 30 hours, and that the incidence of staff working greater than 50 hours in a seven day period was less than 0.5 per cent. In relation to 16 hour days, our analysis shows that the longest planned working day in the roster is 13 hours, involving flying Dublin to San Francisco .

We reserve the right to remove any content at any time from this Community, including without limitation if it violates the Community Standards . We ask that you report content that you in good faith believe violates the above rules by clicking the Flag link next to the offending comment or by filling out this form . New comments are only accepted for 3 days from the date of publication.
