
Coun. Doug Ford slams residential home for disabled kids.

The city councillor brother of Toronto Mayor Rob Ford is standing by his comments about a residential home for developmentally disabled youth in his ward.

In an interview with TV station CP24, Coun. Doug Ford also shot back at people, including former Liberal MP Bob Rae, who have criticized him for saying the home has "ruined" a west-end neighbourhood.

Ford has been taken to task on social media after his comments were reported in the community newspaper the Etobicoke Guardian.

The councillor told CP24 he was misled about the group home's residents and rules.

He claims the current occupants have violent tendencies and are allowed to leave the house unsupervised, and he accused them of causing problems in the neighbourhood.

In an email to The Canadian Press, Deanna Dannell, a Griffin Centre spokeswoman, says the centre had several contacts with Ford before the residence opened and it was upfront about who would live there and what services would be provided.

Ford says he'd be happy to take the address of anyone criticizing him for his comments and "we'll put the house right next door to them and see how they like it."

The brother of Toronto Mayor Rob Ford is being chastised on social media for reportedly saying a residential home for developmentally disabled youth has "ruined" a neighbourhood.

Coun. Doug Ford's comments have triggered an angry response on Twitter, with people including former Ontario premier Bob Rae blasting the Toronto city councillor.

The community newspaper the Etobicoke Guardian reported on Friday that Ford's office organized a public meeting on Thursday concerning the facility run by the Griffin Centre, described as a non-profit multi-service mental health agency.

The paper reported that some residents in Toronto's west-end complained about the facility's presence in their midst and that they weren't given sufficient advance warning.

Ford, whose ward is in the west-end, is quoted as saying it was unacceptable to have emergency vehicles parked on the street outside the home and that the home should be relocated.

"You’ve ruined the community,” Ford is quoted by the Guardian as telling the facility's staff.

The published comments attributed to Ford have drawn condemnation on Twitter, including Rae who weighed in with a tweet on Saturday.

"This is the opposite of leadership on mental health. Doug Ford should be ashamed of himself - hurting not helping," Rae tweeted.
