
STAMFORD, Conn., May 19, 2014 /PRNewswire/ -- Today, Gartner Inc. and 1to1 Media announced the winners of the 2014 Gartner and 1to1 Media CRM Excellence Awards.

Through this joint awards program, 1to1 Media and Gartner honor leading customer experience organizations and spotlight the standards of excellence among these organizations that have taken a customer-centric approach to improving their business performance. The winners were selected by a panel of judges that consisted of Gartner analysts and the 1to1 Media editorial staff.

Now in its tenth year, the Gartner and 1to1 Media CRM Excellence Awards aim to establish a standard of excellence for customer-focused organizations and honor those companies that provide value to customers and shareholders by effectively bringing together strategy, technology, and execution to deliver ideal customer experiences.

"The 2014 winners demonstrate how, when organizations combine innovation and creativity with dedicated processes and enterprisewide commitment, they realize tangible results around their customer experience efforts," said Mila D'Antonio, editor-in-chief of 1to1 Media. "This year's winners truly showcase how having thoughtful, collaborative customer experience strategies pay off."

Penny Gillespie, research director of e-commerce at Gartner added: "The 2014 winners all shared the common goal of improving the lives of their customers and recognized the significance of looking at their organizations from their customers' perspective.  As these winners demonstrate, nothing great is ever achieved without talking to the customer."

The Gartner Customer 360 Summit is a comprehensive event offering the latest customer strategies and technologies, how those technologies affect your customer relationship initiatives, and what organizational and cultural changes must occur to meet your company's goals. Additional information is available at www.gartner.com/us/crm .

Gartner, Inc. ( IT ) is the world's leading information technology research and advisory company. Gartner delivers the technology-related insight necessary for its clients to make the right decisions, every day. From CIOs and senior IT leaders in corporations and government agencies, to business leaders in high-tech and telecom enterprises and professional services firms, to technology investors, Gartner is a valuable partner in more than 14,000 distinct organizations. Through the resources of Gartner Research, Gartner Executive Programs, Gartner Consulting and Gartner Events, Gartner works with every client to research, analyze and interpret the business of IT within the context of their individual role. Founded in 1979, Gartner is headquartered in Stamford, Connecticut, USA, and has 6,100 associates, including more than 1,460 research analysts and consultants, and clients in 85 countries. For more information, visit www.gartner.com .
