
Share This Story!

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Morris the Glass Bank Cat was captured Sunday night in Cocoa Beach. He will be unveiled to the media Wednesday.

The campaign to Save Morris The Glass Bank Cat worked.

Video released Sunday night showed the orange cat safely inside a small cage.

"Right now, the cat is at an undisclosed location where he is going through a three-day evaluation process," said Tony Hernandez, the Cocoa Beach attorney who started the campaign to save Morris. "Our goal is for it to be adoptable. It's doing really well and is well taken care of."

Hernandez would not release details behind the capture, but said: "It was an ongoing, clandestine effort on the part of real experts on cats. After several days of planning and executing, I must say the rescue effort went perfectly."

The cat is a Manx, meaning it has a truncated tail. He's also not neutered. Hernandez said Morris will have that procedure done in the next few days, as well as getting his shots.

"If experts say it's feral, we'll look for a registered colony for him," Hernandez said. "If it's adoptable, there's a long list of people. But they'll have to have the right house. Experts will stay on board to find out where (it's) best for Morris to live."

Hernandez he plans to introduce the cat at a media event Wednesday.

"We've had everybody asking us, TV stations, CNN," he said. "I just want to have one good media blitz and put this whole story to rest."

The cat was first spotted last month by Hernandez, whose office faces the Glass Bank building. The concern was immediate; the building is condemned and will be torn down in a few months.

Hernandez's daughter asked him what he was going to do about the cat.

"I saw the compassion in her eyes, and I knew I had to save cat," he said.

So he started a campaign to "Save Morris The Glass Bank Cat."

He announced he was taking on the cat as a pro bono client, which created a buzz on social media and attracted news media coverage from as far as Brazil.

The "Morris Theglassbankcat" Facebook page was updated late Sunday, with Hernandez commenting, "My client would like to thank everyone for their support." One post responded: "That is great. Hope he finds a good home."

To show you Morris' reach, even Barbara Eden of "I Dream of Jeannie" fame has liked Morris' Facebook page.

Morris apparently is an educated cat, too. The Facebook page says he went to Feline High School in Las Vegas.
