
The tall and handsome young man stood between his parents at Mass. Within seconds, he began to jump up and down, up and down, and groaning loudly.

His mother silently accepted his repeated kisses and when he went to sit down, she gently guided him back into a standing position. For the entire one-hour Mass.

Many watched this scenario wondering what was going on — until understanding that this young man was very special because he was born to an angel of a mother (and father). In my hidden heart, I mused that had our stillborn baby, Marc, lived with his numerous Trisomy 18 problems, he might be standing next to me doing the same actions.

After Mass, I approached the mother and told her what a nice young man she had for a son, and she beamed.

"Yes, we know ... Christopher is 28 and a resident of a nearby church home ... and guess what, he works for Meals on Wheels."

As we chatted, Christopher leaned in to kiss me with his huge smile and beautiful brown eyes. I was touched and thanked him. I left church wondering how exhausted the parents were day after day in dealing with Christopher's care. I left the church wondering if I would have had the same strength and grace had Marc lived.

Recently, I went about my Saturday errands, caught up in the cookies a bakery was going to make for my class reunion. Returning to my car, a young lady in a specialized wheelchair was being pushed up the ramp into a van by her parents. I noticed the "handicapped" license plate, I noticed her parents' love and care that she got in safely, and I heard the young girl asking her parents why they didn't do this and that right. Typical teen, I thought.

And how many times a day do the three of them prepare for a simple trip to the store, doctor's office, bank, post office ... the logistics of navigating sidewalks and elevators ... and maybe a stare or two.

I got into my car and left wondering if I would have the same strength and grace had Marc lived.

My lifelong friend calls me that her great-nephew is back in the hospital for serious problems relating to his Cystic Fibrosis. Craig is on so many meds, has kidney stones, has to be patted on the back and use nebulizers repeatedly. One week he is fine, the next he's back in the hospital. His mother oversees his care while his three younger siblings worry about him.

Craig is tired of CF, he is angry, and who does he take his anger out on? His mother. He is 26 years old and cannot work and cannot be around people who are sick. He lives at home playing video games and watching TV. What goes through his mind each day? What goes through the mind of his siblings and his father? His mother does it all, tries to balance the entire family's needs while caring for Craig.

She takes his anger ... she loves him, she wants him to live.

I hear this news and wonder if I would have had the same strength and grace had Marc lived.

Mother's Day ... usually a day painted as perfect with moms in corsages, moms taken out to dinner and sent cards and flowers ... smiling moms, dressed up for church. The year Marc died, our three children waited for me in the living room with a "corsage" they made for me to wear to Mass. It was a large safety pin with three nearly-dead dandelions dangling from it. My heart broken, so proudly I wore it to Mass — and women in the pews smiled at me and somehow knew.

For all of the mothers reading this who have special children in their lives, God bless you for your love, for the nights you cry into your pillow that you feel alone, for feeling no one understands that you don't have a burden, you have a blessing, and they have you.

On the outside, many of us look like we have it all. In our hidden hearts, we see ourselves in you and want to help, hug, know your child's name and age. They live, they love, they make a difference, they matter and they contribute to the world in many miraculous ways because ... of you!
