
Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own.

I have more than 35 years’ experience as an attorney and financial planner, and I’ve worked with hundreds of business owners to solve problems, exit their businesses or retain their top talent.  I work all over the country with financial advisors and business owners themselves to help them better prepare for their financial future.  My blog is focused on financial intelligence for business owners.  I'll talk about current events, experiences I've had with business owners, and a lot about taxes.   Steve is a National Advanced Solutions Director with the Principal Financial Group®, Des Moines, IA 50392.  While this communication may be used to promote or market a transaction or an idea that is discussed in the publication, it is intended to provide general information about the subject matter covered and is provided with the understanding that the author is not rendering legal, accounting, or tax advice. It is not a marketed opinion and may not be used to avoid penalties under the Internal Revenue Code. You should consult with appropriate counsel or other advisors on all matters pertaining to legal, tax, or accounting obligations and requirements.  *JD is an educational degree and the holder does not provide legal services on behalf of the companies of the Principal Financial Group.

I made my annual pilgrimage to Capitol Hill last week. While there, I asked a staffer whether any of the business owner tax incentives had a chance of being renewed. These so-called, “tax extenders” have become part of the annual government dance that business owners must suffer through in order to save taxes. Congress often comes in after the year has begun and retroactively extends some of the business tax provisions. I was told the R&D credit and higher Section 179 limits were possibilities for retroactive extension, but it’s not a given.

My next stop was to St. Louis, where I spoke to a group at the AAIM Employer’s Association conference. I filled these business owners in on what I’d learned earlier in the week at Capitol Hill. After my presentation, a business owner came up and told me she owns a company that finances farm implement purchases. She said that because her agribusiness owners were unsure about whether they will get the higher Section 179 expensing limits for 2014, her business has dropped 40% over last year.  Owners are waiting to see what Congress does.

The situation above is a classic example of why you need to keep an eye on what is happening in Washington . The federal government has been involved in a balancing act between stimulus and debt management; and, business owners are sometimes the pawns in a Congressional chess game. Owners need to consider not only short-term issues, such as extension of the Section 179 limits, but also longer-term trends. I walked away from Capitol Hill with an impression of three major trends – what I’ll call the “3 Rs”: revenue, retirement and re-election.

Revenue:  With a $17.5 trillion federal debt, the federal government is looking at ways to keep both the lights on and pay down some of the debt. This calls for revenue, a euphemism for taxes. Tax reform has been a worthy goal to talk about, and a hoped for way to raise revenue in a simpler, more equitable manner. However, since Representative Camp of the Ways and Means Committee has proposed a tax reform bill, Congress is feeling the pain associated with reform. While it is popular to talk about lowering tax brackets, it is not popular to talk about ways of getting there.

As a business owner and consumer, do you really want to see your life insurance taxed, have your mortgage interest deduction reduced or see an elimination of favorable business tax provisions? While tax reform has been uniformly declared “dead on arrival” for this year, some of these provisions may work their way into other tax bills. They may become unwelcome offsets to other tax provisions.

Retirement:  Congress is very aware of the strain the economy is putting on both pending retirements and on the federal debt. Social Security , Medicare, the Affordable Care Act and qualified retirement plans are all on their radar. The government also recognizes, however, that small business is the lifeblood of economic growth, and anything that hurts this group, hurts the economy. When we explained to Congressional representatives how certain tax changes could adversely affect small- and medium-sized business, they were interested. Despite the headlines, it appears Congress is looking for solutions and is open to suggestions.

Business owners are seen as a key constituency, so this is your opportunity to let your opinions be known. Whether through your trade associations or direct meetings with your representatives, this is a good time to be heard.

Re-election:  A significant factor in Congress’s openness to input is the political climate. When we were on Capitol Hill, every office visited conceded the big political issue is “what happens with the Senate?”  Who will control the Senate after the election? Democrat or Republican, the practical outcome of this looming mid-term election is that everyone is waiting. The incumbents are assessing the mood, looking at the options, addressing the “3 Rs” and preparing their post-election strategies.

What Congress does affects your business. Let them know.
