
Share This Story!

The Legislature's short 2014 session yielded a long list of new laws.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

ST. PAUL, MN -- The 2014 session ran only 11 weeks, which is fairly short even for a non-budget year, and wrapped up two days early.

Minimum wage -- The state's lowest wage for larger employers will rise to $9.50 per hour in three stages by August of 2016. It will result in a pay increase for an estimated 350,000 workers in Minnesota.

Medical Marijuana – Medical cannabis will be legal in oil and pill form for some patients as early as July of 2015. Minnesota's version of the law will be more restrictive than the other 21 states that have already legalized marijuana as a medicine.

Tax Breaks - Lawmakers passed two rounds of tax breaks totally $550 million. The first set brought Minnesota's tax deductions in line with those available in the federal tax code. The second round will increase property tax refunds for homeowners, renters and farmers.

Safe and Supportive Schools Act – Minnesota's new comprehensive system designed to protect children from bullying in school and online will ask schools to track cases, and train school staff on how to respond to reports of bullying. The law is aimed at reducing suicides and lowering drop-out rates among bullied children. Many Republican lawmakers objected to the legislation as an unnecessary interference with local control of schools.

School Lunches – The legislature sent extra state aid to schools, enabling children who normally qualify for reduced price lunches to receive those meals for free. The bill was a response to reports that some districts were shaming children with payment overdue notes pinned to their clothing or stamped to their hands.

Home health workers – Home care workers will receive a long awaited raise, due to a five percent hike in state support to agencies that hire those aides. The pay raise has been a bipartisan priority for years, and projected budget surplus led lawmakers to go through with it in 2014.

State Capitol Restoration – The ongoing renovation and restoration project of the state's historic 1904 Capitol building will receive a $126 million get a boost from the bonding bill.

Cell Phone Kill Switches – Beginning in July 2015 all smart phones and cell-connected computer tablets sold in Minnesota must be equipped with kill switches, which allow the owner to remotely disable a phone that has been stolen or lost.

Housing Assistance – The bonding bill included $100 million for transitional housing and supportive services for homeless persons attempting to get back on their feet.

Working Women – The Women's Economic Security Act will expand unpaid family leave time to 12 weeks for new parents who work at companies with 21 or more employees. The law will also require employers to make accommodations to nursing mothers who need a place to pump breast milk.  Larger state contractors will submit reports showing they're complying with existing pay equity rules.

Expungement - Some former offenders will be able to their get criminal records sealed by a judge, after waiting two to five years after completing probation. The new law is designed to help those who've turned around their lives but have trouble find jobs and housing because of criminal records from the distant past.

Online lottery - Lawmakers abruptly ended the Minnesota Lottery's instant electronic scratch-off games that were launched in February. A play-at-the-pump pilot project, allowing sales of lottery tickets at fuel pumps, will also end. The lottery will be allowed to keep selling tickets online to those who subscribe to a service.

E-Cigs Restrictions – Vaping of electronic cigarettes will be barred inside government buildings and hospitals beginning July 1. Opponents asserted indoor vaping restrictions could lead some vapers to return to smoking real cigarettes.

Domestic Violence Gun Restrictions – Those who've been convicted of crimes of domestic violence, and persons who are subjects of court-issued orders of protection must transfer their firearms to a police, a federally licensed gun dealer, a friend or a relative who doesn't live under the same roof.

Heating help – One of the legislature's first acts of the session was to increase heating assistance by $20 million dollars, in response to a bitterly cold winter and a propane shortage that sent prices through the roof in the Midwest.

Payday lending controls – A bill that would've restricted customers to a limited number of advance payday loans per year to prevent a backlog of excessive fees and interest payments.

The Toxic Free Kids Act – A bill that would've required manufacturers to report to the Dept. of Health the presence of formaldehyde, flame retardants, phtahalates and other harmful chemicals in products used by children.

Voting rights restoration – A bill that would adopt the model in North Dakota, where any adult currently not incarcerated can vote, failed to gain traction. Currently released felons in Minnesota can't vote until they're finished their probation.

Repeal of the Sunday liquor – A perennial favorite among consumers and owners of liquor stores located along Minnesota's borders, but opposed by the licensed beverage industry.

Sunday growler fills to go – This legislation was considered a "baby step" toward full repeal of the Sunday liquor, allowing consumers to fill growler bottles with beer in tap rooms and take it to go. It became part of the omnibus liquor bill in the Senate but was stripped out by the Tax Committee. Senators restored growlers to the liquor bill during the floor debate, which led the author of the liquor bill to table it.
