
Microsoft and SAP are to work together more closely on cloud computing, data access and mobile software to help customers get even more benefits from both firms' tools.

The cloud computing work will see a raft of SAP software accredited for Azure. This will cover Business Suite, Business All-In-One, Mobile Platform, Adaptive Server Enterprise (SAP ASE) and the developer edition of the SAP HANA platform.

This work is expected to be completed by the end of the second quarter of 2014 and will allow firms using SAP’s tools to benefit from Azure’s compute resources and the ability to scale user numbers rapidly, the firms said.

Scott Guthrie, executive vice president for Cloud and Enterprise at Microsoft, said that bringing SAP’s technology to Azure underlined the firm’s commitment to meet the needs of customers embracing the cloud.

“Our expanded partnership with SAP demonstrates our continued commitment to deliver the applications and services our customers need — in their private clouds, service provider clouds, Microsoft Azure and Microsoft Office,” he said.

SAP added that the partnership also meant that customers with preconfigured SAP tools can deploy them to Azure as well.

The initiative will also see the two firms improve the interoperability between their suite of tools to help firms more easily manage their data.

Microsoft has given Excel connectivity to SAP’s BusinessObjects BI tool via its Power BI offering while both firms will work on a new version of SAP Gateway for Microsoft. This will make it easier for customers to automate data and business processes in Office 365 using data hosted in SAP software. The new version of Gateway is expected in the second half of 2014.

Finally, the two firms will also work together to develop and market mobile versions of key SAP tools for Windows 8.1 and Windows Phone 8.1 The ability to manage these apps through SAP’s Mobile Secure or Microsoft’s Intune tool will also be included.

More details about these moves are expected to be unveiled at SAP Sapphire in Florida, taking place at the start of June.

Steve Lucas, president of platform solutions at SAP, said the work was in recognition of the needs of customers for even greater unity between the key enterprise tools they use.

“We are proud of how we listened to our customers and together developed — and will continue to develop — innovative new programs focused on the cloud, mobility, analytics and interoperability that we expect will provide unparalleled value for our customers," he said.

Get the latest news (daily or weekly) direct to your inbox with V3 newsletters.

To send to more than one email address, simply separate each address with a comma.
