
This year's conference will focus on helping enable business professionals to personalise, vitalise and optimise their respective organisational PPM practices. The event will feature presentations from top industry influencers, including a keynote from Forrester Vice-President and Principal Analyst Margo Visitacion.

The two-day conference, followed by an optional in-depth product training day, will highlight the latest PPM insights, best practices, use cases and how-to knowledge from Daptiv subject matter experts, industry experts and Daptiv user practitioners. Attendees will benefit from educational sessions across three tracks, interactive roundtable discussions, training, workshops, peer networking, and one-on-one personalised PPM roadmap reviews with Daptiv's business and process consultants.

Featuring educational sessions designed for both business and technology leaders, Adapt 2014 provides valuable learning opportunities for every position involved in project and portfolio management. In addition to providing Daptiv users of all types and levels an opportunity to network with other customers and hear best practices and success stories, attendees will also learn about Daptiv's upcoming product roadmap, the latest innovations, and have an opportunity to work hand-in-hand with Daptiv's product team to directly influence and steer future product direction and advancements.

Shaping Your Path to PPM Best Practices – Personalise. Vitalise. Optimise.

PPM is a practice of patience, discipline and continuous improvement that must evolve over time to meet the changing needs of the business. It's a journey. And like most journeys, the experience, objectives and success criteria are unique to those who embark upon it. Likewise, the right path to accelerating PPM ROI is unique for each organisation, based on starting point, capabilities, changes that occur along the way, and desired outcomes. But, wherever you are now, the journey has begun and determining the right path is up to you. At Adapt 2014, get the information to determine the right path for your specific organisation and the tools you'll need to make your way.

Daptiv PPM is used by more than 100 000 subscribers worldwide across industry verticals ranging from healthcare to education, technology and financial services, among others. Daptiv PPM gives organisations unparalleled visibility into project, programme and portfolio execution, as well as the ability to measure progress against key business priorities.

Registrants can access early-bird pricing, available until 30 June.

Toshiba Group brings innovation and imagination to a wide range of its notebook brands, from entry level to all you will ever need at the top end of the corporate spectrum.  Be it work or play, Toshiba products speak for themselves. Reliability guaranteed!

Visit the company’s Web page at www.toshiba.co.za to view the full range on offer.

Alan Browning will show you how                 you can too!

Copyright (c) 1996 - 2014 ITWeb Limited. All rights reserved.

STAY INFORMED!
