
Not saving enough for retirement is one of the UK’s biggest financial worries. One in five Brits think they will be working until they are at least 70 years old. More than 19% say they won’t be able to retire until they turn 80.

To help Britain save, the government has made it a legal requirement for all employers to automatically enrol their workers in a workplace pension scheme.

However, research by The Pensions Regulator shows medium-sized businesses are less likely to know about automatic enrolment, and more likely to leave less time to make their plans.

If you’re a medium-sized employer who hasn’t started thinking about enrolling staff in a pension scheme, you could be setting your company up for a fine, the Pensions Regulator is warning.

Fines range from £50 to £50,000 and, if employers don’t comply on time, they may eventually find themselves in court.

Employers are legally required to put eligible employees into a workplace pension scheme and make contributions towards it. While an employee is free to opt out and get a refund of anything paid in, they should not need to take any action to be enrolled.

Five months after you have enrolled your staff, you need to register online with The Pensions Regulator.

Charles Counsell, executive director of automatic enrolment at The Pensions Regulator, warns: “The clock is ticking and employers should act now.

“While small employers have longer to go, we are urging them to act now as well. Leaving preparations too late can lead to non-compliance and this can come at a cost,” he adds.

By taking a step-by-step approach, the process of automatically enrolling your workers can run much more smoothly.

Accountants and pensions experts agree, and are urging employers to act on automatic enrolment for their employees.

Jonathan Dowden, auto-enrolment expert at Sage UK and Ireland, thinks firms “need to start thinking about it now”.

“The Pensions Regulator recommends 12 months preparation to get everything in order. We are urging business owners to speak to their payroll provider as they do not want to be caught out by non-compliance,” he says.

The regulator has a helpful timeline planner for employers to make sure businesses know what they should be doing and when.

The Pensions Regulator advises employers to have a pensions and software provider in place six months before their staging date.

Medium-sized employers, those with around 150 and 249 workers, are due to stage before August this year and should by now have both in place.

Once employers have determined their staging date, they should then consider if they need outside help.

An important thing for employers to remember is to leave plenty of time to get an accountant, bookkeeper or financial advisor in place as there could be a rush with potentially thousands of employers seeking help at the same time. Leaving it to the last minute reduces the choice employers have.

Employers should ensure their chosen professional adviser is specifically able to help to meet a business’ automatic enrolment duties. The message is the same when seeking pension scheme and software providers.

Not all employees are eligible for automatic enrolment, so the next step is assess workers for eligibility and tell them about the automatic enrolment process.

The table below from The Pensions Regulator shows which employees are eligible for enrolment.

Before starting this, employers will need to ensure that they have all the correct details for their workers. Having this information to hand when starting automatic enrolment preparations will make the task easier and smoother, the regulator says.

Here are some key stats from The Pensions Regulator about how much employers know about automatic enrolment and how many have already taken action.

Generally, employers thought automatic enrolment was a “good idea” for their workers. About 72% of medium-sized employers thought this, compared with 60% of micro-employers.

Medium employers were less likely to have already started enrolling staff, compared to large employers at the same point in time before their staging date – 71%, compared with 84% respectively.

Large employers had a much better understanding of automatic enrolment, than medium employers – 82% compared with 67%.

Only 5% of micro-employers knew they needed to register with The Pensions Regulator. This compares with 16% of small employers and 38% of medium employers.

Getting staff into pension schemes can seem like a hurdle, especially for smaller businesses, but it’s a necessary part of employing staff. Starting the process now means a lot less stress later and by following these steps, employers can make sure they breeze through automatic enrolment.

Good breakdown of the steps to follow. I deal with clients around this issue and its key for them to act sooner rather than later.
