
Friends of Santa Cruz State Parks was honored with the Dewitt Award for Partnership at the annual State Park Director's Awards Recognition Program May 14 in Sacramento.

The award is named for John Dewitt (1937-1996) who was executive director of Save the Redwoods League and devoted his life to the protection of public lands. The award recognizes "commitment above and beyond the call of duty over a substantial period of time" and "recognizes those who have served as irreplaceable partners in the accomplishment of the State Parks Mission."

Friends of Santa Cruz State Parks is a nonprofit dedicated to sustaining the legacy of state parks and beaches. Through a partnership with California State Parks known as "The Friends Model," and by leveraging local community support, the Friends group has provided millions of dollars of funding for educational programs, visitor services and capital projects.

"This award well and truly belongs to every one of the Friends board, staff, community volunteers and State Parks professionals who put the ideal of partnership into practice every day," said Bonny Hawley, executive director of Friends of Santa Cruz State Parks.

Founded in 1976, Friends is passionately dedicated to the preservation of the region's spectacular natural environment and rich cultural history. Friends supports more than 32 state parks and beaches in Santa Cruz San Mateo counties.

The inaugural Partnership Award was presented to Dewitt more than a decade ago. After his death, the award was renamed for Dewitt, who made wide-ranging contributions to the California State Parks System in his lifetime including political support and his own labor. The award now honors both his legacy and its annual recipient.

International composer and musician Cyprian Consiglio hosts a public benefit concert 7 p.m. Sunday, May 25 at Holy Cross Church, 126 High St. in Santa Cruz.

He will share stories and songs meant to inspire joy, gratefulness and generosity. The event will benefit The Bless School in state of Tamil Nadu in India. The concert is sponsored by Sangha Shantivanam and Holy Cross Catholic Church.

Tickets, which will be sold at the door, include a concert and dessert buffet. Prices range from $20 to $50, with student and senior tickets priced $15.

The Center for Biological Diversity, Redwood Parks Association and Save the Redwoods League are offering a $5,000 reward for information leading to prosecution of redwood burl poachers, who have hit Del Norte and Humboldt counties.

Prized for intricate patterns, the burls can be worth thousands of dollars. But removing them can damage a tree by exposing the heart to insects, fires and disease. Burls are also a reproduction tool.

Numerous incidents of burl theft have been reported in recent years, including one case where poachers took 24 burls off five old-growth redwoods near a park road. Anyone with information is urged to call 707-465-7353.

The Redwood Mountain Faire, benefitting 19 local community and education groups, will be held 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. May 31 and June 1 at Roaring Camp, 5401 Graham Hill Road.

The fair features 22 music bands, arts and crafts vendors, children's activities and food.

Cost is $15 to $25. Children younger than 12 enter free and parking is $5.

For details, visit www.redwoodmountainfaire.com .

Kenny Palmer and Dee Tennenbaum have been named Save Our Shores volunteers of the year.

Santa Cruz-based Save Our Shores is an environmental group that leads education efforts, beach cleanups and habitat conservation projects. Palmer has led nearly every one of its events in Monterey County and often has inspired participants, said Save Our Shores Program Coordinator Marina Maze.

Tennenbaum has led informational tables at many events and helped with beach cleanups and other projects.

"Kenny and Dee have given so much to Save Our Shores and put their hearts into everything they do," Maze said.

For information on Save Our Shores, visit www.saveourshores.org .

Tom Abel, a Stanford physics professor, will give a talk titled "Cosmic Dawn: The First Billion Years of Our Universe," 7:30 p.m. Tuesday, May 27 at the Rio Theatre, 1205 Soquel Ave.

Abel will speak about early star formation, supernova explosions and the formation of galaxies. The talk is part of UC Santa Cruz's Mandel Lecture Series on astronomy and astrophysics.

Admission is free.
