
Southwest makes up 58 percent of the Albuquerque International Sunport's air traffic. American Airlines comes in a distant second at 16 percent.

So when the city found out that the federal government would no longer require Southwest to touch down in Albuquerque on its way to popular destinations in the western U.S. starting in October, there was panic.

"With the Wright Amendment expiring, there are concerns," Mayor Richard Berry said.

With the amendment gone, Southwest can skip New Mexico and other cities entirely.

In a letter to stockholders, Southwest's president and CEO celebrated. He wrote, "Goodbye, Wright Amendment. Hello, America."

Berry and his staff have been meeting with Southwest and trying to convince the company not to drastically change its operations at the Sunport.

"We've been in intense discussions with them for months on what that looks like for Albuquerque," Berry said.

Southwest's flight variety is a lifeline to New Mexico's economy, especially tourism. The mayor knows travelers will see changes.

"Yes, some flights will change. We know this. Some frequencies to certain cities may change, (and) may go down as a frequency standpoint," Berry said.

Berry said he doesn't know the specifics. Southwest will outline its plan soon.

"They've been long time partners with the Sunport and obviously big revenue comes from them," Aviation Director Jim Hinde said.

Hinde said the Sunport has been preparing for a financial loss when the changes happen.

The Sunport makes money when Southwest leases space for gates, ticket counters and each time a flight lands. If Southwest scales back, that's less money for the Sunport.

Hinde said they've been figuring out ways to cut operating costs to help offset any lost revenue.

"Obviously we don't want to see our revenue go down, but it's something we've been planning for, for a long time," Hinde said.

The mayor said the wheels will keep spinning.

"We won't know until they make their announcement, but I can tell you I'm more optimistic than I was several months ago," Berry said.

The views expressed are not those of this site, this station or its affiliated companies. By posting your comments you agree to accept our terms of use.

"Breaking Bad" is in blue heaven.
