
Jim Corliss, co-owner of Braintree Printing was a keynote speaker at this year's AppForum by PODi, April 1st in Las Vegas, NV. Corliss spoke about the challenges and opportunities his company has experienced as a 3D printing provider.

Jim Corliss, co-owner at Braintree Printing, shared his insights about 3D printing at PODi's AppForum.

3D printing is just another step forward for our innovative company.We always stay ahead of the curve and invest in the latest and greatest printing equipment and this is no exception.

Jim Corliss of Braintree Printing, a long-time leader in the digital and offset printing industry and a 3D print provider, was a keynote speaker at this year’s AppForum held by PODi , April 1st in Las Vegas, NV.  Corliss, co-owner of the Massachusetts-based printing company, shared his insights on and first-hand business experience with 3D printing and discussed its place as an emerging technology in the printing industry.

The first New England printer to offer 3D printing services, Braintree Printing purchased a Dimension 1200es 3D printer from Stratasys in 2013. Corliss said the model takes customer digital files and turns them into 3D plastic objects in minutes. Braintree Printing produces prototypes, customized parts, architectural and medical models and more.

Corliss said 3D technology had a quick learning curve at Braintree Printing where employees mastered the technology and produced 3D products within hours. Customer service representative, Robin Clark, was among the first to test the new 3D printer. In the past year, she created an assortment of 3D products, from an entire chess set to screws, chains, gears, wheels, and a human heart. The 3D printer produces models as large as 10 x 10 x 12 in multiple colors. Corliss said 3D printers are a boon to new product development, allowing businesses to perfect products before they go to manufacturing — all at the touch of a button.

As Corliss explained to attendees of the AppForum conference, the challenges of becoming a profitable  3D print provider have been two-fold for Braintree Printing: customers and competition. Corliss has had to expand his sales outreach to a new market targeting designers, engineers, medical professionals and product developers. Competition has also proven to be a trial with large, well-established 3D print providers cornering the market.

Though 3D printing does have its challenges, Corliss said Braintree Printing remains enthusiastic about their latest investment. To Corliss and his Braintree Printing co-owners Jerry Hogan and Jose Tafur, 3D printing is another step forward for their innovative company. “We always stay ahead of the curve and invest in the latest and greatest printing equipment and this is no exception,” he said. Corliss said he installed the 3D printer front and center in Braintree Printing’s lobby so customers get a first-hand view of the machine in action.
