
Manama, May. 19. (BNA) – His Royal Highness Prime Minister Prince Khalifa bin Salman Al Khalifa has lauded the solid fraternal relations bonding the Bahrain and Saudi Arabia.

Commenting on the ninth Middle East Refining & Petrochemicals Conference and Exhibition (Petrotech 2014), held here under patronage, HRH Premier praised Saudi Arabia's effective participation in  the event, noting that it reflects the deep-rooted bilateral ties, strengthened continuously thanks to the directives of their leaderships and governments.

He expressed Bahrain's utmost pride and gratitude to Saudi Arabia, led by the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques King Abdulla bin Abdulaziz Al Saud, for its brotherly support for it in all fields, including the industrial one.

He lauded the advanced level of joint cooperation in various fields, particularly the oil one, expressing sincere thanks to the wide participation of Saudi companies and investors in Petrotech 2014, stressing that cooperation between Bahraini and Saudi oil companies has always strengthened the bilateral trade and investment relations.

HRH Premier deputised Deputy Premier Shaikh Ali bin Khalifa Al Khalifa to open the Petrotch 2014, organised at the Bahrain Exhibition and Convention Centre by the Arabian Exhibition Management, in cooperation with  Allworld Exhibitions, the Society of Petroleum Engineers, and coordination with the national Oil and Gas Authority (NOGA).

Shaikh Ali bin Khalifa, who was accompanied by the Finance Minister and the Minister in Charge of the Oil and Gas Affairs Shaikh Ahmed bin Mohammed Al Khalifa, toured the pavilions of the exhibition, and was informed about the exhibited items, including the latest technology and products used oil refining and petrochemicals.

The Deputy Premier expressed sincere thanks, appreciation and gratitude to HRH Premier for his continuous support to the oil and gas sector in the kingdom, and constant directives to develop it in order to consolidate its crucial role in enhancing the national economy.

He emphasised that the Prime Minister's constant keenness to patronise Petrotech ever since it first started in 1999 testified to the government's full support to the oil refining and petrochemicals industries and desire to boost investment in the oil industries which add value to the national economy.

He also highlighted the government's interest in the exhibitions and conferences industry, being crucial in spurring the trade and tourism sectors and promoting the kingdom's potentials and attractive investment opportunities.

The Deputy Premier added that the kingdom's interest in developing oil industries stemmed from its positive outcome, being an important pillar of the national economy, noting that the government has embarked on projects to develop oil facilities and launched a number of mega strategic projects to explore for oil in order to increase oil production.

He praised the success of Petrotech 2014, and increasing number of mega regional and international companies participating in it, which, he said, reflects the kingdom's outstanding ability to host specialised exhibitions thanks to its economic openness and secure investment atmosphere that have promoted it to be a major centre for regional and international conferences and exhibitions in the Middle East.

He lauded the oil refining and petrochemical products exhibited in Petrotech 2014, wishing the organisers and participants every success.

He pointed out that the event provided an opportunity for the oil and gas sector in Bahrain to benefit from regional and global expertise, sign agreements, make deals, be informed about the latest technologies used in oil exploration, drilling and production.

Finance Minister and the Minister in Charge of the Oil and Gas Affairs extended sincere thanks and appreciation to HRH Premier for his annual patronage of the event, which affirms the government's plans to consolidate investments in the oil and gas fields.

He also expressed sincere thanks and appreciation to t eh Deputy Premier for opening the exhibition.

He said that Petrotech 2014 had attracted a big number of mega oil companies from Bahrain, UAE, Saudi Arabia, Oman, Qatar, Kuwait, Bulgaria, Cyprus, Denmark, Egypt, Finland, France, Germany, India, Italy, Japan, Romania, Singapore, Turkey and Britain, as well as delegations from representing national oil companies in GCC countries.

He added that the oil refining and petrochemical industries in the kingdom have flourished thanks to the government's keenness to take advantage of advanced countries' expertise in the field of renewable energy in order to meet the energy needs to cope with the comprehensive development boom currently witnessed by it in all fields.

He highlighted NOGA's strategy to attract specialised world oil conferences and exhibitions to the kingdom, in line with the government's policies to consolidate Bahrain's international status in this vital field, develop the skills of the work force and motivate the kingdom's human resources.

It is to be noted that more than 100 oil refining and petrochemical companies, from 20 countries are participating in the exhibition, expected to attract over 5000 visitors.
