
Nichkhun heads to Switzerland for the first time in his life with 'Allure'

Nichkhun became a romantic Swiss prince for 'Allure'!

It was his first time visiting beautiful Switzerland, and he visited the small cities of the country that weren't very well known in Korea such as St. Gallen, Lugano, Ascona, and Gandria. He was also able to take photos at a library that was deemed a cultural heritage by UNESCO.

Nichkhun said, "Even though I've been to a lot of foreign countries, I've never been able to truly feel the country's culture, such as its food. I would always just go straight to the hotel and then the concert arena. But this time, I was able to feel Switzerland's food and culture a lot. I think Switzerland's cities are all pretty in a different way. I think the time I spent there and the landscape I saw will remain in my memory."

On traveling, he said, "I like being able to rest at a beach and being able to tan, but I sometimes want to travel around without a map. If I'm in a place like Switzerland, I go all the way to the end. All the members like traveling, but Jun.K and Taecyeon seem to enjoy it the most. Taecyeon once bought an economy plane ticket by himself to travel to Rome, Italy. I want to go backpacking in Europe, too. Instead of going around famous and popular places based from the Internet, it's my dream to go anywhere and just talk to people."

Check out more pictures below!

I didn't even care about the view, my eyes were only on handsome khun <3 how can he be so perfect omygahh.

i never see the both of them have a thing together like talking about each other or rumors about them. So boram is no good for him, cos tiffany is good for him. Tiff & Khun been having a thing together, rumors, couple photos & they did photoshoots together as well as being mc's & shows together.

Khunie looks amazing...as usual.

@h111 omg me too T_T Second season please jyp.

@h111 You feel me, my fellow hottest. I miss them so much too.

but aaaaaaaaaaaaall the pics are crazily great, like they are killing me.
