
we have issued an updated research report on Murphy Oil Corporation ( MUR - Analyst Report ). The oil and gas company continues with its systematic investments in exploration and production activities besides streamlining existing operations. However, volatile commodity prices and stringent drilling regulations might challenge the company’s future performance.

Murphy Oil, a Zacks Rank #3 (Hold) stock, reported mixed result in the first quarter of 2014. Quarterly earnings were in line with the Zacks Consensus Estimate and decreased from the year-ago figure, primarily due to higher exploration and depreciation expenses. On the other side, the company’s revenues surpassed the estimates.

We view Murphy Oil as an organization, which has reserves across different mineral rich regions. The company strongly pursues a steady exploration and production program. During first-quarter 2014, Murphy Oil spent $0.89 billion as capital expenditure. In addition to expanding operations in the Eagle Ford Shale area, in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, Malaysia and Canada, the company is also entering into new regions like Namibia in West Africa. These initiatives will enable the company to improve its future reserves.

Murphy Oil is currently in the middle of an asset streamline program. After spinning-off its U.S. retail marketing division and selling its U.K.-based oil and gas assets, the company plans to sale the U.K. refining and marketing businesses. These initiatives will enable Murphy Oil to utilize resources as per its preferences.

In addition to following the aforesaid strategies, Murphy Oil also follows an effective share repurchase program and maintains a steady dividend payment record. On May 14, 2014, the board of directors of the company approved a share repurchase program worth up to $125 million. Moreover, the company distributed $56.1 million during first-quarter 2014 to its shareholders as dividend.

On the flip side, the prices of Murphy Oil’s primary products, including oil, natural gas and refined products, are often quite volatile. An economic slowdown can impact the worldwide demand for energy commodities, resulting in commodity price reductions. The volatility in commodity prices can significantly affect the company’s results.

Some better-ranked stocks in the oil and gas sector include Repsol, S.A. ( REPYY ).

Fortunately for investors looking for this combination, we have identified a strong candidate which may be an impressive value;Repsol, S.A. ( REPYY ).

REPYY may be an interesting play thanks to its forward PE of 13.81, its P/S ratio of 0.44, and its decent dividend yield of 1.74%. These factors suggest that Repsol is a pretty good value pick, as investors have to pay a relatively low level for each dollar of earnings, and that REPYY has decent revenue metrics to back up its earnings.

But before you think that Repsol is just a pure value play, it is important to note that it has been seeing solid activity on the earnings estimate front as well. For current year earnings, the consensus has gone up by 12.5% in the past 30 days, thanks to 1 upward revision in the past one month compared to none lower.

This estimate strength is actually enough to push REPYY to a Zacks Rank #2 (Buy), suggesting it is poised to outperform. So really, Repsol is looking great from a number of angles thanks to its PE below 20, a P/S ratio below one, and a strong Zacks Rank, meaning that this company could be a great choice for value investors at this time.

Repsol are currently drilling , the Welwitschia-1  well offshore Namibia so now the travelling has started and we wait with interest for news from this key well but sources are already saying  drillinghas already indicated the presence of hydrocarbons and a permeable fracture network with matrix porosity.

The Polisario Front, who heads the Government of the Saharawi Arab Democratic Republic (SADR), aims to find and extract oil off the coast of Western Sahara, east of the islands. "Our goal is to liberate the country and, once released, and begin to exploit our wealth," said the delegate in the Canary Islands, Hamdi Mansur.

The SADR has closed licensing agreements with six companies to explore its natural resources. The last sealed in late March, when awarded one of the 18 blocks that have divided their territory to the British company Rio Red Petroleum Limited, under a Production Sharing Contract.

In the midst of battle that keeps the Canary Government and councils of Lanzarote and Fuerteventura against oil exploration off their coasts, the Polisario has no doubt exploit their resources in the future, while demanding Morocco to end the "plundering of its natural resources."

"He's selling a museum piece that is not theirs," complained Mansur, who stressed that there is a process desconolización, truncated in 1975, and the Alawite kingdom violates international law.According to the representative of the Polisario in the Canary Islands, a report of the Security Council of the United Nations states that Morocco has "forbidden" to reach agreements with companies in territory awaiting decolonization, so these are "illegal".

The Petroleum and Mining Authority SADR has the country divided into 18 blocks, of which twelve are well offshore (in the sea) and six onshore (land). To distinguish these squares were based on "international companies specialized studies relating to the areas where it believes there is oil," sources said Polisario.

A total of nine blocks remain available, including five offshore and four onshore farms, for which launches an international tender. The Polisario has signed agreements with six companies for exploration of the remaining nine blocks, seven offshore and two onshore.

The above contracts have been awarded to various companies such as Ophir Energy, British, Australian, and South African capital Premier Oil Limited; Maghreb Exploration Limited; Tower Resources; Red and Rio Petroleum Limited. The latter, located in the UK, has recently been awarded exploration block Bir Lahlou, located in the northeast corner of the territory of Western Sahara, on a part of the Palaeozoic Tindouf Basin, which extends eastward into Algeria, such as stated Sahrawi press agency.

The objective is to investigate whether oil and gas deposits exist in this area and demonstrate the potential resources of Western Sahara.

Authority Mining Oil SADR employs a system of Production Sharing Contract governing petroleum operations within its boundaries territorial. He has even designed two legislative documents related to this industry. One of them consists of a production sharing contract and the other is a sharing agreement production and bidding assurance.

The delegate of the Polisario Front in Spain, Bucharaya Beyun confirmed that the Polisario has signed several agreements with "Australian and British companies" for several years and covers part of the territory that is now not under Moroccan occupation. However, he added that such agreements only provide for exploration and research of oil and "other minerals" in the Western Sahara, "no operation".

Hence, "now is only the initial phase to determine what resources are, in what quantities and where" Beyun, indicating that it shall be holding "when conflict ends" that stays with Morocco said.

The Canary representative of this organization that defends the independence of the Moroccan Sahara country, Hamdi Mansour explained that, in the absence of means of the Polisario Front to explore alone, decided to partner with "partner companies" interested in inquiring about their resources "in exchange for a future project in the Saharan economy." "The Sahara is full of wealth, but the part we want to start the exploitation dominate whenever possible.'s Will exploit as any country, both on land and at sea. We will do our part as a country and good neighbor. We very clear ideas of our future, "he added Mansur.

The delegate of the independence movement Polisario Front said that the islands are "closing the fringes" of agreements with international companies to "pull in the future or any mineral oil that is discovered in the liberated territory" and under control of the Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic Democratic. "The drilling was undertaken in the liberated territory," he reiterated.

Mansur insisted that the Polisario defends a "peace settlement plan that Morocco is blocking" due to its total opposition to a referendum. This week the UN secretary general, Ban Ki-moon raised an "impartial and independent monitoring" on human rights in Western Sahara and claimed progress in the solution to the conflict.

Please sign-in to post a comment, or register for a free SmallCap Network account.

Copyright © 2001-2014 SmallCapNetwork.com. All Rights Reserved.

Attention, Small Cap Investors!

If you invest or trade small cap stocks or penny stocks, our site and daily newsletter is an absolute must.

Here's Just a Few of Our Most Recent Winners!

SCN Member Today. It's FREE!

To complete your registration, you must verify your email address. Don't worry, it's quick and easy!

Go to your inbox now.

Find the verification email from SmallCap Network (you might need to check your spam folder).

Click on the verification link provided in the email.

Start reaping the benefits of your free SCN Membership!

Once you verify your email address, you will have immediate login access to the SmallCap Network Community and will automatically be added to our priority list of Members who receive our Newsletter before anyone else.

Also, make sure to add our email address to your contact list to ensure delivery of our Newsletter straight to your inbox.
