
According to a recent survey by the Federal Department of Employment, one in five employers in the Pilbara region of Western Australia has identified retention of staff as a major concern.

The research paints an interesting picture of the region's labour market, which has some pockets showing real success stories but others indicating unemployment stress.

On the one hand there are examples such as Gina Rinehart's Roy Hill mine, where around 3,000 workers are employed and the first train tracks were laid last week .

In contrast, there are towns such as Port Hedland, where figures from December 2013 show the unemployment rate was at 7.3 per cent.

In the East Pilbara the figure was 6.4 per cent. The national average is 5.8 per cent.

I have definitely noticed that the youth age group is a bit lost. They're not engaged... not sure where they should be and what they should do.

Many of those who are unemployed in the Pilbara are younger than 30, although the region does also skew towards an overall younger demographic.

Michelle Pocock is based in Port Hedland and works in the employment sector with apprentices.

"The biggest challenge I find is matching them [young people] with an employer who is willing to take on an apprentice.

"There are also some social and cultural issues that happen with retention and reliability.

"Employers have to be probably more flexible here than elsewhere in Australia and culturally aware of different things that happen in our community.

"But I have definitely noticed that the youth age group is a bit lost.

"They're not engaged and they're not sure where they should be and what they should do."

Motivating young people in the Pilbara and helping to lift their level of education and training is only one of the challenges highlighted in the Department of Employment's survey data, but it's a large one and so is retention.

Ivan Neville manages the department's Labour Market Research and Analysis branch.

He says an increasing number of job ads does not necessarily reflect new positions and that to overcome losing time in the recruitment process, more and more Pilbara employers say they're looking for candidates in informal ways.

"We found from the survey that around 40 per cent of employers in this area don't advertise their vacancies.

While the resources sector remains the largest employer in the region, Pilbara recruiters also identified a need for those with trade, hospitality, transport, clerical and sales experience.

Higher skilled occupations that have been difficult to fill include: retail managers, child carers, registered nurses, motor mechanics, welfare support workers and electricians.

The survey found the positions easiest to fill were for labourers and clerical and admin workers.

Between 2012 and 2013 there was a 42.3 per cent drop in the number of 457 skilled migrant visas granted in Western Australia.

That's according to Department of Immigration and Border Protection data from December 2013.

Ivan Neville says there does appear to be a trend towards employing locally in the Pilbara.

"Clearly if people are already living in the area, it's cheaper, easier and quicker for an employer to take a local job seeker, so I think that's very welcome."

The adjustments include lifting the eligibility age for Newstart from 22 to 25 and moving those who are under 30 and unemployed onto a six-monthly cycle of having benefits cut and returned.

The policy has been criticised by welfare advocates but the government argues it will help encourage young people to return to education and training.

Data from the 2011 census indicates that in the Pilbara region, 25-34 year olds with a Certificate III or IV have the lowest level of unemployment.

Ivan Neville believes encouraging more job seekers to complete training at this level would help improve their employability.

He also says that the survey revealed soft skills, those to do with personality traits, are as important as technical skills to Pilbara employers.

"Skills and qualities like motivation, communication, being able to work as part of a team and being enthusiastic.

"We do know from research undertaken, that employers may be prepared to compromise on qualifications and experience but there are very few employers who are prepared to compromise on soft skills."

This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.
