
Expanding the government scheme to cap the exchange rate for forex mortgage repayments may well be a good solution for troubled debtors but would cost the banking sector dearly, Mihaly Patai told Monday’s business daily Napi Gazdasag.

Patai, recently re-elected as chairman of Hungary’s Banking Association, said a decision by the Kuria, Hungary’s supreme court, on forex loans will have to be respected by all economic players. The ruling expected in the autumn will raise banks’ costs, including billions of forints in refunds to clients, he said.

Last Friday, Prime Minister Viktor Orban told public television that the government was expected to make a decision in connection with troubled forex borrowers in the autumn, but would first wait for Kuria’s ruling.

Patai said that if banks were made to take on the entire burden of the scheme, the interests of forint-based borrowers as well as Hungary’s 4.5 million account holders would hurt.

Patai said the government, however, understood that it is impossible to achieve long-term economic growth without an “active, normally operating” banking system. He noted that last year was the fourth consecutive year when lending fell in volume and real terms, and last year loans were down 38-40 percent compared with 2008.

“This cannot be sustained in the longer term,” he told the paper.

Patai noted that central bank data showed that Hungarian banks had made a combined profit of 67 billion forints (EUR 219.5m) last year. Yet without capital injections by their foreign parent banks the result would have been a loss of 78 billion forints.

He said there are signs for growth potential in 2014 thanks to the central bank’s lending programme, for instance, but if further government measures are introduced, such as help for forex borrowers, banks could be left soaking up their growth opportunities. Banks have accepted the banking tax, which is much lower in other countries where it has been introduced, but a realistic aim is to see a reduction in its size, Patai added.

He welcomed the central bank’s cuts in the base rate as well as its growth and lending programme introduced over the past year. He also welcomed the conversion of two-week bonds into two-week depos, which he said would serve domestic banks’ interests.

Regarding expectations of changes in the banking sector and the government’s aim of raising Hungarian ownership of the banking sector to 50 percent, Patai said it was more likely that loss-making banks would cut back lending than exit Hungary. He said it was likely that these foreign-owned banks would concentrate their efforts on a focused group of customers while other banks could “gain ground”.

Visit www.hungarymatters.hu to receive Hungarian news agency MTI’s twice-daily newsletter.

Please note that due to a large volume of trolling and false abuse flags, we are currently only accepting comments from logged-in users.

disgusting  hypocrisy regarding the EU perfectly. Well, all the respectable mainstream press figured him out by now.

to help make his majority permanent.

rule of law.

is to his benefit.

I am still trying to figure out why Hungarians took loans in foreign currencies, more specifically Swiss Francs. Sure it’s a stable currency but the problem is, the Forint isn’t.

Because the postcommies abolished the subsized Forint mortgages after they got into power in 2002 and they kept the base rate very high. That meant the FX-based mortgages had a much, much lower interest rate than Forint based ones … and banks promoted FX mortgages anyway which were very profitable for them. They didn’t talk much about the risks they shifted off to their customers.

close.

focus on the double game  of Orban again, another Tavares like report, but closing in on the remedies and the essential issues. Orban the bloodsucker betraying basic EU values.

freezing the EU flow of money will follow.

within one week.

The base rate of HUF was not kept high to push the Fx loans.

Sure, that was to appease their foreign masters. The chart shows very well when Hungary could get rid of Simor’s gang at last.

Nevertheless the unjustifiedly high base rate contributed to the spread of FX loans.

Thanks.

Some people are just not very clever and don’t read and understand the contracts they sign with a bank.

It is common knowledge that loan in foreign currencies is a gamble and when you gamble you can lose. Why should the banks or the rest of the society pay for those peoples gambling.

Banks new it’s a gamble but didn’t discourage ppl to take those wicked loans.

Let them pay for it!

It’s not a scam. Nobody has been forced to take foreign currency loans. People who made the decision to to borrow in foreign currency have to pay the price. If the forint had not weakened that much or if it had become stronger nobody would have complained. If you play the Forex loan game you can win or lose.

The banks are already losing money because so many people are not able to pay back what they owe.

I don’t own a bank, I am a costumer like most people and I accept that a bank is a business that has to make money, like any other business.

list one bank that is pulling out of the market due to losses and I say you are right.

Ingrid. It’s not just a case of giving people a free ride by bailing them out of foreign currency debts. Building up massive foreign currency exposure in the banking system increases the risk of default and endangers the entire financial system. The increase in monthly payments also takes money out of consumers’ pockets and depresses economic activity. It was entirely appropriate that banks should be made to share in the costs of unwinding this god awful mess that the last government helped create by failing to regulate the situation.

It has happened before.

Think about it Ingrid. When Kukorica Jancsi goes into a bank and the banker says, there’s no way you can afford a forint loan at 7 pct but I have this great new product called an FX loan. You can borrow at 2 pct and buy a new car and, hey, when the forint goes up your payments will go down. It was a massive scam by the banks – and the Central Bank under Simor and the Finance Ministry under Veres just watched as they built up a huge danger to the economy and banking system. Shocking.

If Kukorica Jancsi couldn’t afford a 7% loan, he should maybe not have a loan at all, as the interest can vary and the exchange rate varies.

My only blame for the banks is that they were too loose in their evaluation of their customers, because of the big competition between the banks.

A lot of countries have FX loans and most people know it is a risky kind of loan, you can lose or you can win.
