
Canada’s top bureaucrat says the much talked-about “trust gap” between politicians and public servants never registered as a concern during his year-long grassroots discourse with employees on retooling the public service for the digital age.

In fact, Privy Council Clerk Wayne Wouters says he barely heard any complaints about public servants’ relationship with Conservative ministers and their offices from the 110,000 bureaucrats across the country who took part in his Blueprint 2020 discussions on how to re-shape the workforce.

“The only time … I hear about a trust gap (is) from those who don’t necessarily work in government,” he told the Citizen.

His remarks were a striking contrast to what the association representing senior managers and executives running departments has said. The trust gap was one of APEX’s chief concerns during the Blueprint 2020 review and it suggested steps to restore respect and confidence between public servants and their political masters.

The Public Policy Forum also conducted a major study among public and private sector leaders on leadership skills for the future public service and said the trust gap emerged as a top issue.

Wouters acknowledged some senior executives may have concerns, but average public servants are far removed from that political interaction and their big worries are getting the tools to do their jobs, he said.

About 60 per cent of the public service are front-line workers in regions outside Ottawa. They want WiFi, improved technology, better IT tools, fewer rules and less internal red tape, said Wouters.

As clerk, Wouters wears three hats: head of the public service, secretary to cabinet and deputy minister to the prime minister. Wouters said he warned Prime Minister Stephen Harper that his Blueprint 2020 exercise, which was thrown open to public servants on social media, could generate complaints about the government. But Wouters said such comments never materialized in the unfiltered discussions or, when they did, other participants shut them down.

“This issue of trust, it may be at the most senior levels you hear that, but what we heard about is ‘We don’t have the right IT tools’; ‘We don’t like red tape’; ‘We want to do our jobs better,’ ” said Wouters.

Wouters launched Blueprint 2020 last June to get input from public servants via Twitter and other social media, as well as from traditional meetings, town halls and written submissions. The response was unprecedented, particularly from younger public servants.

He recently released his first “action plan” – Destination 2020 – calling for more technology; collaboration with Canadians amid fewer rules; and streamlined processes.

Wouters said the current crop of ministers has a good relationship with senior bureaucrats. Wouters is in the midst of his yearly reviews of deputy ministers’ performance, which include check-ins with ministers. He said they report great relations with their departments’ top bureaucrats. “They continue to work as teams as they always have,” said Wouters.

The relationship between ministers and public servants is being studied around the world. The United Kingdom’s Institute on Public Policy Research conducted a major study on the conflict – including input from Canada. The U.K. government adopted several of the institute’s proposed reforms aimed at beefing up the accountability of public servants to improve ministerial confidence in them.

Some experts argue the relationship in Canada has become so strained that the very role and relevance of the public service is at stake. Donald Savoie, one of Canada’s leading academics on public administration, argues that fixing the public service’s fundamental role as the government’s policy adviser, and clarifying its muddy relationship with ministers and Parliament, must be a first step in any reform of the public service.

Wouters agrees the traditional role of the public service as sole policy adviser is evolving, and many of the changes he introduced in his first reform report are aimed at helping public servants advise ministers in the digital age.

He said public servants no longer enjoy the monopoly they once had on collecting and analyzing information, then offering up advice to ministers.

Instead, he said public servants have to collaborate and network – inside and outside of government – to tap the best ideas. The job will shift from sole advisers to “integrators and facilitators” to ensure public servants are getting the best ideas and information and adapting these to Canadian needs.

“The value we bring as public servants is that we can put it into the Canadian context. We understand this country, we live in most communities, so we can take these ideas and determine what is the best or modify (ideas) and provide that advice that way,” he said.

We encourage all readers to share their views on our articles and blog posts. We are committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion, so we ask you to avoid personal attacks, and please keep your comments relevant and respectful. If you encounter a comment that is abusive, click the "X" in the upper right corner of the comment box to report spam or abuse. We are using Facebook commenting. Visit our FAQ page for more information.
