
Exhibit will be held from May 28th to June 2nd in the Algerian capital. A total of 453 local companies and 592 foreign companies from 37 countries are expected to attend.

 The event will have 453 national and 592 foreign companies from 37 countries, according to Rachid Khiar, representative of the Algerian Company of Fairs and Exports (Safex, in the French acronym), the fair organizers. The theme of this edition is “Strong and serene Algeria”.

The United States are this year’s guest of honour and around 80 North-American exhibitors operating in the transport, technology, agriculture and pharmaceutical industry are expected.

Among the countries which will have representatives in the fair are also Argentina, Cuba, Venezuela, Turkey, Germany, France, Portugal, Great Britain, Russia, Poland, the Czech Republic, Egypt, Tunisia, Palestine, Libya, Kuwait, Jordan, Sudan, China, Vietnam, Malaysia, Indonesia, Senegal, Cameroon, Spain, Italy, India, Iran, South Africa, Belgium, Ukraine, Burkina Faso, Yemen and Mali.

“The International Fair of Algiers is a regional and national showcase to present the national production and discover foreign products with a view to using them in the achievement of the different economic and social development programmes of Algeria,” said the secretary general of the Trade Ministry, Aïssa Zelmati.

In his opinion, the choice of the US as guest of honour in the fair is the result of solid economic and trade relations between the two countries and the undeniable presence of North-American stands in the IFA even during hard times.

"We hope that the participating American companies will forge partnerships with their Algerian counterparts to develop economic and trading cooperation between the two countries," said Zelmati.

The US ambassador to Algiers, Henry Ensher, said, for his part, there is a real potential in developing bilateral relations and the strengthening of cooperation beyond the oil industry.

"We will participate in the trade event to intensify and strengthen trading cooperation between Algeria and the US," said the diplomat, adding that the forthcoming visit of the US Secretary of State of Energy "shows the importance of relations between the two countries."

During the fair, a memorandum of understanding in pharmaceutical industry and other agreement between Algerian and American companies will be signed. Conferences, trade meetings and cultural events will be organized on the sidelines of the trade event.

Your comment will be sent to a moderator before being published.
