
Ever considered South Africa as a new market to move into? Matthew Furneaux, head of international ID registration at GBGroup, provides an introduction to trading with the nation.

Moreover, while confidence in financial markets has been eroded in other parts of the world, South Africa's remains strong with its financial market development ranked 3rd globally in the 2013/14 World Economic Forum's (WEF) Global Competitiveness Index . South Africa offers businesses the opportunity to expand in a well regulated and growing market that has links with not only to the rest of Africa but also to the BRIC countries (Brazil, Russia, India and China).

South Africa is a multi-cultural society, home to diverse groups of people with varying cultural, linguistic and religious backgrounds resulting in a complex national identity. The population consists of four main ethnic groups; black African (79 per cent), coloured (9 per cent), white (9 per cent) and Asian (3 per cent) with 11 national languages spoken, including English, Afrikaans, Zulu and Xhosa. Its business community has historically been conservative and risk averse and this is reflected in the use of detailed contracts there.

If you want to start up a business in South Africa or sell to it, be well advised. Make use of the knowledge and services of institutes, branch organisations and government authorities. It is also important to do due diligence prior to entering into contracts or other commercial arrangements so do contact reliable consultants and law firms for legal advice and don’t underestimate the need for quality checking in South Africa.

Although online shopping is growing in South Africa, there are still consumers that stay away from e-commerce sites because of security concerns. If you want your business to prosper, you need to make potential customers feel comfortable shopping with you and to trust the site they are buying from. This means investing in safeguards like identity verification and secure payment on your site, and implementing auto-complete, contact data validation systems that validate name, address, email, mobile and landline data and help to create a frictionless experience for the end-user. Luckily for businesses, technology now exists to help companies succeed internationally and all you need to do is shop around for the right solution for your business.
