
Sum 41's Deryck Whibley Says Alcoholism Nearly Killed Him, He's Hit 'Rock Bottom'

The 34-year-old revealed that he's been "very sick in the hospital for a month" from all the "hard boozing" he's been doing over the years, which "finally caught up with [him]." Whibley wrote that he was "drinking hard" every day, until one night he was sitting at home, just pouring himself another drink, when he suddenly "didn't feel so good." The rocker collapsed, lying unconscious on the ground. His fiancee drove him to the hospital where he was admitted to the intensive care unit.

The Canadian musician wrote that after being completely sedated for a week, doctors told him his liver and kidneys had "collapsed on [him]," which, "needless to say scared [him] straight."

"I finally realized that I can't drink anymore," Whibley wrote on his blog on May 16. "If I have one drink the doc's (sic) say I will die. I'm not preaching or anything, but just drink responsibly. I didn't, and look where that got me."

Meanwhile, Whibley's ex-wife, Avril Lavigne, who he was married to from 2006 to 2010, tweeted in support of her ex , writing, "Spoke to @Sum41 Deryck today. I am so proud of him. He is family to me and always will be. #StayStrongDeryck."

Whibley also posted several photos from his time in the hospital as part of his warning to others to drink responsibly.

After years of struggling with cocaine and heroin addiction and serving jail time, the actor is clean and sober.

Singer Amy Winehouse was found dead in her London home on July 23, 2011. The 27-year-old singer's life was cut short due to accidental alcohol poisoning.   CORRECTION: In an earlier version of this slideshow, the date Ms. Winehouse died was incorrect. She died on July 23, 2011.

The 25-year-old actress has spent the last five years in and out of rehab and still stuggles to stay sober today.

In February 2011 Charlie Sheen claimed he was clean of drugs and alcohol, but high on himself. The actor has publicity struggled with addiction for years, but many doubt his claims of sobriety.

Drew was famously an addict as a child. By her own admission she said she had her first drink at 9, began smoking marijuana at 10 and began using cocaine at 12.   By age 13 she entered rehab and has maintained her sobriety since.

The comedian overcame a cocaine addiction, but headed back to rehab after 20 years of sobriety in 2006 to address his issues with alcohol.

The Black Eyed Peas singer kicked a crystal meth and ecstasy habit.

An accidental overdose of prescription medication killed the actor on Jan. 22, 2008.

Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day..

Use this form to alert a HuffPost editor about a factual or typographical error in this story.

Thank you!
