
THE PRINCE of Wales and Duchess of Cornwall touched down in Nova Scotia today for a whirlwind four-day tour of Canada.

The royal couple will take part in events to mark a number of important historical anniversaries during the tour, including the First World War centenary and the 150th anniversary of the Charlottetown Conference which led to the Canadian Confederation.

After stepping off the plane, the Duchess, wearing a cream silk dress and golden black tweed coat, smiled as she was presented with flowers.

The royals were also introduced to Royal Canadian Mounted Police officers, including Chief Superintendent Brian Brennan, before leaving for a reception with the Governor General of Canada, David Johnston.

The couple exchanged polite small talk in front of the cameras for a few minutes at Halifax's Government House.

Asked to stand in a different position for the official photocall, the Prince said: "This is like musical chairs."

The Governor General replied: "You will accuse us of cruel and unusual punishment."

To mark the royal tour, Charles has been appointed to the Queen's Privy Council for Canada - 57 years after the Prince's father, the Duke of Edinburgh, was given the honour.

During their visit, they will see a military family resource centre and lay a wreath at a cenotaph to commemorate those killed in the First World War.

It is the third time they have travelled to Canada together and marks Charles's 17th official visit to the country.

The tour comes weeks after Camilla's brother Mark Shand died in New York.

Mr Shand was in New York for a charity auction in Sotheby's last month when he slipped and hit his head on the pavement.

He was rushed to hospital on April 22 and placed on life support but passed away 12 hours later after suffering serious head injuries.

The couple attended his funeral at the beginning of this month.

In July 2011, William and Kate were mobbed by fans as they visited Canada in their first royal tour since their marriage two months earlier.

The couple donned white hats as they attended the Calgary Stampede Parade, and visited all of the regions of the country.

See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper,    order back issues and use the historic Daily Express    newspaper archive.
