
The International Secretariat of the World Organisation Against Torture (OMCT) requests your URGENT intervention in the following situation in the People’s Republic of China.

TheInternational Secretariat of OMCT has been informed by The Tibetan Centre for Human Rights and Democracy (TCHRD), a member of OMCT SOS-Torture Network, about the arbitrary detention and disappearance since March 2014 of Mr. Choeying Kalden, a 20 years old Tibetan monk from Tsenden Monastery, in Sog County in Nagchu Prefecture, Tibet Autonomous Region (TAR). OMCT fears for his safety since his fate and exact whereabouts remained unclear at the time of writing this urgent appeal.

According to the same information received, Mr. Choeying Kalden’s relatives tried to find information about his whereabouts but in vain.

The International Secretariat of OMCT is gravely concerned about the safety of Mr. Choeying Kalden. OMCT urges the competent authorities to guarantee his physical and psychological integrity at all times, in accordance with international human rights law, in particular the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment, and to immediately locate and disclose his whereabouts.

OMCT further urges for his immediate release since his arrest appears to be solely based on the peaceful exercise of his right to freedom of expression.

In recent months, Sog County has witnessed a concerning number of arbitrary arrests and arbitrary searches. Many monastic and lay Tibetans have been detained and disappeared.

OMCT has also been informed about the case of Mr. Asang, Mr. Margong, Mr. Sisium Dorje, Mr. Lhakpa and Mr. Jamyang Gyatso, five Tibetan youths from Village No. 3 in Trido Township, who were arrested on 3 February 2014 as police expanded their search for those responsible for writing a message on a boulder near an iron bridge. Mr. Sisum Dorje, Mr. Lhakpa and Mr. Jamyang Gyatso were released and ordered to report daily to the Trido Township government office. The whereabouts and fate of the other two has remained unknown despite persistent efforts by family members and local Tibetans to locate them.

On 17 March 2014, four monks, Tsangyang Gyatso, Twewant, Atse and Gyaltsen, all from Drilda Monastery, were reportedly arrested and they continue to be detained incommunicado. Six other monks approached the Trido Township government to ask for their release, but instead, they were also detained. Although, those last six monks were released on 20 March 2014, they were reportedly severely beaten up during their brief detention.

OMCT has also been informed about the situation of Mr. Gawa Sangpo, a Tibetan man, who has been in police detention since January 2013 without being charged with a crime. He was arrested for penning a ‘three-point note on Tibet’ expressing his faith in the Dalai Lama, recognising Lobsang Sangay as the political leader of the Tibetan people, and requesting the independence of Tibet. He has been held in Sog County Detention Centre since his arrest.

i.               Immediately locate and disclose the whereabouts of Mr. Choeying Kalden, Asang and Margong;

ii.              Guarantee, in all circumstances the physical and psychological integrity of Mr. Choeying Kalden, Asang, Margong and of all the above mentioned individuals;

iii.            Grant them access to a lawyer of their choice and their family, as well as guarantee that they are examined by independent doctors and receive adequate medical care if necessary;

iv.            Order their immediate release since their arrests appear to be solely based on the peaceful exercise of their right to freedom of expression;

v.              Carry out a prompt, effective, thorough, independent and impartial investigation into the aforementioned facts in accordance with international human rights standards, the result of which must be made public,in order to bring those responsible before a competent, independent and impartial tribunal and apply penal, civil and/or administrative sanctions as provided by law;

vi.            Guarantee the respect of human rights and the fundamental freedoms, including the freedom of expression, throughout the country in accordance with national laws and international human rights standards.

Kindly inform us of any action undertaken quoting the code of this appeal in your reply.
