
Swedish trotting star Sebastian K turned in another dazzling North American victory on Saturday night in the $175,000 final of the Arthur J. Cutler Memorial at Meadowlands Racetrack.

The eight-year-old trotter stunned harness racing fans with his seemingly effortless 1:50.1 world record equalling victory in his North American debut last weekend. He returned for back-to-back barefoot wins, stopping the clock in a stakes record 1:50.2 in the final for trainer/driver Ake Svanstedt and Knutsson Trotting Inc.

When the wings of the gate opened, post nine starter Modern Family fired across the track over insider Sebastian K while the other elimination winner, Market Share, made a shocking break in stride into the first turn. Modern Family continued to lead the field through fractions of :27.1 and :55.2.

As Archangel moved underway from fourth at the half, Sebastian K vacated the pocket spot and moved up alongside Modern Family at three-quarters, which was clocked in 1:22.4. The top two battled into the stretch with Sebastian K edging by and drawing clear as the wire approached. Modern Family stayed for second while defending Cutler champion Sevruga finished third.

Sebastian K paid $4 to win as the even-money favourite.

"We could all see, I think, that he had more in him," said owner Michael Knutsson when asked about expectations for another world record mile in a post-race interview. "Yes, he had a shot at it today. It didn't work out, but the time today is tremendous also. It's fantastic."

Assistant trainer Bernie Noren noted Sebastian K "had great feet" racing consecutive weeks for the first time while Knutsson said that Sweden's 2012 Horse of the Year may just be in the best form of his life.

"I'm not so sure he has [been better]," he said. "I think he is in super form right now."

Sebastian K will take a couple weeks off from racing and is expected to return to The Meadowlands free-for-all ranks with the John Cashman Jr. Memorial on his radar this summer.  He is also eligible to Canada's Maple Leaf Trot.

For more on tonight's harness racing card at The Meadowlands, click here .
