
About 70 feet long, with one central hallway that stretched from end to end, this structure was intended to provide offices and sleeping apartments for the staff of the new Valentia Cable Station. The cable itself was to come ashore in a smaller building located close by.

Two thousand miles away, on the west side of the Atlantic Ocean, two other islands were to play a very important part in the history of the Trans-Atlantic Telegraph Cable. The North American end of the cable was to come ashore on the island of Newfoundland, in a little outport with the lovely name of Heart's Content. From there the cable would travel overland to the Port aux Basques region, and then under the Cabot Strait to Cape Breton Island.

Because Newfoundland at that time was a separate Dominion, and not part of Canada, the Canadian end of the cable would come ashore at Cape North in northern Cape Breton, and then continue on to mainland Nova Scotia, the rest of Canada, and the United States.

Of these three North Atlantic islands, Newfoundland is by far the largest. It is approximately 250 miles long and 250 miles wide, with a population of 514, 536 (2011 census). Cape Breton is second in size, about 110 miles long by 85 miles wide, with a population of 135, 974 (2011 census). Compared to these two Valentia Island is quite small, perhaps even tiny. It is only seven miles long, and 2 miles wide, with a population in 2011 of only 665 people.

Unlike the other two islands, where the small cable stations were part of the local community, the Valentia Cable Station was a separate entity altogether, set apart from the rest of the island. For this was a time when politics and religion played a very important part in the social fabric of the British Isles, much more so than in Newfoundland and Cape Breton.

As well, there was a growing resentment in Ireland to the dominance of the English culture and lifestyle and a growing Irish nationalist movement that was determined to remove Ireland from its status as a part of the United Kingdom. For many in the country, which at that time was not divided along sectarian lines into Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland, there was no option but complete independence.

By 1866, the second and successful Trans-Atlantic Telegraph Cable was up and running, and plans were then made to build a new and permanent cable station on a piece of land at the other end of Valentia Island. Unlike the cable stations in Heart's Content and Cape North, which both contained only one small wooden structure, the new Valentia Cable Station was to consist of three large, two-storey buildings, in a self-contained compound. They were built of local stone and granite, and their roofs were covered in slate tiles, also from a local quarry.

The centre of the three buildings was the telegraph station, which also had sleeping quarters for unmarried male staff. The other two buildings contained small residential apartments for the married staff members.

Next week: the end of the Trans-Atlantic Telegraph Cable, and the present status of these three cable stations.
