
This by-election, the second since 2011, is a result of a Court of Appeal judgment that threw Nabukenya, a former Kyambogo University guild president, out of Parliament.

Both the High and Appeal courts found the Electoral Commission guilty of electoral offences and, therefore, recommended for fresh elections.

Sunday was Nabukenya’s campaign day in Bamunanika, one of the 13 sub-counties that make Luweero district. Luweero is a two-county district, having lost Nakasongola and Nakaseke to the NRM’s sub-division of districts project. It retained Bamunanika and Katikamu counties.

One of the five sub-counties that make Bamunanika constituency is also called Bamunanika, and that is where we campaigned on Sunday. The Buganda kingdom palace near Bamunanika trading centre, one of the most famous, and a Catholic parish church plus a school seem to be the main features of this place.

The church and palace tell the strength of both Buganda and the church. The palace tells the story of federalism and what Buganda was able to do when it still wielded some power. In fact, it is here (Bamunanika) that Milton Obote discussed with Sir Edward Muteesa some of the aspects of the KabakaYekka/UPC 1962 alliance.

Bamunanika sub-county is a mango-growing area and the by-election has come during the harvest season. Apart from one big plantation, the rest of the mango trees I saw were scattered in banana plantations, bushes, compounds and along the roads. The size of these trees suggests they were planted more than a decade ago.

There were some motorcycles taking mangos to collection centres, but most of them were placed in containers and spread along the road for people, like us wandering in the area, to buy. Four big mangoes went for Shs 1,000. A lot of mangoes were seen falling off the trees and rotting away. That tells you the story of farmers in Uganda, and also explains the faulty national budget system.

Ideally, a place like this one, which is very fertile, should be zoned-off and gazetted as a mango-growing area. The government should use the taxes it collects to provide subsidised fertilizers and other farm inputs. The government should facilitate mango-growers to form a cooperative and help them buy and establish a juice-making plant.

Unfortunately, the biggest portion of the district’s budget is salaries and other non-wage expenditure such as fuel for political leaders. For the financial year ending June 2014, Luweero was allocated Shs 31bn. Almost Shs 20bn of this was allocated for salaries.The primary teachers were allocated Shs 11.3bn, secondary school teachers Shs 5.1bn and medical workers Shs 3.3bn. The political and other leaders were allocated over Shs 2bn.

Only Shs 1.1bn was allocated for the much-criticised National Agricultural Advisory Services (Naads). The component of agriculture extension services was provided only Shs 37m, and it is for salaries.  Extension workers are not given any money to do their work, but salaries!

And in primary schools, money was provided for teachers’ salaries without corresponding requirements.  And under this regime, we have learnt and mastered selfishness. Teachers won’t lay down their tools because of lack of teaching-aides. They will only strike if their salary is not increased. But without a budget for school requirements, the salary increment loses meaning.

In fact for me, I would rather reduce the number of teachers in a school and spend part of the money on availing requirements. That is the area where a second by-election is taking place. The head of state has already visited to canvass support for the ruling NRM candidate, and his party agents are already distributing money.

Ironically, the amount of money the NRM is giving out is enough to help Bamunanika boost its mango production and set up a juice-processing plant. The district is allocated only Shs 116m for production and marketing.

Mind you, these were the base points for the war that brought this government to power. Unfortunately, all that this government has mastered is bribing and compromising leaders, so they don’t make noise about problems in their areas.

And that is why Luweero needs an opposition MP to articulate these problems. And Nabukenya has done that in the last two years she has been in Parliament. Of course, this government is not one that listens, but is still afraid of losing power. Voting Nabukenya may not solve all the problems but will throw something at these mango-growing people.

Briliant as ever. Ssemujju that is what you are. you and your likes have made the points very clear to the dictator to an extent that if he had ears he would have heard. but the thugs are deaf.

what do you do? Lets increase the tempo. we should encourage the population to withdraw their cooperation with the regime. this is the best weapon to resist dictators.

they make people poor and then distribute money for loyalty. this is why they interfered with bugisu cooperative union and others.

Ssemujju keep the fire burning!

To emphasise your points above, a mango costs £1.50 in Edinburgh while sweet potatoes from Uganda are so high in demand here too.

Even without spouting that nonsense about value added and looking for investors who come to sell kabalagala on Martin Road, Museveni should run very fast to his colonial masters and ask to open up markets for Lumonde, Avocado and mangoes.

Unfortunately, the Mango growers may not see things the way you do. Don't be surprised that M7 will come in a few days to elections and remind them that Luwero is the base of NRM.

In addition to the bribes, they will most likely vote for Rebecca. Ugandans need emancipation, intellectually.

One has to wonder why Uganda cannot organise itself and capture some of these markets. In Scandanavia where I live , mangoes are becoming more pupular.

But the mangoes we get here are of poor quality compared to the ones from Luweero. Since Buganda seems to be better organized than the Central government , maybe Semujju can introduce this co-operatives idea to Mayiga. There is a market for Uganda fruits and bananas all over the World.

The point here is that each country has a comparative advantage in this global capitalist market. Just look at how Britain fights tooth and nail to keep London as the global financial centre.

They do everything to make sure that EU regulation does not affect the way London does business with all those Russian oligarchs and Chinese money lauderers.

Uganda being the alleged pearl of Africa with good tropical climate as we are reminded whenever there's an alien visiting, should use that advantage to rally our folks to engage in farming and growing those crops that traditionally are not too difficult to maintain .

Instead what we get are people talking about apples, vanilla and of course oil.

Please invest and look for markets in those things that our people are comfortable with stop wasting our time.

Hon Ssemujju, what you said here confirms that most of us are still stuck in the colonial stupor where commercial farming choices were enforced by government eg cotton etc.

(Kampala is within 100km radius of Bamunanika). Your MP suggestion here will only promote perennial government dependency (tuliindde government etuwabule). The farmers could switch to peppers!

Museveni and his agents claim their massive support base is among the rural people in the countryside.But why should Museveni and his agents feverishly distribute money to buy votes in the rural areas where they are popular? Museveni is aware he has lost popularity and is shamelessly involved in criminal activity of buying votes.

No Faisal. I disagree govt has to direct policy and incentivise it's populace. That's not dependence. The reason why governments are voted in power is because they've got a specific program fit for purpose not giving out inducements. I know that Uganda exports mangoes, and crafts. We've seen them in TK Maxx here but I'm also aware thru reliable sources that these exports are only reserved for those close to state house. Ugandans should wake up and smell the coffee, before Mugabe went senile all British supermarkets were selling Zimbabwean produce while Kenya is aggressively increasing it's exports by working hard on quality control and these things work because we can see Kenyan produce in big markets here.

One has doubts about these dodgy opposition who have made money as NRM democratic escorts. Deforestation should very much be the issue in Bamunanika. A modern farmer these days is better off accepting to farm a forest of mangoes one square mile. The national and international governments would certainly pay that farmer lots of money to keep it that way especially for global environmental reasons. Mangoes can even fall and rot there in that forest.

The votes that the clownish likes of Brenda Nabukenya got aren't because of their hyped degree of hard working like Ssemujju is purporting but rather enchanting their naïve followers through political comedy like organising a mock birthday for the president in 2010.

Ssemujju has been struggling to elaborate to us how Luwero would have been a successful mango exploitation zone but he is unaware of the fact that for the last two years that his heroine has been fraudulently representing the Luwero folks, she has never observed about such a development that would have rather redeemed her constituents from the biting poverty but rather concentrated on spicing up the intra-party fights within her moribund party.

Poor Ssemujju thanks to his hatred is shying away from the fact that M7 recently directed the army under Saleh to steer the anti-poverty drive in households with particular emphasis on the hitherto war-torn regions like the Luwero Triangle.

Faisal , you should educate yourself about agricultral subsidy policies in all developed countries before you make the next comment on this subject.

Yes , functioning governments get involved in farming management at all levels, Research , financing , education , marketing etc cannot be left to whims of individualistic incentives.

@Jonssebanakitt a #8.

It did not take government advise for Ugandans to import Boda Bodas, the Kamunyes etc. Matoke reached European markets by individual effort.

Government encourages, regulates and protects all commercial interests. Our business people attend various trade fairs world wide and the sharp ones continue to clinch customers .

Forget the TK Maxxes, we can make more money feeding neighbouring countries.

Exports thrive where there is suitable infrastructure, reliable power supply, skilled workforce and good marketing by producers.

Uganda seems to be favourably working on this line and there are many bodies to ensure our products meet all international standards, "first time right".

Faisal , you should educate yourself about agricultral subsidy policies in all developed countries before you make the next comment on this subject.

Kent Mawa, I am sure you have heard of "International Dumping".Subsidies in far off lands can evaporate our hope in farming as our economic mainstay.

DAVID .

don`t let someone in the first family hear you calling Nabukenya "clownish".

I think Faisal you've missed the point here. My argument here is for government to have policies for people at a macro level. policies should be able to cut across the board so that if we have people producing crafts, there is a big market out there for these instead of allowing ones relative to pack a few baskets in ekikapu and launder them in Western Sunday markets.

And yes governments provide subsidies in order to grow and improve industries for its own people.

of course you are used to a government that provides tax breaks and waivers to Chinese and Indian businessmen who come here to rip us off.

I hope you are not Tamale Mirundi as your arguments sound as trivial as his.

Quting Faisal: ".Subsidies in far off lands can evaporate our hope in farming as our economic mainstay"

And for that reason, among many others, Ugandan farmers need a government that makes sure that there is fair-play when it comes to marketing Uganda farm productsinterna tionally.

Ironically , someone commented that no one told Ugandans how to import boda boda from Japan; this must be somebody who does not know that the Japanese boda boda production is effective because of the Industrial idiological input of the government of Japan.

Last weekend while in Kampala i bought some mangoes that were juicy,sweet and succulent at Ug Shs 500 each. While in Mbarara 0n Tuesday and along Ntungamo- Kabale road Similar Mangoes were going for Ugshs 200 or even UgShs 150 if you are buying many.

This content has been locked. You can no longer post any comment.
