
A couple of weeks ago, IOC Vice President said Brazil’s preparations for the 2016 Olympics were “the worst I have experienced,” and that was before the New York Times wrote Sunday about all the carcasses (both canine and human) in the waters of the bay where the sailing and windsurfing events will take place.

“Welcome to the dump that is Rio,” Germany’s sailing team said in one typically blunt assessment of the site for the Olympic regatta.

Brazilians training here agree.

“It can get really disgusting, with dog carcasses in some places and the water turning brown from sewage contamination,” said Thomas Low-Beer, 24, a Brazilian Olympic hopeful who sails in the bay. He shuddered when recalling how his dinghy crashed into what he believed was a partly submerged sofa, capsizing him into the murky Guanabara.

Efforts to clean up the bay have been stymied by the usual Brazilian maladies of “mismanagement and allegations of corruption,” the Times reports. The Rio state government has taken out $1 billion in loans from the government of Japan and the Inter-American Development Bank, but the carcasses, sofas and sewage still remain.

Calling the bay “dark, brown and stinking,” Lars Grael, 50, a Brazilian sailing legend who won two Olympic medals, said he had encountered human corpses on four occasions while sailing in the bay. He told reporters that officials should move the sailing events to a resort area hours away by car.

To fight an algal bloom in 2008, the Chinese government deployed about 1,000 boats in advance of the Beijing Games, the Times reports, and it worked. Brazilian officials said they hope to have 20 or 30 boats ready to help clean up Guanabara Bay.

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
