
PRINCETON, N.J., May 19, 2014 /PRNewswire/ -- Covance CVD, -0.01% one of the world's largest and most comprehensive drug development services companies, today announced it has acquired Medaxial, a London-based value communication consultancy. The company specializes in offering clients an integrated approach to market access strategy, health economic modeling, and data dissemination services, and focuses on defining and communicating the value of a biopharmaceutical product or medical device to healthcare payers and the stakeholders who influence them.

"Covance is a leader in the rapidly growing sector of market access and reimbursement.  Medaxial, with their proven expertise in optimizing data-driven, solution-focused communication of a medical product's value will further complement our market access offerings," said Marc Ginsky, Vice President and General Manager, Covance Market Access.  "Proactive and effective communication of clinical and economic value is critical to help clients navigate an increasingly complex drug development and payment landscape, as they strive to provide innovative medical products to patients."

With the acquisition of Medaxial, Covance's market access services, which currently has offices in Gaithersburg, Md., Greenfield, Ind., San Diego and Sydney, will be better positioned to serve clients worldwide.  In addition to Medaxial's corporate headquarters in London, the company has employees in New York and Antwerp, Belgium.

Covance, the world's most comprehensive drug development company and a leader in nutritional analysis, is dedicated to advancing healthcare and delivering Solutions Made Real™.  The company, headquartered in Princeton, New Jersey, has annual revenues greater than $2.4 billion and more than 12,500 employees located in over 60 countries.  Information on Covance's solutions, recent press releases, and SEC filings can be obtained through its website at www.covance.com .

Copyright ©2014 MarketWatch, Inc.  All rights reserved.

Intraday Data provided by SIX Financial Information and subject to terms of use .                 Historical and current end-of-day data provided by SIX Financial Information. Intraday data                 delayed per exchange requirements. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones & Company, Inc.                 All quotes are in local exchange time. Real time last sale data provided by NASDAQ. More                 information on NASDAQ traded symbols and their current financial status. Intraday                 data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, and 20 minutes for other exchanges. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM)                 from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. SEHK intraday data is provided by SIX Financial Information and is                 at least 60-minutes delayed. All quotes are in local exchange time.
