
CRITICS have challenged South Australian Agriculture Minister Leon Bignell to “put up or shut up” on the science and safety of crop biotechnology, while a new global report extolls the economic and environmental virtues of genetically modified (GM) crops.

Mr Bignell sparked controversy when he spoke out against GM crops immediately after his ministerial appointment in March.

He promised to travel the State and listen to what farmers wanted - but then publicly questioned the safety of GM crops in SA where there’s a long-running moratorium on commercial production.

“I don't want to be the politician who was like the politicians in the ‘50s, who listened to the story of big tobacco and thought, 'Oh yeah, it's ok',” he said in March.

“I don't want to be the politician like the politicians in the ‘70s, who listened to James Hardie who said there are no dangers with asbestos.

Mr Bignell has sparked fresh controversy by scheduling an appearance alongside the Greens and largely US-based environmental activist group Deep Green Resistance, at a rally against GM crops and multinational biotechnology provider Monsanto, at Parliament House in Adelaide on Saturday, May 24.

The anti-GM rally precedes a workshop titled, Diversity of Tactics: Goals and Strategies for Activists and Advocates.

SA Liberal Senator Sean Edwards said Mr Bignell had “an inflated level of his own importance” given food safety regulations were a federal responsibility, through Food Standards Australia New Zealand (FSANZ).

Senator Edwards said any correlation between GM crops and the safety of tobacco and asbestos product was “absurd” and “irresponsible” with “absolutely no scientific evidence to back the SA Minister’s contentions”.

“If he has any credible scientific evidence he should put it forward, rather than run this ridiculous smear campaign against companies that operate legitimately and within the law,” he said.

Senator Edwards said the Minister’s comments were also a “slur” on scientists working on approved GM field research at the internationally regarded Australian Centre for Plant Functional Genomics (ACPFG) at the University of Adelaide.

“The federal Office of the Gene Technology Regulator (OGTR) provides approval for those field trials and up until he became minister, previous SA Agriculture Ministers, without exception, would have agreed to those trials going ahead,” he said.

But Mr Bignell said the Senator’s comments reflected a division in the Liberal Party because the SA Liberals went to the recent State election with the same commitment as Labor’s, which is to maintain the moratorium until at least 2019.

"The public of SA need to know where the Liberal Party stands on the issue," he said.

"Should they believe Senator Edwards or State Opposition Leader Steven Marshall?"

Mr Bignell said he had travelled extensively throughout SA during the past eight years and spent a lot of time talking with farmers. He was also a member of the grain handling committee that held meetings with farmers in every SA grain growing region during 2011 and 2012.

Mr Bignell said he had received positive feedback following his comments about SA remaining GM-free, noting SA had an international reputation for clean, green and safe produce, and a food and wine industry that was worth more than $16 billion to the state’s economy.

"Our GM-free status has become one of our major selling points for local food and wine on international markets, and remaining GM-free is the best way for us to attract top dollar for our crops and food," he said.

"Senator Edwards' attitude is out of touch with the growing global demand for GM-free food and his comments sound more like sour grapes than a sensible contribution to the GM debate."

The Minister said his scheduled appearance at the May 24 rally will be the third March Against Monsanto rally that he had spoken at.

“It is a great celebration of South Australia's non-GM stance and I will be passing on Senator Edwards' comments to the crowd,” Mr Bignell said.

An international report released by PG Economics earlier this month stated widespread adoption of crop biotechnology had led to "significant economic and environmental benefits, and unparalleled improvement in farmer income".

CropLife Australia -  representative of the plant science industry in Australia - said biotech had an important place in Australia agriculture.

“Australian GM cotton and canola farmers have realised farm income benefits of more than US $766 million over the 17 year period covered by the report,” said CropLife chief executive officer Matthew Cossey.

“Crop biotechnology has also contributed to significantly reducing the release of greenhouse gas emissions from agricultural practices (due to) less fuel use and additional soil carbon storage from reduced tillage with GM crops.

"In 2012, this was equivalent to removing 27 billion kg of carbon dioxide from the atmosphere or equal to removing 11.9 million cars – 69 per cent of the cars registered in Australia – from the road for one year."

The report also found adoption of GM crops had significantly reduced the need for the use of chemicals for pest management. Over the period 1996-2012, crop biotechnology has reduced pesticide spraying by 503 million kg (-8.8pc).

“Given that the United Nations predicts we need to produce 70pc more food by 2050 than we do today in order to meet the needs of our growing population, this report gives real, concrete evidence that agricultural biotechnology is a crucial asset for achieving that goal," Mr Cossey said.

“The figures released by PG Economics once again put solid data behind the benefits of GM crops. The facts speak for themselves.

"It’s crucial that the benefits of this innovation be made available to all farmers across Australia and the rest of the world if we are genuine about meeting the challenges of global food security and farming in a more environmentally sustainable way."

Monsanto Australia corporate affairs lead Adam Blight said he was unsure why an Agriculture Minister was marching against his company which supported thousands of SA and Australian farmers with its products.

“We think the challenges and opportunities for Australian agriculture are too important to be subject to the misplaced activism that goes with this type of action,” he said.

“There is a very broad consensus amongst the global scientific community that GM crops are as safe as any other crops on the market.

“There have been more than 600 peer reviewed studies supporting this conclusion.

“The range of experts who are on the record defending safety of GM crops and foods containing GM derived ingredients, include the OGTR and FSANZ here.

“Throughout the world there’s the USDA, the US Food and Drug Administration, the World Health Organisation and the European Commission’s chief scientific advisor.

“GM crops have been grown since 1996 by farmers in about 30 countries around the world on 3.7 billion acres without a single substantiated incident of illness, associated with GM crops or foods.

Groups like Deep Green Resistance represent the radical wing of the environmental movement and will stop at nothing to preserve nature, right up to and including the elimination of 75% of humankind.  But what's most disturbing is that all the views held by members of Deep Green Resistance are shared by the urban leadership of the organic movement. The organic industry is, in point of fact, the tip of the spear for the whole environmental movement, luring in unsuspecting consumers under false pretenses to advance a radical, anti-humanistic agenda.

Commendations to Mr Bignell; we'd all be a lot better off if more politicians had the courage to express their opinions. He is on the mark with the comparison to big tobacco, the strategies and tactics used by the big biotech companies are frighteningly reminiscent of those emplyed by the tobacco and asbestos companies.

I am one of the organisers of the March Against Monsanto rally and  I would like to clarify that the organisers invited a wide range of speakers including Minister Bignell and he did not have any control over the rally, he was only an invited speaker.  A representative from Deep Green Resistance asked to speak and we agreed as we were curious to learn more. The rally was NOT organised or affiliated with Deep Green Resistance in any way other than having one of their representatives come along to let us know what they think about Monsanto and GM.

John Hine, you couldn't be further from the truth about the AWB single desk. It left for dead,
