
Farmers of Nangkor, Shumar, Maan and adjoining villages are worried by the ongoing mineral exploration works at Urichhu area by teams from the department of geology and mines. It is understood that the department has deputed three different teams to the site, one of which will continue the mineral assessment works till the end of June this year.

Farmers say that it may not be just a mineral exploration work but a precursor to starting a gypsum mine in the area. They said that this is the second time they are genuinely worried by such activities that will have irreparable implications on their well being should a mining work begin in the area.

“It is a cause of concern for all of us on the way the exploration works are being conducted in detail. We are all worried by what is happening almost discreetly without any information to those who will be impacted the most,” said Ugyen, a local resident.

He said that, this is the second time people are being worried. First was when people got the wind of a local company and a multinational company entering into partnership to mine gypsum from the place in question. He said people are now aware enough of the implications of mining from what they are witnessing every day from the existing mines. “Honestly, we don’t want another mining activity in our area,” he said looking worried.

Many people raised this issue during the recent visit of Pemagatshel’s National Council representative.

“We can’t imagine the prospect of living in an area surrounded by ugly mines surrounding us which will resemble like a war zone. But we hope laws will protect our interest over the economic interest of a handful individuals,” said Penjor, an ex-serviceman.

Jigmi Rinzin who is the council’s chair of environment committee assured the people that, no decisions can be taken unilaterally and that the interest and the concerns of the local people will prevail over all others. “The final say lies with the people. Anything drastic like a mining operation will require the consent of the people who will be affected without which such ventures cannot take place,” said Jigmi Rinzin during his recent meetings with the people.

The mineral assessment area in question lies along the basin of Urichhu stream adjacent to the present gypsum mines in the dzongkhag. Unlike the Druk Satair operated mine, the mineral exploration works that is taking place at the moment lies immediately below the dzongkhag’s most fertile and densely populated area. Nangkor village with over 150 households, a high school, a lower secondary school, BPC’s eastern Bhutan sub-station, lhakhangs and many other public centres all stand right above the place where exploration works are underway.

But many people are hopeful that, present exploration will remain just an exploration and nothing more. They said that, in 2010 a local land owner in the area applied for surface collection of minerals but he resorted to excavations of minerals in the pretext of orchard development putting the stability of the area under threat. The high school authorities complained about the likely consequences of the dubious activity that could undermine the stability of the schools and adjoining areas. The few hundred metres of vertical distance that separate the excavated area on the one hand and schools and settlements on the other is what makes any exploitation so dangerous.

The man was penalized for breaching the environment and other laws. The authorities ordered the culprit to take immediate mitigation works to prevent further damage to the slope. Ironically, the man came back with a letter from some authorities absolving him of undertaking any mitigation activity in the area saying that even mitigation works may cause further instability in the area which was in conflict with what competent environment officials recommended. Ultimately, the man ended up paying small fine that was disproportionate to the damages done to the environment and economic return he derived pointing at the possibility of a nexus that helped him cut corners of laws.

While the people who will be affected the most remain apprehensive, they are also relieved to hear the Tengye Lyonpo making a categorical statement on why mining licences must not be issued if mining ventures are likely to have adverse impact on local communities. He made this reference on the national television channel when asked about a conflict between a community and a mine in Thimphu earlier this week. “We welcome this statement which came as a moral support of the worried communities,” said farmer Ugyen.
