
Typhoon Haiyan, Yolanda, Philippines, Sharon Creer, immigration, Tacloban, CIC, Citizenship and Immigration Canada,

Sharon Creer left her storm-ravaged town in the Philippines in January expecting that her husband and children would soon follow.

The Toronto nanny had flown home to be with her surviving family members after Typhoon Haiyan blasted through the country’s eastern islands on Nov. 8, killing more than 6,000 people, including her 64-year-old mother, two aunts and an uncle.

When the Canadian government announced it would fast-track visa applications from Filipinos “significantly and personally affected” by the typhoon, Creer eagerly applied for her husband and children, whose sponsorship was already in progress.

Creer waited nearly five months for a response, which finally came on May 9. They were rejected.

The visa officer who worked on the family’s case “was not satisfied that they were significantly affected by Typhoon Haiyan such that they qualified for facilitative measures,” a spokeswoman for Citizenship and Immigration Canada told Torstar News Service. The family’s rejection letter did not include that blunt assessment, saying only that officials had determined they did not have enough money to support their proposed stay in Canada.

The outcome raises questions about how the government sets thresholds for pain and suffering when offering relief for natural disaster victims. Many would argue that anyone in the city of Tacloban and surrounding communities when the typhoon hit would have been significantly affected by it.

Citizenship and Immigration said more than 1,000 applications have been approved through the special measures, but officials are keeping secret how many have not yet been resolved, how many were rejected and how long they took to process.

Typhoon Haiyan was the strongest tropical cyclone to ever make landfall, with wind gusts that blew ships onto dry land and tsunami-like storm surges that sent a two-storey wall of water rushing inland, turning cities and towns into a pulpy pile of rubble.

In the aftermath, Creer returned to her country to bury her relatives, who perished when a wall of seawater crashed through her mother’s home, and to be with her children, who survived the storm but were traumatized by the corpse-strewn streets. The family lost five members, including a 7-year-old girl Creer’s mother had unofficially adopted.

The typhoon left only a quarter of Creer’s mother’s home standing. Her 89-year-old grandmother, Guadalupe Moreto, who was asleep on the main floor when the water rushed in, survived miraculously — as her adult children died in the next room — because her bamboo bed floated to the ceiling. Frail and traumatized, the grandmother never recovered from the stress and died last weekend. Creer received the news the day after she received the rejection letter.

Creer’s husband and children had been living at her in-laws’ house in Tacloban when the typhoon hit. When the water came in, they huddled together on the second floor and prayed.

Their lives were spared and the home still stood when it was over, but they lived in terror for the next several days as bodies piled up in the streets and looters and prison escapees walked across rooftops at night, trying to get into homes they thought were abandoned.

As soon as he could, the father sent the kids to stay with relatives outside of the disaster zone, while he stayed behind to protect his parents’ home and help his wife’s surviving family members.

The Creers lost their livelihood — a mango and coconut tree farm that could take a decade to grow again, and thousands of dollars’ worth of fishing equipment the husband had recently bought to start a business.

“Our hard-earned money was wiped out,” the wife said.

In Toronto last week, Creer sat flipping through immigration documents in a food court outside a medical clinic downtown where she is employed as a clerk, one of three jobs she works seven days a week. She blinked away tears and laughed nervously. Creer, a composed 34-year-old with kind eyes and strong Christian faith, tends to keep her emotions in check, but the past year has shaken her positive core.

Asked how the government set the threshold for who is “significantly and personally affected,” immigration officials pointed Torstar to a November 2013 statement from the minister, Chris Alexander.

“We are zeroing in on the ones that involve people or families from the big islands hit by the typhoon, that were in the typhoon’s path, or smaller islands that have experienced this devastation,” he said.

Immigration officials said they concluded the Creer family did not meet the “significantly affected” threshold because Rodolfo Creer admitted his parents’ home “had little damage” after the storm. The visa officer also noted that the husband said he and the children planned “to stay in the Philippines until the summer so their daughter could finish school,” according to the immigration spokeswoman.

Sharon Creer said she had initially hoped to get her children out of the country immediately after the typhoon, thinking, perhaps naively, that they might get to Canada in time for Christmas, since it seemed the government’s goal was to provide immediate relief.

But it took much longer than expected. Creer was asked to provide police checks and proof that the family had been affected by the typhoon, which were difficult tasks to perform from the middle of a disaster zone with telecommunications systems down and residents focused on burying the dead, cleaning up wreckage and rebuilding homes.

When schools in the Philippines reopened early this year, their visas still hadn’t been approved, so they enrolled their children.

Creer said it’s true they wanted to keep Maureen in school until her Grade 6 graduation, which took place last month. The mother would have preferred to get her children out of the Philippines immediately after the disaster, but since Maureen had started the school year in the country, Creer thought it best for her to finish there, to have a bit of normalcy after everything the children had seen and been through.

“My kids needs healing,” Creer said.

Before Haiyan hit her hometown, Creer had been gone for nearly six straight years. She worked first in Dubai and later moved to Toronto for a job as a nanny under the live-in caregiver program, taking care of other people’s children while her own grew up without her halfway around the world.

Leaving home to make a living is a way of life in the Philippines, where the unemployment rate is high and 10 per cent of the country’s gross domestic product comes from money sent to family members by overseas workers. Filipinos leave their country to create better opportunities for their children, support their elder relatives and save for retirement. It is not unusual for children to be raised by fathers and grandparents while their mothers work in foreign countries.

In 2010, Creer became eligible to apply for permanent resident status, which allowed her to apply to sponsor her husband and children. She submitted the application and braced herself, knowing the backlog could drag the approval process for a long time.

She was still waiting when the typhoon struck and she is still waiting now. It has been three and a half years since she applied.

Officials told Torstar the process dragged on more than usual because Rodolfo Creer did not respond to a letter requesting an email address where he could be reached to provide further supporting documentation. The family said they never received the letter.

Immigration “has sent a request to Mrs. Creer for further information on her overseas dependants in order to continue processing of the application,” a spokeswoman said last week in an email.

Creer doesn’t understand why the family would have been rejected in part based on financial reasons, since she earns about $3,100 a month from her three jobs in Toronto and has about $10,000 in savings. She hasn’t taken a day off work since January.

Since her return to Toronto, Creer has been preparing for the arrival of her husband and children. She scouted out schools for Maureen, 11, and Tom, 14. She found an affordable three-bedroom apartment in the west end, near a park, a library and a public swimming pool. She spoke with friends who said they would help her husband get a job in the financial sector.

When the rejection letter arrived in Tacloban this month, Maureen emailed her mother a photo of it. “What happened?” the daughter asked.
