
REDMOND, Wash., and WALLDORF, Germany, May 19, 2014 (Canada NewsWire via COMTEX) -- Expanded partnership improves cloud and data interoperability, delivers new mobile and productivity solutions.

Microsoft Corp. and SAP AG SAP, +1.61% have expanded their global partnership to deliver new solutions that are intended to help improve employee productivity, enhance workforce mobility and drive increased business value for customers and partners.

Monday's announcement aims to extend the companies' long-term partnership in three critical areas: enterprise cloud computing with business-critical SAP applications certification for Microsoft Azure; improved interoperability between data from SAP applications and Microsoft Office, including general availability of connectivity between SAP(®) BusinessObjectsTM business intelligence (BI) solutions and Microsoft's Power BI offering; and mobile productivity with expanded development and support for Windows and Windows Phone 8.1.

"Microsoft and SAP have a great history together, and we are committed to meeting the diverse needs of our enterprise customers," said Scott Guthrie, executive vice president, Cloud & Enterprise, Microsoft. "Our expanded partnership with SAP demonstrates our continued commitment to deliver the applications and services our customers need — in their private clouds, service provider clouds, Microsoft Azure and Microsoft Office."

"This has been an exciting year for one of the leading strategic partnerships in our industry," said Steve Lucas, president, Platform Solutions, SAP. "For our customers, SAP and Microsoft are among the top strategic vendors relied upon to drive their business' success. We are proud of how we listened to our customers and together developed — and will continue to develop — innovative new programs focused on the cloud, mobility, analytics and interoperability that we expect will provide unparalleled value for our customers."

SAP applications on Microsoft Azure It is anticipated that by the end of Q2 2014, Microsoft and SAP will support SAP(®) Business Suite software, SAP Business All-In-One solutions, SAP Mobile Platform, SAP Adaptive Server(®) Enterprise (SAP ASE) and the developer edition of the SAP HANA(®) platform on Azure. In addition, Microsoft and SAP expect that customers and developers will be able to deploy and provision a number of preconfigured SAP solutions, within minutes, directly to Azure using the SAP Cloud Appliance Library tool.

New and existing SAP customers will be able to take advantage of the "pay per use" model in Azure to reduce infrastructure costs and total cost of ownership. Customers will be able to take advantage of the compute resources in Azure to support SAP solutions and quickly scale capacity as computing requirements change, paying only for the resources used.

Improved data access and interoperability Monday, Microsoft and SAP made Excel connectivity to SAP BusinessObjects BI solutions through Microsoft's Power BI offering generally available. Microsoft and SAP also announced plans to deepen interoperability between applications and platforms with a new version of the SAP Gateway for Microsoft, which is expected to help customers automate business processes and access SAP applications and data through Microsoft Office 365 and Microsoft Azure. Customers can get started today with the current SAP Gateway for Microsoft and upgrade to the new version when it becomes available in the second half of 2014. More information is available at SAP Gateway for Microsoft.

Increased mobile collaboration Microsoft and SAP plan to help customers conduct business anywhere and anytime by developing and co-marketing SAP mobile apps for Windows and Windows Phone 8.1. These new applications will be managed and secured by the SAP Mobile Secure portfolio or Windows Intune. Examples of prospective offerings resulting from this increased collaboration will be showcased at SAPPHIRE(®)( )NOW, being held June 3-5, 2014, in Orlando, Florida. More information can be found here.

Monday's announcements bring exciting new capabilities to customers and opportunities for partners and developers through the combined strengths of Microsoft and SAP applications and platforms. You can learn more here.

About SAP As market leader in enterprise application software, SAP SAP, +1.61% helps companies of all sizes and industries run better. From back office to boardroom, warehouse to storefront, desktop to mobile device - SAP empowers people and organizations to work together more efficiently and use business insight more effectively to stay ahead of the competition. SAP applications and services enable more than 258,000 customers to operate profitably, adapt continuously, and grow sustainably. For more information, visit www.sap.com .

About Microsoft Founded in 1975, Microsoft is the worldwide leader in software, services and solutions that help people and businesses realize their full potential.

Any statements contained in this document that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements as defined in the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "forecast," "intend," "may," "plan," "project," "predict," "should" and "will" and similar expressions as they relate to SAP are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. SAP undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations. The factors that could affect SAP's future financial results are discussed more fully in SAP's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), including SAP's most recent Annual Report on Form 20-F filed with the SEC. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates.

SAP note to editors: To preview and download broadcast-standard stock footage and press photos digitally, please visit www.sap.com/photos . On this platform, you can find high resolution material for your media channels. To view video stories on diverse topics, visit www.sap-tv.com . From this site, you can embed videos into your own Web pages, share video via email links, and subscribe to RSS feeds from SAP TV.

SOURCE Microsoft Corp.

SOURCE: Microsoft Corp.

Copyright (C) 2014 CNW Group. All rights reserved.

Copyright ©2014 MarketWatch, Inc.  All rights reserved.

Intraday Data provided by SIX Financial Information and subject to terms of use .                 Historical and current end-of-day data provided by SIX Financial Information. Intraday data                 delayed per exchange requirements. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones & Company, Inc.                 All quotes are in local exchange time. Real time last sale data provided by NASDAQ. More                 information on NASDAQ traded symbols and their current financial status. Intraday                 data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, and 20 minutes for other exchanges. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM)                 from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. SEHK intraday data is provided by SIX Financial Information and is                 at least 60-minutes delayed. All quotes are in local exchange time.
