
A businessman behind plans to develop a £280m racetrack on moorland near Ebbw Vale has conceded that it will not be built in time to stage the world-famous MotoGP event in September next year.

But Peter Thomas denied that difficulties experienced by the owners of Silverstone racetrack in Northamptonshire in selling their track had no bearing on the viability of the Circuit of Wales project.

Securing the MotoGP event is a crucial part of plans put forward by the Heads of the Valleys Development Company (HoVDC}, but says it has not been asked for more money, which says the project will bring 6,000 jobs and 750,000 visitors a year to the area ..

But some experts and politicians have expressed doubts about the quoted figures, which they consider to be over-optimistic.

The Welsh Government gave HoVDC a grant of £2m to develop the plans, but says it has not been asked for more. The UK Government says the project does not match its grant criteria and it will not be putting any money into it.

Further doubts about the project’s viability have now been raised following the failure of the club that owns Silverstone to sell the track.

HoVDC has not disclosed the identity of its investors, citing a need for commercial confidentiality.

He said it was “wholly inappropriate” to compare the Circuit of Wales with the difficulties experienced in selling Silverstone: “The fact is that last year a sale was agreed for the non-racing elements of Silverstone, and this month they were in a position where they were unable to complete the sale of the circuit itself,” said Mr Thomas. “That’s a wholly different position to the one we’re in – raising money to build a racetrack and commercial outlets adjacent to it.

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

Join us on social media.

For the latest local news straight to your Twitter, Facebook feed, e-mail inbox or tablet .

WalesOnline.co.uk conforms to the newspaper industry's voluntary Code of Practice, administered by the Press Complaints Commission.

If you feel we have made an error in a report, or have fallen below our usual high standards, please write in the first instance to: Ceri Gould, Online Editor, WalesOnline.co.uk, Media Wales, Six Park Street, Cardiff CF10 1XR. Tel: 029 2024 3672.

We reach over 1,384,563* unique users a month with dedicated coverage of all things Welsh.

WalesOnline is part of Media Wales, publisher of the Western Mail, South Wales Echo, Wales on Sunday and the seven Celtic weekly titles, offering you unique access to our audience across Wales online and in print.

Ceri has been editor of WalesOnline since April 2012. She was previously executive editor of Media Wales and deputy editor of the Western Mail. She started her career on the Glamorgan Gazette.
