
Communications aggregator iTelecom Wholesale has announced an overhaul that includes the acquisition of iVNE, the mass appointment of executives, and the opening of a new business.

A new parent company named the iVNX Group has been created to accommodate ongoing business iTelecom Wholesale, newly acquired iVNE and the newly created iVNO. The three wholly owned subsidiaries respectively target the reseller, enterprise and consumer markets, according to the statement from iVNX.

Founder of iTelecom and now CEO of iVNX Group, Thomas Derum, told CRN that iVNE was born out of the partnership with Pactera and Infonova to create an integrated virtual network enabler platform, as announced last August. The recent acquisition was an asset purchase of that technology and platform.

The statement from the company described iVNE as providing "PaaS and TechOps-as-a-Service to CSPs, MVNOs, carriers, media, utilities, insurance and other organisations".

"A number of organisations have already been running on [iVNE] for sometime," Derum told CRN. "But they're not on the cloud product, which will be launched next month."

Also announced at the same time, iVNX has created the consumer-focused virtual network operator iVNO to offer white label mobile products.

Former iTelecom chief strategy officer Pat Brady, CFO Stephen Mason, and CIO Bruno Giger have all shifted across to equivalent roles at the new parent iVNX. Former iTelecom chief sales officer Vikram Mohite has become sales director at iVNO, and board member of iVNO and iVNE.

David Colvin (director), Matt Goodlet (chief technology evangelist) and Matt Jones (sales director) have been appointed to leadership positions at iVNE.

"These new appointments will particularly assist us to capitalise on the opportunities we have identified in the cloud computing, consumer and wholesale market segments along with strengthening our innovation and operational focus across the group," said Derum.

"We are at an exciting stage in the development of the business as a broader based enablement organisation," Derum said. "The restructure of our business into the iVNX Group uniquely positions the business to service and support the rapid implementation of new, innovative business models within the telecommunications sector and beyond."

The iVNX group has "a skilled and talented team of over 60 people located in Melbourne, Sydney, Manila, Hyderabad and Dalian, China", according to the firm. Derum said iTelecom was founded in 2009 and is privately owned.

You must be a registered member of CRN to post a comment.

CRN Magazine looks in-depth at the emerging issues and developments for the channel, and provides insight, analysis and strategic information to help resellers better run their businesses.

Your use of this website constitutes acceptance of nextmedia's Privacy Policy and Terms & Conditions .

We will provide you with information and insight necessary to help you better achieve your business goals.

Access CRN's extensive online resources including; email bulletins, community discussions and unique online news.

Channelwire is a crucial information service for all resellers, delivering the latest channel news and analysis from Australia and around the world.

Special offers, promotions, competitions and new products from CRN and nextmedia, as well as its carefully selected partners.

At no time will your email be provided to any other company.

This process can take up to a minute to complete.

A confirmation email has been sent to your email address - SUPPLIED GOES EMAIL HERE. Please click on the link in the email to verify your email address. You need to verify your email before you can log on to the CRN website or start posting comments on articles.
