
A respected industry publication for 67 years!

There’s a wait-list for apples; cherries and soft fruit tree sales have stabilized.

Coral Champagne is still a popular variety for new plantings in California.

California tree fruit nurseries are as busy as ever. For apple tree sales, there seems to be no slowdown in the buying boom yet, though cherry sales are stabilizing. Acreage downsizing has occurred in the soft fruit industry, which some believe will better position growers in the near future.

Demand has been good for the new Geneva rootstocks, she said, adding that although they don’t do a lot of Geneva rootstocks, they could sell more if they had them. The Geneva rootstock series, developed through a joint breeding program of the U.S. Department of Agriculture and Cornell University, are bred to be resistant to a variety of North American apple maladies, such as fire blight, phytophthora, woolly apple aphid, and replant disease while still being dwarfing or semidwarfing in size.

Clegg told Good Fruit Grower that popular cherry varieties in California have been Coral Champagne, Rainier, and the Pearl series from Cornell University. Lapins has been popular with Washington growers.

Dale McHaley, stone fruit specialist at the Reedley, California, office for Dave Wilson Nursery, also has seen a stabilizing of cherry tree sales. Cherry tree sales are a little weak in the southern San Joaquin Valley but stable in the northern end of the valley.

Nut crops like almonds have been extremely popular in California because grower returns have been at record prices and the crop can be mechanically harvested. The National Agricultural Statistics Service recently estimated that California almond acreage in 2013 was at an all-time record of 940,000 acres. Of the total acreage, 100,000 acres are estimated to be nonbearing. In 2010, almond acreage was estimated at 825,000 acres.

McHaley, too, believes the two short cherry crops in a row have slowed down interest in more cherries.

At Dave Wilson Nursery, a couple of cherry variety favorites of growers have been Royal Lynn and Royal Tioga, both low-chill varieties.

Royal Lynn is a new, very early cherry, ripening in early to mid-May in the Fresno region. Fruit are medium-large in size, mahogany red colored, and firm with long stems. Royal Lynn is not prone to cracks, spurs, or doubles, according to McHaley, and requires 500 chilling hours.

Royal Tioga has been popular because of its good size, early harvest, sweet flavor, and self fertility, he said.

Planting trends in stone fruit have been yellow and white fleshed for peaches and nectarines, with slightly higher sales of yellow-fleshed nectarines, McHaley said.

Growers are especially interested in red-fleshed pluots, like Festival Red, Crimson Rose, Ebony Rose, and Honey Punch, he said. Late-season apricots that pick into the middle of August have also been popular.

The trend of planting low-acid nectarine varieties has been growing. Zaiger Genetics, the breeder of varieties sold by Dave Wilson Nursery, has released nine yellow-fleshed, low-acid nectarine varieties under the Honey name, like Honey Haven, Honey Kist, and Honey May. Some are freestone varieties, some clingstone.

Melissa Hansen joined the Good Fruit Grower team as associate editor in 1996 and provides editorial and web site content for all fruit, but in particular, the Northwest grape industry.

We'd love to hear how you feel about our new website.

Receive updates from Good Fruit Grower's bi-monthly newsletter.

Sign up to receive our free eFlash with the latest news from the tree fruit and wine grape industries.

There are now many ways to view content on Good Fruit Grower.

Explore articles by topic or category in the main navigation links on every page, such as Production or Pest Management. Or, you can view articles by issue by clicking the Archives by Issue page.

Receive Our Print Publication!
