
Noraxis provides insurance products in several different areas including commercial, personal and employee benefits from about two-dozen offices across five provinces. The large broker business operates through several different regional brands, had revenues of $125-million last year and employs more than 650 people.

Arthur J. Gallagher & Co.’s CEO J. Patrick Gallagher Jr. said the deal aligns well with the energy, construction and mining industry focus his business has built. He sees these as areas of growth in the Canadian market.

“By adding Canada to our recent expansion in Australia, New Zealand and the U.K., we are now well positioned in those countries to replicate our successful acquisition strategy of partnering with smaller, family-owned, and entrepreneurial agents and brokers,” Mr. Gallagher Jr. said, adding that there will likely be more consolidation of insurance brokerage businesses in these countries.

RSA Canada is a subsidiary of London-based insurance firm RSA Insurance Group PLC, which has struggled financially in the last year and is undergoing a strategic shift. RSA Group chief executive Stephen Hester said the Canadian arm would focus on its strengths as an insurance provider.

“This disposal represents further progress against our aim of tightening the strategic focus of the Group," Mr. Hester said statement. The insurer has operated in Canada for more than 150 years.

© Thomson Reuters 2012.

All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. Thomson Reuters is not liable for any errors or delays in Thomson Reuters content, or for any actions taken in reliance on such content. ‘Thomson Reuters’ and the Thomson Reuters logo are trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies.

Selected data supplied by Thomson Reuters.© Thomson Reuters Limited. Click for Restrictions .

© Copyright 2014 The Globe and Mail Inc. All Rights Reserved.
