
ERBIL, Kurdistan Region – Overseas investments in the Kurdistan Region have topped $39 billion, and an investments law is being amended to make it more attractive to foreign investors, the head of the Kurdistan Investment Board said.

Saman Arab said that the board especially focuses on investments in industry, agriculture, tourism and housing.

He said that the biggest industrial project included the iron factory in Sulaimani, which is the biggest of its kind in the Middle East, and was opened last week. Arab said that the largest tourism project under development is the Safeen Tourism City in Erbil.

“Many projects in agriculture also are going on and the government has given a special attention to this field by opening an agriculture bank and giving loans to farmers," he said.

According to statistics by the investment board, it has granted 680 investment permits, in which 20 percent have gone to foreign investors.

Arab said there were disagreements among some political parties over the investments law, which he said would be amended by parliament to make it friendlier to foreign investors. “In the new law more attention will be given to foreigners so that they would come to Kurdistan."

Currently, many giant oil companies have invested in Kurdistan, including ExxonMobil, Chevron, Total, Gazprom and others.

"The existence of these big companies will make Kurdistan’s status more effective politically and economically," noted Arab.

However, the investment union has a different estimate of the size of investments in Kurdistan.

According to the spokesman of the investment union, Yassin Mahmud, investments have been adversely affected by the delay in the formation of a new government in Kurdistan, and in approval for this year’s Iraqi budget, which still has not made it through parliament.

"Until now, permission granted to projects is estimated to be $2 billion, while last year at this time there were permits given to investment projects worth $7 billion,” said Mahmud.

He said $10 billion were ready for investment, but hampered by the lack of a new government and the budget problem with Baghdad.

He added that many projects in all three Kurdistan provinces had been halted, several of them sizeable, including the $2 billion industrial city and Sheraton Hotel in Sulaimani.

Arab believes that the budget delay and government formation have had an indirect impact on the projects. But he was confident that the government formation and the approval of the budget by the Iraqi parliament would resolve the issues.

I'm all for investment but the control of out resources and infrastructure better be in Kurdish hands and not foreign owned.

I hope the world know see that dealing with Kurds are much safer then with any other country in the middle east! We are welcoming everyone to invest in our beloved homeland!   Xera inshallah!

I think now is the best time to establish an independent economy. fortunately; we have more than enough natural resources for everyone. I am certain that everything is well-planed and I am very optimistic about the future of our lovely region.

Be Part of Your Rudaw!

Share your stories, photos and videos with Rudaw, and quite possibly the world.

In the future, sell your oil to the far east market. I am very sure, korean, japanese, chinese are willing to buy without hesitation.

This is a very good news that brings Kurdistan much closer to independence and separation from that mad-house called Iraq!

They are many extreme muslims within kurds to, not long ago. YPG cought some kurds from Southern Kurdistan and north.
