
"Maryland’s $200 Million Wind Energy Project Will Move Forward Thanks To Governor’s Veto"

Maryland Gov. Martin O’Malley hands a pen to a supporter after signing the Civil Marriage Protection Act in Annapolis, Md., Thursday, March 1, 2012.

Saying the project is too important to let sit on the sidelines, Maryland Governor Martin O’Malley on Friday vetoed a bill that would have “effectively killed” a $200 million wind farm being developed on the state’s eastern shore.

House Bill 1168 would have established a 13-month moratorium on the proposed Great Bay Wind Energy Center , a 150-megawatt farm which could potentially generate enough energy to power 50,000 typical U.S. households. The bill, which passed the Maryland General Assembly in April with overwhelming support , sought to delay the project because of its proximity to the Patuxent River Naval Air Station, which houses a sensitive radar system that tests the stealthiness of fighter jets. Many were concerned that the whirling turbines would compromise the system.

But O’Malley on Friday said the bill was “unnecessary,” citing a U.S. Department of Defense (DOD) process that will not allow any energy projects to move forward if they compromise military operations. What’s more, the DOD has already stated that the radar system will be fine, so long as the turbines stop spinning while it’s in use. The DOD has signed an agreement with the company, Pioneer Green Energy, committing to shut down the windmills whenever testing occurs.

O’Malley also said delaying the project would only further prevent the state from fighting climate change, and would send the wrong message to clean energy companies looking to invest in Maryland. O’Malley had previously mandated that the state must use 20 percent renewable energy by 2022, a mandate that initially attracted Pioneer Green Energy to invest in Maryland in the first place.

Despite the companies’ agreement with the DOD, the bill’s 13-month waiting period was proposed to give sufficient time for the Massachusetts Institute of Technology to complete a $2 million study to evaluate ways to mitigate the turbines’ impact on the radar system. Democratic Delegate John Bohanan, who spearheaded the bill, issued a statement over the weekend saying he was “disappointed” in the Governor’s decision to “ignore” that study.

“This veto ignores the $2 million study currently underway to find a real solution to allow wind energy and sensitive radar systems to coexist,” he said .

O’Malley did receive praise for his decision from Maryland Comptroller Peter Franchot, who called the veto “a landmark day for the economy of Maryland’s Eastern Shore,” and director of the nonprofit Chesapeake Climate Action Network Mike Tidwell, who said the decision represented a “pivotal turning point” toward a clean energy economy in the state.

A previous version of this article incorrectly attributed Peter Franchot’s quote to U.S. House Minority Whip Steny Hoyer.
