
The Encore Beach Club adjacent to the Wynn Resort in Las Vegas hosted the International Council of Shopping Centers opening reception Sunday and will host the Maryland party Monday.

The International Council of Shopping Centers is a pretty big deal in Las Vegas.

The Wynn Resort is a big beneficiary of that business, especially for Maryland-based attendees. The Maryland party, often described as a spectacle, is essentially a huge networking event scheduled for Monday at the adjacent Encore Beach Club. And on Sunday, the same club hosted the ICSC opening reception.

When I arrived Sunday, many attendees in the Wynn-Encore hotel complex were keeping the atmosphere formal. Although I didn't see many ties or suits, there were plenty of jackets and dress shirts mixed in among the tourists, whose uniform consists of shorts and sandals.

But ICSC attendees started to shake off the formality as the opening reception got underway at the Encore Beach Club. There's something about poolside cabanas and sofas sunken into the pool that encourages guests to take off their shoes and relax.

Lots of big companies rent out cabanas to host their clients and guests, but this party is more about clinking glasses than it is doing deals. There is a certain allure in renting out a sofa-lined cabana.

When I got to the Encore Beach Club, the networking looked much like it does anywhere else: I heard people chatting about cap rates, about their newest projects and about their favorite deals of the past year. But as the alcohol flowed, more people began to take their shoes off and hop on the round mattresses that jut out into the pool.

As many brokers told me, these are the sorts of parties where you move deals forward without the formality of the office. The Beach Club provided a different environment than an office or convention floor — where attendees will be starting at noon today — could ever offer.

If you are commenting using a Facebook account, your profile information may be displayed with your comment depending on your privacy settings. By leaving the 'Post to Facebook' box selected, your comment will be published to your Facebook profile in addition to the space below.

Stay up-to-date with the latest real estate news from Baltimore every day.
