
The railroad industry took a step toward resolving a dispute with American Indian tribes that has stalled the biggest rail-safety project in U.S. history.

The $13.2 billion build-out of networks of sensors, which automatically slow or stop trains if a crash seems probable, has been held up as some tribes exercised their rights to review whether tower construction would affect their sacred grounds. The Federal Communications Commission said today that it reached an agreement with seven rail companies to begin testing on 11,000 poles that had already been constructed.

The industry will also create a $10 million fund for tribes and state historic preservation offices. Congress in 2008 mandated that the so-called positive-train control technology be completed by the end of 2015.

The agreement will resolve siting issues for about one-third of the poles necessary for positive train control, FCC Chairman Tom Wheeler said. It will provide “substantial resources” to tribes and states to support historic preservation, he said.

Thirty-seven railroads including Burlington Northern Santa Fe , owned by Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , are required to install the systems on routes that carry passengers and the most-hazardous materials, such as chlorine and anhydrous ammonia. Railroads may be fined tens of thousands of dollars for missing the deadline to complete construction.

Positive train control will require a system of 22,000 communications towers to relay positions and speeds of cars in real time. More than 23,000 locomotives and 60,000 miles of tracks will be affected.

The FCC proposed a streamlined process for American Indian tribes to complete reviews in January. Railroads have said one-by-one tower reviews by the 565 U.S. tribes have made it difficult to meet deadlines. The rail industry has asked Congress to extend the December 2015 deadline.

Under the previous FCC proposal, tribes were to get less time to review, for historic significance, proposed locations for the needed communications antennae and towers along railroad rights-of-way. There would be bulk applications for all equipment proposed in a county, the agency said.

Lawmakers ordered the technology in 2008 after a collision between freight and commuter trains in Los Angeles left 25 dead and more than 100 injured.

Press spacebar to pause and continue. Press esc to stop.

U.S.

U.S.
