
Minister Pacheco says ‘energy poor’ Chile needs to increase all forms of electricity generation, cabinet committee to judge controversial project on merits.

President Michelle Bachelet made no direct mention of the HidroAysén mega dams slated for Chilean Patagonian in her energy platform released last week , but the minister charged with the portfolio has since confirmed that a decision on the stalled hydro project will be made in the first two weeks of June.

Approved under former President Sebastián Piñera in 2011, construction on HidroAysén has been stalled since, after sparking waves of protest around the country. In January, the Piñera administration postponed a decision on the more than 30 legal complaints issued after its approval, effectively passing the matter onto the incoming administration without taking a final decision.

Though both Bachelet and Energy Minister Máximo Pacheco have publicly said the project is “unviable” in its current form, Pacheco told Radio Cooperativa on Monday that the administration would resolve the issues on their merits. The complaints include lack of worker protection for operations such as felling of trees near fast flowing rivers in isolated areas and a mechanism to reduce energy costs for the people of the Aysén Region.

Proponents say the five proposed hydroelectric dams could generate 20 percent of the country’s energy by the end of the decade, arguing that Chile will need to ramp up electricity production if the country is to continue its economic expansion and improve living standards. Environmentalists and other opponents point to the impact it will have on the Baker and Pascua rivers, the more than 14,500 acres it will flood and the surrounding nature reserves and communities. Also of major concern is the 1,180 mile transmission line which will pass through land populated by indigenous communities as well as private and protected areas.

Pacheco, however, said that Chile had reached a consensus on four fronts regarding its energy future.

“Firstly, [Chile] doesn’t possess sufficient infrastructure in energy generation and transmission, we have a huge deficit; secondly, our energy and prices are unreasonable; thirdly, there is a lack of competition in this sector and, fourthly, we clearly need to develop every initiative in a sustainable manner, with respect toward local communities and the environment,” the minister said.

Pacheco stressed that businesses need to begin developing projects with “improved environmental and social practices” which incorporate local communities early on in the evaluation process but that the country required a diverse energy matrix. He said that new thermoelectric to carbon projects would be built over the short term, and the country would need to invest heavily in hydroelectricity.

At the beginning of this year environmentalists celebrated the decision of Endesa — one of the projects major stakeholders — to drop the Patagonian mega-dam from its short-to-medium term plans. However both Endesa and Colbún, which own 51 percent and 49 percent stakes in HidroAysén respectively, maintain that project remains an important investment.

Colbún director Bernardo Matte said that electricity generators were “relieved” by the government’s energy platform.

“Hydroelectricity has an important role. The issue of Hidroaysén is in the hands of the Committee of Ministers. We have participated in this process and now all that’s left for us is to await its resolution,” Matte told press.
