
Sign up to gain exclusive access to email subscriptions, event invitations, competitions, giveaways, and much more.

With Aastra Technologies under its belt, Mitel Networks Corporation is working towards progressing to become a Cloud business to accommodate the market.

The unified communications (UC) vendor currently has 300,000 end points in Australia and New Zealand (A/NZ), and plans to migrate 100,000 of those to the Cloud.

“Mitel has gone through big change moving from a hardware to software business,” Mitel South Pacific sales vice-president, Frank Skiffington, said.

Since his appointment to his current role 10 months ago, Skiffington has compiled an operational expenditure (opex) model which contains short-term contracts, which he claims it will differentiate the company from its rivals.

The Mitel Cloud business will be driven by a new end user-focused engagement model.

Skiffington said the vendor intends to boost its focus on end users itself rather than tasking resellers with quotas and expecting partners to maintain relationships.

“Gone are the days where manufacturers can appoint a reseller, give them a bunch of product with a discount, then phone them every month and ask how many are sold, what the forecast is, and where revenue is coming from,” Skiffington said.

Skiffington has implemented a professional services team and high-touch model which form the basis of the adjusted approach.

The high-touch sales team will be meeting with clients and prospects regarding the Mitel proposition, while professional services staff will assist in the installation, support, and maintenance of those customers.

In this way, Mitel will act as somewhat of a mediator between customer and channel. Its staff will generate opportunities and transition those to the local resellers, while still being involved where relevant.

The go-to-market strategy is also designed to broaden the scope of its channel’s reach.

Ninety-eight (98) per cent of Mitel’s business in Australia and New Zealand (A/NZ) goes through the channel, the only exception being a contract with New Zealand Police. The vendor intends to keep its business operating in this manner.

Copyright 2014 IDG Communications. ABN 14 001 592 650. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part in any form or medium without express written permission of IDG Communications is prohibited.
