
Yulia Tymoshenko is the kind of person who does not leave other indifferent:corrupted for some, populist for some, the former prime minister has come from the “business world” to the politics by creating her own iconic figure.

Born in 1960 in Dniepropetrovsk, on the eastern part of Ukraine, Ioulia Timochenko was raised without her father that abandoned the house when she was only 3. The young and ambitious women will then bear her mother’s name while she purspued her studies in economics. By the end of the 80′s she started her first business. She opens a videoclub, then a small manufacture of videotapes. Some years later, she will launch the gaz company Cube that will become soon the United Energy Systems of Ukraine (UESU). She slowly starts to deal with Gazprom for gaz delivery in Ukraine. But the real start of UESU is from the moment she starts to work with the governor of Dniepropetrovsk, Pavlo Lazarenko, who will become soon PM of Ukraine. This is the turnover: the deal between Lazarenko and Tymochenko is that Lazarenko will issue the necessary regulation allowing UESU to be the only importer of russian gaz in Ukraine and the counterpart is that UESU, through its UK parent company, will pay back Lazarenko’s efforts. At that time, they are true partners. UESU is doing wagons of cash by selling russian gaz in Ukraine and UEIL is making tons of cash by selling the same russian gas on the international markets at the international prices from London. She is truly the “gas princess”.

However, the jackpot is about to fade. Effectively, Lazarenko is indicted in Ukraine for embezzlements and flee to Switzerland where he is arrested. Timochenko herself faces the same judicial problems in Ukraine. We are on the late 90s. Lazarenko is arrested and sentenced in Switzerland and in the meantime, while fleeing to the United States, arrested at the New York airport and placed in detention. IN Switzerland, he has been condemned in 2000 and admitted all charges. In the United States, he was condemned to serve 8 years in jail in 2004 for corruption and money laundering. On her side, Timochenko faced troubled times in Ukraine. Thanks to her parliamentary immunity, she escaped a fair and proper trial until 2004 while she was rocketed as symbol of the Orange Revolution. But the US court documents are very clear: the Court wanted her to be put under trial in the US as co-conspirator together with Pavlo Lazarenko. It is only because of political interests and her role in the Orange Revolution that she was not sentenced in the US.

During all these years until the victory of Yaukovitch at the 2010 presidential elections, she was one of the most powerful oligarch of Ukraine, active in gas business, electricity and energy business, banking and real estate.

But in 2010, she started to fade again, being arrested and judged for abuse of power as she was the Ukraine PM. The new regime accused her for having committed decade of billionnair fraud on gas delivery, cashing the revenues and not paying her debt to Gazprom, leaving the Ukrainian state to pay the bill.

In the middle of her judicial battle in Ukraine, Lazuarenko being sentenced in the US, the orange Revolution, largely supported by the western and US groups erupted against the fake vitcory of Yanukovitch at the 2004 presidential elections. The massive frauds and a decade of corruption and cleptocracy urges the ukrainian to the streets in a spontaneous movement that will soon be recuperated by political parties and interests. Timochenko became one of the hottest supporter of the pro-western candidate Viktor Yuschenko. Using her charisma and eloquence toward all the country, she is the most active supporter both personally and financially of the candidate Yuschenko that will be nominated President in December 2004. The latter will then nominate Ioulia Timoshenko as PM on January 2005. The Orange Revolution icon is born.

The honeymoon between the figures of the Orange Revolution and the people won’t last long. Ioulia Timoschenko, as PM, is sacked after only 7 months for corruption charges. Some don’t esitate to tackle her taste for luxury goods and jewels. In 2007, her political party won the legislative elections and Ioulia Timochenko steps back into the PM pants until the Presidential elections of 2010. If we rely on the US diplomatic cables published by Wikileaks, the balance is not positive at all: “political paralysis, mess, corruption overall” . In addition to this, the country starts a fight with Russia over the gas delivery and gas prices. This affect naturally Europe deliveries of russian gas. Timochenko will finally sign an agreement in november 2009 with russian president Vladimir Putin in order to partially repay the gas debt and unblock the gas delivery.

During the 2010 presidential elections in Ukraine, Timochenko loose against her arch-nemesis Viktor Yanukovitch. As soon in power, he starts to renegociate the gas contracts of 2009 because too favourable to Russia and not for Ukraine. Ioulia Timochenko is arrested and after a long trial, she is sentenced to serve 7 years in jail. The prosecutor also opens new cases for tax fraud and murder conspiracy against the deputy Scherban in 1996. While in detention, she successfully involves her former friends in Western europe, claiming to suffer from the awful detention conditions. The return ? During the Maidan events in 2014, Timochenko is freed from jail by paramilitary groups of extreme right. She appears in Maidan and her official liberation comes through a vote of the Parliament on the 22nd of March 2014.
