
ANDOVER, MA--(Marketwired - May 19, 2014) - Weather Services International (WSI) has issued its tropical forecast for the 2014 Atlantic Hurricane season, and expects a total of 11 named storms, 5 hurricanes, and 2 major hurricanes. These numbers are lower than both the 1950-2013 average of 12 tropical storms, 7 hurricanes, and 3 major hurricanes, and the more recent "active period" (1995-2013) averages of 15 tropical storms, 8 hurricanes, and 4 major hurricanes.

"Tropical Atlantic surface temperatures remain rather cool relative to the average of the last 20 years, and an emerging El Niño event also tilts the odds towards reduced activity this season. The various dynamical and statistical models that we use remain in unusual agreement, predicting between 9 and 11 named storms, between 4 and 6 hurricanes, and between 0 and 2 major hurricanes this year."

"Insurers should know that this forecast represents the number of storms that we expect," says Ray Hawthorne, Product Manager of Insurance products and Meteorologist at WSI. "But it only takes one big storm striking the coastline for insurers to experience large losses." The WSI team reminds insurers that Hurricane Andrew slammed into South Florida and Louisiana in 1992, causing billions in property damage, but it was one of the least active seasons in the historical record.

WSI, the professional division of The Weather Company, provides weather data and tools to help insurers prevent claims, mitigate risk and make intelligent business decisions before, during and after a storm.

WSI (Weather Services International) is the world's leading providers of weather-driven business solutions for professionals in the energy, aviation, insurance and media markets, as well as multiple federal and state government agencies. Together they comprise the professional division of The Weather Company and are owned by a consortium made up of NBC Universal and the private equity firms, The Blackstone Group and Bain Capital.
