
Get weekly news in your inbox!

Alongside his throng of experience, Stanford Blade’s knack for research and fascination with science will come in handy as he prepares to assume a key role at the University of Alberta.

Effective August 1, the Faculty of Agriculture, Life and Environmental Sciences (ALES) will usher in Blade as its new dean, succeeding John Kennelly. Blade said his excitement for the position far outweighs his anxieties, but noted there is still much he has to learn.

Blade, who is currently the CEO of Alberta Innovatives – Bio Solutions, grew up on a farm south of Edmonton, which he said gave him a base of understanding not only in agriculture, but also of the communities in which agriculture functions.

After completing his Bachelor of Science at the U of A, Blade worked in sub-Saharan Africa as a scientist and Commonwealth scholar. He later became Director of Research at Alberta Agriculture and Rural Development, where he worked with national governments and research systems as well as a host of scientists from 16 different countries.

Blade said his career has been a progression, as his domestic experiences boast an extensive research-oriented background with the Government of Alberta while also working closely with researchers at the U of A.

Most recently, Blade has been working as an adjunct professor at the university, where he said his fascination with its developmental potential has been constantly growing.

“I had this lurking curiosity with the U of A and I came to appreciate what remarkable resources are available here,” he said. “The people first and foremost, but also the capacity and the capability for doing research and teaching.

Blade said students in the faculty have the ability to greatly impact the areas of agriculture, food security and nutrition, ecosystem services, sustainable production and innovation.

“I think people that graduate from the Faculty of ALES have a remarkable set of skills,” he said.

Some of Blade’s focuses as dean will include looking at developing research capacity and capability and trying to build a potential community service aspect into the faculty’s operation.

“From the 20,000-foot view we are trying to equip students with the ability to think through particular issues, to be able to understand what it is they are hearing and to be able to incorporate that into other ideas or thoughts that they might want to have,” he said.

By submitting your comment here, you acknowledge that The Gateway reserves the right to publish your comment both online and in print. The Gateway also reserves the right to edit comments for length and clarity when reprinted in the print edition, and to refuse publication (both online and in print) of any comment it deems racist, sexist, libellous or otherwise hateful in nature.

All comments must be approved by a moderator before they will be visible, and may take up to 48 hours to appear. Comments may be no longer than 5000 characters.

Commenting is not available in this channel entry.

If there’s one thing you have to do as a music fan — or just as a fan of having a good time — it’s going to a music festival. This summer, I attended the four-day romp of music, booze, drugs and partying known as the Squamish Valley Music Festival along with five of my friends.

Dean of Law Paul Paton has proposed a tuition increase to the Alberta government which, if approved, would be effective starting 2015–16.

Paul Paton, recently appointed Dean of Law, presented his proposal for an increased market modifier to be implemented in 2015–16. He also outlined his vision for the faculty and how he plans to increase revenue to achieve that vision.

17 days. That’s how long until the NFL season kicks off. The Gateway’s got you covered this draft season. Here’s some advice regarding wide receivers.
