
Lisburn woman Tracie Duffy is preparing to take a trip with a difference with Habitat NI later this year.

Tracie, who works at Crumlin Travel, is part of a team made up of members of the Northern Ireland Travel industry who will journey to Romania to help build hope and homes in partnership with Habitat for Humanity Northern Ireland.

Fifteen members of the travel industry from across Northern Ireland will travel to Beius in Romania in September to take on the challenge of helping to build a home in just five days.

The team will be working alongside the local community as well as a Habitat partner family as they help to give a family the hand up they need to build their own way out of poverty. “I’m really looking forward to our trip to Romania in partnership with Habitat NI,” said Tracie.

“Being a member of the travel industry I have travelled throughout the world but this time I will be experiencing it from a completely different perspective.

“This is sure to be unlike any trip I have taken before and it will be a big challenge to help build a home in just five days.

The home built by the team will be one of over 30 homes which will be built over the next three years in Beius as part of Habitat’s ‘At Home’ project. These homes will support the most vulnerable communities including those living with a disability, young orphans, Roma people and other vulnerable groups.

Dianne Whyte, Corporate Relations Manager at Habitat NI explained: “Every day in over 70 countries around the world Habitat for Humanity is helping families build their own way out of poverty.

“Habitat works beside people; building or renovating homes, helping change the policies which keep people trapped in poverty or ensuring families get access to clean water which can make a world of difference to a whole community.

Get your favourite newspaper at a great low price.

Call us on 0844 292 0216 or click here to start your subscription today!

© 2014 Johnston Publishing Ltd.

This website and its associated newspaper adheres to the Press Complaints Commission’s Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion, then contact the Editor by clicking  here .

If you remain dissatisfied with the response provided then you can contact the PCC by clicking here .

Ulster Star provides news, events and sport features from the Lisburn area. For the best up to date information relating to Lisburn and the surrounding areas visit us at Ulster Star regularly or bookmark this page.

For you to enjoy all the features of this website Ulster Star requires permission to use cookies.

Cookies are small data files which are sent to your browser (Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome etc) from a website you visit. They are stored on your electronic device.

This is a type of cookie which is collected by Adobe Flash media player (it is also called a Local Shared Object) - a piece of software you may already have on your electronic device to help you watch online videos and listen to podcasts.

Yes there are a number of options available, you can set your browser either to reject all cookies, to allow only "trusted" sites to set them, or to only accept them from the site you are currently on.

However, please note - if you block/delete all cookies, some features of our websites, such as remembering your login details, or the site branding for your local newspaper may not function as a result.

A tool used by some of our advertisers to target adverts to you based on pages you have visited in the past. To opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

Our sites contain advertising from Google; these use cookies to ensure you get adverts relevant to you. You can tailor the type of ads you receive by visiting here or to opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

This is used to help us identify unique visitors to our websites. This data is anonymous and we cannot use this to uniquely identify individuals and their usage of the sites.

This comes from our ad serving technology and is used to track how many times you have seen a particular ad on our sites, so that you don't just see one advert but an even spread. This information is not used by us for any other type of audience recording or monitoring.

ComScore monitor and externally verify our site traffic data for use within the advertising industry. Any data collected is anonymous statistical data and cannot be traced back to an individual.

Our Classified websites (Photos, Motors, Jobs and Property Today) use cookies to ensure you get the correct local newspaper branding and content when you visit them. These cookies store no personally identifiable information.

We use Grapeshot as a contextual targeting technology, allowing us to create custom groups of stories outside out of our usual site navigation. Grapeshot stores the categories of story you have been exposed to. Their privacy policy and opt out option can be accessed here.

Our partner for Newspaper subscriptions online stores data from the forms you complete in these to increase the usability of the site and enhance user experience.

Add This provides the social networking widget found in many of our pages. This widget gives you the tools to bookmark our websites, blog, share, tweet and email our content to a friend.
