
The mayors of Aysén, the remote region in Patagonia, have released a joint statement accusing the Chilean government of having abandoned them.

AYSÉN — The statement laments the ongoing failure of the government to improve infrastructure and to fulfill previous promises to bind the isolated sector closer to the rest of Chile. Bernardo López, the mayor of Caleta Tortel, a far-flung town stuck between Patagonia’s two ice fields, stated “we are isolated, we are abandoned by the Chilean government, and this is not in line with our idea of a united country”.

Aysén extends itself south from Puerto Montt, tracing the length of the Carretera Austral, the famous, yet crudely hewn highway which stitches the region together. It is a region of outstanding natural beauty, a patchwork of towering peaks, virgin forests and vast glaciers. Road access to Aysén is hampered by its geography. To the north a route links Puerto Montt with Chaitén but it is far from reliable, involving three ferries which are all subject to the compliance of Aysén’s tempestuous weather. To the south, the Carretera Austral comes to an abrupt stop at Villa O’Higgins, prevented from continuing further by the enormous expanse of the Southern Ice Field.

In many ways Aysén is the final frontier of Chile’s colonization. Settlers began to arrive during the first half of the 20th century, lured south by government incentives and land concessions, and the process is still continuing, albeit at a crawl. In Cochrane, a dusty town in Aysén’s southern reaches, I heard a wizened Chilean farmer recount the story of his arrival in the region. Together with his family he had traveled by horseback for 3 months from Puerto Montt, following obscure mountain trails formed by migrating animals. To his generation even the current limited connection with the rest of Chile is still a novelty.

Many of the southernmost settlements here were only plucked from isolation by the arrival of the Carretera Austral in the last decade. The road only reached Caleta Tortel in 2003, bringing to a close a half-century of seclusion. Walking through Tortel along its network of wooden gangways, past ramshackle houses precariously built on the steep forested shore, it still feels a world apart from the polished boulevards of Santiago. Outside of the summer months, towns like Tortel effectively return to their natural state; the trickle of visitors dries up completely and weather renders roads impassable, thus severing their umbilical cord with Chile.

It is this adriftness which the region’s mayors hope to change, and indeed change is already coming to this backwater. North of Coyhaique, the region’s hub, the Carretera Austral is being gradually paved and despite the opposition of the American eco-baron Douglas Tompkins, plans are in place to fill in the gaps between Chaitén and Puerto Montt. However south of Coyhaique, government investment continues to be marked by its absence; the mayor of Cochrane, Patricio Ulloa, points out that it has been 15 years since a stretch of road has been paved.

Transport problems drive the region’s high living cost. The prices for petrol and for nearly all basic consumer goods are the highest in Chile, and this is not compensated by higher wages as is the case in the region of Magallanes further south. Against other Chilean regions Aysén sits in the bottom half of the table for most economic indicators, coming 8th in a 2012 census of regional GDP. This perceived inequality and abandonment, and the consequent failure of the Chilean state to address it, were the backdrop for the protests which swept through Aysén in February 2012.

Aysén’s ‘abandonment’ has spurred the rise of a regional identity fiercely critical of the Chilean state’s centralism. Locals talk often of a Patagonian identity, spanning both Chilean and Argentinian Patagonia, shaped by their distance from their country’s centers and the wild isolation which they find themselves in. The controversy surrounding the (now halted) HidroAysén dam project sharpened this nascent identity as communities united against an unsolicited outsider. The project is taken as a sign that when the Chilean government does involve itself in the region it tends to ignore the wishes of the people themselves. This gets at the heart of the mayor’s plea; that Aysén be incorporated into the rest of Chile, but done so on the region’s own terms.

 No Comments Yet!

Loading..

Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
