
Katja Hall has been named the new deputy director-general at the CBI.

Hall takes over the position from Dr Neil Bentley after being promoted from chief policy director – a role she has held since February 2011.

As deputy director-general, Hall will lead the CBI's policy development and lobbying work, including in the run-up to the 2015 general election.

She will also be responsible for the CBI’s work internationally and for chairing the CBI management board.

In addition to her recent role as chief policy director, Hall previously held the position of director of employment at the CBI. She has led CBI campaigns on Britain’s role in the EU, medium-sized businesses, infrastructure, skills and education, improving gender diversity on UK corporate boards, modernising strike laws and reforming public sector pensions.

Commenting on her new role, she said: “I’m delighted to be the new deputy director-general at the CBI, particularly at such an important time for British business.

“The recovery is on track but there are a number of political risks on the horizon, including the future of the EU, the Scottish referendum and the general election next year.

Born in Sweden and moved to London in 1989.

Graduated in Economics and Politics from the University of York in 1995 and has an MA in International Relations from Nottingham University.

Married with two daughters.

“My job will be to help businesses to navigate these, and other, challenges - driving and developing policies that enable firms to create growth that benefits everyone.

John Cridland, CBI director-general, added: “I can’t think of a better person than Katja to be my new number two.

“Katja has excelled as the CBI’s chief policy director, developing significant new policy on Europe and infrastructure, and representing the CBI with government and business leaders at home and abroad. This promotion to deputy director-general is thoroughly deserved.

“In her new role, Katja will continue to lead the CBI’s policy development, as well as managing the organisation’s international activity.

There are currently no comments - be the first to write one!

The content of this field is kept private and will not be shown publicly.

This question is for testing whether you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions.

Solve this simple math problem and enter the result. E.g. for 1+3, enter 4.

Enter your query to search all of our content.
