
Brampton-Springdale is a fierce battleground in the provincial election, with the Liberals, Tories and NDP all hoping they can win the 905 riding.

Brampton resident Yvonne Jackson, left, talks with Pam Hundal, the Ontario Progressive Conservative candidate for Brampton-Springdale last week.

Ridings to watch: As Ontario prepares to vote, the Star looks at the most intriguing races in the GTA.

Pam Hundal, on the front lines of the Progressive Conservative campaign to win a majority government, is fighting hard.

The Tory candidate for Brampton-Springdale is on Yvonne Jackson’s doorstep, trying to woo the undecided voter in a swing riding that is critical to PC Leader Tim Hudak’s all-in majority bid .

“Cutting 100,000 people’s jobs,” Jackson says, shaking her head at Hudak’s bold vow to deeply cut public service ranks over four years to help slay Ontario’s $12.5-billion deficit and create 1 million private-sector jobs.

“If either of the other two leaders were running your party, you would have my vote like that,” Jackson says, shaking hands and promising to consider the Tory platform.

Blocks away, Hundal’s challengers also prowl sun-baked pavement, hunting votes in a hotly contested three-way race blown open by incumbent Jeffrey’s decision to run for mayor of the booming community.

Hundal, 39, the Liberals’ Harinder Malhi, 33, and New Democrat Gurpreet Dhillon, 34, are all of South Asian descent, can all boast of community involvement and all easily pivot between English and Punjabi. Running for the Green Party is Laila Zarrabi Yan.

Local issues include: jobs (the Unilever soup plant just outside the riding is going to close , shedding 280 jobs); high insurance rates paid by area motorists; the need for a second full hospital; and a strong feeling that Canada’s ninth-largest city does not get due attention or respect.

Malhi , a part-time realtor elected school trustee in 2010, knocks on doors of tidy tract homes on Heslop Circle. Her father, Gurbax Singh Malhi, the Liberal MP for Bramalea-Gore-Malton from 1993 until 2011, ambles along with her campaign workers and is greeted warmly by residents.

While Hudak’s promise of tough fiscal medicine has so far defined the campaign, Malhi says Bramptonians are telling her they want smart investment in education, health care and seniors’ services.

Blitzing every door, Malhi and her team seem to easily get pledges of support from residents including South Asian grandparents taking care of toddlers. Nobody mentions the Liberals’ $1-billion gas plant scandal .

Malhi’s easy banter accelerates when a man raises car insurance, which the NDP is using to hammer the Liberals , accusing them of breaking a promise to get rates down by 15 per cent.

Dhillon , the lanky, nattily dressed New Democrat, snorts when a reporter recounts the conversation, saying his insurer recently raised his rate from $186 per month to $216.

“Everything went up except our income and I feel like the people representing us didn’t do their job,” says Dhillon, who started a basketball academy to steer kids away from diversions he saw growing up in Malton.

NDP Leader Andrea Horwath says her party will get car rates cut by 15 per cent . The plan remains vague but insurers would be forced to pass on rate reductions immediately rather than wait for months.

This area has been Liberal red and Tory blue but the NDP, emboldened by Jagmeet Singh ’s 2011 breakthrough in neighbouring Bramalea-Gore-Malton, is determined to put another splash of orange on the map.

Dhillon, an old friend of Singh, exhibits similar rock-star appeal while door-knocking on Peter Robinson Blvd. A bright orange BMW blaring music cuts across traffic so motorist Inderveer Dhanoa, 36, can shake his hand.

Hundal and her team, meanwhile, continue knocking on party-targeted doors with the message that the Liberals fiddled while Ontario burned.

A homeowner eyes her brochure. “This is the Hudak party, isn’t it?” he says. Hundal agrees, asking if she can count on his support.

Commenting is now closed.
