
HURLOCK — Waterland Fisheries Inc., a commercial fishery in Hurlock, is telling the town it may file suit for an injunction to stop a tax sale of its property.

At the town council meeting on Monday, May 12, an attorney representing the company, Robert Campbell, told the council members that the town is overestimating Waterland Fisheries’ sewage discharge, and in addition is charging it too much for the discharge because of a misclassification of the business.

Waterland Fisheries is an aquaculture business that raises tilapia in tanks and sells the live fish to locations on the East Coast. According to its website, it offers a healthy alternative to imported fish, and its aquaculture is more sustainable than wild fisheries.

The business is facing a county tax sale in June because of charges of more than $100,000 on sewage discharges, Campbell, said, and the county has set May 23 as the deadline for paying the money.

“If water charges stand as-is, it will result in the destruction of one of the few African-American (owned) businesses in town, and it could result in a loss of significant profit for the town,” Campbell said.

According to Campbell, the town is miscalculating the amount of sewage discharge by about 35 percent. He said the town makes its usage estimates based on the amount of water that comes from the business’s wells, without taking into account water lost through shipping the live fish and evaporation involved in the process of raising the fish.

In addition, Campbell said the town has misclassified Waterland Fisheries as industrial, rather than commercial. There is a significant cost difference for sewer discharge between the two classifications. The commercial rate is $1.49 per 1,000 gallons, according to Town Administrator John Avery, but businesses classified as industrial are charged $3.76 per 1,000 gallons.

Campbell said the industrial classification deals with more significant outflows and pollution, while Waterland Fisheries is just producing water that contains live fish.

Campbell also said the business is being charged a Bay fee based on 51 tanks, even though 13 tanks were lost in 2012 when a room collapsed.

“Waterland is requesting that the town certify Dorchester County that the tax sale be stopped,” Campbell said, and it is also asking the town to reconsider the business’s classification.

If that is not done, he said, the company’s only option would be to file suit for an injunction to stop the sale and ask a federal court to examine the issues involved. The company does not want to take that course, he said.

Avery said the town would not comment on the issue because of the potential litigation.

Mayor Joyce Spratt told Campbell that there are three new members of the council who need to learn more about the issue, and the council will hold a special meeting and then have its attorney get in touch.

Avery said the meeting would not be open to the public.

Follow me on Twitter @andrew_stardem.com.

1 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language.

2 Don't Threaten or Abuse. Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated. AND PLEASE TURN OFF CAPS LOCK.

3 Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.

4 Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.

5 Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.

6 Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness accounts, the history behind an article.

Welcome to the discussion.

Sign up for the weekly roundup of news, sports, opinion and community happenings in Kent County delivered to your inbox at 6 a.m. each Thursday.

Sign up for the weekly roundup of news, sports, opinion and community happenings in Queen Anne's County delivered to your inbox at 3:30 p.m. each Wednesday.

Sign up for this mailing list to recieve the day's headlines from around the Mid-Shore at 4 p.m. each day.
