
A man whose body was recovered from a pool at the disused Denbigh Quarry has been named locally as Chris McCreadie.

The 20-year-old, who lived in the town, had gone for a swim on Saturday afternoon but failed to return to the surface .

Police immediately launched a search after being alerted at 4.16pm, and later that evening divers recovered his body.

Several of Chris’ friends have taken to Facebook to pay tribute to him with a group of them planning to meet up at “Kwiks” car park in Denbigh on Friday evening to celebrate his life.

Chris, who was originally from Glasgow and was a Rangers FC and Scotland fan, would have turned 21 next month.

His death has prompted Upper Denbigh county councillor Colin Hughes to call for “urgent action” to make the disused site more secure and wants a meeting as soon as possible with quarry owners Hanson UK.

The company has confirmed it is happy to discuss the issue. The quarry is fenced off with barbed wire and there are signs saying “Quarry workings, keep out” and “Danger deep cold water”.

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

Join us on social media.

For the latest local news straight to your Twitter, Facebook feed or e-mail inbox.

The Daily Post is North Wales’ Best Read Daily Newspaper.

Liverpool-born Mark joined the Daily Post in January 2014 after seven years as editor of its Merseyside sister title the Liverpool Post. He started out as a weekly news reporter on Wirral Newspapers, and spent seven years at the Daily Post and Liverpool Echo. He was The Press Association's regional correspondent for North Wales, Merseyside and Cheshire from 1983 to 1997, before returning to the ECHO as deputy news editor. He has won a number of journalism awards, including the UK Press Gazzette Regional Reporter of the Year award, and in 1993 wrote a book on the James Bulger murder.
