
Landpoint scored big at the annual D CEO/ACG Mergers & Acquisitions Awards event held May 6 in Dallas, winning the award for “Deal of the Year” in its category.  The award was based on the Landpoint’s recent acquisition of West Company of Midland, LLC. in Midland, Texas and the Fort Collins, Colorado based King Surveyors, LLC., last year.

The company’s deals topped competitors in the category of similar transactions, worth up to $50 million. The company now has more than 220 employees and nine office locations in five states – including its new Midland, Texas regional office with a primary focus on oil & natural gas infrastructure development.

Landpoint’s strategy included diversifying its client base and geographical exposure through acquisitions that paralleled the organic growth strategy of the company. Landpoint has become a platform for future acquisitions and has automated many processes for integration and development plans. The combined companies of Landpoint, King Surveyors, and West Company of Midland now hold a significant market share for top production and midstream companies throughout the Eagle Ford and Permian Basin, as well as the Niobrara and Haynesville shale plays.

The awards, presented by D CEO and the Association for Corporate Growth, highlighted four different categories: small, midsize, large and mega deals, as well as a handful of dealmakers for businesses in the North Texas region. The North Texas economy and growth of mergers and acquisitions has come back strong in recent years. The awards focused on 38 deals with a total of $45.7 billion for 2013.

Landpoint is an award winning firm that performs land surveying and engineering services for oil and gas, transportation, commercial land development, and residential real estate companies. The company also provides consulting, GIS mapping and laser scanning. The value added services and solutions offered by Landpoint are unmatched in the industry, allowing customers to realize significant time and cost savings.
