
It was an unusually chill Monday morning for Halifax residents, but that didn't stop them from rushing by the hundreds to greet Prince Charles and Camilla the Duchess of Cornwall at the Grand Parade in downtown Halifax this morning.  According to the CBC Prince Charles gave a speech to the crowd at the Grand Parade this morning expressing his gratitude for being "always made to feel so welcome in Canada."

This speech came after the Prince Charles and Camilla arrived safely via Canadian Air Force jet to Halifax International Airport last evening where the Royal Couple were greeted by Governor General His Excellency Mr. David Johnston and his wife Sharon.  The Governor General is the representative of the Monarchy for Canada.

The Toronto Relationships Examiner reported yesterday that this will be the seventeenth trip for the Prince of Wales and the third for his wife Camilla the Duchess of Cornwall to Canada.  That is an unusual number for the next in line to the throne, but not for the Prince of Wales who has garnered a name for himself in the eyes of foreign affairs Ministers for his fast paced trips around the world on behalf of the United Kingdom.

In his speech this morning, The Prince of Wales told Halifax residents that he always so enjoys the "thousand welcomes" he has come to expect from Canada and Nova Scotia according to the CBC .  Kevin MacLeod, Canadian secretary to the Queen, told the CBC , "There's a great deal of excitement and expectation about this royal tour." MacLeod has a career whose work has spanned 20 royal tours in Canada since 1987.  This is the first of 41 stops in 3 days reports the Daily Mail.

The highlight on this royal itinerary that is being described as a whistlestop tour is expected to be a visit to the zoo in Winnipeg where the Royal Couple will remember and honor a royal member of Canadian tradition, Winnie the Pooh. What many people do not know about Canada is that before Winnie the Pooh became a household name through the popular books by A. A. Milne, Winnie was a black bear that lived at the London Zoo in the UK, before she was smuggled from Ontario to London by Lt. Harry Colebourn of the Canadian Cavalry Regiment for Fort Garry Horse.

The bear was brought back from the Cavalry safely and housed in the London Zoo.  Upon arrival in London the Lieutenant named the bear Winnie the Pooh after his Canadian home town of Winnipeg.  While at the zoo, the bear would become a fond friend of regular visitor Christopher Robin, and also the inspiration for a world renowned children's literature series.

In this video shown here courtesy of the CBC, the Royal Couple Prince Charles and Camilla are greeted in Halifax last evening.

Jodi Arias trial: Jodi Arias to self represent in her death penalty case for the murder of Travis Alexander. Will this mean special perks for Jodi? Not as much as she would like to think.

What will life for Jodi Arias be like at Arizona State Complex-Perryville after the Jodi Arias trial? A peek inside.
