
An Alberta Fish and Wildlife investigator says there’s no evidence to support an Alberta man’s claims of a bear attack that left him with bloody lacerations to his face and body.

Though 22-year-old Justin Gambler’s injuries are real, officials don’t believe they were caused by a black bear – or any wild animal.

After investigating the Friday incident that left Gambler with 27 stitches in his face, Alberta Fish and Wildlife says it won’t be trying to track and capture the animal responsible.

"With all the evidence the team has collected here, it does not support a wildlife attack," Mike Ewald told CTV News.

Gambler had been airlifted to the University of Alberta hospital in Edmonton, and though officials there said his wounds were consistent with a bear attack, investigators disagreed.

Gambler said he was riding his all-terrain vehicle near Calling Lake, 200 kilometres north of Edmonton, on Friday evening when he was attacked. He said his escape came after a kick to the bear’s nose bought him enough time to run five kilometres to safety. He was picked up by hunters travelling along a nearby road.

"He just charged at me," Gambler had told CTV Edmonton, after his release from hospital. "He was trying to scratch me and swipe at me."

Ewald said Alberta Fish and Wildlife officers conducted a “thorough investigation” on Saturday and determined the allegations to be “unfounded.” He gave no other specifics about the investigation.

Residents in Alberta’s north have been on high alert in recent weeks, after a bear attack earlier this month in Fort McMurray left a 36-year-old oilsands employee dead.

The face of 22-year-old Justin Gambler, who says he was attacked by a black bear on Friday.

Type in the characters you see in the picture below. If you have trouble reading the characters in the picture, click it to see a new one.

Comments are moderated and will not appear on site until they have been reviewed.

Comments are not open on some news articles; Bell Media reserves the right to choose commenting availability.

Stay on topic and be concise.

Stimulate debate.

We will not publish comments that are profane, libelous, racist, or engage in personal attacks.

We screen for comments that seek to spread information that is false or misleading.

We will not publish: Comments written that are poorly spelled; or are written in caps; or which use strange formatting to get noticed.

If you're using an alias, make sure it's unique.

We will not publish comments that link to outside websites.

Thank you for following these guidelines and contributing your thoughts. You are contributing to debate and discussion, and helping to make this website a more open place.
