
ISLE OF WIGHT — Jamie Wallace's parents describe him as a smart, loving man.

Paula Wallace said her son had seen his share of trouble — he earned a GED at 17 after quitting high school, then started dealing drugs and ended up in prison. But he had been on a good path after paying for his mistakes, she said — he had a good job, a loving girlfriend and things were looking up.

Jamie's comeback was derailed by a substance he bought over the counter at smoke shops and gas stations — a synthetic drug called spice that his parents blame for his death.

Paula said Jamie was "inordinately bright," but stubborn. He dealt with psychological issues starting in the second grade, she said, and was treated off and on for depression. He rejected school early and refused to do his homework throughout elementary and junior high school, even as he aced nearly every test.

"He was extremely bright, so it bothered us a lot," she said.

Paula said Jamie began experimenting with drugs around age 13 or 14. His parents didn't realize that until a couple of years later.

Jamie dropped out of high school with the intention of finishing through an alternative school program, but never went, instead earning his GED at 17.

He began selling marijuana out of their house when he was still a minor, Paula said, which his parents didn't approve of. His parents had him arrested, but Paula said he was let off on a technicality.

Jamie enrolled in community college but was becoming more involved with drugs. He went to prison after pleading guilty to cocaine possession and unlawful wounding.

Paula said Jamie seemed to be turning his life around after he was released in 2010 — he was off drugs, he had a job as a cook at Virginia Barbeque, he'd paid off all his debts and had a steady girlfriend.

"When he got out of jail he was on probation and they were drug testing him on a regular basis so he wasn't using drugs for … years," Paula said.

Then Jamie discovered a substance that wouldn't show up on drug tests and would let him get high without risking going back to lockup – spice.

According to Rick Gaddis, the chief investigator with the Isle of Wight Sherriff's Office, police learned that many people, particularly young people, were using spice and similar substances in 2012.

Spice, often marketed as K2 or "herbal incense," is drug that state legislators have spent years trying to control. Manufacturers of the drugs have stayed one step ahead of the legislature, altering the chemical makeup of their products every time lawmakers added a formula to the list of banned compounds. State lawmakers this year passed a bill that aims to close the loopholes and make synthetic drugs easier to regulate. It takes effect July 1.

Gaddis said he's not aware of much enforcement of laws related to spice sales in the county before 2012 and even then, enforcement remained tricky.

"When we started getting reports of overdoses, that really shot it up to a priority," Gaddis said.

Several overdoses in the county were attributed to spice that year, including two that occurred at the Carrollton Tobacco Company, a smoke shop on Sugar Hill Road off Route 17 that according to Gaddis was one of two stores selling the substance in Isle of Wight in 2012.

One store pulled the product from its shelves on its own. The Carrollton Tobacco Company, however, was raided by investigators from the Sheriff's Office and troopers from the Virginia State Police in September 2012, after a months-long investigation. Undercover investigators purchased spice four times at the store before it was raided.
