
The federal government last weekend said it had concluded plans to launch a National Policy on Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency to boost power supply in the country.

The Minister of State for Power, Alhaji Mohammed Wakil, made the disclosure in Abuja when the Vice President of China Hydro International, Mr Han Yang, visited him.

Wakil said that in the policy, government sought to provide an integrated framework for all stakeholders, especially investors in clean energy for power generation and the general development of renewable energy in Nigeria.

He said government was committed to joining the global trend of using clean energy and harnessing solar wind and hydro resources to address the power challenge in the country.

He added: "As we are conversing now, we have concluded work on the National Policy on Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency.

The minister also said that the government was working on a vision to generate about 30,000 megawatts from renewable sources to augment supply from the national grid.

"It is to that end that we are also working on a Presidential Initiative on Renewable Energy for power generation.

Wakil said the work had reached advanced stage at the Katsina Wind Farm, with a capacity of about 10MW, while other renewable energy projects were ongoing around the country.

The minister added that Nigeria was ready to partner countries like China to develop its power sector.

"We appreciate and envy China’s great strides in the field of renewable energy for power generation.

"Many Chinese investors are already in this country. We welcome genuine investors and we offer them generous incentives, including attractive tariffs and ease of profit repatriation’’, he said.

Earlier, Yang told the minister that China Hydro International was interested in collaborating with Nigerians for investment in all sectors of renewable energy.

He said that the company, with its over 50 years of experience in executing projects in solar, wind and hydro power, "is in Nigeria to explore investment opportunities."We are satisfied with details provided by the minister."

Please leave your comment below. Your name will appear next to your comment. We'll also keep you updated by email whenever someone else comments on this page. Your comment will appear on this page once it has been approved by a moderator.

Please enter some keywords that you'd like to search for. Your results will be displayed below.

THISDAYLIVE cares about you, help us to report better!
