
To add to lucrative federal renewable energy subsidies, many states add to the list and make costs of some projects approach zero.  These subsidies are in the form of tax credits, tax benefits, loans, mandates for energy use (called  renewable portfolio standards -RPS ), and buybacks of excess electricity produced by renewable systems by local utilities (called  net metering ).  State subsidies are given by the  Database of State Incentives for Renewables & Efficiency (DSIRE).

In August 2013, Ernst & Young published their  report  "United States Renewable Attractiveness Index Energy" that lists the top 25 states for renewable energy.  Factors applied in the listing are All Renewables Index, Individual Technology Index, Renewable Structure Index, and Infrastructure Index.  The All Renewables Index is scored by Long-term wind index--45%, Long-term Solar index--45%, Biomass index--5%, and Geothermal--5%.

For the Long-term Solar Index, California has a commanding lead over all states followed by Hawaii and Nevada in second and third place.  New Mexico, Colorado, Texas and Arizona round out the top seven with the Southwest the strong market for utility-scale solar developments.

The losers over these subsidies are taxpayers with higher taxes or obligations to pay increased debt and electricity rate payers with higher electricity prices.   California  has the highest renewable energy portfolio of 33 percent electricity generated by renewables by 2020.  For February 2014, the  CA residential electricity rate  is 16.18 cents per kilowatt-hour versus the national average of 11.88 cents per kilowatt-hour—a 36 percent increase.  Georgia which presently has no requirement for renewable energy has a  residential rate of 10.89 cents per kilowatt-hour.

It is hard to estimate costs of renewable energy subsidies.   Breitbart  wrote in December 2013 renewable energy subsidies since 1973 were $154 billion.  I suspect this figure is direct payments from the federal government and does not include subsidies from state governments or assistance from federal and state tax codes.  Annual subsidies today have to exceed $10 billion.  Renewable energy subsidies support  President Obama’s Climate Action Plan  to curtail fossil fuel use and replace it with renewable energy sources.

 To give an example of state renewable energy subsidies, Georgia is examined.

Georgia being a Southern agriculture state, it is hard to resist calling their renewable energy subsidies watermelons—green on the outside and red from bleeding red ink on the inside.

As a Republican state,  DSIRE  gives a long list of subsidies available to residential and commercial energy users.  Particularly attractive are tax credits for solar energy and alternative-fueled vehicles—tax credits are limited to $5 million per year per category for both residential and commercial ventures.  In addition, Georgia gave  a $6.2 million grant  to Range Fuels for cellulosic ethanol (company bankrupted in 2012) and $10,000 grants to filling stations for dedicating one pump for E-85 for three years.  The latter subsidy was found from interviews of managers of two Atlanta filling stations carrying E-85 in 2011.

The Georgia Public Service Commission (GAPSC) had no problems promoting use of solar energy in Georgia.  On July 11, 2013, GAPSC implemented a renewable portfolio standard for Georgia by requiring Georgia Power Co. to  buy 525 Megawatts of new solar energy  by the end of 2016.  As a reward for this mandate, the  Georgia Solar Energy Association  awarded GAPSC its annual solar advocacy award shown by three smiling commissioners accepting their plaques.    It should be noted Georgia is not on the Ernst & Young list of top 25 states for renewable energy use.

Also add Georgia's government is mute through agencies like GAPSC to  EPA's Proposed CO2 Rule for New Power Plants   that allow no future coal plant construction.  On May 26, 2011, the EPA had public hearings in Atlanta on proposed rules on mercury abatement.  This was followed by public hearings on reducing carbon dioxide pollution from new power plants October 23, 2013.  Representing The Heartland Institute, I gave both written and verbal testimony against EPA’s proposed rulings at the  May 26  and  October 23  public hearings.  No one from GAPSC testified at these public hearing even though their offices are within walking distance.  Silence on President Obama’s attempts to eliminate fossil fuels for electricity generation by Georgia’s officials can be interpreted as acquiescence.  Commissioner Echols did  testify  in Washington EPA should allow Georgia greater flexibility in enforcing EPA rules.

Georgia has joined  Common Core  for k-12 education whose science portion is shown  corrupted by climate change propaganda .  Unless Common Core is abandoned or modified, Georgia’s children will be trained as advocates for President Obama’s climate action plan.

All these items make a good case Georgia is quite supportive of Obama Administration's efforts to eliminate fossil fuel use and make substitutions of more expensive, unreliable renewable energy sources.  President Obama could ask for no better support for his policies unless one traveled to strong Democrat states.

An important national election takes place this fall and voters should assess their candidates to determine if they support energy policies that exploit the nation’s abundance of coal, oil, and natural gas.  Policies to curtail fossil fuel use and replace them with renewable energy sources will keep the nation on a road to economic decline that has been displayed the past half dozen years.

Smart votes need to be cast.
