
Libya-based Smartcity continues to expand its in-country retail operations, providing a high-quality shopping environment for consumers looking to purchase technology and electronics products. Smartcity currently has outlets in both Tripoli and Benghazi with plans to further expand its store network.

“DISTREE Middle East is an opportunity for us to meet vendors and other retailers and build business relationships. It will offer valuable information on market dynamics that will help us make future business plans," he added.

"It is a real honour for Smartcity to represent the Libyan retail channel at DISTREE Middle East,” commented Nakuaa.

Smartphones and tablets are increasingly important product categories for Smartcity as it develops its Libyan retail operation. The company is also seeing strong demand for smart TVs, laptops and audio accessories.

“Our retail stores give consumers the chance to try new products from multiple brands in one place. We offer a comfortable and fun shopping experience and customers know we are only selling genuine and original products with warranties,” added Nakuaa.

“Smartcity stores attract many consumers, offering a combination of reasonable prices and high standard services. The stores also offer a valuable opportunity for vendors to showcase their products and create brand and product awareness,” he continued.

“We do face challenges in terms of margin because we have significant operating costs, but we are focused on building up the Smartcity brand, driving customer loyalty and taking a long-term strategic view to business development,” Nakuaa added.

The presence of grey market products remains an issue in the Libyan market and it is hoped that this situation will improve as vendors deploy more resources to in-country market development. Smartcity also plans to be ahead of the curve in offering an e-tailer option for Libyan consumers.

“I think e-commerce has a big future in Libya and we have a project that will launch soon making us one of the first e-tailer in the country. There are issues around logistics, payment and delivery but we will start offering a service in areas that we can cover,” commented Nakuaa.

Smartcity is keen to work hand-in-hand with vendors to promote new product launches and emerging technologies. Nakuaa believes that vendors that provide appropriate marketing support will benefit from increased sales in the Libyan consumer channel.

“Libya will be an important market in the near future, so it is important for vendors to get involved now and invest more with the right retailers that can build their brand awareness,” concluded Nakuaa.

Channel EMEA is an official global media partner of DISTREE Events, including DISTREE Middle East.

DISTREE Middle East is the ultimate professional networking event for senior executives from the consumer electronics, digital device and ICT products retail channel in the Middle East region. DISTREE Middle East is a focused event for retail executives based on the successful concept of bringing high-level buyers from emerging markets into productive contact with vendors.

Not only is DISTREE Middle East a powerful business platform, it is also an annual networking function allowing vendors to meet face-to-face with both existing and potential new retail partners from across the Middle East, plus North Africa and the CIS region.
