
Disney Cruise Line is spreading its fleet back out from under the sunshine in fall 2015. The line, which had been basing all four of its ships in Florida during the winter sailing season will be bring the Disney Wonder back to Galveston, Texas as well making a return to both Hawaii and the Mexican Riviera.

The line's other three ships will continue to serve the Sunshine State with the Disney Dream and Disney Fantasy offering three-, four-night Bahamas and seven-night eastern and western Caribbean trips from Port Canaveral and the Disney Magic returning to PortMiami for four- and five-night cruises.

Bookings are open to the public beginning May 21, 2014.

The Wonder's return to Hawaii will be the line's second after visiting the islands for the first time in 2012. It will sail from Vancouver to Honolulu on a 10-night itinerary on Sept. 7, 2015 and then sail back to Vancouver on a second 10-night itinerary on Sept. 17. Stops will include Hilo on the Big Island, Nawiliwili on Kauai and Kahului on Maui. Rates start at $1,650 per person, based on double occupancy.

The Wonder will also sail out of San Diego on six cruises including beginning Oct. 4.

Three five-night Baja cruises will feature stops in Cabo San Lucas and Ensenada, Mexico. One three-night cruise will stop in Ensenada and the other sailings are two two-night weekend getaway cruises.

The Wonder will then return to Galveston, Texas for seven-night itineraries with tops in Key West , Nassau, Bahamas and the line's private Bahamian island Castaway Cay. The Wonder will also offer one seven-night western Caribbean trip with tops in Cozumel, Mexico, the Cayman Islands and Falmouth, Jamaica. There's also a single six-night sailing with stop in Key West and Castaway Cay and a four-night Christmas sailing with a stop in Cozumel.

The Disney Magic, which made its renovated debut in Miami in fall 2013 returns to Miami for four-night Bahamas cruises and five-night western Caribbean trips with stops in either the Cayman Islands or Cozumel.

From Port Canaveral, the Disney Fantasy will offer alternating seven-night eastern and western Caribbean trips while the Disney Dream will offer three- and four-night Bahamas cruises.

For more information, go to disneycruise.disney.go.com.

We've upgraded our reader commenting system. Learn more about the new features.

The Orlando Sentinel welcomes civil dialogue about our stories; you must register with the site to participate. We filter comments for language and adherence to our Terms of Service , but not for factual accuracy. By commenting, you agree to these legal terms. Please flag inappropriate comments. Having technical problems? Check here for guidance.
