
They want more than RM11mil from the Government.

Managers of Bee Huat Omnibus and Seng Heng Bus — companies that had served the east coast since the 1930s — said the advent of Government-owned RapidKuantan in November 2012 caught them by surprise.

Bee Huat operations manager Akmal Kong Abdullah said six months of free RapidKuantan rides forced his company out of business and that it was only fair for the authorities to pay compensation.

“They just killed us off like that. There was no information ... How can we compete with someone giving free service for six months?” he said.

Akmal said Bee Huat, which ended 75 years of service in 2012, still had over RM1mil in debts to settle and was unable to sell its 14 to 15 buses.

He said he only found out about RapidKuantan through the Budget 2013 announcement, and that the Land Public Transport Commission (SPAD) had not informed the company about it in writing.

He claimed that he met Prime Minister Datuk Seri Najib Tun Razak for help last year and was told that SPAD would handle the matter.

However, he alleged that his requests had not been followed through.

“Who should we ask for help? If we go up against a government company, we will lose,” he said, adding that he and his shareholders had nowhere else to go.

Seng Heng managing director Phua Cheng Chye told a similar tale of woe.

“We have been appealing to Najib and the (Pahang) Mentri Besar for over a year and nothing has happened,” he said.

While he could not recall the compensation amount sought, Phua said his company was looking for at least a “few million ringgit”.

He said his company’s buses had to be sold as scrap iron or for spare parts. Phua added that it was not right for his business to have gone this way after surviving the Japanese Occupation, the communist insurgency and the shutdown of tin mining activities in Sungai Lembing.

Pan Malaysian Bus Operators Associaton president Datuk Ashfar Ali expressed concern that bus operators elsewhere would suffer the same fate with more Rapid-based companies slated to open nationwide.

“If the Government has a mind to move into an area, so be it. Buy out the operators or pay them compensation. Then, everyone is happy,” he said.

An ideal situation, he said, would be like the Malacca government’s stage bus takeover in 2012, which dealt out RM7.7mil in compensation.

When contacted, SPAD chief executive Mohamad Nur Ismal Kamal said SPAD had an Interim Stage Bus Support Fund, but it was only meant to sustain ongoing operations.

“It cannot be used for when companies are closing down,” he said.

Please wait.
