
The UAE commercial interiors market is estimated at nearly half a million dollars in 2014 or a quarter of the $1.8 billion (about Dh6.6 billion) GCC market, say the organisers of workspace at Index, the region’s biggest commercial interiors exhibition, which takes place at the Dubai World Trade Centre from today until May 22.

The event is the only one of its kind for the buoyant commercial interiors industry in this lucrative region. “Coupled with the projected increase in commercial interiors projects in the region, the buzz from Expo 2020 and the increased confidence in the region demonstrated through the surge in international participation in 2014, the UAE is definitely on the upswing,” says Rebecca Lockwood, Event Manager, workspace at Index.

Lockwood quotes data from market research firm Ventures that shows Saudi Arabia is the region’s biggest market, estimated at $898 million in 2014, with the UAE in second place at $454 million. Qatar ($300 milllion) and Kuwait ($136 million) are the other markets of note.

Formerly called the Office Exhibition, workspace at Index will see participation from Poland, France and Ukraine for the first time this year. Over 110 exhibitors from 20 countries are showcasing products and services covering three different areas: commercial interiors, educational interiors, and health-care interiors.

Presenting the latest global trends, about 85 per cent of exhibiting companies are from outside the GCC. “The largest growth for 2014 is our international participation, with over 450 per cent growth year-on-year from Turkish clients, and 25 per cent North American,” says Lockwood. Bookings indicate that the show will be at least 9 per cent larger than the previous edition.

“Our vision is to lead in office furniture and design with exclusive partnerships with world renowned brands. At workspace at Index 2014 we will showcase modern office design and furniture concepts from the brands that we represent, including Indiana, the American brand that we recently added to our portfolio,” says Khalid Bin Abdul Aziz Bin Suleiman Al Mukairi, Chairman of the Saudi Arabian office furniture supplier Al Maktaba.

of illumination.

1.
