
The Melanoma Research Alliance (MRA), the largest private funder of  melanoma research, today announced its latest slate of research awards,  totaling $8 million in new grants. This round of awards makes 2014 a  record-breaking year for MRA, bringing the organization’s total funding  since January to more than $11 million and the organization’s cumulative  total since inception to over $60 million.

The awards go to 34 scientists at 19 leading academic institutions to  accelerate research into novel treatments and better outcomes for  melanoma patients. These research programs aim to identify new  therapeutic approaches and improve existing treatments by developing  biomarkers to predict response to therapy and testing combinations of  drugs. Among the proposals are projects to develop new therapies for  ocular (uveal) melanoma in addition to melanoma of the skin.

With this latest round of awards, MRA’s portfolio comprises 144 projects  involving 204 principal investigators at 92 institutions in 14  countries. Due to the generous ongoing support by MRA’s founders of all  operational costs, 100% of funds raised are invested in MRA’s research  programs seeking to better prevent, detect, and treat melanoma.

The 2014 grants set new records for funding leveraged from other  sources. In addition to the $8 million in MRA commitments this year, an  additional $7.5 million in grant support came from industry, research  institutions, corporate organizations, and individuals, bringing the  cumulative amount of leveraged funding applied to melanoma projects as a  result of MRA grants to nearly $60 million. In all, MRA’s program has  focused $120 million on cutting edge melanoma research since its  founding in late 2007.

Among the new grants are three Academic-Industry Partnership Awards  involving participation by MedImmune, Merck, and Plexxikon. These awards  represent a novel mechanism for collaboration among academic  researchers, industry, and MRA through a corporate match of MRA’s  funding. The program has taken off in recent years, and with these new  awards, MRA has now funded a total of 11 Academic-Industry Partnership  Awards.

This historic year of grant awards is made possible by generous  contributions from many allies in the fight against melanoma.  Billionaire philanthropist Stewart Rahr is supporting four Young  Investigator Awards this cycle, making him the single largest donor to  the Young Investigator Program. Industry partners have also pledged  their support for MRA’s Young Investigator program, which seeks to fund  the best and brightest early-career scientists. Bristol-Myers Squibb is  supporting the program with a charitable donation to fund two Young  Investigator Awards in immuno-oncology, and GSK expanded their  engagement with the program, funding their second Young Investigator  Award since 2013. MRA is also grateful to Judy & Russ Carson, Ellen & Gary Davis, Amanda & Johnathan Eilian, Susan & John Hess, Denise & Michael Kellen, Ben LeBow, Mary Jo & Brian Rogers, Elizabeth & Oliver  Stanton, the Botica Family, and several anonymous donors for their  contributions in support of specific awards.

MRA is also pleased to recognize co-funding support for: the Johns  Hopkins Kimmel Cancer Center-Memorial Sloan Kettering-MRA Team Science  Award; the Weill Cornell-Massachusetts General Hospital -MRA Team  Science Award; the Lung Cancer Research Foundation-LUNGevity  Foundation-MRA Young Investigator Award; The Ohio State University-MRA  Young Investigator Award; the Theodore Popp, Jr.-MRA Uveal Melanoma  Young Investigator Award; two University of California at San  Francisco-MRA Young Investigator Awards; the University of  Cincinnati-MRA Young Investigator Award; and The V Foundation-MRA Young  Investigator Award.

Researchers receiving the awards are associated with the following  institutions: Baylor College of Medicine; Brigham and Women’s Hospital;  Dana-Farber Cancer Institute; Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center;  Johns Hopkins Kimmel Cancer Center; Massachusetts General Hospital;  Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer  Center; The Ohio State University Wexner Medical Center; The University  of California, Irvine; The University of California, Los Angeles; The  University of California, San Francisco; The University of Cincinnati;  The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill; The University of Texas  MD Anderson Cancer Center; The Wistar Institute; Weill Cornell Medical  College; Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research; and Yale  University.

Earlier this year, MRA awarded $2.25 million in research grants to teams  of scientists in Israel and the U.S. through collaboration with The  Saban Family Foundation. MRA also recently announced a $1 million  contribution to the to the Stand Up To Cancer (SU2C)-Cancer Research  Institute (CRI) Immunology Translational Research Dream Team in support  of an extension of the project focusing on melanoma.

For a full description of the grants and awardees, please visit www.curemelanoma.org .

MRA is a public charity formed in 2007 under the auspices of the Milken  Institute, with the generous founding support of Debra and Leon Black.  MRA has dedicated more than $60 million to research seeking to better  prevent, diagnose, and treat melanoma, the most deadly type of skin  cancer. Due to the ongoing support of its founders, 100% of every dollar  MRA raises goes to support its melanoma research program. The  organization is poised to build on recent momentum in the field,  accelerating the pace of scientific discovery and translation in order  to eliminate suffering and death due to melanoma. MRA’s ability to fund  wide-ranging research in melanoma is amplified by unique multi-faceted  collaborations and partnerships with individuals, private foundations,  and corporations.
