
WOONSOCKET, R.I. — CVS Caremark has released its 2013 Corporate Social Responsibility Report , which showcases the company's CSR strategy its Prescription for a Better World and its key priorities. The company also reported its progress on its CSR and sustainability initiatives.

The key topics covered in the report are ones the company considers to be its CSR priorities: access to affordable health care; the environmental impacts of its operations, including those contributing to climate change; product stewardship; patient safety; employee engagement and workplace inclusion; and the safe disposal of prescription drugs, among others.

Prescription for a Better World defines CVS Caremark's CSR strategy and is aligned to support the company's purpose of helping people on their path to better health. The report provides evidence of the company's core initiatives focused on providing better access to quality, affordable care and improving health outcomes. To advance this cause, the report details the company's efforts to help Americans gain better access to health care. For example, during the Affordable Care Act Health Insurance Marketplace enrollment period, CVS Caremark conducted campaigns within the retail pharmacy channel, educating millions of Americans about their new coverage options.

A recurring theme in the report is CVS Caremark's decision to stop selling cigarettes and other tobacco products at its more than 7,600 stores by Oct. 1. This decision reflects the company's commitment to building healthier communities and aligning products and services with its purpose. In conjunction with stopping the sale of tobacco products, CVS Caremark also will be investing in smoking-cessation programs going forward.

Other highlights in the report include an update on the company's progress against its 15% carbon intensity reduction goal by 2018, which it is on track to reach; a stronger focus on product stewardship and evaluating and removing certain ingredients; and engaging employees in more diversity programs, as well as health-and-wellness initiatives.
