
You will be redirected to the page you want to view in  seconds.

Johnson Controls’ decision to sell its $4.2-billion interiors business and form a joint venture with China-based Yanfeng Automotive Trim Systems shows the increasingly influential role China is playing in the auto industry.

The Milwaukee-based company, once one of the world’s largest auto suppliers, has reached an agreement to spin off its unprofitable interiors business.

The joint venture, with about $7.5 billion in annual sales, will be 30% owned by Johnson Controls and 70% owned by Yanfeng, a subsidiary of the Shanghai Automotive Industry.  SAIC is China’s largest state-owned automaker.

The deal would give Johnson Controls, already the No. 2 player in interiors in China, a 25% market share in the  world’s largest automotive market. Automakers sold nearly 22 million new cars and trucks in China last year compared with 15.6 million in the U.S.

“You will see more news from us in the next couple of months about how we are going to move our center of gravity, particularly in automotive, to China to make sure that we are able to support our customers, but also to take advantage of lower cost engineering, lower cost tooling and innovation that is coming out of there,” Alex Molinaroli, chairman and CEO of Johnson Controls said during a conference call with analysts Monday.

Molinaroli did not say how the deal could affect about 2,000 employees at JCI’s tech centers in Plymouth and Holland. The agreement with Yanfeng only relates to the interiors business, which has been for sale since last fall.

JCI continues to sell other non-core business units so it can concentrate on climate control and energy management technology for buildings. It also makes lead-acid batteries and hybrid batteries for cars and trucks. Earlier this year, the company sold its auto electronics business to Visteon for $265 million.

Sean McAlinden, senior economist with the Center for Automotive Research in Ann Arbor, said the joint venture will give JCI increased access to a growing market with a partner that is willing to invest heavily in global growth.

It also reflects China’s growing influence on global automotive design and product development.

“Once their industry gets to be twice as big as ours, cars and trucks will be designed and marketed for China first and and will be adapted for our market, and we are going to have to accept it here,” McAlinden said.

The market reacted favorably to the deal as Johnson Control’s shares rose $1.91 per share, or 4.3%, to $46.69 in New York trading.

A link to this page will be included in your message.

Copyright © 2014 www.freep.com. All rights reserved.
