
The Huffington Post B.C.

Salty was one of six dogs originally believed to be stolen in Langley.

Six pets that were reported stolen by their dog walker in Langley, B.C. actually died in the truck they were supposedly snatched from.

The animals' bodies were later found dumped in a ditch in Abbotsford, said SPCA spokeswoman Lorie Chortyk.

Colleen King, whose Bouvier-Poodle cross named Teemo died, said RCMP told her the dogs never went to an off-leash park as their walker had claimed, reported CBC News. They were actually left outside a Richmond business before their bodies were abandoned.

Last week, the RCMP said the dog walker put the canines in the back of her pickup truck with a canopy so she could use the bathroom. She claimed that when she returned after about 10 minutes, the canopy was unlatched and the dogs were gone.

At a rally to find the dogs, walker Emma Paulsen had told the Langley Advance that she could not " eat or sleep ."

But all of the animals died of heat stroke , said Pet Searchers Canada, a service that tracks lost and stolen pets, on Monday.

"... all six dogs were in the back of her vehicle with the side vent windows open and water available, as she had done hundreds of times. Sometime during the outing, all six dogs perished from heatstroke. Upon arriving at the location and Emma seeing her beloved charges deceased, she went into a blind panic at the thought of notifying the families and the possible repercussions.

Emma knows that many will not understand and that there will be lots of anger. Though the details of  her private life do not excuse what has happened, she had recently stopped taking medication for panic attacks due to the side effects and was under a great amount of pressure regarding personal family issues.  She herself still doesn’t understand why she did what she did."

Langley RCMP said they believe the dogs died in the vehicle during the daytime heat.

No charges have yet been laid but an investigation continues into possible public mischief, said the force. A second investigation into the alleged mistreatment of the dogs will turned over to the SPCA.

Six dogs were reported stolen from the back of their walker's truck in Langley, B.C. But a professional pet search service says they actually died of heatstroke, and the panicked dog walker made up the dognapping. She was charged with six offences in August 2014.

Six dogs were reported stolen from the back of their walker's truck  in Langley, B.C. But a professional pet search service says they actually died of heatstroke, and the panicked dog walker made up the dognapping.

Six dogs were reported stolen from the back of their walker's truck  in Langley, B.C. But a professional pet search service says they actually died of heatstroke, and the panicked dog walker made up the dognapping.

Six dogs were reported stolen from the back of their walker's truck  in Langley, B.C. But a professional pet search service says they actually died of heatstroke, and the panicked dog walker made up the dognapping.

Six dogs were reported stolen from the back of their walker's truck  in Langley, B.C. But a professional pet search service says they actually died of heatstroke, and the panicked dog walker made up the dognapping.

Six dogs were reported stolen from the back of their walker's truck  in Langley, B.C. But a professional pet search service says they actually died of heatstroke, and the panicked dog walker made up the dognapping.

Some of the owners of six dogs that died of heat exhaustion in a dog walker's truck in May look on after releasing balloons during a memorial in Langley, B.C. on June 22, 2014.

Lesa Ibarra holds her dog Lincoln, an English Staffordshire bull terrier, during a memorial in Langley, B.C., on June 22, 2014.

Mourners watch as blankets with photos of deceased dogs are raised during a memorial in Langley, B.C., on Sunday June 22, 2014.

Felicia Tarnes embraces her dog Jinx, a Pharaoh Hound, while attending a memorial in Langley, B.C. on June 22, 2014, for six dogs that died of heat exhaustion in a dog walker's truck in May. The dogs were found dumped in a ditch in Abbotsford after the dog walker allegedly lied about them being stolen.

Search dog Stratus leaps through a debris field while working with a handler following a deadly mudslide, Tuesday, March 25, 2014, in Oso, Wash. At least 14 people were killed in the 1-square-mile slide that hit in a rural area about 55 miles northeast of Seattle on Saturday. Several people also were critically injured, and homes were destroyed.

Shayne Barco talks to reporters about his his search and rescue dog "Stratus," as they prepare for another day of work on March 27, 2014, in Darrington, Wash.

Search dog Stratus walks across a beam on a destroyed building following a deadly mudslide, Tuesday, March 25, 2014, in Oso, Wash. At least 14 people were killed in the 1-square-mile slide that hit in a rural area about 55 miles northeast of Seattle on Saturday. Several people also were critically injured, and homes were destroyed.

Search workers walk with rescue dogs and carry chainsaws as their work continued March 27, 2014, looking for victims in the mud and debris from the massive mudslide that struck Saturday near Darrington, Wash.

Search workers walk with rescue dogs and carry chainsaws as their work continued March 27, 2014, looking for victims in the mud and debris from the massive mudslide that struck Saturday near Darrington, Wash.

In this March 27, 2014 photo, a search dog waits to be washed by the feet of Washington National Guardsmen after working the debris field created by the mudslide near Oso, Wash. Some 70 Guardsmen from across Washington have been activated to help with search and recovery efforts in the mudslide's wake.

Two search and rescue dogs meet as they investigate a section of tree roots at the west side of the mudslide on Highway 530 near mile marker 37 on March 30, 2014, in Arlington, Wash.

A search dog stands in a water and looks back at handlers at the scene of a deadly mudslide March 29, 2014, in Oso, Wash.

A search dog and handlers work at the scene of a deadly mudslide March 29, 2014, in Oso, Wash.

Shayne Barco talks to reporters about his his search and rescue dog "Stratus," as they prepare for another day of work on March 27, 2014, in Darrington, Wash.

Search workers stand with a rescue dog near a piece of heavy equipment being used to clear trees and other debris March 27, 2014, as the search continued for victims of the massive mudslide that struck near Darrington, Wash.

Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day..

Use this form to alert a HuffPost editor about a factual or typographical error in this story.

Thank you!
