
A recent interview reminded us that attitude and drive win the game.

By Erin Blasko, South Bend Tribune, Ind.

-- In the aftermath of the power outage that hit downtown over the weekend, the focus has shifted from responding to the emergency to calculating the cost.

That includes the cost to respond to the outage, which left more than 800 customers without power for more than two days, and the cost to the local economy over commencement weekend.

Given all the variables involved, that process could take days, city officials said Monday.

to develop a process by which those affected by the outage can seek compensation for lost business.

"We did have a meeting with (I&M) this morning, and they promised to get us a process by which businesses could submit claims,"

, said Monday.

"They already have a process on their website," Perri added, "but they are of the understanding that that particular process is inadequate to handle this particular situation."

confirmed as much Monday. He said it could be Wednesday or later though before any information about the claims process is available to the public.

"At this point, we're still putting that process together," Bergsma said.

Some businesses may also be able to file claims with their insurance providers.

."

"Once the city receives invoices from vendors, we will share estimated costs," Neal added.

Perri said it's "extremely important" that DTSB and the city "put a dollar amount to the economic ramifications of all this, not only the cost in lost business but the cost to temporarily restore power."

Only then, he said, can those affected seek to be made whole.

As part of that process, DTSB has asked downtown business owners to estimate their losses related to the outage and to report that number back to the city by mid-week.

reported.

downtown. Though the blaze damaged only part of the system, I&M shut the whole thing down as a precaution.

, the outage resulted in an unprecedented response from the city, DTSB and the downtown business community.

Giant generators were brought in from out of town to power downtown venues; temporary lights and stop signs were placed at dozens of intersections; and police and other city employees were called in to work overtime.

, all the emergency personnel, even I&M," Perri said Monday. "I think everybody did a great job."

The cause of the blaze remains under investigation.
