
The four-point resolution include: not to entertain any form of taxation to any Naga Political Group (NPG) or faction until the different groups come under platform; not to attend any meeting of any NPG or faction if the purpose of the meeting is not stated clearly in the invitation; in case of intimidation or harassment meted to any ACVA Wokha office bearers or members relating taxation from any individual or faction, they shall be solely responsible for the action; and lastly, the house resolved to support the resolution of the Against Corruption And Unabated Taxation (ACAUT), “One Government, One Tax” and extended its unflinching support and co-operation towards ACAUT.

During the meeting the house elected new office bearers for the tenure 2014-2016. The office bearers are; President - Pankathung Ezung, Vice President - Orenbomo Murry, General Secretary - Renbi Ngullie, Asst. General Secy - Nchumthung Jami, Finance Secretary - Mhonbemo Murry, Organizing Secretary - W. Bhoromo Murry, Treasurer - Renbomo Humtsoe, Action Committee Convener - K. Khonthungo Lotha, Advisory Board Convener - Raben Shitiri, and All union office bearers as Ex-Officio.

The Meeting was chaired by Renbomo Humtsoe, ANTA Wokha Unit President and recorded by Renbi Ngullie, former President Wokha District Mini Truck Union (WDMTU). M. Yirao Kikon, General Secy. WDMTU pronounced invocation prayer. The meeting concluded with a vote of thanks and benediction from Zumchio Kikon, Former ANTA Wokha Unit President.

More than 400 private commercial vehicle owners and drivers attended the meeting. Those in attendance included ANTA Wokha Unit, Wokha District Tata Mobile Union, Wokha District Bus Union, Wokha District Auto Union, ANTA Dimapur Unit, Chukitong Range Taxi Union, Wokha to Longsa Taxi Union, Bazaar to Hospital Taxi Union, Englan Range Commercial Vehicle Owners, Bhandari to Maratchu Commercial Vehicle Owners, Wokha to Humtso & Elumyo Commercial Vehicle Owners. Kyong Students’ Union and Wokha District Chamber of Commerce also attended the meeting. Over 200 vehicles participated in the rally held from N.S.T point to public Ground via P. W. D Junction and daily bazaar after the meeting.

* Loreni Tsanglao is a free lance journalist.
