
Randolph, Vt. — Vermont Tech is now accepting applications through the first week of June for its first AeroCamp, a one-week camp for youth ages 12-18 who want to expand their knowledge of the aviation world and the training needed for careers in the aviation industry. Participants will learn first-hand about the dynamics of airplanes and flight, as well as have the opportunity to fly several types of aircraft, including gliders, single engine planes and seaplanes. The first program of its kind in Vermont, AeroCamp also includes a thorough educational component and field trips to explore the aerospace industry.

AeroCamp is limited to 15 participants and will be held from July 14-19, 2014 at Vermont Tech’s Williston Campus. The $1500 fee includes housing in the campus dorms, as well as meals and field trip transportation. Scholarships may also available.

For individuals who want to pursue careers in the aviation industry, Vermont Tech also offers the Professional Pilot Technology degree program, which prepares students to become certified flight instructors, as well as outfitting graduates of the program with multiple Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) certificates and ratings. Students are given intensive flight training that includes private, commercial, seaplane, and multiengine land and multiengine sea craft.

or call (802) 324-5464.

VTDigger.org requires that all commenters identify themselves by their authentic first and last names. Initials, pseudonyms or screen names are not permissible. The purpose of this policy is to encourage a civil discourse among neighbors who are willing to stand behind their identities and their comments.

As a result of our comment policy, VTDigger.org has created a safe zone for readers who wish to engage in a thoughtful discussion on a range of subjects, regardless of where they stand. We hope you join the conversation.

VTDigger.org does not share specific information about our readers with other entities. Email addresses we collect through our subscription list and comment submissions are kept private.

We use Google analytics to generate aggregated data regarding the size and geographic distribution of our readership. This information helps us gauge how many readers come to the website and what towns they live in. It does not include addresses or other identifying characteristics about our readers.

We're an independent nonprofit organization, your donation helps fund the digging, and, it's tax deductible.

Thanks for reporting an error with the story, "Vermont Tech presents new youth aviation summer camp"
