
RIVER EDGE, N.J., May 19, 2014 /PRNewswire/ -- Nephros, Inc. (otcqb:NEPH), a commercial stage medical device company that develops and sells high performance liquid purification ultrafilters and an on-line mid-dilution hemodiafiltration system for the treatment of chronic renal failure patients, announced today the appointment of Matthew S. Rosenberg, M.D., to its Board of Directors.

Dr. Rosenberg is an accomplished professional with extensive healthcare public policy experience.  Dr. Rosenberg was formerly at McKinsey & Company, a global management consulting firm, where he focused on the Healthcare Systems and Services Practice.  Dr. Rosenberg specializes in driving impact for payors and providers through strategic, organizational and operational improvements, including managed care contracting, alternative reimbursement designs, and clinical operations improvement.  Dr. Rosenberg received his A.B. in Economics from Harvard University and his M.D. from Yale University School of Medicine.

"I am very pleased to welcome Matthew to Nephros' Board of Directors," stated John C. Houghton, CEO of Nephros. "Matthew's medical background and healthcare policy experience will provide valuable resources to the Board."

"As a current shareholder, I am enthusiastic about the wide range of commercial opportunities for Nephros' product lines," stated Dr. Rosenberg. "I look forward to contributing as an active member of the Board as Nephros considers these opportunities."

About Nephros, Inc.

Nephros is a commercial stage medical device company that develops and sells high performance liquid purification filters. Our filters, which we call ultrafilters, are primarily used in dialysis centers for the removal of biological contaminants from water, bicarbonate concentrate and/or blood.

We were founded in 1997 by healthcare professionals affiliated with Columbia University Medical Center/New York-Presbyterian Hospital to develop and commercialize an alternative method to hemodialysis (HD). We have extended our filtration technologies to meet the demand for liquid purification in other areas, in particular water purification.

For more information about Nephros, please visit the company's website at www.nephros.com .

SOURCE Nephros, Inc.

Copyright ©2014 MarketWatch, Inc.  All rights reserved.

Intraday Data provided by SIX Financial Information and subject to terms of use .                 Historical and current end-of-day data provided by SIX Financial Information. Intraday data                 delayed per exchange requirements. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones & Company, Inc.                 All quotes are in local exchange time. Real time last sale data provided by NASDAQ. More                 information on NASDAQ traded symbols and their current financial status. Intraday                 data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, and 20 minutes for other exchanges. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM)                 from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. SEHK intraday data is provided by SIX Financial Information and is                 at least 60-minutes delayed. All quotes are in local exchange time.
