
WOOSTER — Each day 16 trucks unload steel at the Luk USA plant in Wayne County. Blueprints flow from engineers upstairs to the factory floor, where machinists calibrate multimillion-dollar presses, some the size of air traffic control towers.

The presses stamp metal into intricate pieces that are assembled into torque converters, clutches and other moving parts that make automobiles run.

Some of the parts are shipped to Mexico, where low-cost laborers piece together transmissions for big-name automobile companies.

But the innovation that keeps the company ahead of the technology curve is rooted in Wayne County. That’s where Schaffler, a German company, strategically opened the plant in 1977 in Wooster, a geographic linchpin for America’s auto industry that spans the Midwest and eastern U.S.

Projecting $400 million in revenue this year and hoping to expand operations to nearby undeveloped land, Luk USA has rebounded from the recession and weathered employee concerns that China would steal high-skilled jobs.

“Manufacturing is back in the United States,” David Brucato, director of operations for Luk USA, said in a recent interview.

“We’re starving for skilled trades [employees] right now. The jobs are out there. We just have to train the people,” Brucato said, speaking for the industry in general.

With an American education system that long has favored college degrees, Luk USA isn’t looking far for a solution to its labor woes.

The solution is in a red-brick building with a clock tower in the northern reach of the company’s vast industrial compound.

The Schaffler Academy is Luk USA’s apprenticeship program. Since 1980, the academy has offset a labor shortage through in-house training. During the recession, however, the academy slowed as the company was laying off more instead of hiring.

With a resurgence in productivity and product demand, the company is once again throwing wide open the academy’s doors and asking local educators to help recruit the next generation of apprentices.

The company’s assembly lines and managerial offices are full of program graduates. Many are local students who made a career switch to become machinists and engineers.

Guidetti is among 107 students who have graduated from Shaffler Academy. About 80 percent of graduates now work for the company, which employs 1,300 workers in Wooster and plans to hire 100 more this year.

But the intensive training program takes four years to complete and has only 60 apprentices currently enrolled. That’s far too few to fill a labor shortage, company officials told local educators who recently toured the facility.

“Every year we want to graduate 21 ‘” and hire 21,” Brucato told the school chiefs and career technology educators.

German engineer Herb Weber explained to the tour group that in his 22 years living in America, he has seen little push to encourage more students to pursue skilled jobs. In Germany, he said, equal numbers of students enter skilled trades and universities.

When asked by the crowd of educators why interest among American youth lagged their German counterparts, Weber explained that its a cultural dilemma.

“The problem here is the stigma that remains of not going to college,” he said.

Kevin Wilson, an industrial training coordinator at WCSCC, stayed behind to discuss the issue with Weber.

It’s not only about championing vocational training, Wilson said, it’s also about letting students know as early as elementary school that there are other professions besides policeman, firefighters, doctors and such.

“They begin steering their youth early on,” Wilson said of German efforts to enlighten students of job prospects.

Thank you for registering!

We have sent you a confirmation email. Please check your email and click on the link to activate your account.

Thank you for registering!

We look forward to seeing you frequently. Visit us and sign in to update your profile, receive the latest news and keep up to date with mobile alerts.

Don't worry, it happens. We'll send you a link to create a new password.

We have sent you an email with a link to change your password.

We've sent an email with instructions to create a new password. Your existing password has not been changed.

To sign in you must verify your email address. Fill out the form below and we'll send you an email to verify.

Check your email for a link to verify your email address.
