
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

If a house burns out west in Washington County, no single fire department or district handles the flames alone. Each is too small.

So, to make due, the agencies -- Cornelius , Forest Grove , Gaston and Banks -- have agreements in place to help each other out.

Would it make sense for the agencies to become one? An upcoming study will see.

The agencies will look for other possible ways to work together as part of the study, which will evaluate their current practices, Forest Grove Fire Chief Michael Kinkade said. The study will take a comprehensive look at their services and programs. It will also serve as the basis for helping officials decide the future of fire service on the west end, including whether consolidation could take place.

Kinkade said officials have not determined who will conduct the study. But the goal is to have it underway by July 1 and wrapped up by December.

Forest Grove has budgeted $10,000 for the study, City Manager Michael Sykes said. Gaston Rural Fire District Chief Roger Mesenbrink said the study will cost his district $6,000-8,000.

Kinkade has been the chief for both the Forest Grove and Cornelius departments since 2011, after the two cities formed an agreement to share management . Both agencies also have rural districts, outside the city limits and governed by fire boards.

The study was part of Forest Grove's strategic plan, but a few months ago, the western agencies decided Gaston and Banks should also be involved, Kinkade said. Mesenbrink and Banks Fire District Chief Brian Coussens both plan to retire soon, he said, so discussing the future of those agencies made sense.

Kinkade said examples of options for the agencies that could come from the study include: No change, expansion of mutual aid agreements, more agreements between agencies, or consolidation, which could create a western fire district. After the study is completed, elected officials will determine which route to take.

Kinkade thinks expanding the way they work together is necessary.

"I do believe that we have got to look at some regionalization," Kinkade said.

He gave an example: A house fire was dispatched soon after 6 a.m. Thursday in Forest Grove. Two city fire trucks responded along with engines from Cornelius and Hillsboro. They always work together, he said, and need to look at the best way to provide services at the lowest cost to taxpayers.

It's expensive for small cities to provide fire and emergency medical services alone. Joining forces, he said, makes sense and has happened across the state.

"There are plenty of successes out there," he said. "TVF&R is one of them."

Tualatin Valley Fire & Rescue was formed 25 years ago through the merger of several departments and districts. The fire district provides services in all of Washington County's eastern and southern cities as well as the unincorporated areas. The district also provides service in Clackamas and Multnomah counties.

On the west side of Washington County, Gaston Chief Mesenbrink said the agencies have talked about conducting a study that evaluates the departments and districts for more than 20 years.

"It just gives us a road map of options," he said.

Even if officials decide to not change the current structure of the departments, the study will still be useful, Kinkade said. It will tell each department and district how it's doing and where it should go.

© 2014 Oregon Live LLC. All rights reserved ( About Us ).

The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Oregon Live LLC.

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
