
Chances are if you ever go out to eat in Southwest Florida, you've seen your fair share of dogs sitting at the outdoor tables with their owners.

A new ordinance would make it official, allowing restaurants in unincorporated Lee County to apply for special permits that would allow diners to have their dogs with them.

But not everyone agrees, and your chance to have your opinion heard is happening tomorrow.

"The dog doesn't have to stay at home, " says Mitch Clayton. "It's almost a person."

His Yorkshire Terrier, "Macy," may act like a human, but her four legs and pointy ears are a dead giveaway.

"There's a lot of places I wouldn't go if I couldn't bring my dog," he says.

And that's why she's invited to lunch with the guys at Coconut Point.

Nearby at Pagelli's, it's the same story for Rosalie Buck.

"We don't like to leave her at home and she just loves to go everywhere with us," she says.

"In the six years I've been in this area, I've probably had one complaint," says Chef Justin Fleming.

The retail centers we spoke with in Lee County want doggie dinning because they think it will be good for business.

But there is one group here in Southwest Florida that wants to make sure the term "dining for two" always means two humans.

"It feels like a slap in the face," explains Mary Ann Anderson.

Anderson is the president of the Southwest Florida Council of the Blind.

Anderson came into the world without the ability to see. She relies on Percy, her yellow lab, to be her eyese and keep her out of danger.

She and the rest of the council want to make sure non-service dogs stay out of restaurants.

"It's disruptive," she says. "And it's dangerous for us if an out-of-control animal is loose or gets loose somehow."

She's also worried bringing regular, non-service dogs out to eat makes a mockery of something that's so vital to her everyday life.

"It feels like we worked so hard to get to the point where we're allowed in any public place with our service dogs, and now, just any dog will be allowed in," she said.

But whether dogs are welcomed will ultimately be up to commissioners to decide.

Many people wondered why dogs were allowed in places like Bell Tower, Coconut Point, and other spots in unincorporated Lee County.

We asked the County about that. We were told the County hasn't received any complaints from any residents and because of that, they aren't strongly enforcing any rules.

The hope is that if Commissioners adopt the new policy, it would 1) give restaurants the ability to choose for themselves and 2) give the county more authority to enforce the proper rules.

Tuesday's public hearing takes place at 5 p.m. at Lee County Commission Chambers.

All content © Copyright 2000 - 2014 WorldNow and WZVN. All Rights Reserved.
