
Alexander Pozdeev, head of Zapadno-Uralsky Machine-Building Concern, a major Russian company, was arrested in Uzbekistan according to reports in the Russian media.

A criminal case has been opened against Pozdeev.

In addition to being the president of the Zapadno-Uralsky Machine-Building Concern (ZUMK), Alexander Pozdeev is also the director general of the company’s subsidiary – ZUMK Engineering – which in 2007 signed a contract with the Uzbek government to develop a potash mine.

Officials have not yet released the reasons for the arrest.

The company’s hometown newspaper Mestnoe Vremya writes that the head of the company was in charge of overseeing last year’s accidental flooding at the mine that was developed and built by ZUMK-Engineering.

The Moscow-based newspaper Ekho Moskvy claims that Alexander Pozdeev is suspected of inflating contract prices. The company had a potash fertilizer factory and it was planning to expand its presence in Uzbekistan.

The latest arrest follows what has become a commonplace strategy by Uzbek authorities for expropriating successful businesses from foreign investors.

It seems that due to its indispensable location for the US troop withdrawal Uzbekistan has been able to carry out such hostile takeovers with little consequences from the Western business community.

Accusations by the Uzbek government leveled at companies of criminal activity usually end up either in government expropriation of businesses or of huge fines.

Below are a handful of examples of such gangster-style takeovers of foreign businesses.

In 2006, the administrative court of Uzbekistan ruled that the gold mining joint venture Zarafshan-Newmont was bankrupt. The second largest American company Newmont Mining Corporation was a 50% stockholder in the Uzbek venture and invested more than 225 million USD into the Muruntau gold field.

Before the Uzbek government declared the company bankrupt it seized gold and equipment from the Zarafshan-Newmont mining concern on the advice of the Uzbek tax authorities, who claimed that the company owed 49 million USD in unpaid taxes for the period 2002-2005.

The Uzbek authorities later tried to auction off the then defunct company but unsurprisingly no buyers were willing to foot the 140 million USD price tag.

In June 2007 both sides announced an amicable resolution: the Uzbek side agreed to pay Newmont a large sum – either 80 million USD or 45 million USD depending on the source – for its 50% share in the joint venture. Newmont seemed satisfied with the final outcome.

In 2006 the government targeted another gold producing company, British Oxus Gold. Tax authorities made claims that the joint venture Amantaytau Goldfields – with British Oxus Gold owning half the company and the Uzbek government the other half – had not paid sufficient taxes.

An Uzbek administrative court in Navoi ruled that Amantaytau Goldfields owed more than 223.8 million USD for the 2003-2005 tax period.

Later the company received an offer: transfer 16% of its shares to the Switz registered Zeromax company – belonging to Gulnara Karimova, the president’s elder daughter.

The British company agreed to the deal, evidently hoping that Zeromax would help it keep its business in Uzbekistan. Oxus Gold sold 16% of its shares to Zeromax for 12.3 million British pounds and agreed to include Zeromax’ CEO, Mirodil Jalolov (Gulnara Karimova’s trusted associate) on the Amantaytau Goldfields board of directors.

Shortly afterwards practically all overdue tax claims were lifted. In early 2007 the case was closed when yet another court of appeals canceled the bulk of the alleged tax due – 208 million USD. The court also overturned previously imposed limits on the joint venture’s business activities. In the end all but one fine to the amount of 1.1 million USD remained.

While another foreign company – the Israeli iron and steel producer Metal-Tech Ltd – is still battling the Uzbek government in court. It claims that the government actions have resulted in the joint venture’s bankruptcy. As in other cases the foreign investor Metal-Tech owns 50% of the company.

In 2006 the government canceled the Uzmetal Technologies’ molybdenum extraction license, and in 2007 a court in Tashkent declared the company bankrupt.

The joint venture’s Israeli owner Metal-Tech Ltd invested about 20 million USD into this project and accuses Uzbekistan of violating international and local laws.

South Korean Daewoo, which opened a joint venture UzDEUAvto in Andijan province in 1996, fell victim to exactly the same scheme – alleged tax fraud with subsequent bankruptcy.

The venture lost its previously promised exemption and the tax agency swooped in claiming additional taxes for the time when the exemptions were still in place.

As a result the Uzbek Association of Auto producers, Uzavtoprom, bought out the South Korean share for more than 100 million USD in October 2005. The purchase of the 50% of the shares might have been agreed in order to keep the company from pursuing the case in the international court.

The British Oxus Gold – which less than five years prior had sold 16% of its shares to Zeromax – was targeted again in 2011.

The Uzbek authorities declared again that Oxus was in violation of tax rules and tried to liquidate Amantaytau Goldfields. The company’s chief technician, Saidkul Ashurov, a citizen of Tajikistan, was arrested and thrown in prison on a trumped up charge of espionage.

Oxus Gold ended up submitting a claim to an arbitrage court demanding compensation for the forcible takeover of the Amantaytau Goldfields joint venture and its Handiz mine. The company substantiated its lawsuit with independent reports and expert opinions by Wardell Armstrong International outlining the company’s losses due to violations of the bilateral agreement between the UK and Uzbekistan. The former British investor hopes to recover 400 million USD from the Uzbek government.

May 2012 saw another foreign partner – Indian Spentex Toshkent Toytepa – fall victim to the insatiable appetites of the Uzbek government. After less than six years in operation the largest textile producer in Central Asia, which operated with 100% Indian capital, was shut down.

An administrative court in Tashkent province ruled that the enterprise was bankrupt.

Officially its closure was due to non-payment to its creditors and its “under producing”. Unofficially it was typical Uzbekistan racketeering at the highest levels of government.

Publicly traded Faberlic Tashkent, an Uzbek subsidiary of the Russian-based skin-care producer Faberlic, operated  in the country from 2007, but ran into trouble in the spring of 2012. The company’s accounts were frozen, storage facilities decreed off limits, and the sale of its products halted. Three months later, however, it went back to doing business as usual.

Other skin-care and make-up companies, for instance Russian Kalina, have been squeezed out of the Uzbek market.

Swedish company Oriflame was banished from the country in 2011 after ten years of successfully doing business in Uzbekistan. It was accused of illegally importing its products into Uzbekistan and of tax evasion.

Publicly traded Carlsberg Uzbekistan, a major beer producer, saw its Uzbek downfall in 2012 after having invested more than 100 million USD into its Uzbek production facilities. Again the company was accused of not paying taxes and financial sanctions were levied on it for “concealment of revenue from unaccounted products” to the amount of 4.6 million USD.

In 2006 Kazakh Kaspiisky Resursy, part of the EuroCement Group, purchased shares of two cement producers in Uzbekistan at auction. It bought 60.4% of KuvasajCement and 54.7% of BekabadCement (the number of shares was later adjusted to 51.5 % after the Uzbek government applied pressure on the company).

Kaspiisky Resursy was successful in doing business in Uzbekistan and was expanding. The company even changed its name to United Cement Group. The total investment by this Kazakh company into Uzbekistan’s cement industry was more than 62 million USD.

In 2011, after Uzbek cement manufacturers were retrofitted with new equipment and the enterprise was operating at full capacity the management of the Bekabad cement factory was accused of exporting cement to other countries and tax evasion.

A Tashkent provincial  court sentenced several company employees to lengthy prison terms in January 2012.

The BekabadCement director general Sergey Nikitin was sentenced to 14 years, while finance director Aigul Zhamieva received a sentence of 9 years in prison. Other company members were also given lengthy prison terms and their property and assets confiscated.

The Kazakh holding United Cement Group lost control of its 51.5% share of BekabadCement and the new shareholder is currently the State Property Committee of Uzbekistan.

The decision to make the Uzbek government the majority owner of the company was made following the court’s decision that BekabadCement had caused Uzbekistan significant financial damage.

Tataina Gish, director of BT Assessment and Consulting, estimates that BekabadCement is currently worth 68 million USD; with the market value of 51% of its shares valued at about 30-48 million USD.

In the middle of 2012 the Kuvasaj prosecutor general made a decision to freeze the bank accounts of the second cement factory - KuvasajCement  - owned by United Cement Group. The amount of funds in the currently frozen  bank accounts is about 23.9 million USD.

And of course there is the mobile phone market of Uzbekistan. There is no need to go into too much detail about the raiding of the Uzbek subsidiary of the Russian telecom company MTS – done with participation of the president's daughter Gulnara Karimova.

Incidentally, the Doing Business 2013 list prepared by the World Bank and International Finance Corporation placed Uzbekistan at the bottom of its ranking of countries to do business with in Eastern Europe and Central Asia. Turkmenistan was not rated.

the yanks and brits invade and bomb countries on a 911 lie yet when there is real corruption like this they sit back and do nowt...total assholes!

UzNews.net publishes a free weekly newsletter that keeps you updated with the latest news.

When using and reprinting uznews.net link is required.
