
Share This Story!

Joseph Main to meet Tuesday in Hazard with coal industry officials, miners and others.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

WASHINGTON – The head of the federal mine safety agency will visit Eastern Kentucky on Tuesday to discuss recently unveiled rules aimed at lowering underground miners’ exposure to coal dust.

Long-term exposure to excessive levels of coal dust causes black lung, a fatal disease.

“This disease is for real,” Joseph Main, head of the Mine Safety and Health Administration, said in an interview.

Black lung has caused or contributed to the deaths of 75,000 coal miners since 1968, including about 4,500 in Kentucky, according to MSHA. About 1,000 cases have been diagnosed nationwide in the last decade.

Main and other agency officials are scheduled to meet Tuesday in Hazard with coal industry officials, miners and others interested in the new regulations. The meeting begins at 8 a.m. at Hazard Community & Technical College. It is one of a half-dozen sessions MSHA is hosting in coal-producing regions ahead of the implementation of the rules, which will be phased in over two years starting Aug. 1.

Under the rregulations unveiled last month, miners will be required to wear monitors that record dust exposure in real time; operators will have to expand dust sampling and close sampling loopholes; and the government will speed enforcement against violations and increase medical surveillance of miners.

The agency also is requiring that the concentration limits for breathable coal mine dust be cut by 25 percent to 1.5 milligrams per cubic meter of air.

The United Mine Workers of America recently said it was concerned that the coal-dust sampling, while expanded, would still leave some miners exposed.

The industry group also argued that various components of the new rule contain conflicts that will make it difficult to carry out.

Main said he will tell his Kentucky audience that his agency looked at 25,000 coal-dust samples it took in 2013 and applied the new rules to see how they would have affected mine operators.

Reporter James R. Carroll can be reached at (703) 854-8945. Follow him on Twitter at JRCarrollCJ.
