
NEW YORK, NY--(Marketwired - May 19, 2014) - Infor , a leading provider of business application software serving more than 70,000 customers, today announced that Infor M3 , Infor SyteLine and Infor LN have been recognized as Leaders in Nucleus Research's latest Technology Value Matrix for Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP). Vendors are evaluated on their depth of functionality and usability across the spectrum of capabilities provided, including cloud, embedded analytics, content and collaboration abilities, mobile, and a clear migration path.

"There is nothing 'magic' about the Nucleus Value Matrix, which measures value based on usability and functionality. Three Infor products showed great value and momentum," said Rebecca Wettemann, vice president of research, Nucleus Research. "Infor's LN ERP solution is targeted at enterprise and midmarket businesses in industrial machinery and equipment, general manufacturing and distribution, high tech, automotive, and aerospace and defense. Support for global financials and compliance as well as strong capabilities for service lifecycle management, project management, and supply chain management are functionality differentiators for Infor LN. Overall, Infor LN has benefited from the investments Infor has made in ION, user interface, and micro-vertical capabilities to reduce customizations, which ease the path for future upgrades and reduce ongoing support and maintenance burdens."

The report also notes that Infor M3 has moved into the leaders quadrant of the Matrix for the first time in the first half of 2014, largely because of the customer wins and increasing momentum. Investments of note included a new application with specific micro-vertical functionality to support the planning process for fresh food manufacturers, UpgradeX , Infor M3 version 13.2 with upgraded solutions for six industries, and the announcement of Infor CloudSuite ™.

Infor SyteLine 9, which was introduced in November 2013, was also recognized. "From a usability perspective, SyteLine 9 introduces an innovative meshing of Infor's classic interface and SyteLine's new modern user interface. Infor is promoting the new user interface to manufacturers but is offering the capability to allow managers and principals to select the workers who will use the new UI and who will remain using the old UI," continued Wettemann. "This will enable companies who want to take advantage of the new functional capabilities of this upgrade to do so with less disruption of users."

Infor ERP solutions deliver functionality and usability specifically for the manufacturing and distribution industries, and deliver the tools for organizations to obtain access to information anytime, anywhere to improve decision making and speed response times. Infor ERPs help with lean manufacturing, service management, financials, quality management, process manufacturing, wholesale and distribution, and manufacturing.

"Business continues to transform quickly across key verticals, with manufacturing at the forefront. Infor's ERP systems have continued to rapidly evolve to accommodate the complex, ever-changing marketplace in which our customers operate," said Mark Humphlett, industry and solution strategy director, Infor. "Having three of our ERPs recognized by Nucleus Research validates that Infor is innovative, agile and flexible, and fundamentally changing the way information is published and consumed in the enterprise."

There is nothing 'magic' about the Nucleus Research Value Matrix, which categorizes vendors according to usability and functionality. This determines which solutions provide the most value to organizations, helping with technology and business decisions. Nucleus issues the Value Matrix twice a year. For more information, go to Nucleus Research .

Infor is fundamentally changing the way information is published and consumed in the enterprise, helping 70,000 customers in more than 200 countries and territories improve operations, drive growth, and quickly adapt to changes in business demands. Infor offers deep industry-specific applications and suites, engineered for speed, and with an innovative user experience design that is simple, transparent, and elegant. Infor provides flexible deployment options that give customers a choice to run their businesses in the cloud, on-premises, or both. To learn more about Infor, please visit www.infor.com .
