
Once dubbed 'The Paris of the East', Romanian capital Bucharest is a city teeming with ornate architecture, Baroque palaces and tree-lined boulevards.

But beneath its mansions and squares lies a second city that no tourist gets to see - an underground kingdom of outcasts and drug addicts living in the city's vast network of sewers.

Here, everyone is HIV-positive and a quarter have TB, yet they are left to rot in the darkness, huddling against heating pipes and snorting glue to stay warm.

At the head of this city of vice is one man, named Bruce Lee from his street-fighting days. A father, mentor and drug-dealer to all, he brings safety - and a bottomless supply of glue - to the 'sewer children' of Bucharest, many of whom have lived there since the fall of Communism two decades ago.

Now this underground society is exposed in a new film by Channel 4 News' Paraic O'Brien, Jim  Wickens & Radu Ciorniciuc.

This is their dispatch.

This underworld, we're told, has an overlord and you only get to go down by invitation. A couple of hours later and word comes back up, he will see us now.

On our hands & knees we pothole down into the darkness and a parallel universe.

They're all on their way to 'the counter'. The man behind the counter is called 'Bruce Lee' after his street fighting days.

'He's my child, I adopted him off the streets. He had many problems, drugs, you name it,' he says. 'I banned him from using syringes, only Aurolac. But I did that too late.'

There's just enough room in the tunnel to let a group of puppies scamper passed. We're told they've never seen the light of day. After crawling for a few minutes, we're in the next chamber - Bruce Lee's bedroom. He shows us another tattoo - a boy in shorts.

'The staff took me. I was brought up in orphanages, and when Ceausescu was toppled so was I. I’ve been living in the sewers since I was a child, with many others that are now dead.'

Tragic: Bruce Lee puts his arm around Nico. Last year Nico contracted full blown AIDS and nearly died in hospital.

There is a twisted order to Bruce Lees underground fiefdom. Social workers told us he tries to protect the young ones from sexual predators. He pays protection money to a local gang. Also, addicts are less likely to die down here because he offers them a sort of safety and a warm place to sleep. Next stop, the section of the tunnels called the Hotel.

We go through room after room. There are pictures on the wall in some, one has a television with a chintzy china cat on top, another has artificial grass. During the winter months this place is full. This afternoon just a few couples, lying on the 'grass' holding on to each other.

'See what I've done to the place?' Bruce Lee says.

'Most of the people here are from the orphanages. I tried to organise them. We want to prove that we are not like what they believe, the scum of society, rats or prisoners, or whatever. The system doesn't look after them. They come to me, for food, warmth, parental advice, understanding. We are a family, we want to be a family here, and that’s what we are.'

Not scum: Lee says he wants to prove that 'we are not like what they believe, the scum of society, rats or prisoners, or whatever'

Nico says: 'They come to me, for food, warmth, parental advice, understanding. We are a family, we want to be a family here, and that's what we are'

A group of bewildered looking commuters look on. Thus begins the final bizarre leg of the journey. Bruce Lee, his minder, a man called Alex and about 15 dogs tramp across Bucharest. Above ground, Lee seems nervous, pumping hard on the Aurolac bag.

As we arrive at the shelter Nico shows up. Bruce Lee puts his arm around him. Last year Nico contracted full blown AIDS and nearly died in hospital.

'Bruce was the one who visited me in hospital everyday,' he says. 'He brought me money and juice and sweets. Along with Mrs Raluca, here where I now live. They were the only ones.'

Free for all: A dog tries his luck in a cauldron of drugs on 'The Counter'

Bruce Lee won't let him inject anymore but the  silver streaks of Aurolac mark him out. Nico desperately needs  anti-viral treatment but the state hospital can't treat him whilst he is  still sniffing paint.

When  Raluca eventually arrives, it's dusk. Under the trees in her back yard  she's brutal when asked about Bruce Lee's drug dealing: 'I would like to  kill him, to punish him. But for the sake of the street people, I  can't. They depend on him'.

Bruce Lee walks over and puts his arm around Raluca. Then Nico makes room for himself between them, smiling. And it dawns on you: these are the only two adults left in Nico's life. Bruce Lee referred a dying Nico to Raluca. Raluca, in turn, got Nico professional help. It's an unorthodox treatment model but it worked for one young boy, sort of.

'We are a family,’ Raluca says. ‘We have our problems, but we are a family’.

As the light fades we have time for a photograph of the trio. A dappled, confusing, family snapshot. Full of darkness and light.

The comments below have been moderated in advance.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
