
A former manager of National Insurance Company has been sentenced to three years rigorous imprisonment by a CBI court in Bhopal for demanding a bribe of Rs 15,000 to settle an accident claim.

The court also slapped a fine of Rs 20,000 on Raj Kumar Jhamtani, then Divisional Manager, National Insurance Company, against whom CBI had registered a case in June 2008.

"The accused was caught red handed while demanding ~~amp;amp; accepting bribe of Rs 15,000 from the complainant for settlement of accident claim of his vehicle," a press release issued on Monday by the CBI said.

A charge sheet was filed on November 14, 2008 in the Court of Special Judge for CBI cases, Bhopal against the accused following which he was convicted.

In another case, a special CBI court in Indore has convicted Rajendra Kumar Arya, then Superintendent working in the Office of Commissioner, Central Excise and Customs and Service Tax, and another person, Manish Pal, in a bribery case.

Arya was sentenced to undergo two years rigorous imprisonment and slapped a fine of Rs 10,000 while Pal was sentenced to undergo one year rigorous Imprisonment. A fine of Rs 5,000 was imposed on him, it said.

CBI had registered a case on September 9, 2011 on the basis of allegation that Arya while posted as Superintendent (Audit) Service Tax, had demanded a bribe of Rs 50,000 from the complainant for accepting the report of survey department of Central Excise to clear the service tax matter involving his firm.

"The accused was caught red handed while demanding ~~amp;amp; accepting bribe of Rs 50,000 from the complainant," the release said.

A charge sheet was filed on November 11, 2011 in the Court of Special Judge for CBI Cases, Indore, against Arya and Pal following which they were convicted.

CNN name, logo and all associated elements ® and © 2013 Cable News Network LP, LLLP. A Time Warner Company. All rights reserved. CNN and the CNN logo are registered marks of Cable News Network, LP LLLP,

displayed with permission. Use of the CNN name and/or logo on or as part of CNN-IBN does not derogate from the intellectual property rights of Cable News Network in respect of them.
