
An explosion at Johnson Brass & Machine Foundry in Saukville injured seven workers just after 4 p.m. Monday. Two patients were flown by helicopter to Columbia St. Mary’s in Milwaukee, while a third patient was transported there by ambulance. The foundry was evacuated after the explosion.

Seven foundry workers were injured Monday afternoon in an explosion that occurred while workers were pouring molten brass into a cast at Johnson Brass & Machine Foundry , 270 N. Mill St. in Saukville.

The explosion occurred shortly after 4 p.m., knocking the seven workers from a platform, Saukville Fire Chief Gilly Schultz said.

The explosion started a fire inside the foundry, and the building was evacuated, Schultz said.

Two of the injured were taken by Flight for Life helicopter to the burn center at Columbia St. Mary's Hospital, one was taken by ambulance to St. Mary's burn center and the remaining four were taken by ambulances to area hospitals for treatment.

Schultz had no information on the severity of the injuries and did not know whether the burns suffered by the workers were caused by the molten metal.

State fire officials will investigate the cause of the explosion, Schultz said.

Schultz said he had not talked with the owner of the company.

The company is a fourth-generation family-owned foundry west of the Milwaukee River and north of state Highway 33 near downtown Saukville.

The company, in operation since 1905, manufactures metal components, both in cast and wrought alloys, including stators, seals, valve bodies, gears, large flanged bushings, vacuum chamber liners and medical imaging mainframes, according to its website.

The molten brass was being poured into a centrifuge spinning about 450 revolutions per minute, and the brass had been heated to a temperature of 2,100 degrees, Schultz said.

Mark Edbauer Sr., the father of one of the injured foundry workers who was at the building to try to obtain more information, said his son, Mark Jr., was in the room of the foundry where the explosion occurred.

He said his son had been burned when molten metal splattered onto a portion of his back. He was being treated at Aurora Medical Center in Grafton, his father said.

"He is in a bit of pain," his father said.

The son had worked at the foundry for no more than two months, the father said.

The son, 29, is a former volunteer firefighter in Fredonia, his father said.

A woman who answered the phone at the company Monday evening said the firm had no comment.

The factory, just across the street from a residential neighborhood and just one block south of Saukville Elementary School on N. Mill St., is a series of connected buildings. Portions of the building are made of brick, and others have metal siding.

"The whole house just shook. There was a 'boom.' Not sure what it was actually," Jill Gall told WITI-TV (Channel 6). "I was scared as heck.

"I came running out to see if there was an accident out front, or what was going on. Saw smoke billowing out from behind and that's when a couple of the ladies came out from the office area and said the foundry's on fire."

© 2014 , Journal Sentinel Inc. All rights reserved.

The latest local news delivered to your inbox Monday-Friday around noon – or whenever there’s big breaking news.

Enter your e-mail address above and click "Sign Up Now!" to begin receiving your e-mail newsletter Get the Newsletter!

Login or Register to manage all your newsletter preferences.

11:50 p.m.

Browse the latest JSOnline video below and find more on our video home page .
