
Electricity dependant small businesses such as internet cafes are feeling the pain of the recent increase to power prices.

Burmese households and businesses face new financial pressures after being saddled with higher electricity costs.

In March, President Thein Sein’s office introduced an energy-pricing scheme to parliament, which raised the cost of energy for consumers. The package was passed in April, eliminating a 25 kyat (US$0.02) per unit ceiling price for electricity.

The new scheme staggers household and industrial pricing of energy. Usage up to 100 units is now charged at 35 kyat per unit, and 40 kyat per unit for up to 200 units used. Usage over 200 units now incurs a cost of 50 kyat per unit.

Kyaw Lin Myint, a Rangoon construction worker, said it has been hard to stretch his monthly salary out to cover the electricity price hike.

Businesses small and large are also reportedly suffering.

Reh Kyaw Thiha, operator of a Rangoon internet cafe said that they have not been able to pass on the costs to their customers and have seen profits dwindle as a result. “Income for the shop reduced compared with previous months,” Reh Kyaw Thiha said.

Win Myint of the Myanmar [Burma] Plastic Industries Association is counting the cost to big business.

“Businesses now have to weigh the market to increase the costs of their products. They’ll also have to reduce the usage of electricity as well as renovating the supply wires,” he said.

Despite the pain, the government’s package is a good deal softer than a previously proposed pricing structure. An initial proposal by the Ministry for Electricity drew intense criticism from consumers — the 50 kyat (US$ 0.05) unit price for all households using more than 100 units seen as unfair. Last November, demonstrators took to the streets of Rangoon in a candlelight vigil to protest that proposal.

However the Ministry of Electricity has remained opposed to the reworked costings scheme launched in  April, which they see as too generous. The ministry has advised parliament that the government stands to incur the cost of a 770 million kyat per year shortfall despite the revised pricing scheme.

Several hydro-power projects initiated by Burma’s former ruling junta have been indefinitely stopped, according to Deputy Minister of Electric Power Maw Thar Htwe. Speaking to reporters in Shan State on 23 August, the deputy minister said that two dams in Arakan State, one in Kachin State and another in Tenasserim Division have been halted because they are no longer relevant. He added that the ministry is seeking new partners to develop some other unspecified hydro projects.

Economic ministers of the 10 member states of ASEAN gathered on Naypyidaw where the 46th ASEAN Economic Ministers Meeting is due to begin. Ministers are scheduled to discuss matters related to the ASEAN Economic Community, which is projected to launch in 2015, and the implementation of free trade area agreements between the Southeast bloc and its dialogue partners, including China, Japan, India, South Korea, Australia and New Zealand.

A 300 megawatt coal power plant is soon to be built in Thaung Khng village, 40 km south of Rangoon, local media reported on Sunday. Eleven Media cited project officials who said that villagers have been informed of the project, which will be managed by Kaung Myat Thaw Myay Company, a subsidiary of Asia World. The project will comprise two 150 MW stations and could be expanded to include three other facilities. It is intended to provide electricity primarily to Rangoon.

India’s Ministry of Commerce and Industry expects to sign a long-awaited Free Trade Agreement with the Southeast Asian trade bloc later this month, The New Indian Express reported on Monday. Minister of State Nirmala Sitharaman will travel to the Burmese capital Naypyidaw on 26-27 August for an ASEAN-Indian ministerial meeting, where the treaty will be signed. The agreement indicates India’s interest in a Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership plan that extends further across Asia and the Pacific, the report said.

Burma’s Under-19 football team was given a hero’s welcome when they arrived at Rangoon airport on Sunday after lifting the Hassanal Bolkiah Trophy in Brunei. Burma won the ASEAN Youth Football Championship 2014 after beating Vietnam 4-3 in the final on Saturday, a thrilling encounter, in which Aung Thu scored the winning goal in the 82nd minute.

Thailand-based Small and Medium Enterprises Development Bank has pledged for provide 20 billion kyat (US$20 million) this year in loans for small and medium businesses in Burma starting from 27 August. According to an announcement by the bank last week, a business can apply for a loan of 20 million to 50 million kyat at an interest rate of 8.5 percent. More than 120,000 SMEs are registered in Burma making up over 99 percent of the country’s enterprises.

A load of 2.4 million stimulant tablets were seized by the navy off the coast of southeastern Burma’s Tenasserim Division last week, state-owned Myawaddy Television has reported. The seizure was the largest this year, valued at about 17 billion kyat (US$17 million). Authorities also found 70 tons of illegal timber on the Thailand-bound ship.

The United Nations refugee agency warned on Friday that tens of thousands of asylum seekers, many of them Rohingya Muslims from Burma, still risk death, disease and human trafficking on boats bound for Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia and Australia. In a report on irregular maritime movements in Southeast Asia, the UNHCR said that more than 20,000 people are known to have fled the Bangladesh-Burma border area by sea since the beginning of 2014, in continuation of a trend that has been worsening since riots broke out in western Burma in mid-2012.
