
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .

If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .

Complaints about rooftop solar panels have jumped markedly as more Victorians have taken up cheap offers in the booming green energy market.

The number of people contacting the state's consumer watchdog about solar electricity systems increased from five a month in 2007 to 183 a month this year.

Largely about faulty units, poor installation, service delays and difficulty in cancelling contacts, the complaints  have pushed solar power systems into the top five products reported to  Consumer Affairs Victoria,  alongside furniture, white goods and clothing.

The more serious complaints have been made over sales of  defective equipment and failure to honour contracts - allegations that led  the watchdog last week to issue  a warning about Melbourne supplier Sunburst Solar.

It follows prosecutions of  two  solar companies earlier this year, one of which was fined $60,000 for consumer law breaches.

The increase in complaints has come as the popularity of solar systems has surged. Driven by government incentives, the falling costs of solar panels and rising  electricity prices, more than 126,000 systems were sold in two boom years.

Sales fell in 2013 as government incentives were wound back. But calls to the watchdog remain as high as they did during the peak, with more than 2000 a year.

Consumer Affairs Victoria director Claire Noone said the watchdog  was cracking down on rogue  suppliers. The warning about Sunburst Solar came after it  was contacted about the company 60 times  this year.

Ms Noone said consumers reported difficulties connecting their system to the grid and alleged the company provided faulty panels and inverters, failed to reimburse shortfalls in feed-in tariff incentive payments and could not be reached for  warranty claims.

''We're concerned that Sunburst hasn't provided adequate detail about the warranty offered on its products and we're concerned that they haven't honoured warranties when consumers have reported faulty products,'' Ms Noone said.

''We want to alert consumers to concerns about their business practices. We're still considering what action we might pursue.''

Sunburst issued a statement through its lawyers saying it was committed to addressing any complaints. ''Sunburst Solar is not aware of any client with an outstanding complaint or issue relating to any installation or agreement … and would encourage any client with such a grievance to contact the company, at which point a solution and rectification will be forthcoming,'' it said.

ASIC records show that Sunburst chief executive Robin Grainger is a director or shareholder in a series of other solar or energy companies. There is no suggestion any of the other businesses have acted inappropriately.

The  Consumer Affairs warning follows legal action against two solar companies earlier this year.

Solareco Pty Ltd was fined $60,000 last month for making false representations and Ballarat-based Bailey Designed Engineering was forced to close after losing a series of legal battles over faulty equipment.

Ms Noone said solar suppliers flooding the market in recent years led to some aggressive marketing tactics, misleading practices and substandard products, but was not a reflection of the whole industry. ''We're not saying it isn't a reputable industry, but certainly it's relatively new,'' she said.

Clean Energy Council policy director Russell Marsh said the organisation was committed to raising standards and had introduced a code of conduct  to highlight top-performing solar suppliers.

I hate it how they all flagrantly breach the 'Do Not Call' register. No, they aren't calling on behalf the government. Yes, they are trying to sell you something.

The one call I get a laugh out of, especially their reaction when I say been "off the grid" for 20 years. The call ends very quickly.

wow the watchdog finally does an act for consumers rather than do the usual of ignoring most valid claims and protecting wrongdoers, and has a very tiny resolve rate in comparison to complaint rate. This and most consumer tribunals are feeding problems and breaches of the laws by having a sysmatic scheme whereby it ALLOWS on average 10,000 complaints before it deems a matter big enough to investigate. Therefore it allows 9,999 consumers to be defrauded then finally investigates an offending company ONLY IF IT STILL EXISTS to create 10,000 complaints. This is working contrary to it's core existence. Big savings can be made and complaint load reduced massively if they did their obligation and investigated the first complaints, prosecuted them and avoided receiving then investigating 9,999 other complaints, and gets the consumer a remedy faster and avoids other consumers suffering same breaches. I have been monitoring all consumer bodies for ages, the current one is FOS financial services ombudsman for consumer inactions and hope in my PUP capacity to get support to clean up these entities so as they do their core role.

REPLY LEX: The do not call register is just another scam, it has not prosecuted anyone, and works on bluff, therefore a read of its actions will show you it costs big money to exist but may as well not exist. Likewise internet police for the millions of complaints every year with victims discovering they say to them we cant help you but will note it down for reference.

If I'm feeling bored, I'll string them along for a few minutes, then when they think I've swallowed the bait I get passed on to a 'supervisor'. I then explain that I live halfway up a Docklands tower and getting the penthouse owner to agree to putting the panels up there might be difficult! A bit of fun and saves them wasting someone else's time.

My neighbour installed solar panels and it cost him $10k. Just to save electrity costs. If your annual bill is $1000 then it takes ten years to get your money back( excluding feed in tariffs and CPI) . Wouldn't touch them with a barge pole.

Poor fool you, he'll have basically free power for the next 10 years.

Power bills  have increased by 300% over the last 4 years. If you don't invest in solar you don't stop that price rise!

The carbon tax may get removed which was designed to get other power suppliers in and so create competition other than coal and so in turn prices would fall because we have competition in the market place.

At the current power climb, the average homes standard power bill of around $1000 per annum will be $2400 per annum in 10 years.

Think ahead to save money!

Also with a 3 kw system on your roof of a home worth $600,000 the homes value is increased by $18,000 so the cost of the system has already paid for itself. Everything else is money for jam.

All information entered below may be published.

Error: Your Screen Name must be less than 255 characters.

Error: Please enter your comment.

Error: Your Message must be less than 300 words.

I understand that submission of this content is covered by the Conditions of Use by which I am bound and Commenting Guidelines are available for my reference.

You need to have read and accepted the Conditions of Use.

Your comment has been submitted for approval.

Comments are moderated and are generally published if they are on-topic and not abusive.

Daredevil wingsuiters take on 'epic challenge'

Onlookers cheer as two Dutch wingsuiters jump from a helicopter and soar around the Euromast building in Rotterdam.
