
Dallas, Texas, 05/19/2014 (ustrademedia) – NRG Energy Inc (NYSE:NRG) has built a 150 KW community solar array using its subsidiary in Rutland.

NRG continuously working on solar energy-based initiatives. In Rutland, VT, a subsidiary of NRG Energy Inc (NYSE:NRG), NRG Residential Solar Solutions, built a community solar array (CSA). The array is constructed under the Vermont Community Solar Project.

The community solar array has an output of 150 KW and this production will be sold to Green Mountain Power Corporation’s (“GMP”) 50 customers. This customer signed up for the project.

The company believes that once customers start to see the benefits of the project, more and more of them will empanel with the project. It will help NRG improve its energy performance.

NRG is focusing more on the expansion of renewable energy properties. It recently acquired Edison Mission Energy’s assets. It also acquired Roof Diagnostics Solar. Such acquisitions will help the company in expansion of its renewable energy programs.

NRG Energy Inc (NYSE:NRG) and Unilever plc (ADR) (NYSE:UL) has formed a strategic partnership. This is the first partnership between consumer products sector and energy sector. The partnership is a part of the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan, a global blueprint of Unilever to ensure sustainable growth. The objective of the plan is to double the business at the same time reducing environmental footprints.

Unilever U.S. buys all its electricity for all the sites from renewable sources using renewable energy certificates (RECs). Now, with a new partnership, NRG will offer support on-site and off-site for renewable energy production, which will be utilized by different sites of Unilever in the U.S. the project is expected to complete by 2020.

During this partnership, NRG Energy Inc (NYSE:NRG) will utilize different alternative energy technologies for renewable energy generation. These technologies will also be transferable to other industries. The partnership will help Unilever to strengthen its position as a leader in sustainable activities.
