
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder announced the cyberspying charges Monday against five Chinese officials. An indictment alleges the spies targeted SolarWorld and four other U.S. corporations, as well as a union, all with business ties to China.

The 56-page indictment spells out how hackers were allegedly able to steal thousands of documents from SolarWorld and other companies targeted in the scheme.

The spying allegedly continued through September 2012. "Collectively, the data stolen from SolarWorld would have enabled a Chinese competitor to target SolarWorld's business operations aggressively from a variety of angles," the indictment alleges.

SolarWorld spokesman Ben Santarris said the company was stunned at the news. It has long argued the Chinese government was using sharp-elbow tactics in the hotly contested solar market. But the company didn't know its own computers had been hacked by the Chinese until it was informed by the FBI.

"We've been fighting these trade wars for three years now in markets where Chinese practices have decimated local manufacturers," Santarris said. "Now, to learn that when we were waging that fight agents of the Chinese military were stealing all kinds of information from us, including our own legal arguments for the trade case... It's really astonishing and nefarious."

Production line information, that would have allowed competitors to copy SolarWorld's manufacturing process.

Cost and pricing details.

Federal officials said Wen Xinyu, and four co-defendants were officers in Unit 61398 of the Third Department of the Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA). Each was  charged with 31 criminal counts, including espionage, trade secret theft and computer fraud.

SolarWorld expects rulings this summer from the U.S. Department of Commerce and the International Trade Commission on its latest trade case. The company is urging federal trade authorities to close a loophole employed by the Chinese to avoid the 31 percent tariff on imported Chinese panels.

SolarWorld successfully got the tariff imposed in its first trade case. But some Chinese operators have managed to avoid the tariff by staging one step of solar cell manufacturing in Taiwan, Santarris said.

"We have been making the cases that the Chinese have been seeking an unfair advantage in our marketplace and is therefore anti-competitive. This is another way it has been trying to snuff out competition."

This story will be updated. Check back with Oregon Business New s throughout the day for more information.

© 2014 Oregon Live LLC. All rights reserved ( About Us ).

The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Oregon Live LLC.

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
