
It was a true example of Pictou County pride, as Pictou West MLA Karla MacFarlane put it.

Hundreds lined Caladh Avenue and inside the quay, waiting for a glimpse of Prince Charles and Camilla during their four-day tour of Canada over the Victoria Day long weekend.

It was a good moment for Pictou Mayor Joe Hawes.

“In a lot of ways, we’re awestruck because this just doesn’t happen in little towns that often, to have the heir to the crown of England in Pictou and the head of our country. It’s unreal,” he said, adding that it just proves how strong the county is as a whole.

The town cleaned up earlier than usual for the occasion, and so did the spectators.

David Johnston, a Truro magician, donned a tuxedo, coat tails and all.

Johnston has been a royal fan since he was a child and his cartoons were interrupted by a royal wedding.

“There’s a charisma they have in real life. They just have such a way with people. (I’m) just star struck, trying to get a taste of the real thing as opposed to what you see on TV,” he said about their appeal.

On one day of the year, Johnston and his family impersonate the royals – wearing masks and going door-to-door for Halloween.

It was his first royal encounter, having been busy for other visits to the province.

They arrived close to 1 p.m. and were at the front of the rope.

The fascination started young not only for Johnston, but also for Olivia Fleury.

Fleury was running around with a friend as they impatiently waited for the royals to arrive.

It was a chance for local musicians to showcase their talent, as Fleur Mainville, Dave Gunning and John Spyder MacDonald all performed.

The stop was the Canadian kick-off for Prince Charles’ wool campaign, an initiative to push wool as a sustainable product.

Gillian Crawford, owner of Lismore Sheep Farm, herded a few of her sheep and a local weaver and spinner to Pictou for the occasion.

Prince Charles and Camilla spend the evening and part of Tuesday in Prince Edward Island before departing for Winnipeg for a day.
