
According to the most recent opinion polls, the UK Independence Party (Ukip), the party that most obviously wants to get Britain out of the EU, will get a fairly derisory vote in Scotland at this week’s European parliamentary elections. But that will not mean Scots are as enthusiastically pro-EU as some parties, particularly the SNP, will attempt to claim.

Regular readers will know that last week I argued Ukip and the SNP were tapping into the same stream of opinion – doubt about Britain’s place and future role in the world and anxiety that national destiny is no longer in our own hands – and coming up with different cures for the angst: getting out of Britain, or getting out of the EU.

Let’s leave aside the nasty complication of what might happen if Scotland votes No to independence but then the UK votes No to continued EU membership. Actually, I am inclined to think that in any in/out EU referendum, the verdict is more likely to be to stay in, especially if there is meaningful European reform.

The polls also suggest Scots favour staying in the EU by a margin of about six to four. That’s more pro-EU than polls taken in the UK as a whole which say, in the absence of any reform or renegotiation of British membership terms, that opinion is evenly divided. But it isn’t the overwhelming endorsement of EU membership that political debate in Scotland seems to imply.

Part of the problem, I think, is that to describe discussion about the EU as “debate” is to grossly exaggerate. With voting now just two days away, the European election is making negligible impact. People may be aware that a guy called Nigel Farage has been making a lot of noise and getting a lot of attention, but that’s probably as far as it goes.

In the mainstream and social media, the effect of the EU on immigration into Britain is probably the most hotly discussed topic. But whether EU membership is good for the economy, jobs and general wellbeing, which is where the heart of the debate ought to be, is barely talked about, save for complaints about an alleged tornado of EU regulation which is supposedly stifling our businesses.

If that were true, it is decidedly odd that in any poll of business folk that I have seen, especially of those that do any exporting or importing, opinion overwhelmingly favours staying in. I guess that to anyone running a corner shop or a painting and decorating business, EU membership makes little impact, but to any overseas trader, it is of huge importance.

Trade is, in fact, the big issue. “Out” supporters argue that EU membership does nothing for British trade. Look, they say, at Norway and Switzerland, both of which sell more exports in value terms per capita to the EU. This,  they say, proves that Britain could carry on trading quite happily with the EU.

The examples are glib and simplistic. Norway has high EU export values because they are dominated by oil exports, which, unsurprisingly, the EU is desperate to have and imposes no tariff barriers against. Strip them out, and Norway-EU trade is not so impressive.

Switzerland is surrounded by the EU. It could hardly avoid trading with it, whereas Britain is an island with a sea to cross (two seas in the case of Northern Ireland) to get its goods and services into mainland Europe.

Neither are Norway and Switzerland EU-red-tape-free. Norway is in the European Economic Area, which some argue is what an independent Scotland should aim to join. To be in this area, you have to agree to abide by EU regulation, but you have no say in how it is drawn up – regulation without representation or government by e-mail diktat.

Switzerland isn’t in this area; it sells into the EU through a series of bilateral trade agreements. This sounds preferable, as it means a say in setting the terms of trade. But  the broad principle behind these trade agreements is that the EU agrees to drop its tariff barriers provided the goods it is going to import conform to European standards – ie, regulations. So no escape from Brussels bureaucracy there either.

Indeed, the whole debate about red tape is actually a red herring. The whole point of it is to encourage trade, not to reduce it. When you have 28 sovereign countries, you have 28 sets of regulations designed to make sure that goods don’t injure people and do what they are supposed to.

These regulations are more correctly called non-tariff barriers to trade. Countries, though they are not supposed to do this, can design product and service standards in order to protect a domestic industry by making it more difficult for foreign competitors to get their products into the domestic market.

Much EU regulation is intended to do away with these internal barriers and make it easier to trade inside the union. The problem is that when you do arrive at a common set of regulations for, say, lawnmowers, 28 sets of regulations have to change.

And if you are a maker of lawnmowers who doesn’t sell them outside Britain, this would be an incomprehensible and totally unnecessary burden which might well make you vote “out”. That’s really the source of a lot of opposition to the EU, but it ignores those other lawnmower manufacturers which may well benefit from increased exports.

Those manufacturers in turn would probably become more competitive, making your lawnmowers expensive, putting  you out of business. In which case, you would probably turn into a rabid Ukipper, utterly wrongly blaming the EU for your bankruptcy. It would be your bad business management that would be to blame.

Economic research shows that British trade has benefited from the EU. The Centre for European Reform studied British trade with EU countries, comparing that with the 30 largest trading partners that are not in the EU, allowed for differential growth rates and distance, and found that in the period between 1992 and 2010, British trade with the EU was 55 per cent higher than would be expected. Trade in goods was 30 per cent higher.

© 2014 Johnston Publishing Ltd.

This website and its associated newspaper adheres to the Press Complaints Commission’s Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion, then contact the Editor by clicking here .

If you remain dissatisfied with the response provided then you can contact the PCC by clicking here .

The Scotsman provides news, events and sport features from the Edinburgh area. For the best up to date information relating to Edinburgh and the surrounding areas visit us at The Scotsman regularly or bookmark this page.

For you to enjoy all the features of this website The Scotsman requires permission to use cookies.

Cookies are small data files which are sent to your browser (Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome etc) from a website you visit. They are stored on your electronic device.

This is a type of cookie which is collected by Adobe Flash media player (it is also called a Local Shared Object) - a piece of software you may already have on your electronic device to help you watch online videos and listen to podcasts.

Yes there are a number of options available, you can set your browser either to reject all cookies, to allow only "trusted" sites to set them, or to only accept them from the site you are currently on.

However, please note - if you block/delete all cookies, some features of our websites, such as remembering your login details, or the site branding for your local newspaper may not function as a result.

A tool used by some of our advertisers to target adverts to you based on pages you have visited in the past. To opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

Our sites contain advertising from Google; these use cookies to ensure you get adverts relevant to you. You can tailor the type of ads you receive by visiting here or to opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

This is used to help us identify unique visitors to our websites. This data is anonymous and we cannot use this to uniquely identify individuals and their usage of the sites.

This comes from our ad serving technology and is used to track how many times you have seen a particular ad on our sites, so that you don't just see one advert but an even spread. This information is not used by us for any other type of audience recording or monitoring.

ComScore monitor and externally verify our site traffic data for use within the advertising industry. Any data collected is anonymous statistical data and cannot be traced back to an individual.

Our Classified websites (Photos, Motors, Jobs and Property Today) use cookies to ensure you get the correct local newspaper branding and content when you visit them. These cookies store no personally identifiable information.

We use Grapeshot as a contextual targeting technology, allowing us to create custom groups of stories outside out of our usual site navigation. Grapeshot stores the categories of story you have been exposed to. Their privacy policy and opt out option can be accessed here.

Our partner for Newspaper subscriptions online stores data from the forms you complete in these to increase the usability of the site and enhance user experience.

Add This provides the social networking widget found in many of our pages. This widget gives you the tools to bookmark our websites, blog, share, tweet and email our content to a friend.

We use Advertising agencies to provide us with some of the advertising on our websites. These include (but are not limited to) Specific Media, The Rubicon Project, AdJug, AdConion, Context Web. Please click on the provider name to visit their opt-out page.
