
The largest discount airline in Europe – Ryanair Holdings made an official statement today, revealing that it projects to swing back to growth this year, after it posted its first profit fall in half a decade. Currently, the company has concentrated on attracting more business passengers and has set a goal to fly almost 3 million more people.

Ryanair announced that it is going to offer discounts to families, who travel frequently by air. It also intends to introduce its business customers to fast-track airport services. Ryanair Holdings posted an 8% decline in its net profit for the year ended March, saying that its after-tax earnings amounted to 523 million euros. The profit drop was described as “disappointing” by Ryanair Holdings, which explained that the result is due to increased fuel costs, cheaper fares and negative exchange rate movements.

The airline company also shared its forecast for the current financial year that is to end in March 2015. Ryanair Holdings said that it expects an after-tax profit from 580 to 620 million euros, which would be approximately 19% increase from the previous year. It also said that a 5% increase in this financial year’s expenses, excluding fuel ones, is expected, due to the fact the company has decided to consolidate its presence at some larger airports on the territory of Europe, which impose higher landing charges.

The company also sticks to its goal to fly 110 million passengers by 2019. It is seeking to expand its reach by improving its presence at the so-called primary airports in cities such as Rome, Lisbon and Athens.

BinaryTribune is a financial media specialized in providing daily news and education covering Forex, equities and commodities. Our academies for traders cover Forex , Price Action , Binary Options and Social Trading .

MetaTrader4, Market Trader,  WebTrader,

Regulated by FCA of the United Kingdom.

Founded in 2013, Binary Tribune aims at providing its readers accurate and actual financial news coverage. Our website is focused on major segments in financial markets – stocks, currencies and commodities, and interactive in-depth explanation of key economic events and indicators.

BinaryTribune.com will not be held liable for the loss of money or any damage caused from relying on the information on this site. Trading forex, stocks and commodities on margin carries a high level of risk and may not be suitable for all investors. Before deciding to trade foreign exchange you should carefully consider your investment objectives, level of experience and risk appetite.

This website uses cookies to provide you with the very best experience and to know you better. By visiting our website with your browser set to allow cookies, you consent to our use of cookies as described in our Privacy Policy.
