
OTTAWA - It takes a bit of naked ambition to run for office, most politicians would tell you.

It also apparently takes a few naked voters, too, judging from the tales they tell of adventures at the doorstep.

Naked homeowners, people dressed only in their underwear, strange or angry pets — just another day on the job when political people decide to go meet the voters where they live.

Tony Clement has been knocking on doors for decades, from his provincial political days in the 1990s, to his current job as federal Treasury Board president and MP for Parry Sound-Muskoka.

He knew the lore of the naked voter and the inevitability of meeting one at the doorstep. Some seasoned male campaigners had even told him it wasn’t so bad if the bare-it-all voter happened to be an attractive woman.

NDP MP Peter Stoffer was going door to door at a trailer park in his Nova Scotia riding, only to be greeted by a rough-looking fellow, with long, grey, matted hair, wearing a ragged purple sweater — and nothing else.

Sometimes the politicians are welcomed eagerly into a voter’s home, only to find that someone else was expected.

“Come on in!” a friendly voice hollered when NDP MP Megan Leslie knocked on a door in her Halifax riding. Leslie poked her head in, and found the woman sitting on a toilet.

Not too long ago, he and Adams were knocking on a door and just about to walk away because it seemed no one was home. Suddenly, a man clad only in underwear answered the door and unabashedly explained he’d been sitting on the toilet, “pooing,” and was unable to immediately answer the door.

Bennett says she’s often marvelled at the couples who will answer the door and blushingly explain that they were in bed, in the midst of making love. “Why do they even answer the door?” she asked.

Jennifer Hollett, a former journalist and now a highly active campaigner for the New Democrats in Toronto, says she’s now accustomed to encounters with voters in various states of undress. She was, however, somewhat surprised last fall when an apartment dweller in Toronto Centre, wearing a silk robe, greeted her warmly, with music playing in the background when she rapped on his door.

The warmth immediately dissolved, though, when Hollett started talking about the byelection. After being shooed away and moving down the corridor, Hollett looked back and suddenly realized who was intended to get that warm greeting — a professional escort, entering the apartment of the silk-robed gentleman.

Professional rendezvous aside, there is evidently something romantic about a stranger knocking unexpectedly at the door, at least for some people.

Olivia Chow is now campaigning to be mayor of Toronto, after years of on-the-ground canvas work in municipal and federal politics, often at the side of her late husband and former NDP leader Jack Layton.

Family pets are always a worry — the cats who might slip out the door or the ferocious, territorial dogs who don’t like strangers. Guelph MP Frank Valeriote was terrified when a shouting man and his large, snapping dog chased him off the property during the 2008 byelection.

Clement, meanwhile, had an animal encounter of a whole other kind recently during his door-knocking rounds. He was talking about federal issues earnestly to a woman who answered the door, when out of the corner of his eye, he saw what he believed to be a large, hairy dog approaching.

In 1999, after Baird had been serving for several years in former premier Mike Harris’s government, he had a delightful conversation with a woman who told him what a good representative he was and what a bright future awaited him. Baird asked if she would take a lawn sign. “Absolutely, anything to get rid of Mike Harris!” she said.

About those lawn signs — Bennett learned that if people are enthusiastically accepting them, in the largest size possible, from any party, their motives may not be political. “They were really just after the wooden stakes for their tomato plants!” she said.

So far, on the campaign trail, McMahon has encountered a talkative Scottish woman who told her to wait while she put her false teeth in her mouth, and another voter who wouldn’t give her support until the candidate agreed to an instant handwriting analysis. But like many politicians interviewed for this story, McMahon loves the door-to-door campaigning, seeing it as a chance to know voters as more than numbers in a poll or on a strategy spreadsheet.
