
Further during these discussions all distributors contributed on ways of continuous improvement of service levels to their customers.

Dealers were made aware on the latest technologies and on the complex technological upgrades which the Gestetner group has recently implemented. Most importantly they were advised how to assess customer requirements when recommending suitable products. They were also enlightened on common norms to follow when making recommendations.

Covering an entire nation, new dealers were added to its Island -wide network. And the existing dealers were revived by Gestetner of Ceylon PLC for the year of 2014. By empowering its National Dealer Network, Gestetner of Ceylon PLC now covers the North, East and the whole country accordingly to provide effective, efficient and friendly services to its customers island wide. This Dealership meeting was held under the guidance of the company's Managing Director, Chandima Perera. General Manager, Naushan Rafeel and  Gestetner management team also participated at this meeting. Chandima Perera, speaking at this event quoted that the dealer network has grown over 20 distributors island wide in a very short spell specially due to the demand of their products and based on the commitment of internal dealer management team. He thanked the entire team for their sheer commitment and dedication as the expansion is a great achievement to the company.

The long existence in the market is a true testimony that Gestetner of Ceylon PLC is a key player in the office automation and IT industry. For many decades Gestetner Sri Lanka was the sole authorized distributor for 'Gestetner International' and for Importing and distributing world’s renowned Gestetner Printing machines and other office technological equipment in Sri Lanka. After Ricoh Corporation- Japan took over Gestetner International, Gestetner of Ceylon PLC became the authorized Distributor for Ricoh photocopying, digital duplicating machines and other office related technological equipments in Sri Lanka. They are also the authorized distributor for brand Fujitsu computers & a range of tablet PC’s.

Gestetner of Ceylon PLC’s management consists of well talented & experienced professionals in the industry, with an effective dealer network. They are also renowned for superior After Sales Service across the country. Gestetner sure holds a huge strategic advantage in providing their customers with quality services and product solutions.
