
The number of visitors coming to Florida during the first three months of 2014 was a record 26.7 million, according to estimates released last week by Visit Florida, the state's chief tourism marketing agency.

That was up 2 percent over the same period last year (26.2 million) and is the highest quarterly number on record.

Visit Florida estimates that 2.7 million visitors came from overseas and another 1.5 million came from Canada, in the first three months of the year. Those are both record highs. The agency estimates that Floridians took more than 4.2 million in-state pleasure trips during the quarter.

All that travel is boosting employment in the leisure and hospitality industry.

The average number of travel-related jobs is also at an all-time high, standing at 1.1 million, up 3.5 percent from the same time last year.

This being an election year, Gov. Rick Scott used the numbers to burnish his image as the Jobs Governor.

"Today's news that we have another record quarter for visitation is great for Florida families," he said in a statement. "A growing tourism industry is vital to growing jobs in Florida and creating an opportunity economy. We are off to a great start to reaching our goal of 100 million visitors to Florida this year."

Last year, almost 95 million visitors came to the state.

Walt Disney World just recorded its best second-fiscal-quarter attendance, which a top company executive credited primarily to interest in the resort's $425 million Fantasyland expansion in the Magic Kingdom.

"Hey, quarter two of fiscal '14 was the highest second-quarter attendance we've ever had at Walt Disney World, so I think we're definitely seeing that [the Fantasyland expansion] moving in the right direction," Walt Disney Co. Chief Financial Officer Jay Rasulo said at an analyst conference last week.

The company doesn't disclose exact attendance figures or trends for Disney World, though it said combined attendance at Disney World and Disneyland rose 3 percent during its fiscal second quarter, which ended March 29.

Perhaps more impressively, occupancy at Disney's U.S. hotels jumped 6 percentage points during the quarter to 86 percent overall — the best second-quarter number for Disney's domestic hotels since 2009. That's even after Disney added the 2,000-room Disney's Art of Animation Resort to its hotel inventory.

"By the way, with aggressive pricing behind that," Rasulo added.

About 90 percent of the company's U.S. hotel rooms are at Disney World.

Rasulo reiterated that MyMagic+ — particularly the ride-reservation component, FastPass+ — is quickly catching on with guests. More than 25 percent of visitors who come from off-property — rather than staying in Disney-owned hotels — are already using FastPass+, even though FastPass+ became available to them only recently.

That percentage had been in the "low single digits" under the previous iteration of FastPass, Rasulo said.

"We've had very good uptake on the single biggest economic driver ... of MyMagic+, which is the ability to preplan. Because there's a big payback to preplanning," he said. FastPass+ "really draws people to the preplanning tools. And what we know about people who preplan and who buy tickets to Walt Disney World before they leave home is they spend more time with us."

A year from now, the Orange County Convention Center will host IPW, the most important travel and tourism convention in the industry. But before that, the attraction builders and sellers are coming to town.

In November, the center will host — you might want to take a breath here — the International Association of Amusement Parks and Attractions Expo 2014, a showcase for all the new games, rides and merchandise that may be coming soon to a theme park near you.

The expo will feature more than 1,000 companies, with offerings in 125 product categories. Industry professionals also will get a chance to learn the latest in safety practices, facility operations, marketing and merchandising.

Event organizers expect about 27,000 delegates from more than 100 countries. That includes 17,000 buyers from amusement parks, water parks, museums, zoos and aquariums who will be scouring the expo floor for the next big thing.

Founded in 1918, IAAPA is the largest international trade association for amusement parks and attractions and the industry's suppliers.

The expo will run Nov. 17 through 21.
