
Ryanair said customer service was improving "rapidly" as the budget airline looks to recover from its first drop in annual profits in five years.

Post-tax profits were 8% lower at 523 million euro (£426.5 million) in the year to March 31 after a price war left average fares 4% lower at a time of rising fuel costs.

Chief executive Michael O'Leary described the performance as disappointing but said efforts since September to reinvent Ryanair's image and reputation helped passenger traffic rise 4% in the second half of the year. It has also seen better booking trends and fuller planes in the current year.

Changes have included the relaxation of bag restrictions for passengers, a reduction in baggage charges and an easing of booking conditions.

The airline, which operates more than 1,600 routes from 68 bases, has also moved to fully allocated seating on all flights, meaning that passengers who do not pay five euro (£4.10) to select their seats will be allocated them during the 24 hours prior to the date of departure.

The company expects to fly 84.6 million passengers in the year to March 31 - a 4% rise on a year earlier - although it remains "very cautious" about booking trends for the winter period.

Michael O'Leary of Ryanair at a press conference in a Dublin hotel, where he announced that the airline is to cutback on flights from Dublin this winter.

Ryanair's CEO Michael O'Leary speaks at a press conference in Central London after the low cost airline announces half year results.

Ryanair's CEO Michael O'Leary speaks at a press conference in Central London after the low cost airline announces half year results.

Ryanair Chief Executive Michael O'Leary at a photocall at the Reubens Hotel, in central London, to launch the ryanairhotels.com website.

Last Installments jockey Brian O'Connell and owner Michael O'Leary celebrate victory in The Topaz Fort Leney Novice Steeplechase during the Christmas Festival at Leopardstown Racecourse, Dublin, Ireland.

Ryanair Chief Executive and Manchester City fan Michael O'Leary poses for a photograph in his football shirt outside Terminal 2 arrivals at Manchester Airport.

Ryanair Chief Executive Michael O'Leary poses for a photograph outside Terminal 2 arrivals at Manchester Airport.

Ryanair Chief Executive Michael O'Leary in the winners enclosure during the Easter Festival at Fairyhouse Racecourse, Co. Meath.

Jockey Davy Russell and owner Michael O'Leary (right) celebrate victory with Sir Des Champs in the Jewson Novices' Chase, on St Patrick's Thursday, during Cheltenham Festival.

First Minister Alex Salmond (left) and Ryanair Chief Executive Michael O'Leary during the official opening of the new 8 million maintenance hangar at Glasgow Prestwick airport in Scotland.

Ryan Air Boss Michael O'Leary pictured outside the High Court in London today after the court of appeal ruled that the BAA monopoly can now be broken up. The decision to dismiss the BAA monopoly's appeal against the Competition Commission's decision means that the sale of Glasgow and Stansted airports can now proceed, which will promote competition and a better deal for airport users and passengers.

Ryanair boss Michael O'Leary outside the High Court in London following a decision that could force airport operator BAA to comply with an order to sell three of its airports.

Ryanair Chief Executive Michael O'Leary speaks during a press conference in the Alexander Hotel in Dublin.

Michael O'Leary of Ryanair holds a press conference in the Merrion Hotel Dublin, to present the airline's rescue plan for Irish Tourism to the Government appointed Tourism Renewal Group.

Ryanair CEO Michael O'Leary launches the company mobile phone service in Dublin.

Michael O'Leary of Ryanair pictured with Jim O'Callaghan (centre) and Stephen McNamara holds a press conference in the Merrion Hotel Dublin, to present the airline's rescue plan for Irish Tourism to the Government appointed Tourism Renewal Group.

Ryanair chief executive Michael O'Leary speaks at a press conference at the City of London Club in London.

Ryanair Chief Executive Michael O'Leary at a press conference at the London Chamber of Commerce.

Ryanair Chief Executive Michael O'Leary with a model at a press conference at the London Chamber of Commerce.

Ryanair boss Michael O'Leary (left) during a news conference in the Alexandra hotel, Dublin.

Ryanair boss Michael O'Leary (left) during a news conference in the Alexandra hotel, Dublin.

Ryanair Chief Executive Michael O'Leary holds up a 5 note during a press conference on Ryanair plans for the UK market and reducing costs to consumers, at the London Chamber of Commerce in London.

Ryanair Chief Executive Michael O'Leary speaks to the media during a press conference at the London Chambers of Commerce.

Ryanair Chief Executive Michael O'Leary speaks to the media during a press conference at the London Chambers of Commerce.

Ryanair Chief Executive Michael O'Leary speaks to the media at a press conference at the City of London Club.

Ryanair Chief Executive Michael O'Leary plays up to the cameras at the opening of a  10 million maintenance hangar at Prestwick Airport in Ayrshire, which will eventually employ 200 staff.  But he threatened to withdraw future investment from the airport after receiving a rates bill for  110,000 from the local council.

Chief Executive of Ryanair Michael O'Leary gestures during the Ryanair annual general meeting in the Clarion Hotel at Dublin Airport.

Ryanair Chief Executive Michael O'Leary plays to the cameras at the opening of a  10 million maintenance hangar at Prestwick Airport in Ayrshire, which will eventually employ 200 staff.  But he threatened to withdraw future investment from the airport after receiving a rates bill for  110,000 from the local council.

Michael O'Leary, Chief Executive of Ryanair presents the low cost airline's year end financial figures and predicted that profits would rise with increased passenger numbers despite growing fuel costs.

Staff member Peter Sherrard pushes Ryanair chief executive Michael O'Leary across the floor of a terminal building while celebrating the start of flights from its new base to Esjberg, Stockholm, Pisa, Venice Treviso, Girona and Nimes by offering 25,000 free seats.

Ryan Air's Chief Executive Michael O'leary announces his company's end of year profit, at the City Club in central London. The budget airline recorded their first fall in profits since 1989.  *31/08/04: A new website was launched by the International Transport Workers Federation union to enable Ryanair workers to speak out against management.

Ryanair Chief Executive Michael O'Leary announces five new European destinations from Edinburgh as part of its largest ever route expansion, at the Hilton Grosvenor Hotel, Haymarket, Edinburgh.

Michael O'Leary, Ryan Air, after the John Durkan Memorial Punchestown Steeplechase at Punchestown Racecourse, Co Kildare.

Ryanair chief executive Michael O'Leary during a press conference at East Midlands Airport to announce new route developments for the airport.

File photo dated 06/09/2007 of Ryanair's chief executive Michael O'Leary (left), wearing a number 11 Northern Ireland International football shirt in memory of George Best, outside George Best Belfast City Airport.

Ryanair's Chief Executive Michael O'Leary concludes a press conference in central London, during which the Irish low-fare carrier said it would be offering 2.7 million seats for travel through September, October and November this year, at a 10 one-way price, including all taxes and charges.

Ryanair chief executive Michael O'Leary during a press conference at East Midlands Airport, with airport managing director Penny Coates, to announce new route developments for the airport.

Ryanair chief Michael O'Leary at Punchestown Racecourse.

Ryanair Chief Executive Michael O'Leary at the press conference in the Alexander Hotel Dublin, where he announced a 5 million seat giveaway, new routes to Poland and commented on air pollution.

Chief Executive of Ryanair, Michael O'Leary answers questions during a press conference in London, as the low fares airline announces eight new routes from London Stansted to continental Europe and three new ones from Glasgow Prestwick, Liverpool and Brussels Charleroi.   * The new routes include Rome, Milan and Ryanair's first passage into Holland through Eindhoven and will begin from this April.

Chief Executive of Ryan Air, Michael O'Leary, during a media conference where the launch of the airlines two new bases in Barcelona and Rome was announced, at the Chartered Accountants Hall, central London. Rome Ciampino will become Ryanair's 10th European base when it opens on 28th January 2004. Girona Barcelona will become Ryanair's 11th European Base, which opens on 5th February 2004, with 5 aircraft serving 16 routes.

Ryanair's chief executive Michael O'Leary appears pleased with the interim results for his airline announced in central London. During the period to the end of last December, the Irish-owned carrier recorded its highest passenger traffic totals and profit growth.

(Left) Chief Executive of Ryanair Michael O'Leary holds a model of the Boeing 737-800 as he plants a kiss on the cheek of Boeing's Executive Vice President of Sales Toby Bright.   *Irish-based low-cost carrier Ryanair announced today that it would buy 100 Boeing 737s, with an option for 50 more, taking delivery of the first this year and the last in 2010. Ryanair, which along with other low-cost carriers in Britain, has defied gloomy post-September 11 predictions in the aviation sector, said it would spend a total of  6.5 billion ($9.5 billion) for a total of 150 new aircraft.

Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day..

Use this form to alert a HuffPost editor about a factual or typographical error in this story.

Thank you!
