
Three-year-old Damai looks sombre as he plays in his enclosure at Surabaya Zoo, in Surabaya, Indonesia.

Indeed, despite his carefree age, the baby orangutan has lately had little joy in his life. Just last week he was found, along with his brother Rizki, languishing alone in the wild.

The pair had been separated their mother in Kutai National Park, a vast expanse of supposedly protected tropical rainforest on the east coast of Borneo.

They were in a malnourished and in critical condition when they were rescued by wildlife conservationists from the Centre for Orangutan Protection, with wounds mainly to their feet and hands.

Now they are being nursed back to health, but the pair - like all Borneo's orangutans - face an uncertain and difficult future.

Deforestation on the island has led to the deaths of tens of thousands of orangutans, says COP. As loggers move in to clear a path for palm oil plantations, they often slaughter orangutans they come across.

Many of the animals the group rescues are severely traumatised orphans whose mothers have been shot and hacked to death with machetes.

A spokesman for COP said: 'COP realises the absolute vital importance of protecting rainforest – home for the orangutans and many other species of wildlife. As far as we know we are the only organisation in Indonesia out there every day investigating and reporting forest crimes.

'Our work takes us all over Kalimantan (Indonesia Borneo), documenting the devastation to forests caused particularly by oil palm companies. Some of what we observe is ‘legal’, but wrong. A lot of what we see is definitely illegal and we do our best to stop it.

'We regularly file reports with our government and hold protests in Jakarta to raise awareness of the problems. Because of what we do, we make ourselves very unpopular with the government and even some conservation organisations who prefer to remain friends with those who tear down our forest and kill orangutans.

Damai and his brother are being prepared for release back into the wild some day. But with the world's appetite for palm oil - widely used in the commercial food industry since the switch away from trans fats - only growing, there may not be much wild left for them to return to.

The comments below have not been moderated.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
