
Share This Story!

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Pastor Chuck Kelsey blesses Lonnie Vance and his motorcycle outside Journey Church on Sunday in Coralville.

Riding a motorcycle is dangerous business, so some riders gathered Sunday morning at Journey Church in Coralville for a little extra insurance.

Four motorcycles and one bicycle were blessed at the second-annual Blessing of the Bikers and Bikes at Journey Church, a newer progressive church on Oakdale Boulevard in Coralville.

Organizing pastor Chuck Kelsey said the church, which began last fall, hosts a variety of events to attract a growing congregation, including a book discussion and Theology Brewed, a beer-and-Bible talk.

"I just believe that this experience of the holy, this God, this Sacred that people are searching for is in everything," he said. "It really is, so why not celebrate? And it kind of sends a message to people who have been pushed out before by the church in many ways that they're OK, that it's good that you want to be a community and that we want to experience God together."

Kelsey said he was "born into" biking, and the Blessing of the Bikers and Bikes is another way to introduce spirituality into everyday life.

Deana Alston of North Liberty brought her orange 2014 Harley-Davidson 883 Iron Sportster to be blessed.

"Just to have that extra safety, and with the beauty of riding I just want to feel that the spirit is also with me," she said.

Alston said she recently had a close call on her bike while riding through Iowa City.

"As I was turning, a vehicle was supposed to also turn left as I was turning left, and they decided at the last minute that they weren't going to, that they were going to continue straight ahead," she said. "Thankfully, they stopped about 3 feet before they actually got me."

Despite the risk, Alston said "the love of doing it" and "that freeness" keeps her glued to the seat.

Lonnie Vance and his brother Rod, North Liberty, both brought their motorcycles to the event. Lonnie said he has been riding for 41 years, after he grew up with his dad riding motorcycles.

"It's about the most fun you can have, legally," he said. "I enjoy it, the freedom."

Lonnie said he's a member of the Journey Church congregation, and enjoys the yearly tradition.

"What I enjoy about Journey is it accepts everybody," he said. "There is no set rules or expectations."

Rod said he isn't a member of the congregation, but wanted his Triumph blessed to feel safer while "being out in the wind."

"I am somewhat spiritual," he said, smiling. "I believe it can't hurt."

Reach Aly Brown at 887-5404 or abrown11@press-citizen.com.

• "The Gift of Time," 8 to 9 a.m. Saturday, May 24: Ginny Washburne, founder of iMoveU, will lead gentle exercise, offer a healthy snack, and share strategies for spending time on our highest priorities. Cost: Free.

• "Third Spaces: Why Are They So Valuable?" 5:30 to 6:30 p.m. Wednesday, May 28: We have our homes and our workplaces, but what about public places that foster creative interaction? "Third spaces" can be vital to our sense of community. Local writer Thomas Dean will share ideas about third spaces around Iowa City and elsewhere. Meal provided, including a vegan option. Cost: Free.

• "Introduction to Meditation and Mindfulness Workshop," 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. Saturday, May 31: Research shows that a daily meditation practice can help people focus more clearly, experience a greater sense of well-being, and ease a variety of physical challenges, including high blood pressure and chronic pain. Instructor Suzanne Kelsey will teach a range of meditation techniques, discuss differences between meditation and mindfulness, and present neuroscience research on the benefits of both. Meal provided, including vegan option. Cost: $75.

• Sundays: Worship at 10:30 a.m., book discussion at 9:30 a.m.

• Mondays: Mindful Meditation at 5:30 p.m.

• Wednesdays: Mindful Meditation at 4 p.m., Theology Brewed at 7 p.m.
