
On their first official visit to Nova Scotia together, Prince Charles and his wife, Camilla, spent Monday chatting with military families, young farmers, war brides and even fruit, vegetables and animals.

The royal couple was officially welcomed to the province at Halifax’s Grand Parade on Victoria Day, the first event in a whirlwind four-day tour of three provinces.

Under overcast skies, hundreds of people waved flags and snapped photos of Charles, dressed in a dark blue suit, and Camilla, dressed in a bright blue coat with Nova Scotia tartan.

The Prince of Wales, who is next in line to the British throne, delivered what many called a warm and witty speech.

“It is, as always, a special joy to be back in Canada again, a place that is very dear to us both,” Charles told the crowd gathered near city hall.

He quipped that it was especially nice to be back in Atlantic Canada “at the official start to summer,” which elicited laughter from the crowd, given the frigid temperatures.

Elizabeth MacEachern of Clayton Park, who came with her daughter, Hillary Ferguson, 11, and her mother, Clare Mac-Eachern, liked the remark.

Clare MacEachern said she spoke to Camilla, who also joked about the weather.

“There was nothing stiff about them,” she said.

Prince Charles, whose last official visit to Nova Scotia was in 1983, told a story about coming to Halifax more than four decades ago when he served in the Royal Navy.

“On that occasion, I have to admit my visit was due to an act of God, a mechanical failure of the ship in which I was sailing,” he said, noting that a fishing net had become entwined around the ship’s propeller.

After the pomp and circumstance of the official welcome, which included greetings by dignitaries, full military honours and an aboriginal blessing, the couple went to the Military Family Resource Centre.

In addition to learning about the roles of servicemen and women and the programs at the resource centre, the royal couple had a rare chance to chat with fruit and vegetables.

Grapes, a banana and a carrot, to be precise. Charles and Camilla were introduced to volunteers wearing fruit and vegetable costumes used to encourage healthy eating. The royal couple then went their separate ways.

While the Duchess of Cornwall met with a family that benefited from Alice Housing, which provides support to women and children leaving domestic abuse, the Prince of Wales went for a jaunt around the Halifax Public Gardens.

Hundreds of people lined the paths, from scouts and girl guides to babies wrapped up warmly against the cold wind and seniors dressed in their finery.

Charles wandered through the gardens alongside Halifax Mayor Mike Savage, attended a concert at the bandstand, viewed the restored Diamond Jubilee fountain and planted an English oak tree.

“There is a lot of affection for the Royal Family here in Halifax,” Savage said.

Charles and Camilla reunited at the Halifax Seaport Farmers’ Market, where they chatted with farmers and vendors.

Prince Charles, who has an avid interest in sustainable farming, spoke with 19-year-old Blake Jennings. Jennings is the fifth generation in his family to take over Bayview Poultry Farms.

“I told him that we’re doing everything on our farm to help with the environment,” he said.

Charles and Camilla also stopped to chat with Andrew Greene, 19, who has been a member of the youth organization 4-H since he was six.

“He just looked at my duck, Hilda, and casually asked, ‘That’s not a runner duck by any chance?’” Greene said of his brief encounter with the prince.

Indeed, Hilda is an Indian runner duck that received a bit of royal attention before the couple moved on.

Charles and Camilla’s final stop in Halifax before departing for Pictou was the Canadian Museum of Immigration at Pier 21. After a brief tour, the couple shared tea with war brides and Second World War veterans.

Winnifred Joudrey, 88, is originally from England.

The octogenarian met her husband, a Bridgewater native, at a dance in England at the end of the Second World War and immigrated to Canada in 1947.

The Prince of Wales and Duchess of Cornwall chatted with several other war brides and veterans before being whisked away to the airport to travel to an event at the Hector Heritage Quay in Pictou.

The royal couple were to be flown Monday night to Charlottetown, where they are to spend most of today before departing for Winnipeg tonight. The tour wraps up Wednesday.

The royal visit is cost-shared between the federal government and the provinces. The final tally will not be known until the tour is over.
