
Deutsche Bank AG DBK, +2.42% DB, +1.80%  plans to sell 8 billion euros ($11 billion) of new shares in a bid to quell concerns about its capital buffers in a challenging business and regulatory environment.

The move comes in the midst of a health check of the European banking sector, and as Germany’s largest lender seeks to grab market share and improve its position as a global investment and retail bank.

Euro-scepticism is likely to dominate the European Parliament elections this week, while fresh PMI data could add more pressure on the ECB to take easing measures. Also watch out for Vodafone full-year results on Tuesday.

The German lender will issue a total of 360 million new shares. The Qatari royal family has agreed to buy 60 million of the shares, valued at €1.75 billion, via its investment vehicle Paramount Holdings, Deutsche Bank said. The remaining €6.25 billion will be sold to existing investors via a so-called rights offering.

The rights offering is already fully underwritten by a consortium of six banks, meaning investment banks have agreed to buy any shares that investors don’t purchase.

The planned capital increase is expected to boost a gauge of the bank’s financial strength, its core Tier 1 capital level, to 11.8% of its assets weighted by riskiness, compared with 9.5% now.

The Qatari family will pay €29.20 a share in the capital increase, 5% below the €30.74 closing price Friday. Adjusted for dividends, the Qataris get a 2.5% discount. The discount for the 300 million additional shares that existing shareholders can purchase will be higher, people familiar with the matter say. In recent share sales, European banks had to give investors a discount of roughly 20% to more than 30%.

People familiar with the transaction expect Deutsche Bank will have to offer new shares at around €23 each, or about 25% less than the current price.

Copyright ©2014 MarketWatch, Inc.  All rights reserved.

Intraday Data provided by SIX Financial Information and subject to terms of use .                 Historical and current end-of-day data provided by SIX Financial Information. Intraday data                 delayed per exchange requirements. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones & Company, Inc.                 All quotes are in local exchange time. Real time last sale data provided by NASDAQ. More                 information on NASDAQ traded symbols and their current financial status. Intraday                 data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, and 20 minutes for other exchanges. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM)                 from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. SEHK intraday data is provided by SIX Financial Information and is                 at least 60-minutes delayed. All quotes are in local exchange time.
