
Bhopal: While reviewing activities of Panchayats and Rural Development Department here today, Chief Minister Shri Shivraj Singh Chouhan gave in-principle consent to Mukhyamantri Gram Sarovar Yojana, Mukhyamantri Samudayik Bhavan Nirman Yojana and village bank scheme. Detailed form of these schemes will be prescribed soon.

The Chief Minister directed that proposals should be chalked out to be presented before the new Central Government in which Centre Government had not cooperated. He also directed to chalk out proposals for suggesting amendments in Central schemes for construction of rural houses in Madhya Pradesh, internal pucca roads in villages, bridges under Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana and providing banking facility within every 5 kms.

The Chief Minister Directed to constantly monitor implementation of “Mera Khet, Meri Maati” sub-plan. in view of positive changes brought about in villagers’ lives due to Kapil Dhara Yojana, the Chief Minister directed to register all Kapil Dhara wells in revenue records. Instructing to accelerate pace of anganwadi buildings’ construction, he directed to seek Panchayats’ active role in this. Reviewing, Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana, the Chief Minister directed to apprise the Central Government about results of quality norms adopted in Madhya Pradesh in road construction and chalk out a proposal to amend original scheme. He said that toll recovery arrangements can also be made on the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana roads where heavy vehicles pass regularly.

About women’s self-help groups and livelihoods groups, the Chief Minister directed to convene their convention in June. He said that women’s self-help groups in the state will be empowered and promoted. He directed to identify development blocks where all women are strengthening local economy by associating with women’s self help groups.

Instructing to make available internet connection to Panchayats, the Chief Minister said that minimum 50 percent Panchayats should be provided internet connectivity till end of the current year. He said that a campaign should be launched to promote the Panchayats elected unopposed. He directed to complete construction of Panchayat buildings at the earliest. He directed to accelerate pace of Mukhyamantri Aawas Mission. It is a unique scheme in the country. Directing to re-charge one river in every district, the Chief Minister said that work for this will be undertaken on a war footing from next year.

The Chief Minister directed to chalk out norms for posting of CEOs of Zila and Janpad Panchayats on the basis of their capacity to adopt innovative schemes, ability, eligibility and administrative skills. He said that Zila Panchayat CEOs should be posted as collector only on the basis of excellent performance.

Panchayats and Rural Development Minister Shri Gopal Bhargava, Chief Secretary Shri Anthony de SA, Additional Chief Secretary Rural Development Smt. Aruna Sharma and other senior officers were present on the occasion.
