
Share This Story!

Entrepreneurship is all over the world -- not just the U.S.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Entrepreneurship is all over the world -- not just the U.S.

A session during one of StartupGrind's events that brings together entrepreneurs.

SAN FRANCISCO -- Entrepreneurship is not only thriving in the U.S. these days but in the rest of the world too.

From Kenya to the U.K., entrepreneurs are innovating. Every government in the world is hoping the next Facebook emanates from its shores. There are now at least 400 million entrepreneurs in 54 countries and those numbers are growing. Stats show 20 of the mature economies in the world experienced a nearly 22% "total early-stage activity" increase in recent years. Brazil, Chile and China are among the fastest growing.

It is conventional wisdom that if you want your start-up to succeed, you had better move to Silicon Valley. That's starting to change.

"Entrepreneurs don't need to move to Silicon Valley to be successful," says Derek Andersen, CEO of StartupGrind , a company that holds tech events all over the globe. "There are great local entrepreneurs in each city in the world. We bring these people to our stages to mentor the next generation."

Andersen has seen a lot of success himself. In two years, StartupGrind has ballooned from holding meetups in just two cities, to more than 100 now. Entrepreneurs have started a chapter in Pakistan and three chapters have sprouted in Africa. Past speakers at the events include founders of LinkedIn, Sun Microsystems, and Electronic Arts. "The Grind," as regulars call it, is one of only two global partners of Google for Entrepreneurs.

StartupGrind is an example of why early-stage entrepreneurs don't leave home for funding as much as they once did. Communities that never had the resources to help entrepreneurs learn are starting to get them through events as well as co-working spaces. Locals can better access information, manpower and money that was never available previously.

"We're essentially doing the equivalent of SXSW each quarter but in small grass roots events around the world," Andersen says. "There are great local entrepreneurs in cities everywhere. We bring these people to our stages."

But even as foreign entrepreneurs begin to see more opportunities where they came from, they are finding it difficult to compete or get noticed without Silicon Valley funding. President Obama himself is visiting legendary seed accelerator Y Combinator this week for a fundraiser. The organization has picked winners like Reddit, Dropbox and Airbnb since 2005. If you want that kind of backing and support, you have to come to the Valley for it.

David Murray is an entrepreneur in Northern Ireland who worked more than a year on his project, a gaming app called Wingman Extreme . He struggled on it at times but is now launching it. Despite that success, he feels he's at a disadvantage.

"It's a big gamble," Murray said. "I've invested thousands of dollars of my own money to fund the company and try to compete with the bigger developers who have massive funding and backing from venture capitalists."

Hardware Music Player Rocki tried a different route by using crowdfunding site Kickstarter last fall to raise 200 thousand dollars, despite running operations out of the Netherlands. "Outside the center of the tech universe, there are plenty of great tech 'solar systems.'" says Rocki CEO Nick Yap. "We've tapped NYC, Boston, Amsterdam, Berlin, Paris, Singapore and Shenzhen."

It's inspiring to see the effect that young companies are having on the world and its future. A report from the Global Entrepreneurship Monitor says that 140 million entrepreneurs worldwide expect to hire at least five new employees in the next five years.

The report also shows that 163 million entrepreneurs are women. These are positive signs that entrepreneurship is a tool for job growth, boosting economies and promoting gender equality. Despite all that success though, a helping hand from the Valley makes an undeniable difference.

John Boitnott is a freelance writer in San Francisco.
