
The Blue Cross & Blue Shield of Rhode Island building in Providence.

Blue Cross & Blue Shield of Rhode Island is proposing 2015 premium increases averaging 12 percent for individuals and families, and 8 percent for small groups.

The rate proposals must be approved by Rhode Island Health Insurance Commissioner Kathleen C. Hittner, who, after review and if she follows in her predecessor’s footsteps, may set lower rates than those requested.

Blue Cross, the state’s largest insurance provider, submitted its rate proposals with the state last week along with UnitedHealthcare of New England, Neighborhood Health Plan of Rhode Island, Tufts Insurance Company and Tufts Associated Health Maintenance Organization Inc. The insurance commissioner’s office said it would take several days to evaluate the requests from the other companies.

Staff at the health insurance commissioner’s office, along with the state Department of Health, will analyze the assumptions built into each company’s rate proposal and issue a summary in a few weeks, said Sarah Nguyen, principal policy associate in Hittner’s office.

The commissioner’s office will hold a public hearing in June before setting final rates in July.

The insurance companies are not required to file a written explanation for their rate hike proposals; however, Blue Cross did.

In its narrative, Blue Cross said the basis for next year’s rate increases is twofold: the increasing cost of medical care, particularly specialty pharmacy drugs and outpatient treatment for mental health and substance abuse, and “significant unknowns” resulting from implementation of the federal Affordable Care Act.

“The uncertainty caused by the implementation of the ACA as well as the enrollment growth within the direct pay market, have the potential to put [Blue Cross’s] financial stability at risk,” the company reported.

In prior years, Blue Cross said it had made various adjustments to subsidize direct pay rates — those for individual plans — to keep rates affordable. “This is no longer an option,” the company said, noting that the state’s plan ranks third from the bottom in financial strength among Blue Cross plans nationwide.

The company noted its “reserve level” funding was now 17.4 percent of a premium bill, “significantly below” the recommended level of 23 percent.

To boost that level, 3.34 percent of its proposed 8-percent hike for coverage of small groups (businesses with 50 or fewer employees) would be earmarked for raising that reserve fund.

Almost 5 percent of the 12-percent requested hike in individual coverage is for the increased cost of specialist office visits, the company said.

The company also announced in its filing that it will offer a new plan next year called “VantageBlue Select” that will provide coverage with lower premiums and co-pays when members seek care from preferred providers.

This year the rate hike requests from the various insurance companies were complicated by such factors as one-time fees associated with implementation of the Affordable Care Act.

For large-group coverage, Blue Cross asked for an average increase of 17 percent, but former insurance commissioner Christopher F. Koller agreed to 12 percent, saying that Blue Cross did not need to spend as much as proposed on medical expenses.
