
Summary: Microsoft and SAP are extending their 20-year partnership with new deliverables on the cloud, business-intelligence and mobile-app front.

Microsoft has added another software vendor to its "certified on Azure" list.

By the end of June, Microsoft and SAP will support SAP Business Suite software, SAP Business All-in-One solutions, SAP Mobile Platform, SAP Adaptive Server Enterprise (SAP ASE) and the developer edition of the SAP HANA platform on Azure.

On May 19, Microsoft and SAP also announced that integration between Microsoft's PowerBI/Excel and SAP's BusinessObjects business-intelligence offerings is generally available. Additionally, the pair said they will deliver in the second half of 2014 an updated version of the SAP Gateway for Microsoft, which will solidify integration between SAP applications and Office 365 and Microsoft Azure.

On the mobile front, SAP and Microsoft said new SAP mobile apps are coming for Windows and Windows Phone 8.1, but didn't provide specifics. An enhanced SAP software development kit for Windows Phone 8.1 will be available in 2015, officials said.

Microsoft and SAP officials said the May 18 announcements were the latest developments in the 20-year partnership between the two companies. They said that Microsoft and SAP jointly serve 75 percent of enterprise businesses.

"We find the Microsoft (relationship) compelling because it wraps together things beyond the cloud," said Kevin Ichpurani, Senior Vice President with SAP.

Back to the cloud: As is the case for Oracle on Azure users , SAP users who want to run their applications on Azure will be able to bring their own licenses and use certified images. This means Microsoft won't resell SAP software, nor will SAP resell Azure or Office 365, officials said. SAP Business Suite, Business All-in-One, and NetWeaver Apps will run on Windows Server in Azure. SAP HANA Dev Ed will be certified for SUSE Linux.

The coming mobile apps will be priced and available through the Windows Store, Windows Phone Store, SAP Store and directly from SAP sales.

We're temporarily in maintenance mode, which means you won't be able to sign up for a newsletter. Please check back shortly to resume the subscription process. Thanks for your patience.

ZDNet Must Read News Alerts - US: Major news is breaking. Are you ready? This newsletter has only the most important tech news nothing else.

Learn how you can deploy best-of-breed revenue management solutions that drive scalable, proactive processes. Join us for this live, interactive webcast featuring CBS Interactive's Featured Contributor Bill Kleyman and Intacct's Cloud Financials Strategist Mark Gervase.

Learn how you can deploy best-of-breed revenue management solutions that drive scalable, proactive processes. Join us for this live, interactive webcast featuring CBS Interactive's Featured Contributor Bill Kleyman and Intacct's Cloud Financials Strategist Mark Gervase.
