
May 19, 2013 was an eventful day around the world. The US was bumping along against its borrowing limit, UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon called on North Korea to stop further missile tests and gunmen killed Zohra Shahid Hussain, a senior Pakistani politician. Meanwhile, in Hawaii, a young relatively unknown man was packing his suitcase for a flight that was to change history.

Edward Snowden was working for Booz Allen Hamilton in Hawaii. On May 19, 2013, he was making his final preparations for flight to Hong Kong, where he was to meet the journalist Glenn Greenwald and the documentary film-maker Laura Poitras two weeks later.

He had asked for time off from his employer in order to have medical treatment for epilepsy, which he had been given. They were not to know there was any ulterior motive in the mind of this highly experienced contractor to the US National Security Agency, who had once been an employee of the NSA as well as of the CIA, under diplomatic cover. This former lecturer at the US Defence Intelligence Agency had the credentials to give him access to some of the NSA’s closest held secrets.

Secrets he felt that were too secret to keep from the world.

That Sunday, he said goodbye to his girlfriend. He packed his bags, containing clothes and the standard items any 29 year-old would be expected to carry, except for four laptops, two memory sticks and a Rubik’s cube.

Born in North Carolina on June, 21, 1983, Snowden had dropped out of high school, learned a bit about computers and the internet, even becoming a Microsoft Certified Systems Engineer. He managed to get a job as a security guard at the Centre for Advanced Study of Language, which was, in fact, an NSA facility, despite its name. He quickly progressed to become a CIA technical expert, in Geneva, under diplomatic cover, where he became steadily unhappy about the secrecy of the work of the CIA and the intelligence prowess of the NSA.

He returned to the US, working with Dell on an NSA contract, where his feelings about mass intelligence gathering grew.

He got a transfer with Dell to Hawaii where he started amassing the documents he needed to tell his story. He needed to drill deeper and got a transfer to Booz Allen Hamilton in Hawaii - only for a matter of weeks before his flight.

Secretly and unnoticed – since he knew the protocols and had the clearances – he started gathering the evidence of mass surveillance by the NSA as well as the close co-operation it had with the British GCHQ, the intelligence gathering arm that worked with MI5 and MI6. The two major projects were PRISM and Tempora. But there were to be more revelations later.

He flew to Hong Kong and checked into the Mira Hotel on May 20, 2013. He had chosen Hong Kong because it was the least likely place that the US security services could easily operate in, once his secrets emerged. Yet he made no secret of his identity, checking in under his own name and using his usual cards for payments.

There he sat and ate take-away meals in his hotel room for two weeks. He had made contact with Greenwald and Poitras, who he had chosen because of their campaigning journalism and ruthless pursuance of the US state and all its underhand use of force, subterfuge and relentless gathering of mass information from all over the world. Neither Greenwald nor Poitras were prepared for the story they were about to hear.

On June 3, 2013, they were to meet at the Mira Hotel, Nathan Road, to hear what he knew of the US intelligence services’ unrestrained mass gathering of electronic data and telecommunications across the globe, with co-operation of GCHQ in Britain.

Their story was to light the fuse of the debate on free speech, the internet, the legality of undiscriminating data gathering and force the heads of MI5, MI6 and GCHQ to face parliament in person for the first time.

It would lead to the Bolivian presidential aircraft, carrying Evo Morales from Moscow, to be denied airspace over Europe and its pilot left with no option but to land in Vienna triggering off a major diplomatic row between South America, Europe and the US.

It would lead to allegations of the US bugging the telephones of world leaders, which would lead to massive tensions with the G8.

And it would lead to Edward Snowden taking temporary asylum in Moscow, after spending a month living inside Sheremetyevo airport, and becoming the Rector of the University of Glasgow and picking up prizes for whistle blowing.

But that was to come later.

In Hong Kong on June 3, he met his contacts for the first time.

“How will we know it’s him?” Greenwald asks Poitras, in No Place to Hide, Greenwald’s memoir of the Edward Snowden revelations.

“He’ll be carrying a Rubik’s Cube,” she replies.
