
It was nerve-racking as hell for Mikayla Shultz on Saturday afternoon.

© Times-Herald photo by Nathan Frank.

Mikayla Shultz and boyfriend Dylan Ferrier stand in front of the transgender flag on Saturday. Earlier Shultz placed the transgender flag beside the LGBQ flag, the Canadian flag, the Saskatchewan flag and the Moose Jaw flag in the Mae Wilson theatre.

At least that’s how Shultz described being the bearer of the transgender flag on Saturday afternoon at the Mae Wilson Theatre. She was joined by Dale Hall, the LGBT flag bearer, in placing the two flags next to the Canadian flag, the Saskatchewan flag and the city of Moose Jaw flag.

The bottom half of the auditorium was about a third full— represented by the LGBT community, supporters and dignitaries — as the group celebrate a more inclusive Moose Jaw. The audience heard messages of support from Mayor Deb Higgins, Mark Docherty, MLA for Regina Coronation Park, Rick Bourassa, chief of police for the Moose Jaw Police Service and others.

“Moose Jaw has really set the tone for inclusion of the trans community in pride events,” said Shultz, founder of TransSask Support Services, before saying the community has faced a lot adversity from not only the “larger community” but also the gay and lesbian community.

Schultz went on to explain that it has been a struggle to hear the voice of the transgender community within the queer community because trans people can identify as gay, straight, or bi-sexual.

Hall, the president of GLAMJ agreed that although the gay and lesbian community has seen a lot of progress in the last decade with acceptance, the transgender community is still having a very rough time.

At the end of the pride flag raising ceremony Hall was awarded the Moose Jaw Pride Community Service Award for his commitment to GLAMJ during the past decade.

“I was totally shocked. I wasn’t even thinking that that was even going to happen. It was amazing to be recognized for that ten years,” he said.

Hall was called a pioneer by Joe Wickenhauser, the MC for the ceremony, for being a leader in serving the needs of the LGBT community. However, as Hall explained it’s been a difficult road.

The theme of pride week — which wraps up today — is Better Together. The many speakers echoed that Moose Jaw and Saskatchewan are better with mutual respect and diversity.

“Our goal is to create a safe and welcome community that encourages both locals and visitors to enjoy Moose Jaw’s unique attractions,” said Joe Wickenhauser, Chair of Moose Jaw Pride.

Nathan Frank can be reached at 306-691-1263.

© Times-Herald photo by Nathan Frank.
