
Law360, New York (May 19, 2014,  5:44 PM ET) -- A Canadian General Dynamics Corp . unit secured a $52.3 million contract modification from the U.S. Army TACOM Life Cycle Management Command to upgrade the U.S. Marine Corps ’ light-armored vehicles, the company said Monday.

General Dynamics Land Systems -Canada was awarded the contract to develop upgrades in support of the USMC’s LAV Mobility and Obsolescence Upgrade and Integration Program, the company said. Work under the contract is expected to continue through May 2017.

Under the contract, General Dynamics will develop a replacement power pack, suspension, driveline, steering system and upgraded electrical electrical components, in addition to development and delivery of engineering and logistics data and testing of prototypes, the company said.

There are over 9,000 General Dynamics Land Systems LAVs deployed around the world, the according to the company.

General Dynamics Land Systems-Canada — formerly the Canadian arm of General Motors ' military products division, GM Defense, before it was acquired by General Dynamics in 2003 — landed a $13 billion contract in February to supply armored vehicles, associated equipment, training and support to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. The 14-year deal has an initial value of $10 billion but could be worth up to $13 billion if fully exercised, according to a securities filing by General Dynamics.

The contract announced Monday comes after a bipartisan group of 10 U.S. representatives urged the Pentagon to reopen the contracting process for the Army's $4.8 billion armored multipurpose vehicle program, arguing the current process is unfair and ignores the benefits of procuring a mixed fleet of vehicles.

In a letter sent to Frank Kendall, the DOD's acquisitions chief, the group of lawmakers, led by Rep. Mike D. Rogers, R-Ala., said they had "strong concerns" about the Army's current AMPV request for proposals, urging Kendall to suspend the RFP and reissue a modified request that allows for fair competition and the procurement of a mixed fleet of both tracked and wheeled vehicles.

Having a mixed fleet that encompasses both BAE Systems Inc .'s Bradley tracked vehicle and General Dynamic Land Systems' wheeled Stryker vehicle would not be a compromise but would instead fit the Army's goal of having different platforms for specific missions, allowing the fielding of the correct vehicle type for each mission, according to the letter.

The AMPV program is designed to replace much of the Army's fleet of M113 infantry carriers, a model which first went into service in the early 1960s, with about 2,900 new vehicles.

It is one of the Army's top few largest ground vehicle acquisitions programs, alongside the joint light tactical vehicle program, a combined procurement with the USMC, and the Paladin integrated management platform and ground combat vehicle program.

--Additional reporting by Jeff Sistrunk and Daniel Wilson. Editing by Christine Chun.
