
A 16-year-old Milton girl is making a huge splash locally and globally in her quest to provide clean water to developing countries.

Milton, Del.

A 16-year-old Milton girl is making a huge splash locally and globally in her quest to provide clean water to developing countries.

For the past three-and-a-half years, Emma Rider, a junior at Sussex Technical High School in Georgetown, has been collecting shoes for Quenching Souls, her service project that aims to provide water chlorinators, as well as health and hygiene education, to people around the world.

Rider contacted the Kentucky-based WaterStep, a nonprofit organization that aims to “empower ordinary people around the world with training and technology in water purification, health and hygiene and hand pump repair,” according to waterstep.org.

WaterStep told Rider she could help by collecting shoes that would be sold overseas by an American exporter.

With a goal to collect 4,000 pairs of shoes and purchase one water chlorinator, Rider began setting up local Shoe Drops and speaking at churches, schools and on the radio.

To date, she has managed to collect over 80,000 pairs of shoes, keeping about 40 tons of footwear out of local landfills while generating about $40,000 in revenue, which she used to purchase 40 water chlorinators.

Rider said the exporter pays about 50 cents for each pair of shoes and a water chlorinator is priced at about $1,000.

“The exporter sorts them out and the wearable shoes are sold to small businessmen overseas, while the non-wearable shoes are recycled,” she said.

To transport the shoes to the exporter, Rider said the Bridgeville-based Pet Poultry Products lends her one of its tractor trailers, which is then driven to Florida by the Seaford-based Trinity Logistics.

Rider recently traveled to Kenya, where she helped install three water chlorinators and taught the locals about health, hygiene, clean water and how to maintain the systems for maximum use.

Rider entered her project in the Jefferson Awards’ Lead360 Challenge, which recognizes outstanding youth service projects across the country. Rider was awarded the Outstanding Service Project Jefferson Award for the City of Georgetown last week by Mayor Mike Wyatt.

Page 2 of 2 - Quenching Souls also was chosen as one of 27 projects nationwide to compete in a social media voting contest. The coordinators of the five projects with the most votes will travel to Washington, D.C. on June 17 for the Jefferson Awards National Ceremony, where one winner will be announced. That winner will go to Super Bowl XLIX.

Voting runs through Wednesday and the five finalists will be announced Thursday at lead360.jeffersonawards.org.

Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.
