
BELGRADE --  Serbian President Tomislav Nikolić on Monday sent a convoy of humanitarian aid to the places in Serbia most affected by the severe flooding.

Companies across the country responded to an appeal by the president and took part in a campaign to collect aid.

A part of the humanitarian assistance is intended for residents of the municipality of Krupanj, while the rest will be taken over by the Sector for Emergency Situations and distributed in accordance with the needs on the ground, said a statement.

The president, his wife Dragica Nikolić and representatives of the companies involved in this campaign gathered in Belgrade on Monday morning to see off the convoy to Krupanj.

This municipality in western Serbia was devastated by the floods, and cut off from the world for several days last week.

According to the statement issued earlier by his office, Nikolić will visit several locations in the area and deliver humanitarian assistance to the Crisis HQ of the municipality.

OBRENOVAC -- Prime Minister Aleksandar Vučić told foreign reporters on Monday that 13 dead bodies have been found so far in the town of Obrenovac near Belgrade.

BELGRADE -- Defense Minister Bratislav Gašić has thanked Austria's government for quickly deploying personnel that helped evacuate people from flooded areas in Serbia.

ŠABAC, OBRENOVAC -- Local authorities in the town of Šabac, in western Serbia, on Monday announced that two more people had lost their lives in the floods.

KRUPANJ -- Serbian President Tomislav Nikolić on Monday visited Krupanj, a municipality in western Serbia that has been hard-hit by floods which also killed one resident.

BELGRADE --  Serbia can count on EUR 1 billion worth of aid from the European Union Solidarity Fund in dealing with the long-term consequences of the catastrophic floods.

BELGRADE -- The first part of a humanitarian aid shipment sent by the United Nations arrived in Belgrade late last night, the Ministry of the Interior (MUP) said.

MOSCOW, BELGRADE -- Russia has sent a relief cargo to Serbia hit by heavy floods, a spokesperson for the Russian Emergency Situations Ministry has told Itar-Tass.

Belgrade, Moscow -- A helicopter of the EU mission in Kosovo, EULEX, sent to assist in rescue efforts in flood-hit Serbia landed in Belgrade on Sunday.

BELGRADE -- The bodies of 12 flood victims have been recovered in the town of Obrenovac, but it is feared the number of those who perished in higher, says Aleksandar Vučić.

BELGRADE -- Serbia has been affected by "millennial waters" PM Aleksandar Vučić said on Sunday as he chaired an emergency HQ set up to deal with the catastrophic floods.

BELGRADE -- People cannot return to their homes in Obrenovac because there are still no conditions for that, while the rumors about the number of victims are false.

BELGRADE -- The intense fight to save lives continued on Saturday, as the situation is the most critical in the completely flooded Belgrade municipality of Obrenovac.

BELGRADE -- Ivica Dačić has said that Serbia now above all needs assistance in equipment, along with rescue teams to save the affected towns and their residents.

BELGRADE -- The flood-hit areas of Obrenovac and Barič near Belgrade, Sremska Mitrovica in the north and Krupanj and Šabac in western Serbia remain the most critical.

BELGRADE -- Foreign Minister Ivica Dačić on Saturday expressed his gratitude "to all the countries and the EU" for the help they provided to the flood-stricken Serbia.

BELGRADE, ŠABAC -- The bodies of those who perished in the flood in Obrenovac are being recovered on Saturday, MUP Emergency Sector chief Predrag Marić has said.

BELGRADE -- Prime Minister Aleksandar Vučić late on Friday described the situation in Serbia, struck by severe flooding, as "catastrophic."

MOSCOW -- Russian Emergency Situations Minister Vladimir Puchkov has announced that his country had launched a large-scale humanitarian operation to help Serbia.

BELGRADE -- More than 7,618 people have been evacuated in Serbia in the past two days as the country battles severe flooding, the Interior Ministry has announced.

B92 is an environmentally responsible organisation.
