
. . . . . . .

Photo Credits: Photo by Lori Crook, The Athens NEWS.

Photo Caption: Bromley Hall is among the tall structures on the OU campus that the Athens Fire Department is responsible for protecting from fire.

The city of Athens is looking to replace a 23-year-old pumper fire truck as soon as possible. At an Athens City Council meeting May 12, council members spoke in support of the need for a new $586,000 truck.

The city currently doesn't have nearly enough money for the truck, however, according to council members' discussion at the meeting. And they'll have to act quickly if they want to get it cheaply; the city will need to put a plan together for a loan and order the truck before July 31 to get a 5 percent discount, council members said.

"I'd say it's critical to the health, welfare and safety of the citizenry. You can't afford to have old, outdated equipment, and fire protection is essential," said City Council member Chris Knisely.

Athens Fire Capt. Bruce Smith said the city runs new pumper trucks as front-line, first-response units for 10 years; any trucks older than that are put into reserve and only used as needed.

Recently appointed Fire Chief Robert Rymer said one of the department's two current front-line pumper trucks, 1004, turns 10 years old this year and needs to be put into reserve. That means 1003, the 23-year-old reserve truck, needs to be taken completely out of commission.

"It's just like anybody's older vehicle. It just causes future maintenance problems," Rymer said. "Is it as reliable as the front-line pumper? No."

Rymer said it becomes increasingly expensive to keep and maintain older vehicles. The reserve vehicles are necessary for when the front-line units undergo maintenance, but in keeping with prior policy set by a former fire chief, Rhymer said trucks are generally replaced after 10 years in reserve.

At the May 12 City Council meeting, Knisely said the city still owes around $225,000 on a $1.2 million ladder truck it purchased for the Fire Department in 2012.

The Ohio University administration agreed to give the city $250,000 in aid for the purchase of the ladder truck - of which OU is paying $50,000 in yearly increments. Knisely said the city will look to OU to help supplement the cost of purchasing the new pumper truck, as well.

"We would certainly like to ask the university if that might be a possibility, given the percentage of fire runs that are made overall to campus locations," she said.

At the City Council meeting May 12, council member Steve Patterson said 34 percent of calls to the Fire Department in 2012 and 33 percent of calls in 2013 came from OU-owned properties. Those numbers don't include calls made from off-campus student housing.

"Councilwoman Nancy Bain asked whether the fire department needs to replace pumper trucks in the near future.

Troxel estimated the city would need a new pumper truck in 2017, but he added it is much easier to extend the life of pumper trucks than it is for ladder trucks. He said the department uses a new pumper truck for daily operations for 10 years before it is moved to the reserves for 10 years.

City gov needs to seriously question why a new pumper has to be purchased every 10 years, rather than simply accepting the adopted wisdom.

It's not like fire trucks are used as heavily 24/7 as are airliners, which are on average 15-16 years of age. That's average age, not absolute, and still considered to be "first line" equipment.

Many planes from the late '60s are commonly in service today, even in an "ageist" capital equipment economy such as the United States.

And it's not as if Athens fire trucks are perpetually parked under the stars and in open fields, with the frames, bodies and components rotting out from daily condensate.

You have to ask, just how many times has the cabin of 1968 LaFrance pumper (pictured) been pressurized (or the fire truck equivalent) while employed in Athens.

Replace the consumables (seals, bushings, bearings, hydraulic hoses, tires, etc). Upgrade and/or replace electronics/controls more subject to corrosion than the balance of the vehicle. Rebuild or replace the auto transmission. (You can't kill the rest of the driveline, with as few miles as these trucks have on them.) New tie rod ends, u-joints, etc., king pins if warranted. Throw in new seat covers, bedding for the fire dog and a foghorn app.

And if it's still an "age" issue with the city's insuring agent, find a different insurer.

Most of this degree of "refurbishing" is standard maintenance, meaning that a 10-20 year old, second-line fire truck should be in nearly as good condition as a refurbished piece of equipment, and not so different from a vehicle with that "new fire truck smell," all other things being equal, such as pump flow rates, tank volume, etc.

City gov needs to be asking for a line item by line item justification for every part and piece of equipment, rather than just accepting the fashion statement of a truck "being too old."
