
The destruction in recent years of much of old Mecca, which dates back to the Ottoman empire and earlier, has aroused protests in the artistic community and beyond. It has been estimated that since 1985 about 95% of Mecca’s historic buildings have been demolished.

Now, however, the Saudi government is investing money in renovating around 30 of the country’s ­museums, and religious buildings in Mecca and Medina. “We’re serious about making tourism a major player in the economy and also in job creation,” says HRH Prince Sultan bin Salman, the head of the Saudi Commission for Tourism and Antiquities (SCTA), and last December he inaugurated the Kingdom’s first tourism and hospitality college, in Riyadh.

According to Prince Sultan, tourism contributes 28% to the country’s economy, and last year, tourism revenues rose 10% to SR61.8bn ($16.5bn), but this is “tourism” of a special sort, most of it being the pilgrimages to the holy cities of Mecca and Medina. The new tourism will be largely non-religious, and in December the government announced that it would begin granting tourist visas to encourage foreign visitors (who will, however, still be barred from entering the two holy cities unless they are Muslims).

One of the potential tourist attractions is Al Balad, the historic centre of Jeddah, which SCTA is working to conserve. Among its landmarks are the city walls and gates, several historic mosques, the old, dense neighbourhoods with their intricate alley ways, and the souks. Many of these buildings have suffered neglect or fire damage over the past 50 years. Now the SCTA and the Jeddah municipality are conducting a study of the renovation required, and developing a maintenance plan of the kind that would make Al Balad eligible to be declared a Unesco World Heritage Site.

At a meeting of Unesco’s World Heritage Committee in July 2011, Saudi’s bid to include Jeddah as a World Heritage Site was not put forward and Prince Sultan confirmed that the application had been withdrawn so that the area could be restored following flood damage.

To be included on the World Heritage List, sites must be of outstanding universal value and meet at least one of ten selection criteria. Al Balad meets at least two: it has outstanding examples of the types of architecture “that illustrate significant stages in human history”, and it “bears an exceptional testimony to cultural tradition”.

The SCTA resubmitted the application for Al Balad to Unesco this January and the World Heritage Committee is due to consider the application at its annual meeting in June.

All comments are moderated. If you would like your comment to be approved, please use your real name, not a pseudonym. We ask for your email address in case we wish to contact you - it will not be      made public and we do not use it for any other purpose.
