
Madeleine Albright, the first female Secretary of State, was the commencement speaker last weekend down the road at Dickinson College.

I trust it went well.

Condoleezza Rice, the second female Secretary of State, was to be the commencement speaker at Rutgers University, also last weekend.

That didn't go so well. Matter of fact, it didn't happen.

The latter Madame Secretary withdrew in the wake of protests of her role during the George W. Bush administration and the Iraq war.

I don't see the third female Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton, on any commencement speaker list. Perhaps the Benghazi debacle would have sparked voices of indignation from the other side in what is now the dreadful din of what passes as political discourse.

I would bet a year's pay there was not even the hint of mention of the bombings, supposedly forewarned, of American embassies in Kenya and Tanzania on Albright's watch.

But what difference does it make? Graduates will nod off, for one reason or another, party hardy after the silly rituals and muddle through the rest of their lives like most of us, learning things the hard way.

What these graduates will learn in their nanosecond information lives, is that intolerance is the name of today's game, and nobody seems to be refereeing the mouths that roar.

According to an op-ed column by Timothy Egan in Friday's New York Times (an interesting aside later) "thanks to the bigots, Smith College graduates will be deprived of the thoughts of Christine Legarde, chief of the International Monetary Fund."

She bagged it after some ninnies objected to the IMF being too cozy with "imperialist and patriarchal systems."

The liberal lifestyle does not suffer difference of opinion gladly.

It seems, as Egan mentions, the left is more adept at turning the screws, waterboarding light, to get its way, but the right can stifle with the best — or worst, I should say — of them.

Attorney General Eric Holder, the polarization poster boy, backed out of a speech at the Oklahoma Police Academy because of an outcry from pro-gun forces and some GOP politicos.

Egan was on the right track, chugging along about intolerance and longing for a "strong, witty defense of something I disagree with."

I've yet to witness a fistfight at a commencement ceremony, but the way things are going if some tasseled toughie takes exception to a speaker's comment but sees the nod of agreement from the newly minted know-it-all next to him, well, it's the making of a mortarboard melee.

Let's hope that doesn't happen with Katie Couric, Peyton Manning, Michael Bloomberg, Ed Rendell or President Barack and Michelle Obama on the dais uttering pearls of alleged wisdom to a bunch of mostly jobless kids with a mountain of debt.

On the aside reference above to the N.Y. Times: Jill Abramson, the paper's first female executive editor, was to be the commencement speaker yesterday at Wake Forest University.

She was fired last week, from the newspaper, that is.

The development might make for a better speech.

Methot's column returns to Monday next week.
