
Veterans Affairs Secretary Eric Shinseki pauses while testifying on Capitol Hill in Washington Thursday before the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee hearing to examine the state of Veterans Affairs health care.

WASHINGTON >> President  Barack Obama is "madder than hell" about reports that some medical  facilities run by the Department of Veterans Affairs have falsified data  to hide substantial delays for veterans to see doctors, and he has  demanded that the department's leaders "fix these things," the White  House chief of staff said in an interview aired Sunday.

"The  president is madder than hell, and I've got the scars to prove it, given  the briefings that I've given the president" on the subject, the chief  of staff, Denis R. McDonough, said on the CBS News program "Face the  Nation."

He said that the White House had "deployed additional  staff over to the Veterans administration to dig into this, to find out  if this is a series of isolated cases or whether this is a systemic  issue that we need to address with wholesale reform." He also called  attention to what he said had been substantial increases in resources  devoted to veterans care under Obama.

Veterans groups have  expressed mounting anger over reports that workers at some medical  centers kept secret waiting lists to disguise what could be waits of  months by veterans to see doctors. The department's inspector general is  working with federal prosecutors to ascertain whether criminal  violations have occurred.

"We realize that the administration has  done a lot for the veterans, but that isn't the issue," Dan Dellinger,  director of the American Legion, said on CBS. He said that under the  Veterans Affairs secretary, Eric K. Shinseki, "Accountability hasn't been there," adding that there had been "egregious mismanagement of the entire system."

McDonough gave no indication that the president was considering dismissing Shinseki, despite calls from several Republican lawmakers and some veterans that he do so.

Asked whether Shinseki  retained the president's full confidence and was the right person to  lead any reforms, McDonough replied that "he will continue to work these  issues until they're fixed."

When a CBS interviewer, Major  Garrett, pressed McDonough about why the president had not publicly  addressed the matter, McDonough replied: "Nobody is more outraged about  this problem right now, Major, than the president of the United States.  And he will continue to press as it relates to this question of timely  access to care until it is fixed."

The interview was taped Friday, a day after Shinseki,  in testimony before a Senate committee, declared that he himself was "mad as hell" about the reported allegations but said that he had no  intention of resigning.

I love Shinseki, but I think his time is over. He gave it his best shot.

Cannot really blame Shinseki for the shortcomings necessarily endemic to any government run healthcare delivery system. Just imagine how much worse things will be once we are all forced into the Obamacare public option.

Of course you can blame him. This notion that the guy on top does not have personal culpability for what happens on his watch is ridiculous.

And then the left wing pundits and administration hacks insisted that we "move on" from yet another "phony" scandal to focus on the things Americans really care about, such as climate change and income inequality (both at the bottom of almost every list actually compiled).

Finally, the President feels "madder than hell" over VA like a lot of veterans felt over the years. Where has he been?  It's so unfortunate that the VA which is one of the best funded  federal agency is so mis-managed and mis-led. The secret waiting list which has led to deaths is unconscionable.  It would also be interesting to know if the extremely long processing of VA  service connected claims and awaiting medical treatment have led to deaths of veterans especially those who have served in the Korean and Vietnam Wars.  VA hires more lawyers to deny VA benefits and they are allowed to be inconsistent in their application of prior rulings that affect veterans entitlement to service connected benefits. Fire the army of  lawyers and hire more doctors!

Over-staffed at management level as you state and not enough doctors and specialist actually to treat patients.  In 1955 spent over 2 weeks in the VA hospital in Fort Wayne, Indiana. Couldn't get discharged from the hospital as there were wanting for patients.  For a rectal problem, got a complete dental examination, plus all other tests and lab work.  That's something to laugh, but it's the truth.  When veterans die because of false lists, that's criminal.  Someone has got to go!  Even General Shinseki.

"President Barack Obama is "madder than hell" about reports that some medical facilities run by the Department of Veterans Affairs have falsified data to hide substantial delays for veterans to see doctors, and he has demanded that the department's leaders "fix these things," >>>Ohhhhh.  Technical jargon.  Now you KNOW he's serious.

another red line drawn in the air with disappearing ink.

I got dropped since the last time I went to a VA doctor was in 2007. I was told that I can't see a VA doctor until I get reassigned to a VA primary care provider. It has been almost three weeks now. Lucky I have regular health insurance and can go outside the VA system for my care. Unfortunately I can't get reimbursed by VA for outside care of my service-connected disability.

"Veterans groups have expressed mounting anger over reports that workers at some medical centers kept secret waiting lists to disguise what could be waits of months by veterans to see doctors. The department's inspector general is working with federal prosecutors to ascertain whether criminal violations have occurred." Start with tampering with an official government record, a crime whether it's the State of Federal government.

Madder than hell - I bet he is - What a joke!

Right.   Here's the predictable sequence:  Madder than hell, must investigate, stonewall investigation, not a smidgen of corruption, damn those Republican witch hunts, and finally, dude, that was like months ago.

Right.   Here's the predictable sequence:  Madder than hell, must investigate, stonewall investigation, not a smidgen of corruption, it's those Republican witch hunts again, and finally, dude, that was like months ago.

Don't tell us those evil Republicans are at it again!  First Granny, now this?  Sheesh.

So what?  Hang in there...just two and half more years of this crap.

Hang in there...just two and a half more years of this incompetence.

Obama has lied so many times and that is why it is hard to believe anything he says.
