
Earlier this spring a group of University of North Dakota students wore T-shirts featuring an image similar to the university's retired Fighting Sioux Indian head logo drinking from a beer bong, with the words "Siouxper Drunk."   They wore the T-shirts at an event in nearby University Park called Springfest that was not sponsored by the university.

Today, North Dakota University System Chancellor Larry Skogen is hosting a summit in the Sakakawea Room in the state capitol building in Bismarck entitled, "Creating an Atmosphere of Respect." The event was organized in conjunction with Scott J. Davis, Commissioner of North Dakota Indian Affairs, and university system leaders, tribal college leaders, students, and others have been invited.

"The appalling incident last weekend has highlighted that we have a long way to go in creating an atmosphere of respect for all cultures," said Skogen in a press release."This is not just a UND issue; it reflects on the entire university system. It's time to start a conversation about developing appropriate responses to such incidents, and we intend to lead that effort."

Of course, this is the latest in a series of incidents since the logo was retired under pressure from the NCAA. There had been ongoing controversy over UND's mascot for decades before that. I would suspect that, as a result of this summit, incoming college freshmen this fall will be getting some sensitivity training about Native American issues as part of their freshmen orientation.  Protesters are also demanding that the students be sanctioned and that there be a complete ban on use of the Sioux name and logo on the university campus.

This thing is getting blown way out of proportion.

"Protesters are also demanding that the students be sanctioned and that there be a complete ban on use of the Sioux name and logo on the university campus."

This tells you everything you need to know.  The people who think they "won" cannot stand that their "victory" is being invalidated because the People will not fall into line with what the System has supposedly declared to be "official".  And now, the force and violence begins.  The deceivers behind this are showing their true colors.  This is all about power and control, forcing their will on "those people".

Sounds like the administrators are fishing for something to do. Maybe we should give the administrators some office duties so they can get that feeling of accomplishment from their own sacrifices.

I feel the students used to have great allegiance and respect for their former symbol, but now with what us PC police have done with it, the former symbol they used to have great reverence for has essentially become a joke.

I believe it started more resentment towards the tribe by them wanting it banned.

really now....'offensive' really is in the eye of the beholder....really.
