
Sudanese security services arrested former Prime Minister Sadig al-Mahdi, prompting Sudan’s biggest opposition party to suspend talks with the government on improving the country’s political system.

Al-Mahdi, the head of the Umma Party , was arrested on May 17, his lawyer Ali Geylub said today by phone from Omdurman, the twin city of the capital, Khartoum. He’s being questioned on suspicion of undermining the constitution, spreading false news and sedition after he said that a Sudanese military unit deployed to combat unrest in the western region of Darfur had committed violations, Geylub said. He hasn’t been charged by prosecutors.

Al-Mahdi’s arrest shows the “regime has reneged on all its promises for dialog and returned to square one,” the Umma Party said in an e-mailed statement on May 17. The party vowed to mobilize supporters across Sudan to “peacefully show its opposition” to its leader’s detention.

Sudanese President Umar al-Bashir on Jan. 27 urged his political opponents to join a national dialog on the country’s future. While the Umma Party and two other major parties had agreed to take part, other groups such as the Communist Party and a coalition of armed rebels declined.

Al-Mahdi voiced concern that the use of Rapid Support Forces, fighters ordered by Sudan ’s National Intelligence and Security Services to combat rebels in Darfur and the country’s southern border states, was unconstitutional, according to his party’s statement.

The arrest was legally justified because of al-Mahdi’s “repeated statements critical of regular troops which have contributed to breaking the backbone of the rebels,” Yassir Youssef, a spokesman for the ruling National Congress Party , was cited as saying by state news agency Suna yesterday. The government wants dialog to continue and there should be a separation between “legal and political stances,” Youssef said.

Detaining al-Mahdi and alienating the Umma Party has “effectively sabotaged the dialog process,” according to al-Tayeb Zein al-Abedin, a politics professor at the University of Khartoum. “If Umma, with its influence and supporters, doesn’t participate then there’ll be no dialog,” he said today in a phone interview.

Sudan’s ruling party has faced dissent from former members for its handling of anti-government protests in September in which Amnesty International, the London-based advocacy group, said more than 200 people were killed. Former presidential adviser Ghazi Salaheddine Atabani is among those founding a new political party.

On April 6, al-Bashir pledged to release all political prisoners in the country and loosen restrictions on the media, steps he said would “prepare the atmosphere” for talks. He spoke at a meeting convened by the ruling NCP and attended by dozens of parties, including the Umma and PCP.

“There seem to be hawks inside the the ruling National Congress Party who are against the national dialog and wary of its results,” Zein al-Abedin said. Both they and the security services “could have a found an opportunity in using al-Mahdi’s statements to ruin the whole process,” he said.

Al-Mahdi, 78, first served as Sudan’s prime minister in 1966-67. He held the post again between 1986 and 1989, when he was deposed in the coup that brought al-Bashir to power.

Press spacebar to pause and continue. Press esc to stop.

U.S.

U.S.
