
Since 2007, we've expanded techPresident's staff and daily work to exhaustively look at how technology is changing politics, government and civic life. To provide the independent and deeply informed journalism we do, we need to find ways to support this growth that will allow us to keep the majority of our content free.

To subscribe to Personal Democracy Plus, visit personaldemocracy.com/subscribe . To make a contribution in the amount of your choosing, visit personaldemocracy.com/contribute .

In Australia, the government is trying to prevent public image crisis by teaching its public servants what not to share on social media through a cartoon superhero named Social Media Man . He flies around in a cape telling workers, "When in Doubt DON'T share."

Bloomberg reports , "Narendra Modi’s first declaration of victory didn’t come in the capital New Delhi , or his home state of Gujarat or even Hinduism’s holiest city of Varanasi, where he ran for parliament. It came in the form of a message on his Twitter Inc. account."

The New York Times writes , "Over the past few days, he has taken to Twitter to thank foreign leaders for their support, but the order in which he thanked them and one notable omission, later rectified, was more interesting than the content of the tweets themselves." The one picked last for the team: President Barack Obama.

Quartz explains , "India’s 2014 elections will be remembered for many reasons but especially this: Social media platforms, which have contended with government censorship since 2011, became vital political campaign tools and a place for free political expression and organizing."

The Wall Street Journal reports that Google is going to create a system for "right to be forgotten" after a European Court ruled Google must allow users to ask for certain searches to be removed.

The Next Web reports on the proliferation of safety apps like "I'm Alive" , which lets those in Lebanon notify their families that they are ok in times of disaster or during periods of violence. TechPresident's Jessica McKenzie covered this app back in January and also wrote about another app that aims to curb violence in Lebanon .

The Uber of Malaysia has arrived and it's called GrabTaxi.

MDPI , "Sharing Followers in e-Government Twitter Accounts: The Case of Greece"

Personal Democracy Media is grateful to the Omidyar Network and the UN Foundation for their generous support of techPresident's WeGov section.
