
Police Chief Nominee Kathleen O’Toole introduced herself with a promise.

 The former Police Commissioner of Boston, O’Toole has 35 years in policing. “I've paid my dues and worked as a beat cop, I was a robbery decoy on the subways in Boston,” she said in a one-on-one interview in Mayor Ed Murray’s office.

 O’Toole takes over a police department under a Justice Department consent decree to end the excessive use of force.

 “The consent decree is a good road map,” said O’Toole. She says she wants to “drive a sense of urgency” to meeting its requirements. “We need to drive the substantive change and the cultural change that's necessary to realize the true spirit of the consent decree,” she said.

If confirmed by the City Council, O’Toole will earn $250,000 a year as the first woman leader of the Seattle Police Department.

In the interview, she said that winning the public trust needed to fight crime is her top priority.

“Well I think we have to earn public trust and I think to the greatest extent possible it's by getting out, looking people in the eye face to face, listening closely to them,” she said.

 O’Toole says she wants to work with every community to create new neighborhood policing plans. And she’s opened the door to changes in the command structure, saying she’ll take 60-90 days to evaluate the commanders now in place.

In addition to being police commissioner in Boston, O’Toole has served as chief inspector of the Irish National Police force. She has also helped other US cities reform their police departments.

An 1883 City Charter Amendment abolished the position of marshal and created the new position of chief of police. The chief was elected by city voters for a one-year term.

The Freeholders City Charter of 1890 created a five-member Board of Police Commissioners to oversee police operations. The board, chaired by the mayor, appointed the police chief.

The Freeholders City Charter of 1896 abolished the Board of Police Commissioners and gave the mayor authority to appoint and remove the police chief.

A 1936 City Charter Amendment allowed the police chief to appointed for a five-year term.

A Freeholders City Charter adopted March 12, 1946 made the police chief term unspecified.

Thank you for registering!

We have sent you a confirmation email. Please check your email and click on the link to activate your account.

Thank you for registering!

We look forward to seeing you frequently. Visit us and sign in to update your profile, receive the latest news and keep up to date with mobile alerts.

Don't worry, it happens. We'll send you a link to create a new password.

We have sent you an email with a link to change your password.

We've sent an email with instructions to create a new password. Your existing password has not been changed.

To sign in you must verify your email address. Fill out the form below and we'll send you an email to verify.

Check your email for a link to verify your email address.
