
The utter failure of White House efforts on Syria are embarrassingly public. Lakdhar Brahimi, the U.N. special envoy who had brokered Syrian peace talks in Geneva, quit in frustration. U.N. Secretary General Ban Ki-moon singled out Syrian government stonewalling as a key cause of failure. So much for administration hopes of finding a political solution.

Also last week, French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius made an undiplomatic public critique of President Obama’s failure to use force as he had pledged if Assad used chemical weapons. Obama opted instead for a Russia-led accord that committed Assad to give up these weapons. Syria has not only failed to meet the deadline, but appears to have carried out 14 new chemical attacks — and is killing thousands with conventional weapons.

No change appeared imminent when, also last week, Syrian opposition leader Ahmad Jarba met National Security Adviser Susan Rice at the White House. Obama dropped by, but there was no photo op and no joint statement. The reason seemed clear.

Jarba has been urging U.S. officials to arm rebel groups with surface-to-air missiles. The opposition could use these missiles to shoot down helicopters that drop lethal barrel bombs on schools and clinics. This would shake Assad’s self-confidence and might lead to critical defections.

But a White House statement after the meeting made no mention of Jarba’s request, which is apparently still hanging. Rather, it noted that the president had praised Jarba’s coalition for trying to find a political solution to the Syrian crisis.

There will be no political solution unless Assad feels he is under great pressure, which he certainly doesn’t now.

The Syrian leader seems determined to hold on to a north-south swath of Syria and use whatever means necessary to drive civilians out of rebel-held territory. Syria’s mammoth humanitarian crisis will grow — already, one-third of the population is displaced — and continue to destabilize its neighbors.

Even more ominous, the northeast of Syria and the adjoining western part of Iraq have become a new jihadi haven containing groups linked to al-Qaida and some that are even more radical. “Syria has become a huge magnet for extremists,” U.S. intelligence Chief James Clapper warned in January. The longer this conflict continues, the more jihadis will arrive.

The war has attracted about 7,000 foreign volunteers to fight Assad, including hundreds from Belgium, Britain, France and other European countries (and possibly some from America). Vetted rebel groups linked with Jarba are already fighting the jihadis, as well as Assad, but they need more help.

A few surface-to-air missiles or a new jihadistan on the Mediterranean? It’s time for the White House to choose.

Any views or opinions presented below are solely those of the author and do not represent those of the Kearney Hub. We reserve the right to remove comments and or (if necessary) ban users that repeatedly fail to abide by the following rules. PLEASE NOTE: All discussions are closed automatically after 7 days.

Keep it clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language.

Disagree respectfully and stay on topic.

Don't threaten or abuse. Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated. AND PLEASE TURN OFF CAPS LOCK.

Be truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.

Be nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.

Advertising is not free. Do not use comments as a means to promote your website or business.

Be proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.

Share with us. We'd love to hear eyewitness accounts, the history behind an article.

Users will receive one warning.

Any offense thereafter will result in a ban.

© Copyright 2014, Kearney Hub , Kearney, NE. BH Media Group Holdings, Inc |  13 East 22nd Street, Kearney, NE 68848; 308-237-2152.
