
Share This Story!

Previous plans to put a station at Asheville Regional Airport are on hold .

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Montford is one of the closest neighborhoods to the city center but bulky fire engines face narrow, winding streets and other obstacles responding to calls there.

A 2008 fire that destroyed the main building at what was then Richmond Hill Inn was one of the most significant losses of a historic structure in the city’s recent history. Asheville Fire Chief Scott Burnette said it is impossible to know whether firefighters could have saved the building if the city had had a fire station closer to the inn.

ASHEVILLE – The Montford and Richmond Hill neighborhoods may get a $3.4 million new fire station in three or four years because response times to the areas just northwest of downtown fall short of city standards.

And previous plans to put a station at Asheville Regional Airport are on hold because it is unclear whether the General Assembly will remove the airport from within city limits.

The city has not identified property for the Montford/Richmond Hill station, Fire Chief Scott Burnette said.

Montford is one of the closest neighborhoods to the city center — and the city’s downtown fire station near City Hall — but bulky fire engines face narrow, winding streets and other obstacles responding to calls there.

The city fire department’s goal is to have a fire engine reach the scene of calls within 5 minutes and 12 seconds 90 percent of the time, Burnette said. That time is based in part on when a structure fire typically reaches the point at which the building cannot be saved.

The department says it meets that standard in less than half of calls from Montford and Richmond Hill.

Firefighters meet the standard less than 70 percent of the time in Montford/Richmond Hill, the airport and most of Airport Road within the city and parts of Enka.

The city had planned to build a station to improve response times in Enka, Burnette said, but dropped that idea when the city’s bid to annex parts of the Biltmore Lake development failed.

A proposed five-year capital plan city staffers submitted to City Council last week calls for spending $500,000 to buy a site for the Montford/Richmond Hill station during the fiscal year beginning July 1 and $2.9 million in the three fiscal years after that. It allocates another $600,000 to buy a fire engine for the station.

A fire station at 300 Merrimon Ave. used to cover Montford, but it closed in 1975, Burnette said, an apparent victim of budget cuts. It now holds offices for the Asheville-Buncombe Arson Task Force and the city will look at whether it can become a fire station again, although the site may now be too small, he said.

Firefighters from the downtown station respond to calls in Montford and those based on Louisiana Avenue cover Richmond Hill, an area that includes land along Pearson Bridge Road and Richmond Hill Drive.

David Patterson, outgoing president of the Montford Community Association, said shorter response times would be welcome but residents will probably also have concerns about noise and where the station will be.

City plans to put a fire station at the airport and control of the airport itself have stirred controversy in recent years.

In 2013, state Rep. Chuck McGrady, R-Henderson, introduced a bill that would de-annex the airport from the city, a move that would cost the city more than $190,000 a year in annual tax revenue.

McGrady said at the time he intended the bill to pressure the city into transferring some property at the WNC Agricultural Center to state ownership, something he said the city had agreed to do years before. He said the measure would not advance if the city works with the state on the transfer.

Manheimer said Monday that the city must get permission from the Federal Aviation Administration for the move and has applied for it but has not heard a response.
