
There are currently some Montana legislators who apparently think it’s a good idea to emulate Utah and Nevada to demand that federal lands here be ceded to the state.

They offer a variety of reasons, mostly centered on deriving more resource extraction from publicly owned lands or, in their misleading vernacular, “better management.” Having just been down in Utah only a few miles from the scene of the infamous Cliven Bundy stand-off near Mesquite, Nevada, it’s very clear that starting a land-ownership, resource-extraction war with the federal government is an extremely stupid idea that will divide our citizens, waste endless amounts of time and money, and in the end, ultimately prove to be a losing proposition.

67-year-old Nevada rancher who is more than a million dollars in arrears to the federal government for grazing his cattle on public lands for about 20 years without paying grazing fees.

Last month the Bureau of Land Management finally decided it had enough of Bundy’s freeloading and began a roundup of the 300-400 head of cattle liberally scattered over thousands of acres of federal land. To make a long story shorter, Bundy declared that the U.S. Constitution does not allow the federal government to own land, therefore he didn’t have to pay to let his cattle gnaw it down to the stubs in an area that had been set aside from open range grazing because of the endangered desert tortoise.

It’s quite the fairy tale that, apparently, Bundy believed, although it would be a long and difficult search to find someone who would consider him a constitutional scholar. But the Bundy family has been around that area for a number of years, as evidenced by their annual family reunion on the Arizona Strip that draws more than 900 people. Many of those relatives rode to Bundy’s defense, as did hundreds of others who brought weapons, called themselves a citizen militia, and threatened the federal government with armed rebellion if the BLM tried to take Bundy’s cows to recoup some of the million bucks he owes the government.

After spending an estimated million taxpayer dollars to round up Bundy’s cattle using helicopters, horses and ATVS – and despite the presence of a couple hundred federal law enforcement agents – the BLM backed down, fearing likely deaths should the showdown turn into a shooting war, and released the cattle back onto federal land.

Meanwhile, near Blanding, Utah, a county commissioner organized and led a group of ATV riders into Recapture Canyon, an area that is closed to motorized vehicles to preserve ancient Anasazi Indian ruins. While foot and horse travel is still allowed, and some 2,800 miles of nearby ATV trails are available on federal lands, the protesters apparently believe no place should be closed to the destruction of unregulated ATV use.

Once again, fearing violence from armed protesters, the BLM merely documented the violators and will turn to the courts to settle the illegal intrusion into this publicly owned archaeological treasure. Rack up yet more wasted taxpayer dollars to prosecute Utah’s scofflaws.

Adding the ultimate irony to the idiocy, Utah’s Iron County Commissioners threatened to start slaughtering wild horses if the BLM didn’t remove them from federal lands. They then joined a lawsuit by the misnamed Western Rangeland Conservation Association seeking an injunction to force the removal so, you guessed it, the federal lands could be grazed to profit private ranchers at the expense of publicly owned resources.

The grim realities of this second attempt at the Sagebrush Rebellion are now abundantly evident in Utah and Nevada. Armed militias, renegade ATVs, crazed commissioners, wildlife extermination and public lands scofflaws are not what most Montanans want for our future.

So why would we ever want to emulate such chaos and incur such costs? Perhaps those legislators who seek to bring this disaster to our state would be better off moving to Whacko Land and leave Montana’s law-abiding populace in peace.

Copyright 2014 missoulian.com. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

In contrast - In my humble opinion, if federal land owned by We the People  since its acquisition happens to sit within  boundaries designated later as Montana State, that land should be managed and protected by the federal government, with cooperation between the two entities, of course.  That's where I prefer my federal taxes be put to work - rather than as corporate welfare for multi-national corporations that make their profits extracting nonrenewable resources and leaving behind catastrophe zones like greenhouse gases and the Berkeley Pit.

@Claudius - surprisingly, I agree with you. Bundy is wrong, as is illegal immigration.

If Bundy was illegally grazing his cattle on public lands, then he was violating the law.  Which is exactly what two court judgments have determined.

He needs to be in jail.

Just look to N Dakota or other states where federal public land was turned over to states. Now there is only a small fraction of land left open to the public. The vast majority has been sold to private entities and closed to public access. It boggles the mind that the same people who say (scream) public land is closed to access if you can't drive in it are advocating the sagebrush scheme. Helllooo, use your heads for something more than a (cowboy) hat rack. How can these people be so short sighted? Also, if I had cattle wandering around the desert at large I would not want to contribute to the notion that lawless slaughter of wild horses wandering around the desert is OK. Another disconnect is that they claim to be patriots and fly the American flag while they do all they can to undermine the nation and its laws. What a perverse, contradictory, self-serving world they live in.

I think a lot of immigrants are working harder than many native Montanan.

No, you didn't know that, because in your world ignorance is a much better way to get through the day than with a collection of facts.

And in your world all those folks just get bunched right in there with illegals.  There's no difference to you - they're all bad.  But when pressed for a reason, I doubt you could give more than one or two, and that involving their simply being here.

Let's call these people what they are:  TERRORISTS.

Even the Cheney/Bush regime's DHS concluded that right-wing terrorism is on the rise in the United States as jobs are exported and the remnants of the Middle Class are swept away.

Obama really needs to stop being soft on these terrorists and send in the drones before we have another Oklahoma City or Benghazi on our hands.

If the immigrants are unlawfully residing in the US, then they are violating the law and need to be deported. This is not an open-borders country.

Hey, if God didn’t want cows in the desert eatin’ whatever free grass might still be there he wouldn’t have created the Bundy clan.

In the Hunger Games 2: Catching Fire, Katniss Everdeen and Peeta Mellark become targets of the Capitol after their victory in the 74th Hunger Games sparks a rebellion in the Districts of Panem.

And so it is with our Overlords in Washington DC struggling to contain the spread of the “Sagebrush Rebellion 2.0” to federal overreach in the lands known as the American West.

From the Guardian newspaper in London: “Several sheriffs in Colorado will no longer automatically detain people on behalf of federal immigration authorities in the latest challenge to U.S. policy on jailing undocumented migrants.

Sheriffs in the counties of Boulder, San Miguel and Mesa said this week they would not honour so-called detainer requests from Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) for people eligible for release.

The move emulated developments in Oregon, Pennsylvania, Washington state and elsewhere, a trend prompted by court rulings establishing that local authorities were not bound by Ice requests.

These recent court decisions have shown that detainers don’t have the power of law, Boulder’s sheriff, Joe Pelle, told the Guardian on Wednesday. “Sheriffs are put in a very awkward situation of trying to help the federal government with immigration policy but it has become really clear there are not a lot of safeguards.

The ACLU has long argued that county jails should not do ICE’s bidding by holding people when charges were dropped or when they completed their sentence.

The Oregon case concerned Maria Miranda-Olivares. In March 2012 she was found guilty of contempt of court and sentenced to 48 hours in jail but spent more than two weeks inside due to an ICE hold, despite posting bail and being eligible for release. The judge ruled her 4th amendment rights were violated.

The right and the left should stand in solidarity with our immigrant brothers and sisters against Washington DC bullying, for we are stronger together than divided.

Go George.

Commentary and photos submitted to the Missoulian (Missoulian.com)  may be published or distributed in print, electronically or other forms.  Opinions expressed in Missoulian.com's comments reflect the opinions of the  author, and are not necessarily the opinions of the Missoulian or its parent  company. See the Terms of Service and Privacy Policy for more information.

Our guidelines prohibit the solicitation of products or  services, the impersonation of another site user, threatening or harassing  postings and the use of vulgar, abusive, obscene or sexually oriented language,  defamatory or illegal material. You may not post content that degrades others  on the basis of gender, race, class, ethnicity, national origin, religion,  sexual orientation, disability or other classification. It's fine to criticize  ideas, but ad hominem attacks on other site users are prohibited. Users who  violate those standards may lose their privileges on missoulian.com .

No short policy such as this can spell out all possible  instances of material or behavior that we might deem to be a violation of our  publishing standards, and we reserve the right to remove any material posted to  the site.

Username & Password Required!
