
In the first two months of 2014, Lebanon appeared to be descending rapidly, almost inexorably, into a mire of alarming bloodshed and instability. An unprecedented wave of Al-Qaeda-linked attacks on civilians was accelerating, adding 34 deaths to the more than 50 men, women and children that such attacks had already killed in the second half of 2013.

And then, almost without anyone noticing, the attacks ceased. April 2014 was the first month to witness no explosion since October 2013. Even before then, a slowdown had been detectable – from five suicide bombings in February 2014 to two in March, the latter confined to the Syrian border region.

Sayyed Hasan Nasrallah, the secretary-general of Hezbollah, stated confidently in an April interview that “the risk of [further] explosions has diminished very significantly.” While this was a plainly political statement – aimed at retroactively justifying his group’s controversial military intervention in the Syrian war on the side of President Bashar Assad – it appears to have held up so far and has been echoed by the head of the Lebanese Army.

How, then, did a weak and fragmented state like  Lebanon manage to prevail against Al-Qaeda? The principal reason was that Al-Qaeda groups in Lebanon, the Nusra Front’s extension in  Lebanon and the Abdullah Azzam Brigades, united Lebanon’s most powerful actors against them. Foremost among these actors is Hezbollah, which, in addition to its paramilitary manpower and hardware, also maintains its own intelligence-gathering and telecommunications networks that allowed it to keep close tabs on the two groups. The Nusra Front and the Abdullah Azzam Brigades made hostility to Hezbollah their raison d’être, branding it a heretical “Party of Satan” (playing on its name, which means “Party of God”) and stating after every attack that they would continue until the party’s militants withdrew from Syria.

Then there are the state forces, which also run multiple and sizeable intelligence-gathering operations. The general outline of the response to the attacks, then, consisted of a manhunt carried out by state security forces in tandem with Hezbollah, based on their combined intelligence, with the blessing of the political establishment and its international backers, including the United States.

This manhunt involved both arrests and targeted killings. In March, a militant wanted for involvement in at least one of the car bombings in Beirut’s southern suburbs was gunned down in a Lebanese Army ambush in the mountainous outskirts of the town of Arsal, near the Syrian border.

Less clear were the circumstances of the October 2013 killing of a suspect wanted in connection with two car bombings. His vehicle was reportedly targeted by rocket fire in a remote area, also near Arsal. While state media described it simply as an “armed ambush,” Hezbollah was also accused.

Similar mystery surrounded the death in custody of Majid al-Majid, an internationally wanted Saudi leader of the Abdullah Azzam Brigades, credited with masterminding a double suicide attack on Beirut’s Iranian Embassy in November 2013. His demise in December, just nine days after his arrest by Lebanese Army Intelligence, was officially attributed to natural causes – but the Azzam Brigades blamed Hezbollah, who in turn pointed the finger at Riyadh.

State authorities also made swift progress on other fronts. A jihadist preacher from Arsal arrested in January 2014 reportedly informed the Army of the identity of Naim Abbas, a Palestinian refugee who became Lebanon’s most wanted suspect and was arrested the following month. Abbas was charged with overseeing two suicide bombings in Beirut’s southern suburbs and reportedly revealed the locations of several explosive-laden vehicles, which were subsequently intercepted by the Army. Various other associates of Abbas were also arrested.

As the arrests and indictments mounted, a clearer picture began to emerge of how the militants operated. Prosecutors identified a network linking the Palestinian refugee camp of Ain al-Hilweh in Sidon with Arsal. A common denominator in more than one attack was the fugitive Lebanese preacher, Sheikh Ahmad al-Assir, who went into hiding after his militiamen fought a bloody battle with the Army and Hezbollah near Sidon in June 2013. At least three suicide bombers claimed in video testimonies to have fought alongside Assir’s men in the clashes.

It was Arsal, however, that Hezbollah officials repeatedly branded as the principal gateway for extremists entering  Lebanon from Syria. Three kinds of checkpoints were set up around the town – two manned by the Army, and one by Hezbollah gunmen (aptly symbolizing the partnership between the two). Though the latter checkpoints became notorious for harassment and even violence against those passing through, and were eventually removed, the system did have some success as a barricade against attacks – both of the two most recent suicide bombings took place at these checkpoints.

With that said, the “mission accomplished” attitude struck by Nasrallah and the Army commander may yet prove premature, as well as counterproductive. For while Hezbollah may tout its recent advances in Syria’s Qalamoun region on the Lebanese border as a “grand victory” against “terrorism,” this will only harden the hostility felt toward the Shiite group by the many Lebanese Sunnis who continue to see the Syrian rebel cause as a just struggle against tyranny. While Lebanon’s Sunnis are on the whole moderate, any inflammation of sectarian animosity can only be a boon to the extremist minority, which has grown in numbers and resources as a result of the Syrian war – particularly after Hezbollah’s intervention there.

That Hezbollah has given no indication it intends to withdraw any time soon means a fundamental underlying cause of the jihadists’ proliferation is set to remain for the foreseeable future. Moreover, it is possible that Hezbollah’s displacement of Syrian rebels, including Al-Qaeda-linked militants, from Qalamoun has in fact had the effect of drawing them across the highly porous border into Lebanon. Recently, reports of the  Nusra Front conducting kidnappings in Arsal, following a series of skirmishes between Syrian gunmen and the Lebanese Army in the area, suggest this process may already be underway. In which case, Lebanon’s  Al-Qaeda problem may not have been resolved so much as merely interrupted.

A version of this article appeared in the print edition of The Daily Star on May 20, 2014, on page 7.

Your feedback is important to us!

We invite all our readers to share with us their views and comments about this article.

Disclaimer: Comments submitted by third parties on this site are the sole responsibility of the individual(s) whose content is submitted. The Daily Star accepts no responsibility for the content of comment(s), including, without limitation, any error, omission or inaccuracy therein. Please note that your email address will NOT appear on the site.

In the first two months of 2014, Lebanon appeared to be descending rapidly, almost inexorably, into a mire of alarming bloodshed and instability. An unprecedented wave of Al-Qaeda-linked attacks on civilians was accelerating, adding 34 deaths to the more than 50 men, women and children that such attacks had already killed in the second half of 2013 .

The principal reason was that Al-Qaeda groups in Lebanon, the Nusra Front's extension in Lebanon and the Abdullah Azzam Brigades, united Lebanon's most powerful actors against them.

Similar mystery surrounded the death in custody of Majid al-Majid, an internationally wanted Saudi leader of the Abdullah Azzam Brigades, credited with masterminding a double suicide attack on Beirut's Iranian Embassy in November 2013 . His demise in December, just nine days after his arrest by Lebanese Army Intelligence, was officially attributed to natural causes – but the Azzam Brigades blamed Hezbollah, who in turn pointed the finger at Riyadh.
