
Datuk Seri Najib Razak must speak out against religious extremists, or be seen as tacitly supporting the groups, Borneo-based opposition party Angkatan Perubahan Sabah (APS) said today.

Datuk Seri Najib Razak must speak out against religious extremists, or be seen as tacitly supporting the groups, Borneo-based opposition party Angkatan Perubahan Sabah (APS) said today.

“At this point, the prime minister must be brave enough to take decisive action to stop the attack on Christians and other races in Malaysia,” said APS president Datuk Seri Wilfred Bumburing in a statement today.

He said the damage wrought by radical groups, such as Ikatan Muslimin Malaysia (Isma) and Pertubuhan Pribumi Perkasa (Perkasa), would not be easy to rectify and would require Najib to stop them.

“The people are wondering and curious about the deafening silence on the part of the prime minister, whom they expect to lead the country. All we can hear is some ministers calling for calm and patience,” he said.

In February, Najib had written in his blog that there was no need to condemn extremists, as the solution was to just ignore them.

"Do not give these extremists the publicity they crave. If no one reports their actions, they will not gain the recognition they want.

“They will not be able recruit more people to their cause. They will fail. But it comes down to us. We don’t have to condemn them, just ignore them,” Najib wrote on his blog.

But as of late, Islamist group Isma has put Najib’s solution to the test by labelling Chinese migrants brought to Malaya as “trespassers”, and warning of “foreign races” intent on burying Islam.

Earlier this month, Universiti Teknologi Mara (UiTM) hosted a Christian-bashing seminar in which speakers warned of undercover Christian priests who were sent to Malaysia under different guises to proselytise and convert Muslims.

Copies of books published by the Selangor Islamic Council (Mais) on the threat of Christianisation and alleged evangelism among Muslims in Malaysia were also distributed to those present that day.

While calls for Putrajaya to end the religious extremism have grown louder, Putrajaya has remained silent over the mater.

Bumburing said today that Najib’s refusal to condemn the groups ran counter to the 1Malaysia slogan launched immediately after he became prime minister.

“Today, very few Malaysians take that slogan seriously because of what is happening. Some even interpret the silence of the government as tacit support for those sowing discontent, following admission from the government that it had funded Perkasa,” said Bumburing.

He said Perkasa chief Datuk Ibrahim Ali should be arrested for saying he was prepared to launch a “holy war”, while organisers of the UiTM seminar must be held accountable for the hate spewed by the speakers.

“For that, we are indeed thankful that the Christians, true to the teaching of Christianity, did not react to the attack,” said Bumburing. - May 19, 2014.

Somethings are like tooth decay. Something has to be done otherwise it will hurt. Staying silent definitely is hurting the Country more unless its deliberate by the Nations leader or leaders. Not Good!

Najib dare not speak out to the racists because he is one himself and he would lose out on his support if he did.  Like I said, he doesn't care about Malaysians as a whole.  He only cares about his constituency.  Najib dares to meet with Obama and take a selfie with him, a President who has endured a lifetime of racial abuse and slurs while just ignoring them & letting them go and still trying to help those who curse him as equally as everyone else; and yet Najib threatens a law suit when faced with similar circumstances on a very small scale comparatively.  Najib has NO HONOR in the face of such cowardly and bigoted actions, or INACTION as the case may be.  This quote still holds true, "Even if you choose not to decide...you still have made a choice."

For comparison: S Korean PM assumes all responsibilities for the ferry disaster, Malaysian PM shirks all responsibilities for MH370 by going on a RM1 chicken shopping spree.

He talks about moderation, but when it comes to action, his actions speaks otherwise.  Who can trust him?  If he is the PM of Malaysia, he must steer the nation in the direction it should go, and speak for ALL Malaysians, not just a certain group and ignore the others.  Otherwise, he cannot be the PM of the whole country where its people are made of different religion and ethnicity.  He might as well only be a spokesman for a particular group - and be no different from being a leader of only a certain group!  And every group will have its own leader. It is good to hear him talk about moderation, but if he does not act according to his words, then he should not pretend to be one that speaks of moderation.  It only makes him a liar at best.

To Ignore is ESCAPISM. The Government has to take responsibility for the damage and confusion these bigots are creating by their vile actions. They go to the extent of having "FORUMS" on religion at a public level and issue printed documents that ridicule the faith of others. Don't these agendas and gatherings require prior permission? They claim to bring respected clergy of other faiths who are in fact proven fakes to talk at their functions and yet no action is taken against them. The government cannot be hiding under skirts and say IGNORE when they REFUSE to take responsibility for stopping such conduct that violates the rights of the citizens of this land. They have the power but not the will or the courage to do it simply and cowardly because "they will not rock the boat".

Chinese do not want to support Najib. So be it! Everybody have a choice! Najib ==> just enjoy what you have now! You can't force people to work with you!

Najib is right, these extremists MUST BE IGNORED by all including the MEDIA.   The more the MEDIA gives them the space which they don't deserve, the MORE FREE PUBLICITY they directly get without having to earn it.  The more the MEDIA seeks DYSFUNCTIONAL PUBLICITY for itself by being SENSATIONAL in giving unnecessary coverage to these extremists which are present on BOTH SIDES OF THE DIVIDE, the more the general public will become perturbed & concerned with many taking sides hence making the situations much worse.  This CHAIN REACTION will never end as long as the MEDIA, either intentionally or inadvertently, carries on acting as the CATALYST to further encourage this extremism which can conveniently later be blamed on the Government Authorities.  The MEDIA, like it or not, is critical in making its FREE CHOICE of whether it should play THE DEVIL or otherwise - as it is, the MEDIA too has the powerful ability to expand the reach of its reportage in penetrating the society at large both in extent & depth either to nurture or poison its mind.   The LESS DISCERNING will dismiss this opinion without giving any rationalized logic in their response.  That is always a big pity.

Please help us to maintain a healthy and vibrant community by reporting any illegal or inappropriate behavior. If you believe a message violates the Code of Conduct please use this form to notify the moderators. They will investigate your report and take appropriate action. If necessary, they report all illegal activity to the proper authorities.
