
BONTOC, Mountain Province -- The Department of Education (DepEd) will administer the 2014 Special Philippine Educational Placement Test (PEPT) for free on June 12 in all schools division nationwide.

The administration of the 2014 special PEP test is in line with the Education for All (EFA) goal of DepEd and in commemoration of the 116th celebration of the Philippine Independence Day.

The PEP test is an examination conducted by DepEd for the out-of-school youths in the country who wish to continue their formal education.

Its coverage is for all Grade/Year level from Grade 1 to Fourth Year High School who wish to move to the next grade or year level in just one examination without undergoing the usual formal education program of the DepEd.

Registration shall be at the schools division office until May 30, 2014.

The Division Testing Coordinators shall ensure that documentary requirements of each registrant are complete, which include Form 137 for secondary students or Form 138 for elementary pupils, birth certificate or baptismal certificate, and two (1x1) ID pictures.

The PEPT will be administered based on data on school registration of out-of-school children and youth, who are the primary target, to determine their grade/level placement. Hence, they are encouraged to avail of the learning modules prepared by the Bureau of Alternative Learning System, Bureau of Elementary Education, Bureau of Secondary Education or any other learning resources available at the regional offices.

Published in the Sun.Star Baguio newspaper on May 20, 2014.

DISCLAIMER: Sun.Star website welcomes friendly debate, but comments posted on this site do not necessary reflect the views of the Sun.Star management and its affiliates. Sun.Star reserves the right to delete, reproduce or modify comments posted here without notice. Posts that are inappropriate will automatically be deleted.

Forum rules: Do not use obscenity. Some words have been banned. Stick to the topic. Do not veer away from the discussion. Be coherent and respectful. Do not shout or use CAPITAL LETTERS!
