
Since Virginia Democrats claimed statewide office in January, Governor Terry McAuliffe and Attorney General Mark Herring have moved quickly to reverse many Republican policies.

Gay marriage, abortion clinic regulations and in-state tuition for the children of illegal immigrants are just a few of the flashpoints that have prompted action by Democrats and protests from Republicans.

When Attorney General Mark Herring said he would not defend Virginia's ban on same-sex marriage, he earned liberals' praise and conservatives' scorn.

And Governor Terry McAuliffe recently did the same when he urged the Virginia Board of Health to review regulations that threaten to close many of the state's abortion clinics.

Virginia Tech Professor and WDBJ7 Political Analyst Bob Denton doesn't expect Virginia Democrats to stop there.

"I think you may see some of the aspects tightening as it relates to concealed weapons, some of the gun issues," Denton told WDBJ7.  "I think you're going to continue to see it in terms of women's issues broadly defined. I think you're going to see it in terms of some of the access as it relates to voting. "

Moves that will energize the Democratic base, Denton says, also motivate Republican opposition. Just last week, conservative Delegate Bob Marshall went public with his argument that Herring should be impeached.

"One thing about Delegate Marshall is he will say publicly what many people will say privately, or to each other," Denton said. "This is probably a good debate to have. People can think about what does it mean to raise your hand and say you support the Constitution, and your obligations therein, and then how independent can you be? "

The limits of executive power could also play a role in the continuing standoff over the state budget, if the House of Delegates and the State Senate fail to reach agreement on a new spending plan by July first.

No email address was supplied by .                                 To complete your registration on this site, please supply an address.

Please confirm or modify the email address to which you will have subscription offers sent.

For a more personalized experience, please supply the following optional information.
