
Update 11:30 p.m. EDT: The Thai army says 10 satellite TV channels must stop broadcasting, including stations run by pro- and anti-government groups, Reuters reports.

"The  army  asks that  satellite television  channels stop broadcasting in order to prevent the distortion of news, which creates misunderstanding," the  army  said in a televised statement.

 Also, Japan's government expressed "grave concern" following the imposition of martial law.

Update 9 p.m. EDT: Troops were patrolling in  Bangkok  and had secured television stations, one  Thai army  general said.

He said soldiers were patrolling in  Bangkok  and had secured television stations.

"We advise you to exercise a high degree of caution in Thailand due to the possibility of civil unrest and the threat of terrorist attack. You should pay close attention to your personal security at all times and monitor the media for information about possible new safety or security risks," the advisory read.

Update 8:05 p.m. EDT: Despite the  Thai army 's declaration of martial law, the caretaker government is still in office, an army spokesman told Reuters.

An announcement on Thailand's military-run TV said martial law had been invoked "to restore peace and order for people from all sides," asserting that the move "is not a coup," Agence France-Presse reported.

The army has also granted itself wide-ranging powers to enforce its decision, the BBC reported.

Thailand's army declares martial law in surprise move as country's political crisis intensifies, the Associated Press reports.

Earlier Monday, the acting prime minister was meeting with senators to search for a way out of the protracted political crisis, as anti-government protesters step up pressure to remove him and install a new administration, NDTV reported.

Thailand is stuck in political limbo following the dismissal of Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra and nine of her ministers on May 7 after a court found them guilty of abuse of power.

Commerce Minister Niwatthamrong Boonsongphaisan replaced her, but the anti-government protesters say he has no legal standing and want all remaining ministers of Yingluck's Cabinet to step down.

Developing story. Check here for updates.

Sign up to get the latest headlines delivered to your inbox every morning.
