
Two school-age residents of Calaveras County are the first confirmed cases of pertussis this year, county health officials announced last week.

Two school-age residents of Calaveras County are the first confirmed cases of pertussis this year, county health officials announced last week.

Pertussis, more commonly known as whooping cough, was believed eradicated but has made a comeback in recent years.

Through March, there have been 495 confirmed cases in California.

It is a bacterial disease of the lungs and throat and is most severe in the very young and the very old.

It starts with a runny nose and cough, which persists and grows worse. Many people have coughing fits, sometimes followed by a gasp for air that sounds like a whoop.

There is a vaccine that can prevent the disease, but it cannot be given to infants younger than 6 weeks old. To prevent them from getting the disease, health officials urge all adults and older children in their lives to be vaccinated so they won't spread the disease to the infants.

The highly contagious respiratory disease surged last year in many areas of California, with hundreds more cases reported in 2013 than in the previous year, according to state health officials.

Nationwide, 48,000 cases were reported to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention last year, more than in any other year after immunizations became widely available.

While flu has a specific season, pertussis does not, but it has a cyclical nature and tends to peak every two to five years. The last true epidemic in California was in 2009-10, with 9,000 people confirmed to have become infected.

Pertussis vaccine is available from the Calaveras and San Joaquin county health departments.

There is usually a cost for vaccines, but no one will be turned away for their inability to pay.

For information on obtaining a vaccination, call the Calaveras County Health Department at (209) 754-6460 or the San Joaquin County Health Department at (209) 468-3830.

Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.
