
Pavel Gubarev, the so-called people's governor of Donetsk republic, said the regions of southern and southeastern Ukraine will form the state called Novorossia, which will be independent from Ukraine, sooner or later.

"I can say with a high degree of certainty that this unification will take place and it will become the foundation of the future state of Novorossia," Gubarev said in an interview with Rossiya 24 television on Monday.

Responding to a question as to whether the administration of Donetsk region maintains relations with the other regions of southeastern Ukraine, Gubarev said "We are not only close in our opinions, we are virtually identical. We have established a political relationship, we have established military communications in issues relating to security, and also humanitarian connections," Interfax reports.

The southeast of Ukraine will not recognize the outcome of the presidential elections in Ukraine and is ready to defend its sovereignty," Pavel Gubarev, people's governor of Donetsk region, said.

"We believe that the May 25 presidential elections will not be legitimate. No doubt, we will not recognize these elections," Gubarev said in an interview with Rossiya 24 television on Monday.

"Their organization on the territory of our independent states is illegal and I think there won't even be any attempts to do that," he said.

Gubarev assumed that "the so-called civilized world - Europe, the US, and the international financial circles behind it - will recognize these elections."

"An enslaving association agreement will be signed and the projects to develop shale gas on the territory of Ukraine will continue. They will also encroach on the rights of Russian-speaking people and tear off St. George ribbons from war veterans. All these things alarm us," he said.

Speaking about dialogue with the Kiev administration, Gubarev said that "in this configuration of the government, negotiations with the foreign state, Ukraine, which is our neighbor, are impossible."

"These people are continuing a terrorist operation against our people. Several attempts have been made to reach agreements. They failed," Gubarev said.

"To begin dialogue, the Kiev junta has to leave and a government composed of sane people, with whom you can negotiate and reach agreements without fearing that these agreements will not be fulfilled, needs to be formed in Ukraine," Gubarev said.

The Donetsk region self-defense forces are ready to "respond appropriately to attempts of military aggression against our young, newly formed state," he said.

"We became legal via a referendum. We are now de facto an independent sovereign territory. We have a lot of work to do to form our new administration in our regions," Gubarev said.

All rights reserved.
