
Eau Claire (WQOW) - A charter bus catches fire in Eau Claire, and many high school students from Eau Claire North were on board for a field trip.   Everyone is okay, but now there are questions about whether students should've been on the bus in the first place.

"We're watching these kids load up on a bus and there's a flat tire," says Eau Claire resident Lisa Szymoniak. She says she noticed the problem before the kids came out.

"I called the high school and they said they'd have someone go out and take a look at it," says Szymoniak. "I stood and watched and waited and waited and waited and never saw anybody come out and then we watched that bus drive away with all those kids on it."

A few minutes and miles away from North High School, the bus pulled over to the side of the road as smoke poured out of the back.

"It was definitely a rear tire problem," said Eau Claire Battalion Chief Tim Deziel.

"On a bus like that, you don't know where the engine or fuel tanks are. These were flames coming out the back tires and out the back where the engine is. I was hesitant and got out of my office just in case there was some kind of an explosion, I didn't want any glass shattering in on me," said Lacey Forster of nearby business Safe-Fast, Inc.

All 37 people on the bus were able to get off the bus safely. Firefighters say everyone handled it well.

"We were very fortunate in the fact that these were high school students with their chaperones," said Battalion Chief Deziel. "The bus was fully evacuated by the time our firefighters arrived, which was good because we had flames leaping up from the back and smoke filling the interior of the bus."

The fire department says the driver indicated he was on his way to change out buses when the fire started.

"The biggest concern was that they drove it away with a flat tire loaded with children," said Szymoniak. "The kids' safety should have been the first issue."

"We are concerned they got on the bus when there was a known problem," said Principal Valk.  This could've been tragic."

Eau Claire (WQOW) - Some North High School students had a dramatic start to their field trip Monday morning when the bus they were riding in caught fire.

The Eau Claire Fire Department says there were 32 students, 37 people total, on a bus heading to a field trip in Minneapolis, when the bus driver realized there was a problem with a rear tire. The driver was on the way to switch to a new bus, when the tire caught fire. It happened just before 8 a.m. on Hastings Way in front of Pizza Del Re.

All the students were able to get off the bus safely.  The group waited on a bike path on the west side of Hastings for about 45 minutes until another bus picked them up and took them to their field trip.

The fire department says it took crews about a half hour to put the fire out.  It's still not determined exactly what caused the fire. Traffic headed southbound on Hastings was rerouted for awhile on Seymour Rd.

**Video courtesy of Pizza Del Re.

Eau Claire (News Release) - The Eau Claire Fire Department was dispatched to a tour bus on fire in the 900 block of North Hastings Way around 7:55 a.m. Dispatchers reported the bus was being evacuated at the time of the call.

When firefighters arrived they found a tour bus in the southbound lane of Hastings Way along the shoulder of the roadway. Heavy black smoke was coming from the back wheel area of the bus. The tires of the bus were also burning at this time. All of the passengers of the bus were standing along the bicycle trail on the westside of Hastings Way.

The bus was a charter bus for a school trip from North High to Minneapolis with students and staff on board. A total of 37 people were on the bus at the time of the fire, all getting off without any injuries.

The bus driver reported he had a problem with one of the back tires and was on his way to change out buses when the fire started. A second tour bus arrived on scene and the students and staff continued on their way to Minneapolis.

All Hastings Way southbound traffic was diverted at Seymour Road until the tour bus was removed from the roadway.

All content © Copyright 2000 - 2014 WorldNow and WQOW. All Rights Reserved.
