
Here's a look back at the 11 horses who've managed the feat. Sir Barton was the first horse to earn the Triple Crown of Thoroughbred Racing, as it would come to be known, by winning the Kentucky Derby, Preakness Stakes and Belmont Stakes in 1919.

More than a decade later, Gallant Fox captured the Triple Crown in 1930.

Omaha -- the son of Gallant Fox -- won the Triple Crown in 1935. Here, jockey Pat Beasley rides the horse in 1936.

War Admiral took the Triple Crown in 1937. He won 21 of his 26 career starts.

Whirlaway (here with horse Robert Morris) won the Triple Crown in 1941 and was named Horse of the Year.

Count Fleet, who won the Triple Crown in 1943, is adorned with a garland of flowers after winning the Preakness Stakes in 1943.

Assault won the Triple Crown in 1946.

Citation at Belmont Park in 1947. He would win the Triple Crown the following year.

Secretariat, left, heads to victory with jockey Ron Turcotte at the Kentucky Derby in 1973. Considered by many to be the greatest racehorse of all time, Secretariat still holds the record for the fastest times in all three Triple Crown races. He won the Belmont Stakes by an astounding 31 lengths.

Jockey Jean Cruguet guides Seattle Slew to the Triple Crown at the Belmont Stakes in 1977.

Jockey Steve Cauthen rides Affirmed to victory at the Belmont Stakes in 1978.

(CNN) -- Breaking nose news!

California Chrome CAN wear a nasal strip on June 7 in the Belmont Stakes, the third leg of horse racing's "Triple Crown," track officials confirmed on Monday, so we can all breathe a little easier about him now.

Chrome can't win the Kentucky Derby because: 1) he is the odds-on favorite to win, and the derby's favorite "never" wins, and 2) he is a California-bred, and a California horse "never" wins the derby.

He was going to lose it by a nose.

Literally.

California Chrome wears a nasal strip , not unlike human beings who want to keep dust and dirt and true grit and other stuff that's hazardous to your health out of their sinus passages.

He has won six races in a row with a nasal strip across his handsome proboscis. It obviously gave this California smog-breather a little breathing room.

But whoa ... a possibility suddenly existed that Chrome wouldn't be permitted to wear a nasal strip for the Belmont race, which at a mile and a half is the longest of the Triple Crown events and which is run on Long Island in New York, which has been known to have a speck of dust or two.

The last time this nasal-strip business came up, a horse named I'll Have Another had just won the Kentucky Derby and Preakness to become the four-legged darling of 2012. If it could win the Belmont next, it could become the 12th horse in the history of thoroughbred hoofbeats to win that Triple Crown.

Not to mention the prize money and the millions of dollars in stud fees that went along with it.

California Chrome, ridden by Victor Espinoza, crosses the finish line to win the Preakness Stakes at Pimlico Race Course Saturday.

Back in 2012, Belmont's racing officials had notified I'll Have Another's handlers that a nasal strip would be prohibited. It is up to each organization's discretion whether to permit such a thing, so Belmont's decision makers, along with those from the New York Racing Association, had the final say.

It became moot when I'll Have Another was withdrawn on the eve of the Belmont, unable to go for "another" due to a sore tendon.

This weekend, the nose thing reared its ugly head again.

Chrome's trainer, 77-year-old Art Sherman, pointed out Sunday that there was a distinct possibility the horse's owners might yank their fast horse right out of the race.

He said a nasal strip had been the idea of Perry Martin, the horse's co-owner, who has been thoroughly pleased with the thoroughbred's success since strapping it onto his schnoz.

"He might not run if they say you can't run with a nasal strip," Sherman suggested.

Martin is an unpredictable guy. He didn't even attend Saturday's running of the Preakness. The horse's other owner, Steve Coburn, a walrus-mustached Wilford Brimley lookalike in a cowboy hat, indicated his partner Martin was still doing a burn over what he deemed to be inhospitable treatment at Churchill Downs during the Kentucky Derby.

It wasn't long after California Chrome's impressive victory (by a length and a half) in Maryland that the downside of the Louisville experience, two weeks before, reared its ugly head. "Even though we won (the Kentucky Derby), it was a bad day for my partner and his family," Coburn blurted out on Martin's behalf.

One complaint reportedly was the way the needs of Martin's mother, an elderly woman in a wheelchair, were not met after Martin went to great effort to bring her to Churchill Downs for the race. By coincidence, Ron Turcotte, the jockey of the great Secretariat during the 1970s, also is in a wheelchair and complained about Churchill Downs' indifference to his situation. Turcotte implied that he would never go to a Kentucky Derby again.

"Handicap" is strictly a horse-race term in this generation, no longer a permissible word in regard to human physicality. Oh, though, it sure is becoming a topical double-entendre these days at Churchill Downs.

Sherman said of nasal strips, "A lot of horses all over California wear them all the time ... Maryland lets you use them."

Furthermore, harness-race horses -- trotters and pacers pulling sulkies -- apparently do have permission in New York to wear nasal strips as well.

Nope, they say OK.

California Chrome, the coast is clear. And so is your nasal cavity, so on you go to the third and last run for everlasting glory.

Triple Crown winners thus far: Sir Barton (1919), Gallant Fox (1930), Omaha (1935), War Admiral (1937), Whirlaway (1941), Count Fleet (1943), Assault (1946), Citation (1948), Secretariat (1973), Seattle Slew (1977) and Affirmed (1978). That's it.

I wasn't among the 123,469 spectators at Pimlico who saw Saturday's running of the Preakness. I did, 3,000 miles away, go to Santa Anita, basically the "home track" of California Chrome, to watch the race alongside thousands of his fans, many of whom wore a free purple or green California Chrome cap they were given as they entered the track.

It was a sunny, smog-free day under a beautiful blue sky, so I saw no human in a face mask.

If the West Coast's favorite horse didn't get to run in New York because of what he didn't get to wear, a lot of these people would have had a new reason to hold their noses. They'd have all been saying, "This stinks."

Luckily, no hanky-panky is happening and Chrome is good to go. The nose mess has been cleared up.

Julian Zelizer says it's not crazy to think Mitt Romney would be able to end up at the top of the GOP ticket in 2016.

Roxanne Jones and her girlfriends would cheer from the sidelines for the boys playing Little League. But they really wanted to play. Now Mo'ne Davis shows the world that girls really can throw.

It apparently has worked for France, say Peter Bergen and Emily Schneider, but carries uncomfortable risks. When it comes to kidnappings, nations face grim options.

John Bare says the Ice Bucket Challenge signals a new kind of activism and peer-to-peer fund-raising.

James Dawes says calling ISIS evil over and over again could very well make it harder to stop them.

As the inquiry into the shooting of Michael Brown continues, critics question the prosecutor's impartiality.

Newt Gingrich says it's troubling that a vicious group like ISIS can recruit so many young men from Britain.

David Weinberger says Twitter and other social networks have been vested with a responsibility, and a trust, they did not ask for.

John Inazu says the slogan "We are Ferguson" is meant to express empathy and solidarity. It's not true: Not all of us live in those circumstances. But we all made them.

Retired Lt. Gen. Mark Hertling says he learned that the territory ISIS wants to control is amazingly complex.

Cerue Garlo says Liberia is desperate for help amid a Ebola outbreak that has touched every aspect of life.

Eric Liu says Republicans who want to restrict voting may win now, but the party will suffer in the long term.

Jay Parini: Jesus, Pope and now researchers agree: Wealth decreases our ability to sympathize with the poor.

Judy Melinek offers a medical examiner's perspective on what happens when police kill people like Michael Brown.

It used to be billy clubs, fire hoses and snarling German shepherds. Now it's armored personnel carriers and flash-bang grenades, writes Kara Dansky.

Ruben Navarrette notes that this fall, minority students will outnumber white students at America's public schools.

Humans have driven to extinction four marine mammal species in modern times. As you read this, we are on the brink of losing the fifth, write three experts.
