
This post has been updated. It was only hours after reports that San Antonio Mayor Julian Castro would  be picked by President Obama to act as the administration's next Housing and Urban Development secretary that Castro's next job was proposed: vice president of the United States in a Hillary Rodham Clinton administration. A move from the Cabinet to the the presidency or vice-presidency, however, is not something that happens very often.

Henry Cisneros, former HUD secretary (and former San Antonio mayor), told Politico that Castro's "learning the breadth of the issues and the nation" while serving in the Cabinet could land him a spot on a possible Hillary 2016 ticket. (This is how many levels of "maybe" this story goes: the possible next HUD secretary could possibly be a VP pick for a possible presidential campaign.) But, Politico's Edward-Isaac Dovere points out, HUD is "not traditionally a very visible [role] — it’s not as if most Americans could name [current HUD Secretary Shaun] Donovan, or any of the past HUD secretaries."

Update: We forgot James Buchanan, who was at State eight years before being elected president in 1856, and Henry Wallace, below.

You'll notice two things about that list: First, good news for Hillary Clinton: Secretary of State is the most common launching pad; second, Housing and Urban Development does not make an appearance.

It does, however, if you look at losing vice presidential candidates. Going back 100 years, only three other losing vice presidential candidates served in the Cabinet. Edmund Muskie, the Democratic pick for VP in 1972, served as Secretary of State under Carter (briefly). Frank Knox, Republican VP candidate in 1936, served as Secretary of the Navy (when it was a Cabinet-level position). Both of those candidates, incidentally, served in the Cabinet after they lost their races.

There's only one HUD secretary who's run on a presidential ticket. In 1996, former secretary Jack Kemp joined Bob Dole's ticket. They lost, badly — to Bill Clinton.

Philip Bump writes about politics for The Fix. He previously wrote for The Wire, the news blog of The Atlantic magazine. He has contributed to The Daily Beast, The Atlantic, The Daily, and the Huffington Post. Philip is based in New York City.

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
