
PUNE: The election results have triggered demands for changes in the city units of political parties. Leaders have started making demands for fresh faces on key posts and have also started speaking against party workers who played truant during the elections to ensure they don't get tickets for the assembly elections.

After Anil Shirole's massive win, a section of party leaders have demanded that the newly elected MP should vacate the post of city unit chief and make way for a new face. Some party leaders have approached BJP state leaders including Gopinath Munde and state president Devendra Fadnavis with the demand. However, Shirole supporters said that Munde wants the new MP to continue on the post.

A few supporters of Shirole and also those following MLC Vinod Tawade in the city BJP have also demanded that a new face replace the Kasba assembly segment MLA Girish Bapat.

Post-poll Congress is a divided house in Pune. Sections of party workers are demanding that the party high command should fix the responsibility of the party's defeat and ask city office bearers to resign from their posts. Some party corporators said that the Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee (MPCC) should dissolve the city unit and appoint new officials. Some leaders, including former deputy mayor Deepak Mankar, have already demanded chief minister Prithviraj Chavan's resignation for the debacle in the Lok Sabha poll. However, other section of the party have stood firm with Chavan.

"There is no question of demanding the CM's resignation. He has taken all efforts during elections and he was one of the leaders who travelled across the state to campaign for the party," party spokesperson Gopal Tiwari.

Maharashtra Navnirman Sena's (MNS) humiliating defeat in elections has brought simmering differences within the party to the fore.

According to sources, party candidate Deepk Paigude has requested party president Raj Thackeray to take disciplinary action against some of the senior corporators for their 'non-cooperation' during elections.

Paigude supporters said that he has also demanded that while nominating party candidates for state assembly elections, the party should not give tickets to those who played truant in Lok Sabha polls.
