
A coalition led by Iraq 's Shia prime minister has emerged as the biggest winner in the country's first parliamentary elections since the US military withdrawal in 2011, electoral officials said.

The results boost Nouri al-Maliki 's chances of a third term in office, although he still needs to approach other groups in order to secure a broader majority coalition inside parliament that will make the first attempt to form a government.

The parliamentary election was the third since the 2003 US-led invasion that removed Saddam Hussein's Sunni-led regime and brought the long-oppressed Shia majority to power. It came at a perilous moment for Iraq, with the country sinking back into a brutal cycle of bloodshed that claimed more than 8,800 lives last year alone.

The resurgence of sectarian violence, which nearly tore Iraq apart in 2006 and 2007, is being fuelled by deep-seated divisions within Iraq and by the three-year-old civil war in neighbouring Syria.

More than 9,000 candidates from across Iraq vied for the parliament's 328 seats in the election on 30 April. Electoral officials reported that 62% of the 22 million eligible voters cast ballots – the same turnout as in the last parliamentary elections, in 2010.

The results released on Monday by the Independent High Electoral Commission showed that Maliki's State of Law coalition gained 92 seats, winning in 10 of 18 provinces. He would need to build support from a total of 165 seats to have a shot at remaining prime minister.

The Shia cleric Ammar al-Hakim's al-Muwatin bloc was second with 29 seats, followed by Muqtada al-Sadr's main al-Ahrar bloc with 28 seats. Two smaller parties of Sadrist supporters drew a combined six additional seats and would be likely to team up with al-Ahrar in a broader coalition.

The Sunni parliament speaker Osama al-Nujaifi's Mutahidoun ended up with 23 seats, while the former prime minister Ayad Allawi's Sunni-backed al-Wataniya list won 21 seats. The Sunni deputy prime minister Saleh al-Mutlaq's al-Arabiya list gained 10 seats.

Negotiations to choose a new government are likely to drag on for weeks, if not months. It took political rivals nine months to form the last government, in 2010. Even then, MPs failed for years to agree on the candidates for the ministers of defence and interior. Maliki retains the role of acting interior minister to this day.

Under Iraq's constitution, the president must ask the new parliament to convene 15 days after results are ratified. Iraq's current president, Jalal Talabani, suffered a stroke in late 2012 and has largely withdrawn from public life, but is not expected to delay the government formation process. His is a largely ceremonial role.

Once parliament convenes, MPs then must choose not only a new prime minister but also a president and speaker of parliament.

Our editors' picks for the day's top news and commentary delivered to your inbox each morning.
