
Albany County officials have recently tried to reassure the public over concerns about the crude oil trains that travel through the city. Officials have acknowledged that the trains pose a significant risk but they also admit that depending on the nature of an accident, there’s little they can do.

A recent Common Council meeting at the Albany Public Housing Authority tried to address residents’ fears and concerns.

“It would be almost unrealistic to think that we could fight a 100 tank car filled with oil to fight that fire, it’s not gonna happen, and nor do I think that any municipality in the country can fight that,” said Albany County Sheriff Craig Apple.

Along with city officials from the police and fire departments, Apple spoke quite bluntly about the county’s limited abilities to handle a train fire. He cited limited funding for resources like firefighting foam or upgrades to first responder radio systems that would enable communication with other counties, should additional help be needed in the event of disaster.

As for now, Sheriff Apple says the county can handle a small accident.

And letting it burn is the same approach officials in Lynchburg, Virginia took after 15 cars of an oil train derailed and ignited on April 30.

While an explosion or fire remained the subject of most attention at this Common Council meeting, the DEC was also on hand to discuss issues around air quality around the crude oil trains.

Albany County Health Commissioner James Crucetti says they’re monitoring air quality at numerous locations around the Port of Albany.

“We’re taking a comprehensive approach, looking at any potential emission in the heating or oil process from beginning to the end trying to access emissions at different control points,” Crucetti said.

The commission’s looking at over 40 different volatile organic chemicals including the cancer causing benzene.

Should an accident occur, Crucetti says the Health Department will be on hand to assist in public safety over smoke or released vapors.

Residents like Charlene Benton, president of the Ezra Prentice Houses tenants association say they still want more through information about protecting themselves and preventing an accident.

Above all, Albany Sheriff Apple says they’re not trying to create mass hysteria by discussing how a potential train fire would be handled.

“We’re not supporting the trains, we’re not fighting against the trains, we’re stuck with the trains,” he said.

The Innovation Trail is a collaboration between Six upstate New York public media outlets, led by WXXI, along with WBFO/WNED, WRVO, WSKG, WMHT and North Country Public Radio. The initiative, funded by the Corporation for Public Broadcasting (CPB), will help the public gain a better understanding of the connection between technological breakthroughs and the revitalization of upstate New York's economy. Reports will focus on research, development, education, funding, and policy issues around emerging fields like energy, information technology, biotech, nanotech, and photonics.
