
Personalize your weather by entering a location.

Sorry, but the location you entered was not found. Please try again.

MERS is on the Move. Over the weekend, doctors confirmed the first U.S. case of the potentially deadly virus passing from one person to another.

MERS stands for Middle East Respiratory Syndrome. That's where it originated, but it's starting to spread. The Centers for Disease Control says an Illinois man tested positive for the disease after two business meetings with an infected man, known as patient "number one." Dr. Richard Besser, ABC's Chief Health & Medical Editor says the first known peron-to-person transmission of MERS in the U.S. is surprising, "The fact that the individual who got infected only spent 40 minutes with the MERS patient -- and the contact involved a handshake and face to face conversation -- it surprises me that was enough to allow for transmission." He wasn't hospitalized. Tests show his body fought off the virus.

But health officials in more than 30 states, including California, are trying to track down anyone who came in contact with both men, along with patient "number two" who traveled to Orlando from Saudi Arabia earlier this month. David Luchini, assistant director at the Fresno County Department of Health says local health departments are on alert: "We made sure we were aware of what was happening, so we've sent out notices to our providers, and if they do feel it's a possibility to contact us so we can work with them and if we do need tests we can send them to the state lab." Luchini says it's still easier to catch the flu or a common cold, but if not treated MERS can be deadly.

The virus has killed more than 170 people in the Middle East.  But there's a concern that MERS is going to spread more rapidly. Travel to the Arabian peninsula is about to pick up, with pilgrimage holidays and Ramadan, coming up at the end of June. Which could increase the number of people exposed to the virus, who would then bring it back to the U.S.

Dr. Besser wants to remind the public: "If you travel anywhere around the world and you get sick within two weeks of coming home, make sure to immediately tell your health care provider where you've traveled. So you can be treated properly and isolated if need be, and you're not gonna put other people at risk." Symptoms include fever and a cough, but can become severe and lead to pneumonia and kidney failure. Like most viruses, doctors say there's no drug that can cure it -- just treatment.
