
Vested with mayoral control over the schools as the means to raise student achievement, Mayor Bill de Blasio has chosen instead mayoral collaboration with the teachers union.

The emerging provisions of the tentative contract de Blasio negotiated with the United Federation of Teachers demonstrate that he granted large raises to the teachers while surrendering important management authority to the union.

The mayor’s generosity to UFT President Michael Mulgrew can be seen in only two ways: First, as a down payment on political support. Second, as proof that de Blasio holds a fairy-tale belief that labor harmony will prompt teachers to up their games, thus improving student learning.

Never in history has this happened. And it will not happen now, as certified by Mulgrew’s admission that he deliberately “gummed up” former Mayor Bloomberg’s drive to hold teachers accountable for raising achievement.

De Blasio has now gummed things up further.

Unwanted teachers: Bloomberg won a landmark reform that gave principals power to hire teachers as they saw fit, not according strictly to seniority. No longer were longtime teachers able to walk into a school and demand to bump someone who had been on the payroll for less time.

One result was that, for the first time, so-called excessed teachers had to search for jobs. Large numbers discovered that no principal in the city wanted them — if the excessed teachers looked for jobs at all. Many simply stayed on the payroll in the Absent Teacher Reserve pool.

Rather than demand that ATR teachers be dismissed if they failed to find a job in, say, two years — as happens in other cities — de Blasio agreed to a system that will pressure principals to hire idled instructors they have passed over time and again.

The Department of Education will assign ATR teachers to open slots, with principals able to reject, after as little as one day on the job, the instructors foisted on them. A principal may also write up an ATR teacher for dismissal — but only for “problematic behavior,” not incompetence. If a teacher gets two such reports, the department can move to fire the individual, subject to arbitration that almost always rules against termination.

The deck is so stacked, principals will never bother.

Teacher evaluations: As long as a principal likes the way certain teachers conduct their classes, they will be presumed to get an “effective” rating, even if their full scores place them in the “ineffective” category, and thus in danger of dismissal.

At the same time, de Blasio scrapped a Bloomberg system of bringing in “independent” evaluators to review the fairness of teacher ratings. De Blasio shifted to “peer” evaluators, meaning that the check will be done by UFT members.

The tentative contract defines “parental engagement” as including everything from face-to-face meetings to “creating content” for school answering machines. Acknowledging that teachers might not be able to fill the 40 minutes allotted to parents, the deal allows for activities such as grading tests.

Rewarding failure: Many schools in poor neighborhoods, often the lowest-performing schools, have difficulty attracting top teachers. Reformers have often called for boosting the salaries of excellent teachers to convince them to go where they are most needed.

De Blasio went one step further. He agreed to raise compensation in designated high-needs schools — and then to give the bonus to everyone who works in them, even if they are rated just above ineffective.

The price tag on the teachers’ contract was hefty. De Blasio agreed to shell out $3.4 billion in back pay and to provide raises totaling an additional 10% over the coming four years. He is hoping to reap $1.3 billion in health care savings from the teachers.

As for the kids, they got next to nothing.

© Copyright 2014 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.
