
A Russian children's rights official has called for the country to be sealed off with an "Iron Curtain" to preserve traditional values and block Western influences, a news report said.

At a conference on Russian family values in the Urals city of Chelyabinsk, Irina Medvedeva, an official from the office of the children's rights ombudsman, also lashed out at the juvenile justice system, describing it as a breeding ground for political dissent and a way to strip parents of control over their children, the Novy Region news agency reported.

It was not immediately clear whether the target of her objections was the judicial system that deals with crimes committed by minors, or social services that protect children from parental abuse.

"Juvenile justice is a typical form of fascism, it's evil, atrocious. It is a way of turning normal children into Janissaries [rebels] and future leaders and extras of Maidan," she was quoted as saying, in a reference to the focal point of street protests against the administration of former Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych.

Medvedeva, who is also the director of the Public Institute for Democratic Security, also launched a scathing attack on Western values and proclaimed her support for Russian isolationism.

"The most positive thing now would be, of course, an Iron Curtain," she was quoted as saying. "The West is a terrible garbage dump, even though it smells of various delicious things."

Calls for protecting Russians from supposedly pernicious Western values have intensified in the wake of the protests that toppled Yanukovych's Moscow-backed administration and Western sanctions over Russia's takeover of Crimea.

The Foreign Ministry recently warned Russians against traveling abroad and on Thursday the State Duma passed in its first reading a bill that would require Russians to tell the authorities if they have dual citizenship. The government has also moved to reign in freedom of speech on the Internet in a series of measures that security analyst Andrei Soldatov has described as having brought Russia "one step away from the Great Firewall of China."

Any comment deemed non-constructive, personal attacks, spam and abuse will not be tolerated and will lead to you being banned from our website.

Russia's Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said Monday Russia had told Ukraine it intends to send another humanitarian aid convoy.

Chechen leader Ramzan Kadyrov has been inducted into Russia's biggest black-leather clad biker gang, the 'Night Wolves.'

Russian diplomats say they have been excluded from an upcoming summit of NATO member countries in Wales, Kommersant reported Monday, citing an unidentified diplomatic source.

Russia's space agency, Roscosmos, has launched an independent investigation into the cause of Friday's botched launch of two brand-new European navigation satellites aboard a Soyuz rocket.

A fiscal rule that prevents Russia from raising government spending reflects "old realities" and should be relaxed, Russian Economic Development Minister Alexei Ulyukayev said in an article published Monday.

Tsars, revolutions, two World Wars and the Soviet Union — if you're interested in Russia's rich history, these are the websites to explore.

Residents of Moscow's Taganka district woke up Wednesday morning to find a Ukrainian flag attached to the Soviet star on the spire of one of the area's iconic Stalin buildings.

Hollywood star Vin Diesel has challenged Russian President Vladimir Putin to pour a bucket of ice cubes over his head, as part of a global action to raise awareness for a degenerative motor neuron disease.

Two brides wed in Moscow earlier this month, with teeth-grinding authorities unable to prevent it despite a ban on same-sex marriage — because one of the brides was a man.

A children's fashion show in Moscow triggered outrage among bloggers after the show, titled "Children of the World Against War," depicted a child dressed up as Ukraine holding a gun to her head.
