
STOCKTON - Some of the region's top teachers and classified employees will be honored at the fourth annual San Joaquin County Classified Employee and Teacher of the Year Awards Celebration Dinner on June 12.

STOCKTON - Some of the region's top teachers and classified employees will be honored at the fourth annual San Joaquin County Classified Employee and Teacher of the Year Awards Celebration Dinner on June 12.

San Joaquin County Office of Education officials said the employees will be "recognized for their outstanding commitment and dedication to education and to students."

The classified employees have already been designated as the employee of the year in their fields. The teachers being honored are all finalists for county teacher of the year, with the winner being announced June 12.

Goehring is an Ag Academy teacher who teaches agriculture science and elective courses. She is involved in Future Farmers of America activities. She has already been named the state's Ag Teacher of the Year.

"In the classroom, Jessalee implements effective instructional strategies that engage the interest of her students. Beyond a sound grasp of her subject, and the ability to effectively deliver direct instruction, she regularly implements hands-on practice for her students, along with regular peer-to-peer observation, dialogue and analysis," Principal Bob Lofsted wrote in her nomination letter, calling her "ahead of the curve."

Goehring is also credited with leading Lodi High's floral design class that produces Valentine's Day bouquets or Christmas chrysanthemums and other products.

Hammarstrom is a music teacher whom Principal Steve Clark said instills integrity, compassion, diligence and teamwork as "a few of the personal characteristics that come to mind."

Hammarstrom is known as an energetic band instructor who has built music programs over the past two decades that have taken students to Japan, Hawaii, New York, Los Angeles and San Francisco.

"Last year alone, Mr. Hammarstrom led our musicians to over 100 events in which they performed or raised money for a future performance," Clark said. " This tremendous dedication to his students and love for music is what endears him to students and makes Mr. Hammarstrom a living legacy to Sierra High musicians."

West has been an English/journalism teacher at the Stockton Unified school for the past two years, her principal Joshaua Thom said.

West, a graduate of Franklin High in Stockton before attending Sonoma State and San Francisco State, is considered as San Joaquin's top teacher because "without her exceptional instruction and her ability to rally and lead her peers, our recent successes would not have been possible," Thom wrote.

"In the past two years Ms. West has helped us make huge strides in building a new culture at SECA that values achievement, but also values fun," Thom continued in his nomination. "She has helped immeasurably as we have sought to teach our students that to succeed they must do more than just take tests well or stay up all night, they must look out for each other and for themselves.  As I consider what I hope every teacher strives to achieve, I can think of no one who better exemplifies our school's efforts and mission than Ms. West."

West is also president of the Journalism Education of Northern California group and is pursuing a doctorate at University of the Pacific and jokes that she "simultaneously keeps the Starbucks on the Miracle Mile open."

Jones has been an elementary school teacher for the county's one.TLC program, which stands for Transitional Learning Center, for the past 21 years.

Her job is unique, because her school serves the most transient student population in the county, according to the SJCOE. Her students have experienced abandonment, abuse and homelessness.

Jones has lived in Stockton since 1954 and holds a bachelor's degree from the California State University, Chico, and a teaching credential from California State University, Stanislaus.

Yasemsky has been an elementary school teacher in Tracy since 1987, Superintendent James Franco wrote in her nomination letter. Her collaborative approach to leadership and team building makes her a positive presence on campus and she has been heavily involved in service learning projects for her students, who have collected coats for the homeless and food for the Tracy animal shelter.

Yasemsky is also passionate about student diversity and is a part of the Tracy Unified anti-bullying team, Franco wrote.

The top classified employees in the county for 2013-14 are:  Eunice Steves of the Manteca Unified child nutrition department, Ronnie LeMay of Manteca Unified's maintenance and operation department, Joseph Fiori of the Stockton Unified office and technical department, Dacia Goodwin, a San Joaquin County Office of Education para-educator/instructional assistant, and Patty Atkins of Linden Unified's support services and security department.

Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.
