
Firefighter Makai Moore of the Hawaii Fire Department 7-Bravo volunteer fire station competes in the Firefighter Challenge obstacle course Saturday afternoon during the Army's second Hawaii Island fireman's muster at Pohakuloa Training Area.

Firefighters from Hawaii Fire Department 7-Bravo volunteer fire station compete in the Midnight Alarm event Saturday afternoon during the Army's second Hawaii Island fireman's muster at Pohakuloa Training Area.

Capt. Calvin Mateo of Army fire drags a 185-pound dummy as he competes in the Firefighter Challenge obstacle course Saturday afternoon during the Army's second Hawaii Island fireman's muster at Pohakuloa Training Area.

Capt. Garrett Kim of the Hawaii Fire Department drags a 185-pound dummy as he competes in the Firefighter Challenge obstacle course Saturday afternoon during the Army's second Hawaii Island fireman's muster at Pohakuloa Training Area.

Firefighter Makai Moore of the Hawaii Fire Department 7-Bravo volunteer fire station and other members compete in the Tug of War event Saturday afternoon during the Army's second Hawaii Island fireman's muster at Pohakuloa Training Area.

Lt. Col. Eric Shwedo of the U.S Army Garrison-Pohakuloa competes in the Firefighter Challenge obstacle course Saturday afternoon during the Army's second Hawaii Island fireman's muster at Pohakuloa Training Area.

The Evergreen MEDEVAC team does a rescue demonstration Saturday afternoon during the Army's second Hawaii Island fireman's muster at Pohakuloa Training Area.

U.S. Marine Lcpl. Marivel Chavez tries on a firefighting helmet Saturday afternoon during the Army's second Hawaii Island fireman's muster at Pohakuloa Training Area.

\Firefighter Kristopher Langel of the Hawaii Fire Department 7-Bravo volunteer fire station competes in the Bucket Brigade event Saturday afternoon during the Army's second Hawaii Island fireman's muster at Pohakuloa Training Area.

The second annual Hawaii Island Fireman’s Muster was held Saturday at Pohakuloa Training Area.

The muster featured individual and team competitions that brought camaraderie and friendly competition between local firefighters.

The U.S. Army Garrison-Pohakuloa Fire and Emergency Services, U.S. Marines, the Hawaii Fire Department and its volunteer companies, and the Department of Transportation’s Aircraft Rescue and Firefighters participated in the event.
