
NASCAR Nationwide Driver Ryan Reed will be driving his No. 16 American Diabetes Association Drive to Stop Diabetes presented by Lilly Diabetes Ford Mustang at the Charlotte Motor Speedway on May 24. The Drive to Stop Diabetes campaign is a collaboration with Ryan Reed, the American Diabetes Association and Lilly Diabetes aimed at raising awareness of diabetes in communities across the country.

Ryan Reed will be available for interviews to discuss the Drive to Stop Diabetes campaign. The Association's Youth Ambassador, Karl Reynolds, from Advance, N.C. will join Ryan for a question and answer session on Saturday, May 24 from 10:00am to 10:30am. Youth Ambassador Sam Faust from Irmo, S.C. will also be available on Sunday, May 25 from 2:00pm to 2:15pm.

In addition, Sam Faust will be "Riding with Ryan" by having his name placed above the passenger side door of Ryan's No. 16 American Diabetes Association Drive to Stop Diabetes presented by Lilly Diabetes Ford Mustang.

In February 2011, Ryan Reed received the life-changing news that he had type 1 diabetes and was told he would never race again. He refused to give up his dream of racing and has since become an inspiration for millions of people living with diabetes by continuing to pursue his goals while managing his diabetes.

The Drive to Stop Diabetes campaign, presented by Lilly Diabetes, features awareness and educational efforts at NASCAR Nationwide races, as well as off-track health and wellness initiatives across the country throughout the year. As part of the effort, Reed will also compete in 33 NASCAR Nationwide Series races for Roush Fenway Racing. For more information, please visit drivetostopdiabetes.org .

The American Diabetes Association is leading the fight to Stop Diabetes® and its deadly consequences and fighting for those affected by diabetes. The Association funds research to prevent, cure and manage diabetes; delivers services to hundreds of communities; provides objective and credible information; and gives voice to those denied their rights because of diabetes. Founded in 1940, our mission is to prevent and cure diabetes and to improve the lives of all people affected by diabetes. For more information, please call the American Diabetes Association at 1-800-DIABETES (1-800-342-2383) or visit www.diabetes.org . Information from both these sources is available in English and Spanish.

© Copyright Marketwire L.P. All rights reserved.
