
Participate in Share Chat.

New Delhi (Alliance News) - The Indian National Congress dissected its worst electoral defeat Monday but rejected an offer by its mother-and-son leadership to resign, while prime minister apparent Narendra Modi prepared to form a government.

Modi's Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party won the general election by a landslide, with 282 seats in the 543-member lower house of parliament and 31% of the overall vote.

Congress, led by Sonia and Rahul Gandhi, came a poor second with 44 seats, one-third of its tally in the previous election. The party has dominated Indian politics since independence from Britain in 1947.

The Gandhis took responsibility for the debacle and offered to step down at a three-hour meeting of the party's decision-making body, the Congress Working Committee, in New Delhi.

The committee unanimously rejected their offers and passed a resolution appreciating the hard work of the Gandhis, Congress spokesman Janardan Dwivedi told reporters.

"The Working Committee requested Sonia Gandhi to prepare a blueprint of the changes that need to be made in the party and the way forward ... we need to make a determined effort to regain the confidence of the people," Dwivedi said.

Dwivedi said 29 of the 38 committee members present offered opinions on the defeat. These included a failure to make structural changes within the party, have more accountability and the inability of the Manmohan Singh government to control rising prices and corruption.

"Members said we failed to take into account the changes that have taken place in the country, the aspirations ... there was a failure to connect with the electorate."

At other venues in the capital, Modi, BJP president Rajnath Singh and other party leaders discussed the key cabinet portfolios, BJP sources said.

"We have 282 lawmakers and another 54 from our allies, there will have to be some amount of discussion," one source said.

Arun Jaitley and Sushma Swaraj, leaders of the opposition in the upper and lower house of the outgoing parliament are expected to be given key portfolios.

BJP legislators are scheduled to meet Tuesday and formally choose Modi as leader in parliament. The president is then expected to task Modi to form a new government, BJP spokesman Prakash Javadekar said.

Modi, as head of the party with the largest representation in the Lok Sabha, will be India's next prime minister.

The NDTV news channel quoted BJP sources as saying he is likely to be sworn in on May 26 or 27.

Datafeed and UK data supplied by NBTrader and Digital Look.      While London South East do their best to maintain the high quality of the information displayed on this site,

we cannot be held responsible for any loss due to incorrect information found here. All information is provided free of charge, 'as-is', and you use it at your own risk.

The contents of all 'Chat' messages should not be construed as advice and represent the opinions of the authors, not those of London South East Limited, or its affiliates.

London South East does not authorise or approve this content, and reserves the right to remove items at its discretion.

This site requires cookies in order to give you the best user experience. By using this site, you are agreeing to the use of cookies.
