
A Government cash sweetener  to stem a rural rebellion has seen councils in the Westcountry pocket as little as £685 extra.

Ministers have faced criticism for ignoring pleas to close a funding gap that means urban councils receive 50% more per head than rural authorities.

Against pressure from Conservative and Liberal Democrat MPs, the Department for Communities and Local Government announced earlier this year the most sparse areas would share a £2 million “top-up” in 2014-15.

Councils have now had confirmation of how much each will receive, with one MP describing the boost as “pitiful”. Of the 12 Westcountry councils to benefit, Taunton Deane has been given only £685 more and Teignbridge Council  just £1,190 extra. Even larger rural authorities including Devon County Council will get just over £184,000 and Cornwall Council around £97,000 – a fraction of the millions of pounds in “unprecedented” cuts they have made.

The extra money was one reason why a threatened House of Commons rebellion was dampened down, and ministers say this is on top of £9.5 million more rural councils have been awarded over two years.

Stephen Gilbert, Lib Dem MP for St Austell and Newquay, who did rebel, said: “This is a pitiful amount when compared to the extra millions that Cornwall would get if we had a fairer funding formula for local government and recognised the additional costs of providing public service in rural areas.

East Devon gets £5,570, Mid Devon £11,523, North Devon £7,659,  Somerset £59,324, South Hams £10,075, South Somerset £4,106, Torridge £11,701 and West Devon £11,466.

Each also received money from the previously announced £9.5 million Rural Services Delivery Grant, meaning the 2014-15 “rural bonus” ranged from £3,940 to £1.1 million among the 12 Westcountry authorities.

Councillor John Hart, leader of Conservative-led Devon County Council, warned the money will “only cover a small amount of the actual cost of providing services in a sparsely-populated, rural area”.

Councillor Alex Folkes, cabinet member for finance and resources of Cornwall Council, an indepndent-Lib Dem coalition, said the £559,000 extra it stands to get in total this year is “still a very small amount when compared with the actual deficit suffered by Cornwall in comparison with urban authorities”.

He added: “If Cornwall was funded in the same manner as the average urban council we would have an extra £48 million.

The figures were confirmed in a letter sent by Whitehall officials to local government chiefs last week.

Lib Dem MPs Andrew George (St Ives), Sir Nick Harvey (North Devon) and Adrian Sanders (Torbay) also rebelled in the Commons while a number of Conservatives voted with the Government despite threatening to withhold their support.

Local Government Minister Brandon Lewis said in February he recognised “concern remained over the fairness of the funding that rural councils receive”. “We have listened to these representations and have accepted that there is more that can be done,” he added.
