
Syriza's stunning finish in the Athens mayoral race (with almost all the votes counted, its candidate Gabriel Sakellaridis is polling 20.01% to incumbent Yiorgos Kaminis' 21.05%) and Attica governor candidate Rena Dourou's slight lead over incumbent Yannis Sgouros (23.76% over 22.15%) was a stinging response to government austerity policy, but the government claimed victory in the majority of regional races, leading both sides to agree that European Parliament elections on May 25 will effectively serve as a referendum on national economic policy and the implementation of the bailout memorandum.

The overarching question of whether local or European elections could trigger general elections remains to be answered on May 25, depending on the result.

Syriza leader Alexis Tsipras appeared triumphant after the polls, and he declared that next week's election will be the "referendum on the memorandum that was never held".

He was referring to former Pasok premier George Papandreou abortive referendum proposal, that led to his downfall. Recent reports indicated that Premier Antonis Samaras and European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso both played a role in the replacement of Papandreou with interim premier Lucas Papademos, a former ECB vice-president.

Miss all the action: Read our live blog from election day !

Those in the government camp reportedly will weigh two factors in deciding whether they seek to renew their national mandate: whether Syriza garners an advantage of five percentage points or more, or, alternatively, whether New Democracy and Pasok combined poll less than Syriza.

Though neofascist Golden Dawn's Ilias Kasidiaris did not manage to enter the second round in the Athens mayoral race, many expressed alarm at the party's strong showing, double digit in some cases, in Attica and Athens.

Pasok leader and deputy premier Evangelos Venizelos in post-election remarks criticised Syriza's attempt to depict the poll as a referendum on government policy.

Venizelos suggested that regional election results show Pasok's "deep roots" in local societies, and he said that the European Parliament elections must "give the impression of democratic stability", suggesting a plebiscite on government policy.

Many believe that the fragmentation of the centre-left played a role in the election, allowing Syriza to profit from the split of the former Pasok vote.
