
Zombie apocalypse? The Pentagon has got you covered. The U.S. military has planned a range of contingencies for disasters and it has also devised an elaborate plan of action in case a zombie attack befalls the country. A Defense Department document obtained by CNN shows that the military is ready to face the walking dead. It’s also using the scenario to plan for large-scale operations.

The unclassified document “CONOP 88” reveals that the U.S. Strategic Command used the specter of a planet-wide attack by the walking dead as a training template for how to plan for real-life, large-scale operations, emergencies and catastrophes.

Despite it not being an actual emergency plan, the preparation and thoroughness exhibited by the Pentagon for how to prepare for a scenario in which Americans are about to be overrun by flesh-eating invaders is quite impressive, CNN notes.

The training template says that a wide variety of different zombies, each brandishing their own lethal threats, are possible to confront and should be planned for.

The document continues to say that zombie life forms "created via some form of occult experimentation in what might otherwise be referred to as 'evil magic,' to vegetarian zombies that pose no threat to humans due to their exclusive consumption of vegetation, to zombie life forms created after an organism is infected with a high dose of radiation are among the invaders the document outlines."

CNN notes that every phase of the operation from conducting general zombie awareness training, and recalling all military personnel to their duty stations, to deploying reconnaissance teams to ascertain the general safety of the environment to restoring civil authority after the zombie threat has been neutralized are discussed in the document.

The zombie apocalypse response also includes rules of engagement, a contingency plan and a chain command from the president along with the roles to be played by the State Department and the intelligence community if the phenomena transpire.

Here’s to hoping that this will remain a template and not one that the Pentagon need to actually use.

© 2014 KpopStarz. All rights reserved. Do not reproduce without permission.
