
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

GRAND RAPIDS, MI — West Michigan-area gas prices average $3.72 a gallon Monday morning, a better fare going into the Memorial Day weekend over last year.

AAA predicts 1.1 million Michiganders will take to the road this holiday weekend, which is just a slight increase from 1 million travelers in 2013. Lower gas prices are contributing to the uptick.

The morning average of $3.72 across the Grand Rapids, Holland and Muskegon region is a 5-cent rise from last week, according to Dearborn-based auto club AAA of Michigan . Prices just before the start of the weekend last year surged to near $4 a gallon — about a quarter's worth of savings now.

AAA reports the Grand Rapids-area stations sit among Benton Harbor and Traverse City locations offering the cheapest gas across Michigan's Lower Peninsula.

However, user-submitted reports from GasBuddy.com are indicating prices as high as $3.79 in Grand Rapids' suburbs, with prices as low as $3.60 on the city's Southeast Side.

Patrick DeHaan, GasBuddy's senior petroleum analyst, wrote on the website's blog Monday morning that while prices have been steadily falling nationally, they seem to have stalled in recent weeks. He attributes it to Energy Secretary Ernest Moniz's comments regarding ceasing the crude oil export ban the U.S. has had for years.

Oil prices have climbed within the past several weeks, too.

"Prices now stand at $3.72 a gallon, and there is a good chance we’ll see them 'reset' or spike (like they do every week or two) to $3.85 to $3.89 before this week is over," DeHaan said in an email.

Enjoy the prices now — a hike is likely by midweek week, he projects.

Although the week has yet to play out, gas prices decreased leading into the Memorial Day weekend between 2010 and 2012 but rose in 2009.

Elsewhere across West Michigan, prices ranged from $3.66 to $3.79 in Holland and $3.60 and $3.79 a gallon in Muskegon.

© 2014 MLive Media Group All rights reserved ( About Us ).

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
