
National Standards in schools will be rewritten or dropped following an in-depth review, says the Internet Party.

In its draft Modern Schools policy released today, the Internet Party said standards would be fully reviewed by experts, schools, teachers, parents and caregivers, with the aim of modifying or scrapping them.

“National Standards threaten to destroy one of the great strengths of New Zealand's education system – the recognition that children of the same age have different academic abilities and need to learn at the level of their current ability,” said Internet Party chief executive Vikram Kumar.

The Internet Party will consult with educators, schools and teachers to consider whether new national literacy and numeracy development strategies for years 1-8 are required.

“This will be implemented as a priority, ensuring buy-in from teachers, parents and caregivers,” said Mr Kumar.

The Internet Party also promises to triple the annual funding given to state and state-integrated schools for Information and Communication Technology development, as well as ensuring the rollout of free, fast Internet to schools is completed by the end of 2016.

The funding injection will boost further teacher professional development, fund upgrades of ICT equipment, create learning spaces and deliver better technical support.

“This will ensure there are resources, systems and capabilities for teachers and educators to drive change, taking New Zealand schooling into the future and making our education system student-centred and focused on the individuality of the knowledge age,” said Mr Kumar.

According to the Ministry of Education the total ICT component in 2013 operational funding to state and state-integrated schools is $34.8 million. This is 2.75 per cent of total 2013 operational funding.

As well, the Internet Party will immediately initiate a rapid review of Novopay to confirm it is capable of delivering a stable and suitable payment system.

The Internet Party’s draft Modern Schools policy is now online for review and discussion on the policy forum . The work-in-progress Modern Schools policy document is available here .

The Internet Party was founded on the spirit of the Internet,  to get an open, free, fair, connected and innovative society.

A party that will give you faster, cheaper Internet, create high-tech jobs, protect your privacy, and safeguard our independence.

Amidst the day-to-day reports about the military advances of the Islamic State fighters in Iraq and Syria, one remarkable aspect of this war has barely been mentioned.
