
Participate in Share Chat.

Beirut (Alliance News) - The death toll in Syria's three-year conflict has exceeded 162,000, a pro-opposition watchdog said Monday.

The Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said it has documented 162,402 deaths in the conflict, which started in March 2011.

The figure includes civilians, rebels and members of the Syrian military forces.

A third of those killed, or 53,978, were non-combatants, including 8,607 children, the observatory said.

More than 60,000 of the dead were fighting for President Bashar al-Assad, including 37,685 regular soldiers, 23,485 members of loyalist militias and 1,662 mainly Shiite foreign fighters.

On the opposition side, the figure included 29,172 Syrian rebel fighters as well as 13,529 Sunni Islamist fighters from outside Syria.

The Syrian conflict started with peaceful anti-government demonstrations in March 2011 but degenerated into violence as government forces cracked down on protesters. Since then, it has tapped into sectarian tensions and regional rivalries.

Shiite groups from Lebanon and Iraq who are loyal to Iran's Islamist regime, al-Assad's main ally, have sent fighters to back up his overstretched forces while Sunni militants from other countries have joined jihadist groups fighting in Syria.

Meanwhile, the defence minister in the opposition government-in-exile, Asaad Mustafa, told Dubai-based broadcaster Al Arabiya that he had resigned.

His announcement came as the opposition remains frustrated with the level of Western military aid for rebel forces.

"I cannot be a defence minister when I lack the minimum means to protect my people from attacks the regime is carrying out against them," Mustafa told the Dubai-based broadcaster.

Some advanced US-made anti-armour weapons have recently appeared in the hands of Syrian rebels, and they are understood to have been vetted by the US.

But Western countries, who are alarmed by the leading role of hardline Islamist groups in fighting on the ground, have refused to allow the rebels to be supplied with anti-aircraft weapons to counter al-Assad's air force.

The head of the opposition National Coalition, Ahmad al-Jarba, visited the US this month but apparently made no progress on the issue.

In Brussels, German Development Minister Gerd Mueller called on the EU to put more effort into establishing humanitarian aid corridors in Syria, an issue he said he planned to raise at talks Monday with his 27 EU counterparts.

"It can't be that millions of people in Syria suffer miserably and perish without any help whatsoever," Mueller said.

He called for the implementation of a recent UN resolution on humanitarian access to Syria.

"This requires shifting the focus back to Syria, putting pressure on al-Assad," Mueller said. "Europe must focus on this more strongly."

The bloc's foreign policy agenda has been dominated in recent months by developments in Ukraine although officials in Brussels have said that efforts to tackle the situation in Syria continue unabated.

According to UN agencies, more than 9 million people in Syria are in need of aid. A similar number, out of a total population of 22.4 million, have been driven from their homes by the conflict.

Datafeed and UK data supplied by NBTrader and Digital Look.      While London South East do their best to maintain the high quality of the information displayed on this site,

we cannot be held responsible for any loss due to incorrect information found here. All information is provided free of charge, 'as-is', and you use it at your own risk.

The contents of all 'Chat' messages should not be construed as advice and represent the opinions of the authors, not those of London South East Limited, or its affiliates.

London South East does not authorise or approve this content, and reserves the right to remove items at its discretion.

This site requires cookies in order to give you the best user experience. By using this site, you are agreeing to the use of cookies.
