
An error has occured and your email has not been sent.

• Seperate multiple addresses with Commas.

• Must enter an email address.

• You must enter the verification code below to send.

• Invalid entry: Please type the verification code again.

Health officials are monitoring an Illinois man for Middle East respiratory syndrome after he had close contact with the person who had the first reported U.S. case of the disease.

That first case is a doctor who was infected in Saudi Arabia and was diagnosed and hospitalized earlier this month in Indiana. He has recovered.

The Illinois man is a business associate of the doctor, said David Swerdlow, who is leading the MERS response for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The two had extended contact on April 25 and 26. That included a business meeting lasting about 40 minutes, Dr. Swerdlow said.

He said that because the man tested negative for active MERS illness, he technically won't be counted as a MERS case. A blood test found that he had antibodies to the MERS virus. He hasn't been ill but has still been asked to isolate himself at home and his close contacts are being tested, Dr. Swerdlow said.

Health officials have reported the first apparent case of person-to-person transmission of the MERS virus in the U.S., with an Illinois man exhibiting evidence of infection after meeting with a doctor who was the first diagnosed U.S. case.

The man is a business associate of the doctor and didn't get sick enough to seek medical care, said the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, which is monitoring for and investigating Middle East Respiratory Syndrome cases in the U.S.

He and the doctor met for about 40 minutes in Illinois on April 25, sitting face to face about six feet apart, and had a second shorter meeting on April 26, the CDC said Saturday. The two men shook hands during the meetings. The doctor, a U.S. citizen who lives and works in Saudi Arabia, had just arrived in the U.S. to visit family and had developed a fever and other early symptoms of MERS.

The Illinois man's experience underscores two points scientists have been urging countries like Saudi Arabia, which has had the bulk of MERS cases, to study more thoroughly: how the disease is transmitted, and how many people are infected, including those who don't get very sick. Little is known about its dynamics even though the first cases of the disease emerged more than two years ago.

It is the first known case of transmission of MERS within the U.S. and suggests that the disease may be caught through more casual encounters than public health officials have previously described. They have said that they believe MERS spreads from person to person generally through only close contact such as living with an infected person or caring for them in a hospital.

"We don't understand a lot about how this virus is transmitted," said David Swerdlow, who is in charge of the CDC's MERS investigations. But he said that the encounter the two men had doesn't change public health officials' belief that MERS doesn't transmit easily, like the flu or another highly contagious infectious disease. The CDC has tested more than 50 contacts of the doctor who imported his illness from Saudi Arabia and was then hospitalized in Indiana, and hasn't found other active cases of MERS, he said.

"I don't think that this significantly changes our understanding," he said. "It may be that as before an occasional human-to-human transmission may occur, but it's not sustained transmission and it's certainly not easy transmission."

Globally, at least 572 MERS cases have been confirmed, including 173 deaths, according to the World Health Organization. All of the illnesses are linked to Saudi Arabia or other countries in the Middle East.

Two people have been diagnosed with MERS in the U.S.: the doctor in Indiana, who has recovered, and another doctor who was hospitalized in Florida on a visit to family there.

The Illinois man was tested as part of the CDC's investigation into the case of the doctor in Indiana. The Illinois man has been monitored daily since May 3, and despite some mild cold or allergy-like symptoms that may or may not have been part of his infection, he is now feeling well, Dr. Swerdlow said.

He has been asked to avoid contact with others, and his close contacts will be tested, the CDC said.

His experience suggests that more people may be infected globally with MERS than has been reported, but that their infection went unnoticed because they didn't get sick, or they developed only mild symptoms. That could mean the MERS virus kills fewer infected people than currently thought. Other emerging infectious diseases like the H1N1 flu have also appeared at first to be deadlier than they in fact were, because initially only the sickest cases were diagnosed.

An initial test for the MERS virus itself was negative in the Illinois man, but a blood test found that he had antibodies to the virus, meaning that he had been infected and fought it off. That blood test is done in some countries, but not in Saudi Arabia, where most MERS cases have occurred, said Dr. Swerdlow. Asymptomatic cases have been identified in some other countries, though, he said, including Saudi Arabia.

"There's a much broader range of illness than we recognize with this virus because mainly only people who had very severe illnesses were being tested," he said.

Because the Illinois man didn't test positive for the virus, he technically doesn't fit the WHO's definition of a MERS case, a point the CDC plans to discuss with the WHO, Dr. Swerdlow said.

An error has occured and your email has not been sent.

• Seperate multiple addresses with Commas.

• Must enter an email address.

• You must enter the verification code below to send.

• Invalid entry: Please type the verification code again.
