
Following the abduction of over 200 schoolgirls in Nigeria by Islamist insurgent group Boko Haram, a few activists in Nigeria, frustrated by their own government’s apparent inaction started a social media campaign under the hashtag #BringBackOurGirls, to draw world attention to the issue.

The campaign quickly went viral with world figures like Michelle Obama and child global icon Malala Yousafzai lending their voices to the cause.Â  The campaign caught on here too with local celebrities, politicians and government officials posting photos of themselves with signs of the hashtag.

Critics of social media and its effectiveness as a tool of problem solving were on hand of course, dismissing the hashtag campaign as an exercise in self esteem only meant to “help the people who tweet the hashtag feel better about themselves”Â  The thrust of their argument is that we must not think that tweeting about an issue or holding up signs is the same as action.Â  Back at the ranch, the social media scene was this week awash with all sorts of issues, from the now infamous and patently illegal directive by Inspector general of Police David Kimaiyo on tinted windows to the latest move by the Jubilee Government to breathe new life into the old provincial administration structure via the re-energised county commissioners.

But perhaps the most fascinating debate this week centered on the changes at the helm of the National Youth Service where a MrÂ  KiplimoÂ  Rugut, a Kalenjin, was replaced by a Dr Nelson Githinji as director general of the service.

The debate that took place on the President’s Facebook wall, ignited by a picture he posted of Dr Githinji’s swearing in ceremony was quite telling. The commentary ranged from those among the Kalenjin community crying betrayal to those from other communities crying tribalism.

Interestingly, special applause was reserved for those from the president’s own Kikuyu community who condemned his move on the grounds that this open preference for “one of their own” was making the ordinary Kikuyu the subject of ridicule, scorn and hatred from the other 42 tribes when they had done nothing wrong.

Tribalism you see is one of our favorite subjects on Kenya’s social media. It is our favorite subject because the problem has become so entrenched it has almost become acceptable.

Social media is a powerful tool that grants the common man unprecedented direct access to those in power, eliminating the need for middlemen in the form of our elected representatives. It may be possible for a government to “persuade” all Members of Parliament to shut up about something, but not the millions on Twitter and Facebook .

Perhaps the best answer to the question whether we need to continue with “hashtag activism” was provided by Sister Rosemary Nyirumbe, an activist and Director at St Monica’s Tailoring Centre in Gulu Uganda, when she appeared on a popular US talk show earlier in the week. She told the show’s host Stephen Colbert that hashtag activism is a good thing because we must keep shouting and bring an end to child abduction. The more we shout about it the better and we must be present in every situation. If we pretend that we are not listening it will continue she said.

It is as a result of the hashtag campaign that world leaders finally recognised the need to help Nigeria in the search for the abducted girls with the US and Israel leading other countries in pledging, financial, technological and logistical support.
