
The authorities have completed most of the formalities for a smooth division of Andhra Pradesh, which will give way to the new states of Telangana and residual Andhra Pradesh on June 2.

The appointed day also marks the constitution of new state assemblies and perhaps the swearing-in of new governments in both Telangana and residual Andhra ending the President's rule imposed after the resignation of chief minister Kiran Kumar Reddy in February this year.

Governor ESL Narasimhan, who is overseeing the bifurcation, has approved the authorisation of budget expenditure for a period of four months from June 2 to facilitate the elected governments enough time to prepare their own budgets.

According to the Governor's proposals, the residual Andhra Pradesh will have a budget of Rs 34,595 crore while the Telangana state will have Rs 26,516 crore at their disposal for the four- month period starting June 2. However, the finances of the two states along with the revenue collection mechanism will be separated from the appointed day itself.

The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has already opened a separate account for the consolidated fund of Telangana state. This will be activated from the midnight of June 2, according to officials.

Not withstanding the initial reservations expressed by the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) over the sharing of the present secretariat complex with the government of residual Andhra Pradesh, the authorities have stuck to their arrangements according to which the two governments will operate from the existing secretariat complex though housed in separate buildings.

The staff in the secretariat have already been briefed about the new location of their respective departments as they will have to move to new places ahead of the appointed day. Similar arrangements have been made in the offices of the heads of departments located elsewhere in Hyderabad city, according to officials. Government files and documents have been photo copied and digitised for use and record of both the state governments.

However, the issue of division of state-level staff and the All India Services officers between the two states has still not been taken up by the authorities even though the two separate committees for this purpose has already submitted their reports on the framework to be adopted for thedivision.

While the guidelines for distribution of about 56,000 state-level posts are yet to be made public, the All India Services officers are expected to be divided between the two states in the ratio of 10:13 according to the number of districts in Telangana and the residual Andhra Pradesh respectively.

On sharing of river waters between the two states, the Centre has already constituted two separate river management boards for Krishna and Godavari. To maintain the status quo in power supply, especially keeping in view the power deficit Telangana region, the government has already notified the quantum of power allocation between the two states according to the existing consumption pattern.
