
How Boca Raton resolved complaints about the quality of city water is about to go in front of a jury on Tuesday.

Christine Ferrigan, former city utilities program coordinator, claims in a lawsuit against the city that she was fired in retaliation for reporting threats to the safety of drinking water for 128,000 customers in the greater Boca Raton area.

One allegation was that reclaimed water was coming through kitchen faucets. Boca Raton city officials, however, say that the 23-year employee's claim of whistleblower status is baseless.

Observers expect that the trial, scheduled to last eight days in Palm Beach County civil court, will call into question whether fundamental water safety regulations have been relaxed. The case has been six years in the making.

"It's one of — if not the — most compelling whistleblower cases I've seen," said Jerry Phillips, an attorney who heads the Tallahassee-based Public Employees for Environmental Responsibility.

Phillips, who once worked as an assistant general council for the state Environmental Protection Department, and has run the environmental group for 12 years, said, "Boca has been allowed to skate."

Timothy O'Connor, spokesman for the Palm Beach County office of the State Health Department, said everything is as it should be at Boca Raton 's water operation.

The Health Department had brought charges against the city's water operation in 2012 that echoed Ferrigan's allegations, which the city at the time termed "silly."

Not long before an administrative hearing on these charges, though, a settlement between Boca Raton and the Health Department was announced. In the settlement, the city did not admit any fault, liability or wrongdoing regarding the alleged violations, but had to pay $2,500 in administrative costs.

O'Connor couldn't say whether any Health Department employees have been summoned to testify in the case.

Replace all of its single-check valves with ones that guard against reclaimed water back flowing into drinking water;

Notify the correct authorities and water customers when a security breach of the water system was discovered;

Measure the amount of residual chlorine disinfectant at a well that had been taken off-line.

Mike Woika, assistant city manager in Boca Raton , said that the integrity of city drinking water has never been at risk.

"No one drank reclaimed water," he said. "And no one had issues with their drinking water."

In a motion for summary judgment that was denied, the city's attorneys said that about six months after the report of the alleged violations, Ferrigan's new supervisor reported "serious performance deficiencies" on her part. They included general incompetence, doing personal business during work hours and having an antagonistic attitude toward co-workers and supervisors.

A year after the alleged safety violations came to light, she was fired.
