
Personalize your weather by entering a location.

Sorry, but the location you entered was not found. Please try again.

Activists have filed a complaint about a recent decision to designate three Chicago schools for turnaround.

A Chicago citizens group filed an official complaint with several government agencies raising questions about a recent Chicago School Board decision to designate three schools for turnaround.

"We're very concerned but we're very happy that a set of independent eyes, objective eyes are going to look into this," said Valerie Leonard, Lawndale Alliance.

Chicago Citizens United to Preserve Public Education filed complaints with the U.S. Department of Education and the Chicago Public Schools' Inspector General. The group questioned a recent decision by the board to turnaround three schools that will be managed by AUSL, an education management firm. The group questions the effectiveness of AUSL and the connection some board members may have to the AUSL.

"You have David Vitale, the current Chicago Board of Education president, who's a former Chairman of the Board of AUSL, and you have Tim Caulley, the chief administrative officer, who is the former CFO, or chief financial officer, of AUSL," said Dwayne Truss, Progress Action Coalition for Education.

"They're jeopardizing our children's safety because when this happens, the teachers they knew were all taken away and brought in new inexperienced teachers that had no experience teaching in the inner city," said Carolina Gaete, Blocks Together.

At the April 23rd CPS board meeting, the board voted to turnaround Gresham, McNair and Dvorzak schools, citing success of other schools managed by AUSL in the district.

On Monday, a spokesman issued a statement saying: "All Chicago Board of Education members present at the April 23 public hearing acted in accordance with the Board's Code of Ethics policy. CPS and the Board are committed to ensuring that all students have access to a high-quality education and strong school leadership as demonstrated by AUSL's proven track record of success."

The board's inspector general confirms the allegations will be reviewed to determine if there was a violation of CPS' code of ethics. The U.S. Department of Education did not comment in time for this report.
