
Republician candidate for governor Rob Astorino.

Here are three takeaways from Rob Astorino's visit to Glen Sanders Mansion in Scotia, New York, the day after he accepted the Republican nomination to take on Gov. Andrew Cuomo in the November election.

Astorino, the 47-year-old Westchester County executive, got an enthusiastic welcome from more than 200 people gathered for a breakfast fundraiser to benefit veteran Assemblyman James Tedisco of Glenville.

Astorino received a standing ovation after his stump speech, and then, after quickly eating some scrambled eggs, sat for a one-on-one interview that lasted just over 20 minutes. His next stops that day: Utica, Syracuse and Rochester.

You can read more about what Astorino said in an upcoming cover story in Albany Business Review.

In the meantime, here are a few things to consider as Astorino mounts an uphill fight to unseat an incumbent Democratic governor with strong name recognition, a huge fundraising advantage, and a 30-point lead in the most recent Siena College poll.

1. Astorino asks voters a simple, memorable question: "As a state under this governor, are we winning, or are we losing?"

It's a variation on Ronald Reagan 's critique of Jimmy Carter when he famously asked Americans during the 1980 presidential debate, "Are you better off than you were four years ago?"

Astorino goes on to cite the various lists on which New York finishes last or next-to-last (business climate, taxes, regulations, etc.).

The challenge, of course, is getting those who think New York is losing to show up at the polls in November in a state where Democrats outnumber Republicans 2-to-1. Astorino points to his victories in "deep blue" Westchester County as evidence he can do it.

If you are commenting using a Facebook account, your profile information may be displayed with your comment depending on your privacy settings. By leaving the 'Post to Facebook' box selected, your comment will be published to your Facebook profile in addition to the space below.
