
School principal receives notes threatening Boko Haram abduction in central city of Makurdi, while northern city of Kano hit by car bomb.

Nigerian security forces walk past the remains of the car used by a suicide bomber in Kano. The blast in the Christian neighbourhood of Nigeria's second most populous city killed four people on Sunday night, police said.

ABUJA—In one city, Nigerian security forces braced for the attack that never came. In another, they sifted through the rubble of the bomb blast they didn’t see coming.

A brigade of police and soldiers guarded two boys’ schools in the central city of Makurdi Monday after one of the principals received notes threatening Boko Haram would abduct the boys to marry off to schoolgirls kidnapped last month .

The first paragraph of the letters, hand scribbled in pidgin English, warned the Islamic extremists would abduct 700 boys from the boarding schools on Friday or Monday. They never showed.

Meanwhile, in the northern city of Kano, police continued to investigate a suicide bombing that tore through a street filled with bars and restaurants Sunday evening, claiming four victims.

Although no one has yet claimed responsibility for the attack, many suspect Boko Haram insurgents targeted the neighbourhood because it is a Christian enclave where residents often disobey the state’s Islamic law.

In Makurdi, the principal of the Government College boarding school found two letters last Wednesday warning of a Boko Haram attack on his academy and Mt. St. Gabriel College. One note was discovered in a classroom, the other was slipped beneath the staff room door.

The principal notified the commissioner of education and a parade of security forces descended on the school.

The Nigerian government is still facing harsh criticism at home and abroad for its slow response to the kidnapping of more than 300 schoolgirls in the isolated town of Chibok last month. Three weeks passed before President Goodluck Jonathan even publicly commented on the missing girls.

“I’ve never known a security response to be so quick in Nigeria,” said the Catholic school’s Fraser.

Had Boko Haram insurgents raided the school, it would have marked the group’s deepest strike yet into the country’s south, which is predominantly populated by Christians.

In the last two years, police have arrested three alleged Boko Haram members in Makurdi suspected of plotting to attack a church and a hotel.

In Sunday’s bombing, a car filled with explosives struck a popular street in the Sabon Gari district of Kano, northern Nigeria’s biggest city. Sabon Guri, Hausa for “a new home,” is known as the “foreign district” and is inhabited mostly by Christians.

People there casually drink and go to clubs despite the state’s strict Sharia law. Scattered among the charred frames of cars at the bomb site were several bottles of beer.

“You could say they are freer, more liberal there. These Jihadists want them out of the region,” said Bala, a petroleum engineer.

The enclave has been a repeated target for Boko Haram. In March, a suicide car bomber killed 25 people at a bus station and multiple bomb blasts killed at least 15 in July.

The latest attack has driven some families to leave the city, said resident George Walmudu Goji.
