
Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own.

I am the Editorial Director for BNK Invest, where I oversee the production of all editorial content. I have been involved in web related ventures and small online businesses for over ten years. I hold a Bachelor of Arts degree from the University of Michigan and a Masters of Science from NYU.

Investors in Bank of America ( NYSE: BAC ) saw new options begin trading today, for the September 20th expiration. One of the key inputs that goes into the price an option buyer is willing to pay, is the time value, so with 124 days until expiration the newly trading contracts represent a potential opportunity for sellers of puts or calls to achieve a higher premium than would be available for the contracts with a closer expiration. At Stock Options Channel , our YieldBoost formula has looked up and down the BAC options chain for the new September 20th contracts and identified one put and one call contract of particular interest.

The put contract at the $13.00 strike price has a current bid of 24 cents. If an investor was to sell-to-open that put contract, they are committing to purchase the stock at $13.00, but will also collect the premium, putting the cost basis of the shares at $12.76 (before broker commissions). To an investor already interested in purchasing shares of BAC, that could represent an attractive alternative to paying $14.50/share today.

Because the $13.00 strike represents an approximate 10% discount to the current trading price of the stock (in other words it is out-of-the-money by that percentage), there is also the possibility that the put contract would expire worthless. The current analytical data (including greeks and implied greeks) suggest the current odds of that happening are 80%. Stock Options Channel will track those odds over time to see how they change, publishing a chart of those numbers on our website under the contract detail page for this contract. Should the contract expire worthless, the premium would represent a 1.85% return on the cash commitment, or 5.43% annualized — at Stock Options Channel we call this the YieldBoost.

Considering the fact that the $15.00 strike represents an approximate 3% premium to the current trading price of the stock (in other words it is out-of-the-money by that percentage), there is also the possibility that the covered call contract would expire worthless, in which case the investor would keep both their shares of stock and the premium collected. The current analytical data (including greeks and implied greeks) suggest the current odds of that happening are 58%. On our website under the contract detail page for this contract, Stock Options Channel will track those odds over time to see how they change and publish a chart of those numbers (the trading history of the option contract will also be charted). Should the covered call contract expire worthless, the premium would represent a 3.72% boost of extra return to the investor, or 10.96% annualized, which we refer to as the YieldBoost.
