
The Visayas grid is suffering from a power supply shortage after three power plants unexpectedly shut down on Monday (May 19).

The Department of Energy (DOE) reported that Panay Energy Development Corp. (PEDC) in Iloilo, the Energy Development Corp. (EDC) in Leyte, and the Cebu Energy Development Corp. (CEDC) had deficiency of 71 megawatts.

The system capacity is 1,498 megawatts. But as of 6:00 a.m. on Wednesday (May 14), the system peaked at 1,569 megawatts, according to the National Grid Corporation of the Philippines (NGCP).

In a statement, the Visayan Electric Company (VECO) – the second largest distribution utility in the Philippines – said it would carry out rotational brownouts, each lasting at least an hour, in Metro Cebu until power supply stabilizes by Thursday or Friday.

VECO's franchise area – which has an estimated population of almost two million – include the cities of Cebu, Mandaue, and Talisay, and the towns of Liloan, Consolacion, Minglanilla, and San Fernando.

Energy Secretary Jericho Petilla that the three plants would have to import power from Luzon for them to go online by Thursday or Friday.

On Monday afternoon, the Luzon grid shared at least 50-megawatts to help augment supply in the Visayas.

The Luzon grid suffered the same fate last Friday (May 16), but the DOE said its supply has stabilized.

The power woes are not yet over, though, as the warmest days of the year are forecast for Wednesday and Thursday - which coincides with the country's hosting of the World Economic Forum (WEF) on East Asia.

"We will manage it, but not just because of it's the World Economic Forum – that's like sugarcoating something," Petilla said. "If the World Economic Forum happens to be on the hottest – the hottest – days of the year, it is the hottest day of the year. We just manage what we can during those days."

Petilla admitted that the DOE would be powerless to stop brownouts if another major power plant were to shut down.

"If Sual [Power Plant] goes down, then we have a brownout. It's as simple as that. And no amount of prayer can help you bring back Sual if it really goes down. When it comes to power, may kulang [there's still a shortage] because long-term ito lahat. We really don't have much choice but to extract whatever capacity that we have right now."

For its part, power distributor Meralco said it would be ready to carry out again the Interruptible Load Program should there be a power supply shortage.

Under the scheme, big consumers such as malls and factories would run on generator sets to ease pressure on the grid during tight supply.

Joe Zaldarriaga, Meralco spokesman, said the scheme would help.

Stakeholders are reiterating calls to conserve energy as officials expect the thin supply to persist until mid-June.

All content provided in this site is solely owned by 9TV Philippines and its news organization 9News. Illegal reproduction, distribution of information contained in this site is strictly prohibited.
