
Share This Story!

DETROIT — Federal mediators involved in Detroit's bankruptcy case said the Michigan Building and Construction Trades Council has agreed to contribute cash toward Detroit's grand bargain.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

In a photo from Tuesday, Dec. 10, 2013, at the Detroit Institute of Arts in Detroit, The Thinker, a sculpture by Auguste Rodin is seen outside the art museum.

DETROIT — Federal mediators involved in Detroit's bankruptcy case said Monday the Michigan Building and Construction Trades Council has agreed to contribute cash toward Detroit's grand bargain to help the city emerge from bankruptcy protection.

According to the mediators, who are led by U.S. District Judge Gerald Rosen, the Trades Council will make "material contributions" toward health care costs for Detroit's retirees.

The statement does not include a dollar figure, but it is the first time that a union or union group has made a commitment to contribute direct funds to the city's restructuring plan. The agreement is additional proof that the mediation sessions, led by Rosen, have been pivotal in helping the city break through difficult political and financial hurdles in negotiations with creditors.

Michigan House Speaker Jase Bolger, R-Marshall, called the deal a "huge step forward" that could provide momentum toward other unions stepping forward. But the news was greeted with less enthusiasm by at least two other Detroit employee unions.

Bolger has been urging Detroit's unions to contribute cash toward Detroit's restructuring plan. Bolger and the state Legislature are considering a request from Michigan Gov. Rick Snyder for the state to contribute $194.8 million lump sum toward the grand bargain, which minimizes cuts for Detroit retirees and pensioners and protects the Detroit Institute of Arts in the bankruptcy.

We're not doing it. We've been donating to the city all along, since 1981 under Coleman Young.

"I appreciate the leadership and the efforts made by Chief Judge Rosen, the mediators and union leadership. ... This huge step forward will help Detroit's retirees while we work to help bring the city out of bankruptcy quickly," Bolger said in a statement.

Rosen, appointed by U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Steven Rhodes to lead mediation, secured $366 million in donations from non-profit foundations, Snyder is asking legislators to approve a $194.8 million contribution in state cash, and the museum pledged $100 million in donations.

All told, the $660.8 million in contributions forms the basis for a bankruptcy restructuring plan that minimizes pension cuts and protects the Detroit Institute of Arts. However, a number of legislators are reluctant to approve the state's participation without a direct financial participation from the city's unions.

Bill Nowling, spokesman for emergency manager Kevyn Orr, said, "The coalition of labor unions is to be commended for showing leadership and stepping up to help protect (retiree health benefits) and put the city on a quicker path to solvency."

However, a representative of the city's largest employee union said labor groups by and large are leery or outright hostile to the idea of donating money after years of austerity and pay cuts.

"We've taken cut after cut, and now they're going to come and tell us we need to donate?" said Ed McNeil, a special assistant to the president of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees Council 25. "We're not doing it. We've been donating to the city all along, since 1981 under Coleman Young."

McNeil added: "People want to make it out that it's the public employees screwing up the city's finances. It's not us, it's the leadership."

Jeff Pegg, president of the Detroit Fire Fighters Association, said his union has not talked about making any further contributions.

"What more do we need to contribute?" he said.

Sam Alberts, a lawyer for the U.S.-government-appointed official committee representing retirees in Detroit's bankruptcy, welcomed the news late Monday, saying that any additional money that will help ease cuts to health care or pensions "is a positive development."

"There are a lot of retirees out there who are hurting," Alberts said.

The Michigan Building and Construction Trades Council represents a broad-based consortium of unions in Michigan's building and construction industry.

"It is hoped that other labor organizations will soon come to the table and support this effort to assist Detroit's retirees in meeting their health care costs," the statement from the mediators says.

"As with all of the contributions to the grand bargain, the trade unions' participation is contingent upon full funding of the grand bargain by the foundations, the state and the DIA."
