
CHENNAI: Underlining the importance of  education, the Chennai bench of the  Armed Forces Tribunal ruled that officers transferred from a "peace area" to "hard non-military station" are entitled to retain accommodation in the previous posting on the grounds of not affecting their children's education. It also directed the Army to refund Rs 70,000 collected as rent from a colonel.

Colonel T K Banerjee told the tribunal that he was posted at Secunderabad and was provided government accommodation. In July 2004, he was transferred to Hubli.

His son was a student of an engineering college in Secunderabad and it did not have a hostel. He requested permission to retain the government residence for his son. But the station commander asked him to move into a civil accommodation and said the Army would reimburse the rent .The colonel could move out of the government accommodation only in May 2005.

The Army charged him Rs 70,000 as rent, saying the provision to retain accommodation was allowed only in cases of transfer from one "peace station" to another. Banerjee was shifted from a "peace station" to a "hard non-military station" or a "field area" (near the border with high level of operational preparedness). The Army deemed him to be an unauthorized occupant and directed that he pay rent after completing a two-month grace period.

The bench of judicial member Justice V Periya Karuppiah and judicial member K Surendra Nath said the ministry of defence had not provided the exact definition of a 'hard non-military station.' Rejecting the army's version that it could be equated with a field area, it said a 'hard non-military station' was a "place with inadequate government accommodation and lacking good educational institutions".

According to rules for transfer from one peace area to another, an officer could retain previous accommodation on CEG basis, said the bench. Banerjee's case was within the ambit of the rules and refusal to grant him the previous government accommodation was not sustainable, the AFT said.
