
Uruguay, which has legalized marijuana, will also exempt pot production and sales from taxes.  The move is designed to keep prices low enough to undercut black market cannabis, according to government advisers on the legalization.

Despite global criticism, in December 2013 Uruguay became the   first country in the world to make it legal to cultivate, sell,   and consume marijuana. Earlier in May, authorities signed   regulations accompanying the law, specifying that every Uruguayan   will able to buy in licensed pharmacies up to 10 grams of pot a   week for just about US$0.90 per gram.

The low price was established in a bid to fight against drug   cartels and compete with black market marijuana smuggled mostly   from Paraguay, a neighboring South American country which is one   of the region’s largest producers of illegal cannabis. But   opponents of the law insist the legalization will only expose   more people to drugs.

In the coming weeks, Uruguay will auction up to six licenses to   produce marijuana. The government is also considering growing   marijuana on a plot of land controlled by the Uruguayan military,   which would help avoid the illegal trafficking of the pot.

Under the regulations, Uruguayan citizens over 18 years of age   have three options to choose from if they wish to obtain   cannabis: purchase it at pharmacies, join a smoking club of 15-45   members that can grow up to 99 plants per year, or cultivate up   to six marijuana plants domestically. Each customer will have to   register their preferred option with authorities. In any case, an   individual will only be able to obtain 480 grams of marijuana per   year.

There is most recent study from 04/2014 published in The Journal of Neuroscience, April 16, 2014•34(16):5529 –5538 • 5529.

Also you can find it in CNN health portal (I can't post link since RT reports offensive language in that link which is strange).

"...t here are observable differences in brain structure with marijuana ..."

"Prelimina ry research has shown that early onset smokers are slower at tasks, have lower IQs later in life and even have a higher risk of stroke."

email before you can log in.

successfully!
