
Foreign Affairs Minister Harry Kalaba has appointed his girlfriend to replace a qualified diplomat at the High Commission in Tanzania, Intelligence sources have disclosed.

According to the sources, Kalaba has appointed his Girlfriend and Church mate Maloni to replace a Mr. Yosi Miti at the Zambian High Commission in Tanzania. The source said Kalaba from the time he was appointed Foreign Affairs minister has recalled a number of diplomats.

Kalaba and Maloni have a child, of course Kalaba is married to someone lese.

The source said Maloni was even given farewell prayers at Grace Ministries Pentecostal Church as she is supposed to leave for Tanzania on 26 May 2014 to replace Mr. Miti as First Secretary at the High Commission.

“We have been following up reports as the Intelligence on Honourable Kalaba’s conduct from the time His Excellency appointed him Foreign Affairs Minister and we have confirmed that his conduct is not good. He has even appointed a Girlfriend they have a Child with as First Secretary at our mission in Tanzania. Her name is Maloni. Last Sunday at Grace Ministries there was even an announcement that the church prays for her as she leaves,” the source said.

The source said a report is being done to be presented to President Michael Sata noting that it was like Kalaba thought he was untouchable.

“He behaves like he is untouchable. We are preparing a report to be presented to the President. We can not have a Minister who picks a prostitute from the streets have a Child with her and appoint her as a Diplomat,” the source said.

The source also wondered what type of Church Grace Ministries was to encourage adultery as the church leadership is well aware that Kalaba who also goes to the same Church is a married person.

“Some of these Churches can surprise you. The Pastor and the entire Church leadership know very well that Kalaba is married but they even ask prayers for an adulterer,” the source said.

Kalaba is a married person and his wife runs the New Vision Newspaper located in Avondale Lusaka.

Mind you, these are useless PF Ministers and MPs as already stated by the appointing Gulu.

@FRED. You are HARRY KALABA just Shut up you thumpist or poundist!

ZWD please attach pictures to your stories so that we get to know people being referred to! Let them enjoy from the sufferings of the rest of the citizens and be ready for recall once leadership changes. I wonder if such appointments appear before an assessments committee for suitability to take up such postings! Zambia yapwa!

it appears the entire PF leaderships is just made up of female and male WHORES.

That’s typical PF, it takes a useless person to appoint a useless minister. Sata-N has done it before on Inutu Suba, so Kalaba is just following his master’s foot steps. Even if womaniser Robert Sichinga is to be transferred to that ministry, he will definitely do the same.

Be seriousy pf,how can a person frm nowere becom a diplomat.ba pf muchenjere mwadi coz twanaka.some of these ministers I don’t think they ar qualified.

Iam not surprised because Satan did the same he appointed his girlfriend Suba as ps. He has a mad child with suba. Like President like ministers. Shame!

This is the immorality in the PF Govt. Dr Mumba was talking about.

too tolilo too toliloooo.

too tolilo too toliloooo.

Zambia's Leading Investigative, 24-hour Breaking News Newspaper.
