
BG Cleaning Systems is launching its operations in Qatar this summer 2014 with Qatari business partner, Transind Holding.

L-R: Transind Management: Mohamed El Marasy, Sheikh Jabor A. Rahman Al Thani, Hani Al Bast & BG Management: Benedikt Hjálmarsson, Róbert Sigurvaldason sign the agreement.

"...With the strong support and cooperation of our trusted partner, Transind Holding, BG Cleaning Systems Qatar will soon be the leading cleaning and facility services provider in Qatar," states Mr. Benedikt Hjálmarsson, BG CEO.

BG Cleaning Systems is launching operations in Qatar this summer 2014 after officially sealing its partnership with Transind Holding during the visit of the latter‘s representatives in Autumn 2013 in Reykjavík, Iceland.

An international company, BG Cleaning Systems affords a wide range of cleaning and facility services to a diverse clientele base in Europe, Africa, South Asia, Southeast Asia and the Middle East. Its major services are janitorial and housekeeping services, specialized cleaning services, and facility services. BG Cleaning Systems was founded in 1995 by its CEO and founder, Mr. Benedikt Hjálmarsson.

Reputed for being a trustworthy company for nearly twenty years, BG wants to affiliate only with the most trusted business partners in every area of the globe that it enters. One of these is Transind Holding, a premier business house in Qatar which deals in some of the most prestigious brands available in the country.

Qatar is a sovereign arab emirate known for its prosperous economy and high real GDP growth. It has the world‘s third largest natural gas and oil reserves which have made Qatar the world‘s richest country per capita. It has achieved the highest human development in the Arab World and is currently undergoing a lot of transformation under the National Vision 2030 wherein Qatar expects to achieve an advanced, sustainable and diversified economy.

BG Cleaning Systems and Transind Holding are united in their vision of providing high quality cleaning and facility services to the Qatari market, and in their mission of revolutionizing the cleaning and facility services industry in the country. The successful unification of East and West will be evidenced by the customization of the world class services which BG Cleaning Systems Qatar will afford its valued clients.

BG Qatar aims to provide avant garde services combined with cutting edge technology to ensure the superior quality of its offered services. Its professional and able cleaning personnel are available round-the-clock, 365 days a year.
