
BELGRADE, Serbia (AP)  Belgrade is bracing for a river water surge that has threatened to inundate Serbia's main power plant and cause major power cuts in the capital as the Balkans struggles with the consequences of the worst flooding in southwestern Europe in more than a century. Authorities said Monday that at least 17 people have died in Serbia in the five days of flooding caused by unprecedented torrential rain, laying waste to entire towns and villages in Serbia and Bosnia and sending tens of thousands of people out of their homes. At least another 17 people died in Bosnia.

MOSCOW (AP)  Russian President Vladimir Putin has ordered troops deployed in regions near Ukraine to return to their home bases, the Kremlin said Monday. The move appears to indicate Putin's intention to de-escalate the crisis over Ukraine, the worst in Russia's relations with the West since the end of the Cold War.

The King of Pop and a likely successor, prince of pop Justin Timberlake, ruled the Billboard Music Awards  though Michael Jackson made a splash via hologram and Timberlake accepted his awards via video from overseas. A hologram of Jackson made its debut Sunday, mirroring the late icon's signature slick dance moves as some members of the audience became emotional, while Timberlake won seven prizes, including top artist and Billboard 200 album, and accepted the honors outside of the country where he was on tour.

SANTA ROSA, Calif. (AP)  A Northern California woman is facing charges that she grabbed a 12-year-old boy by the throat while confronting him about bullying her daughter, authorities said Sunday. Delia Garcia-Bratcher, 30, of Santa Rosa came to an elementary school around lunchtime Friday and asked her son, who also attends the school, to point out her daughter's alleged tormentor, the Sonoma County Sheriff's office said in a statement.

MOORE, Okla. (AP)  When the storm came, it wasn't a surprise. Tornadoes have a habit of ripping through town, and the forecasters had been warning for days that another was going to descend from dark clouds sure to gather in the late afternoon. The only question was: What horror would this tornado wreak this time? A year later, the answers still scar the Oklahoma City bedroom community of Moore.

CAIRO (AP)  An al-Qaida-inspired group in Libya says it will fight secular troops loyal to a renegade general behind an attack on parliament the day before. Forces loyal to Gen. Khalifa Hifter on Sunday stormed the parliament in the Libyan capital, Tripoli. They said they suspended the house in a fight against Islamist lawmakers and officials whom they blame for allowing extremists to hold the country ransom.

WASHINGTON (AP)  You promise "in sickness and in health," but a new poll shows becoming a caregiver to a frail spouse causes more stress than having to care for mom, dad or even the in-laws. Americans 40 and older say they count on their families to care for them as they age, with good reason: Half of them already have been caregivers to relatives or friends, the poll found.

LOS ANGELES (AP)  Priming itself for the age of Internet-delivered video, AT&T Inc. said it would buy DirecTV for $48.5 billion in cash and stock, or $95 per share. While DirecTV doesn't help the telecom company compete in the online video space immediately, cost savings from the merger and the extra cash flow will improve its ability to compete with the cable giant that would be formed by Comcast Corp.'s proposed $45 billion takeover of Time Warner Cable.
