
MANILA, Philippines - Former senator Panfilo Lacson may have gotten certain key administration officials in trouble over the pork barrel scam, but President Aquino believes the rehabilitation czar has been doing a good job so far in helping victims of Super Typhoon Yolanda.

“Satisfied ba ako sa trabaho niya? So far, yes,” Aquino told reporters yesterday in Legazpi City, when asked if he ever wondered why Lacson, a former national police chief who now heads the Office of the Presidential Adviser for Rehabilitation and Recovery (OPARR), had gotten himself embroiled in the pork barrel scandal.

Aquino admitted he found the query “interesting” as this was the subject he and Lacson discussed in one exchange of text messages where the rehabilitation czar explained that he had been invited to media interviews about the rehabilitation of Yolanda-devastated areas, but newsmen kept asking about pork barrel issues.

Lacson had submitted to the Senate Blue Ribbon committee the unsigned affidavit of alleged pork barrel scam mastermind Janet Lim-Napoles that implicated various former and incumbent senators, congressmen and government officials in the pork barrel scam or the misuse of the Priority Development Assistance Fund (PDAF) of lawmakers.

He had earlier claimed that Napoles’ husband Jimmy gave him a list of lawmakers and other personalities involved in scam.

“Question is, is he concentrating on Napoles, or are media concentrating on her?” Aquino said.

Nevertheless, Aquino explained that government efforts to rehabilitate and reconstruct the provinces devastated by Yolanda last Nov. 8 in Eastern Visayas are on track, and his administration is doing all it can to improve measures they have already carried out.

He admitted though that sometimes, in the course of their meetings, topics such as the pork barrel scam would surface, but he assured the public that the government is focused on the tasks ahead.

After implicating various lawmakers in the so-called Napoles list, Lacson suddenly clammed up last week but denied that President Aquino had told him to shut up.

“No gag order from the President. I just want to refocus on Yolanda at this critical time when the PDNA and the cluster groups’ reports are to be presented to the Cabinet and the President,” he said in a text message to reporters.

PDNA stands for post disaster needs assessment for areas pummeled by the typhoon.

“I’m sorry but I’m not talking about Napoles anymore. I want to refocus on Yolanda. I’m also busy preparing for my presentation to the President and the cabinet officials this May 16. Thank you for your understanding,” Lacson explained.

The list submitted by Lacson to the Senate included Senators Miriam Defensor-Santiago, Gregorio Honasan, Jinggoy Estrada, Ramon Revilla Jr., Juan Ponce Enrile, among many others.
