
SIOUX CITY | Alan Mercuriali, 65, of Sioux City, passed away Sunday, May 18, 2014, at Veterans Hospital in Sioux Falls, S.D.

Services will be 10:30 a.m. Tuesday at Meyer Brothers Morningside Chapel. Burial will be in Memorial Park Cemetery. Visitation will be 4 to 8 p.m. today, with family present at 6 p.m. and a prayer service at 7 p.m., at the funeral home. Condolences may be offered at www.meyerbroschapels.com.

Alan was born Oct. 23, 1948, in Sioux City, to Nino and Maxine (Padgett) Mercuriali. He graduated from Sioux City East High School.

He joined the work force with Chicago Northwestern Railroad. Alan was drafted into the United States Army, and served his country in the Vietnam War before receiving his honorable discharge after three years.

He returned to Sioux City, once again working for the railroad, where Alan worked his way up from brakeman to fireman to engineer before his health forced his retirement in 2004.

He was a proud member of the V.F.W. and American Legion.

Alan enjoyed fishing, working on old cars (of which he had a significant collection), and boating.  Alan will be greatly missed.

Survivors include his mother, Maxine Mercuriali of Las Vegas; sisters, Sherry Rich of Las Vegas, and Janice Nyreen of Sioux City; and numerous friends and extended family.

He was preceded in death by his father, Nino in 1965; and a brother-in-law, Edward Nyreen.

Copyright 2014 Sioux City Journal. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site consitutes agreement to it's user agreement & privacy policy.

Obituaries and photos are edited to a standard format. If you have a special request for the obituary or photo, please inform the Sioux City Journal in advance.

For obituary information, call 712-293-4215 or 800-807-5111, ext. 4215.

Hint: Enter a keyword that you are looking for like tires, pizza or doctors or browse the full business directory .

Username & Password Required!
