
Sen. JV Ejercito wants an apology from Secretary Panfilo Lacson and Sen. Teofisto Guingona III for making public the contents of Janet Lim-Napoles's list without supporting documents. He would also want them to acknowledge that he was not involved in the scam at all.

Ejercito's name is in the identical Napoles lists that Lacson and Justice Secretary Leila de Lima submitted to the Senate Blue Ribbon Committee last week.

But over the weekend, Bruce Rivera, Napoles's lawyer, cleared Ejercito and said that he was not supposed to be on the list.

In an interview on Monday (May 19), Ejercito said De Lima would not have to apologize as she had earlier asked Guingona not to release the list without Napoles's affidavit.

Based on Napoles's list, 12 former and current senators were supposedly involved in the multibillion-peso pork scam.

Ejercito said he had received information that somebody wanted to muddle the pork scam issue and drag in those who were not really involved in the scam.

He  said he might not file any charges against Napoles's camp for the erroneous inclusion of his name on the list.

Guingona refused to comment on the issue.

Like Ejercito, Senate Majority Leader Alan Peter Cayetano said Levito Baligod, the former lawyer of the pork scam whistle blowers, had already cleared his name of any involvement in the pork scam.

Cayetano's name also appeared on Napoles' list.

"First of all, I'd like to thank Attorney Baligod in clearing my name," Cayetano said. "It is consistent with what Benhur [Luy, principal whistle blower] personally wrote dun sa kanyang [in his] files that I have not dealt whatsoever with Ms. Napoles."

He also expressed disappointment over the fact that Napoles's list was released without supporting documents.

He then urged the Senate Blue Ribbon Committee, which is chaired by Guingona, to reopen its pork scam probe so senators can confront Napoles about her list.

Meanwhile, he also expressed disappointment after the Senate Blue Ribbon Committee canceled the scheduled Malampaya Fund scam probe on Thursday (May 22).

Guingona's office said the postponement is due to the unavailability of its first resource person, Commission on Audit Chairman Grace Pulido-Tan.

While the Senate Blue Ribbon Committee has yet to conclude its pork scam probe and start it Malampaya Fund probe, Cayetano wants it to reopen the investigation of another massive corruption scandal – the fertilizer fund scam.

In 2004, then Agriculture Undersecretary Jocelyn Bolante allegedly diverted P728 million in fertilizer funds to the 2004 presidential campaign of then Vice President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo.

Cayetano's call came following the Office of the Ombudsman junked the graft charges against Arroyo.

He said he would want the investigation on the fertilizer scam reopened, especially now that pork scam whistle blower Benhur Luy also expressed willingness to testify on the issue.

Cayetano said he would also want to look at Napoles's possible involvement in the scam.

All content provided in this site is solely owned by 9TV Philippines and its news organization 9News. Illegal reproduction, distribution of information contained in this site is strictly prohibited.
