
Kenya: The Ministry of Health has withdrawn the national guidelines on safe abortion , setting the stage for another battle over an issue that almost stalled the adoption of the new Constitution in 2010.

Abortion was among the key contentious issues during the 2010 referendum, with the pro-life groups including the church opposing a clause that allowed for abortion when the health of the woman is in danger.

The groups argued that the clause could be exploited to allow abortion to be easily carried out. Despite the church’s objection, the Constitution was voted in.

But now it has emerged that pro-lifers have regrouped and are putting pressure on the Government to enact policies that will make it hard for doctors to prescribe termination of pregnancy even when the life of the mother is in danger.

Following the enactment of the Constitution , which partially allowed for abortion , the Ministry of Health moved fast to put in place structures and policies to ensure the law is not abused by rogue doctors and women.

One such document was the Standards and Guidelines for Reducing Mobility and Mortality from Unsafe Abortions in Kenya, which was launched by the Director of Medical Services Francis Kimani in September 2012.

Among other things, the document was to advise health workers on who, where, and how to perform an abortion , under what circumstances and to compel the workers to only offer the option to deserving cases as per the law.

Launching the guidelines on October 17, 2012, Dr Kimani said the intention was to reduce deaths and illnesses associated with unsafe abortion .

“These guidelines are now available and I call upon all caregivers to acquaint themselves with them and use them as working tools for the benefit of patients,” he had said.

However, in a surprise move on December 3 last year, Kimani wrote to the 47 County Directors of Health suspending the guidelines, arguing that there was need for wider stakeholder consultation on the contents of the document.
