
Share This Story!

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Smoke billowed out of Hamburg Inn No. 2 early Sunday morning, leading to an all-out response from the Iowa City Fire Department.

Shortly after 1 a.m., fire trucks lined Linn Street from Market Street to Bloomington Street, as firefighters rushed in to battle an apparent blaze in the basement of the well-known Iowa City eatery. A smell of smoke lingered in the area as Iowa City police officers worked to cordon off the area. The fire trucks provided most of the light as the nearby street lights were shut off.

Hamburg Inn No. 2 owner Dave Panther said on Sunday afternoon that he initially thought the blaze was started by an overheated compression motor on a soft drink unit in the restaurant's basement, but now thinks it was caused by a "spontaneous combustion" in the washer and dryer.

"You could really tell there was a lot of heat around the washer and dryer," he said.

Panther said the diner will close for three to four weeks for cleaning and repair. While the dining room and kitchen appeared untouched, aside from a thick layer of soot and holes in the floor from where firefighters punched vents to quell the smoldering flames, the basement was severely damaged.

Wiring was scorched, a thin layer of muddy water lined the floors, and the wall behind the washer and dryer was blackened. Panther said he believes he will have to replace nearly all of his basement appliances, including the washer, dryer, water softener, hot water heater and ice machine.

Much of the Hamburg's plumbing and electrical systems will have to be replaced as well, Panther said, which will skyrocket his original estimate of $30,000 in damage.

The fire also took out a transformer on a nearby power line, but the apartments above the restaurant appeared to be unharmed. Panther said he was thankful that no one in the building was hurt.

As of 1:30 a.m., five Iowa City Fire Department units and a command vehicle were on the scene. After firefighters checked the upper and lower levels for the source of the blaze, the scene appeared to be under control.

No injuries were reported from the incident.

Panther said that the Hamburg Inn No. 2 experienced a fire in 1994 that was much worse than what happened Sunday morning. Asked if the fire would cause a change to Hamburg Inn No. 3 after whatever cleaning and repair work is needed is completed, Panther shook his head and smiled.

"No, it'll always be No. 2."
