
The President of the Society for Corporate Governance Nigeria (SCGN), Chief Olusegun Osunkeye, has expressed the willingness of the society to  partner the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) to ensure corporate governance in the capital market in particular and economy in general.

Olusegun said this last recently when members of SCGN visited the  NSE to ring the closing bell of the exchange.

“This bell ringing ceremony is historic.  I think this is the first time a not-for-profit organisation is being given the opportunity to ring the trade closing bell and we are happy to be here to collaborate with NSE in the best interest of Nigeria.

The exchange is the window of the country to the outside world, for investors interested in the Nigeria capital market to invest in. The Society is therefore looking forward to an opportunity to discuss further the possible areas of collaboration,” he said.

Also speaking,  a past President of the NSE and a director of SCGN, Mr Pascal Dozie hailed the exchange  positive changes in the market  considering the negative views people had in the past concerning NSE. He encouraged to exchange to keep up the good work.

Speaking at the event, Chief Executive Officer of NSE, Mr Oscar Onyema lauded the Society for the measures taken in ensuring effective practice of corporate governance in Nigeria.

He stated that the exchange is at present focusing so much on corporate governance standards as most companies have a lackadaisical attitude towards these standards and are not ready to practice them, as such the Exchange is doing everything in its power to change this and needs the Society’s support in order to achieve the change.

Onyema added that  the corporate governance rating system of the exchange is  being introduced to  develop the quality and standard of corporate governance practices.

“Companies that score up to 70 per cent and above would be qualified and recognised in the corporate governance index. The index will be a yardstick for introducing companies to the premium board market capitalisation which has a minimum of $1million. The exchange is partnering some institutions to provide trainings bordering on corporate governance issues in order to provide value added service,” he said.

Please leave your comment below. Your name will appear next to your comment. We'll also keep you updated by email whenever someone else comments on this page. Your comment will appear on this page once it has been approved by a moderator.

Please enter some keywords that you'd like to search for. Your results will be displayed below.

THISDAYLIVE cares about you, help us to report better!
