
The budgetary facts are inescapably grim for researchers and scientists based in renewable energies and research. The funding for all government programs related to climate change is set to shrink at an alarming rate, going from $5.75 billion this year to a scant $500 million in the next four years. Additionally, the Emissions Reduction Fund which is meant to help lower greenhouse gas emissions in Australia is going to be reduced to only $1.14 billion. This was devastating news after Environment Minister Greg Hunt had gone on record promising to provide $2.55 billion to fund the program. Nevertheless, it is not only climate change programs that are feeling the pinch of the Abbott budget. The Commonwealth Science and Industrial Research Organization (CSIRO), Australia's national science agency, will have $111 million worth of funding slashed over the next four years, which will affect an uncertain number of programs and a loss of tenth of the CSIRO workforce.

What do they expect after AGW has pissed all over Science. The debate is settled... STFU already. The science community oversight has to behave like functioning adults. All science is suspect!

Follow the money, ....they will be braying loudest when it is their bread and butter to churn out climate hysteria, with the appropriate 'temperature adjustments'.

Heh!

What more can I say ... How about Canada ... how much are we wasting on the "CHILDREN OF THE CLIMATE".

Sounds like Stephen King stuff ... actually ... It is. The weirdness and horror that the climateers bring to us is heart stopping.

They are exercising the Warmest demon of lies.

I previously predicted here that Obama will deliberatly not approve the XL pipeline, so as to open-up the issue for Hillary in 2016.

In other words, Hillary will run on Approving the Keystone XL pipeline. This will take-away the issue from the GOP.

I suspect that Hillary will run on "fixing" Obama policies.

Furthermore, Hillary will run on "fixing" Obama care, foreign policy and immigration; just like the GOP will do.

I believe in the case of 2016, Hillary will run as a Republican leaving them absolutly NOTHING to run-on except being 'old white guys"; then, once in office move hard to the Left.

That is what I would do.

Indiana Homez;

I think you are exactly right. Hilary will run against Obama and deflect any responsibility for the past 8 years away from the Demo Party. The idiots that vote these people in will again assess the situation by thinking Hilary is 'less' an evil that the GOP.

Hard to put that bean can back on the shelf if you think it goes through the checkout for free!

Some Democratic Senators are already running against Obama and if they succeed at that then the sheeple are even stupider than I had thought, and that was pretty damn stupid.

Hillary is not going to RUN in an Election, unless they win the civil war that Obama has set in motion and she is anointed.

The BLM stand-off was a precursor to what is in-store for the EPA. The Stock pile of weapons, by Government agencies, does not mean they will be used against those defending the Constitution. Nice to have all those weapons available.

The beltway pontiffs are baffled as to why Rand Paul's  polling numbers are so high! A third party for the executive office may be viable in 2016..

Hillary will NOT be running in 2016. She will be coming up on 70 years old, will look like she's 85, and will sound and behave like she's 105. The Democrat's much-loved "youth vote" will look at that wrinkle-@$$ed shrew-witch and see not their mother, not their grandmother, but their GREAT grandmother ...then they'll gag and go back to texting and playing video games. Plus, the upcoming Trey Gowdy Congressional hearings on Benghazi will reveal a treasure trove of Hillary's cover ups and lies. No, it won't be Hillary ... it will be some Democrat Governor who can point to his state's "great accomplishments".

She can try, but it ain't gonna work. She was a central part of that Dem machine. Running away from it would be like trying shed her shadow. It's part of her.

See?  Everyone's a winner here.

good science to be done.

Even at the much-reduced rate of $500 million, this is $495 million for boondoggle and BS.

Worthless scientists deserve defunding.

This is my opinion as a molecular physicist and astrophysicist.

before Buillery met WeeWankerWiily she was a republican. On many issues she is still to the right of some republicans. She only appears to  be a lefty because she is an opportunist who looks after #1 first and only, it's just politics to her.

John, I agree with you on the $5mil thing. Many "deniers" do it on their own time, their own dime, and their results are far more believable than the much funded so called experts.

Abbot ran on the anti global warming slate which shows that in Australia at least there is still some common sense and enough people saw through the bullshit. Having the great Suzuki on a nationally televised show probably helped too because he showed the nation how ignorant he was on the subject. The audience had better knowledge of facts than he did. Abbot shows that just ignoring the foam at the mouth, granola crunching tree huggers is not detrimental to running a national campaign. The same thing Harper should do in '15. Using California or Ontario as examples of what happens when tree huggers have too much influence and Texas as a example of how much smoother things can run when  government is limited to the essentials. Good for Australia and its effort to get back to sane policies.

Good for PM Tony Abbot. Too bad we do not have someone here with the same size of brass ones.

The sad part about Canada is that too many people revere the fruit fly fraud as a saint, too many areas of Canada have a socialist entitlement mentality and will vote for whoever promises more free lunch and make the polluters pay (as Kommissar Mulcair says).

Restoring sanity to its rightful place is a bulls-eye.

How forward thinking of them.

John, that card, always bringing the funneh.

The Australian (adjusted)temperature record is stuffed. The ABC are CAGW sycophants. Mr Tony Abbott didn't cut enough.

Sorry to be cynical, but this will never stop. Today it is global warming, tomorrow it will be another "just cause". Crony capitalism as being practised today in all western democracies needs a villain. It could be a country, ideology, person or organization, as long as it appeals as a noble cause to the masses. A percentage of the billions spent by government to solve the problem finds its way back into the political campaigns and friendly organizations of the politicians who support it. A never ending cycle of cronyism with the taxpayer holding the bag. Term and spending limits seems to be the only solution.

This is why sanity hardly ever wins.

Finally a world leader prepared to stand up to this new form of dictatorship. Well done Prime Minister Abbott! I only wish more world leaders had the courage to stand-up to these radicals.

Until this moment       I have been forced       to listen while media        and politicians alike       have told me       "what Canadians think".       In all that time they       never once asked.

This is just the voice       of an ordinary Canadian       yelling back at the radio - "You don't speak for me."

I am not a registered charity. I cannot issue tax receipts.
