
The U.S. Department of Justice Monday announced it was charging five Chinese military officials with computer hacking and economic espionage crimes, in an unprecedented legal move sure to roil relations between the two superpowers.

The charges, dating back as far as 2006, relate to trade secrets theft from six American targets, including companies in the nuclear power, solar and metals industries. The five charged are said to be members of a special unit of the People’s Liberation Army, designated 61398, which was identified last year by private sector security researchers as being behind a series of cyber-intrusions at U.S. forms designed to steal intellectual property.

Holder was flanked at the press conference by Assistant Attorney General for National Security John Carlin; U.S. Attorney for Western District of Pennsylvania David Hickton, whose district delivered the indictments for attacks on the Pittsburgh-area businesses; and FBI Executive Associate Director Robert Anderson.

U.S. officials up to and including President Barack Obama have publicly called out China for benefiting from alleged hacking of American businesses before, but Monday’s charges mark the first formal action taken against officials of any nation for such crimes.

Holder said that the charges — approved by officials up to the president, according to Hickton — were the U.S.’s way of planting the flag to say cybersnooping and IP theft will not be accepted.

The five military officials are charged with 31 counts of computer and economic crimes, each carrying a maximum sentence of two to 15 years. The alleged victims include Westinghouse, SolarWorld, U.S. Steel, USW, Aleghany Technologies Inc. and Alcoa.

The criminal charges lay out a pattern of attacks from the five officials, identified by their given names and hacker aliases, against the six businesses named as victims that targeted both proprietary information about the companies’ products as well as privileged communications about company strategy and pricing.

In multiple instances, the alleged hacking occurred in the midst of ongoing trade disputes that were being litigated by the companies and Chinese competitors. In one case, SolarWorld was an active litigant in a 2012 case that resulted in the Department of Commerce smacking Chinese solar products with significant penalties after finding Chinese companies were “dumping” cheap products in the market aided by “unfair subsidies” from the Chinese government.

Hickton said while it is difficult to put a dollar amount on the amount lost due to the cyberespionage alleged in the case, he believes this hacking was a direct factor in the shuttering of a U.S. Steel plan in Texas and the subsequent loss of jobs there after Chinese companies flooded the market with below-market-value pipe.

Trade secret theft remains a top concern of U.S. businesses and China has long been identified as the source of some of the most aggressive commercial cyberespionage against America.

Last year, security firm Mandiant linked several long-terms campaigns of commercial cyber espionage to an office building occupied by Unit 61398.

The officials made clear that they expect more cases like Monday’s watershed indictment in the future.

Friends E-mail(s) Separate emails with a comma. Maximum of 5 emails allowed.
