
MOSCOW, May 19 (RIA Novosti) - Self-proclaimed People’s Republic of Donetsk will not acknowledge results of presidential election scheduled for May 25 as it is illegitimate and violates Ukraine’s constitution, governor of the Donetsk People’s Republic Pavel Gubarev told in an interview to Rossiya 24 channel.

“We believe that presidential election on May 25 is illegitimate, it violates article 103 of the Constitution. Holding it on the territory of our independent states [Donetsk and Luhansk People’s Republics] is illegal and I think there will not be even such an attempt. There is no doubt that we will not recognize this election,” Gubarev said.

Self-proclaimed governor added that the US, EU and international financial elites will most likely recognize the election.

“A one-sided agreement on association will be signed and projects on exploitation of shale gas will be continued on Ukraine’ territory and Russian speakers will be derogated from their rights and ribbons [St. George’s ribbons] will torn from the chests of our veterans,” Gubarev said.

The governor earlier came up with the suggestion to establish a new federal state, called Novorossiya (New Russia) in the southeastern Ukraine that will build up relations with the Russian-led Customs Union and the countries of the Collective Security Treaty Organization (Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Armenia, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan).

The self-proclaimed Donetsk and Luhansk people’s republics in eastern Ukraine held referendums on self-determination last Sunday with over 90 percent of voters supporting greater autonomy.The republics declared themselves sovereign states last Monday, with Donetsk planning to ask Moscow to join Russia. The Luhansk leadership also said it did not rule out the possibility of a referendum on becoming part of Russia. Both republics have begun establishing government agencies and forming military units.

Ukrainian parliament declaired early presidential election after the ouster of country's legitimate president Victor Yanukovich following a coup late February.

You may place this material on your blog by copying the link.
