
A House member coming out against a judicial nomination wouldn’t normally be a fatal blow, but Rep. John Lewis isn’t just any House member and Michael P. Boggs isn’t just any nominee.

The Georgia Democrat and civil rights leader’s forceful statement Monday could torpedo Boggs, the key to a larger deal cut by the White House with Georgia’s two Republican senators for a slate of judges.

Top Democrats, including Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid of Nevada and Majority Whip Richard J. Durbin of Illinois had indicated they were looking to Lewis for guidance.

Lewis’ opposition also quashed what had the makings of a nasty intraparty fight in the delegation.

A day earlier, Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., had indicated on CNN that Lewis privately backed the deal that resulted in Boggs’ nomination. Feinstein’s comments set off a torrent of tweets from Rep. David Scott, D-Ga., who warned Lewis would be a “turncoat” if Feinstein’s comments were true.

But Lewis’ statement left no question where he stood.

“Based on the evidence revealed during this hearing, I do not support the confirmation of Michael Boggs to the federal bench,” he said.

Boggs, who has been a state judge for the past 10 years, has come under fire for votes as a Georgia legislator between 2001 and 2004, including a vote keep the Confederate insignia on the Georgia state flag, another to pass a constitutional amendment banning same-sex marriage and to restrict access to abortion.

He has since disavowed his votes, but a raft of interest groups including NARAL Pro-Choice America, the Human Rights Campaign and Georgia Equality have urged senators to keep him off the federal bench.

In December, Lewis and other members of Georgia’s black congressional delegation, as well as civil rights and legal organizations, appeared at the Ebenezer Baptist Church in Atlanta, the onetime congregation of Martin Luther King Jr., to denounce the deal reached between the White House and Georgia Republican Sens. Johnny Isakson and Saxby Chambliss to fill seven judicial vacancies in the state.

A spokesman Monday said Feinstein had no comment.

Lewis’ blessing of the Boggs nomination would have been a reversal of his initial position and a lifeline to a nomination that has been in deep trouble for weeks.

Lewis is a civil rights hero who led the famous 1965 march in Selma, Ala., that left him with a fractured skull.

The case has highlighted what’s known as the “blue slip” process, a Senate tradition requiring both home-state senators to approve of a judicial nominee before the Judiciary Committee will hold a hearing.

Without the blessing of Isakson and Chambliss, the judicial nominees in Georgia would simply go vacant — despite last year’s use of the “nuclear option” eliminating filibusters of most nominations.

So the White House cut a deal.

Imagine that guy being against killing babies-we don’t need judges like him.40% of black babies killed every day.Keep up the Dem vision.

Rep Lewis is right to protest a bigot…He earned the right to do so…more than most in this nation…it is a coward who won’t speak against racism and ignorance..

I may or may not agree with Lewis but Diane Feinstein is crooked as a Viper and just as deadly.  Google “Feinstein/MILCON”.

The liberty school recognizes the dangers to liberty posed by collectivists who seize upon temporary crises to centralize government power.

Receive an email when a new WGDB post is published.

Receive daily coverage of the people, politics and personality of Capitol Hill.
