
This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.

These include newly-appointed Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe governor John Mangudya, Registrar-General Tobaiwa Mudede and Harare mayor Bernard Manyenyeni.

Mangudya will today make his maiden appearance in the august House when he appears before the Finance and Economic Development Committee chaired by Mutoko South MP David Chapfika (Zanu PF) to speak on the 2014 monetary policy statement.

According to the Parliamentary Schedule of Committees, Mudede will tomorrow appear before the Women’s Affairs, Gender and Community Development Portfolio Committee chaired by Goromonzi West MP Biata Beatrice Nyamupinga (Zanu PF) to give oral evidence on how his department assists women and the elderly in attaining passports and birth registrations.

Local Government, Rural and Urban Development Portfolio Committee chaired by Mutasa South MP Irene Zindi (Zanu PF) also summoned Manyenyeni to speak on the multimillion dollar Harare Airport road deal, as well as the Coventry Bay commuter omnibus rank which was expected to help decongest the city.

Manyenyeni will also be asked to speak on council’s salary arrears. Other topical issues set to be raised include human trafficking and the welfare of CMED workers after disclosures that the company was in the red due to alleged corrupt fuel deals.

The State Procurement Board will also appear before the Public Accounts Committee chaired by Mufakose MP Paurina Mpariwa (MDC-T) to discuss tender processes, while Econet will today appear before the Communications Technology, Postal and Courier Services Portfolio Committee chaired by Kuwadzana East MP Nelson Chamisa (MDC-T) to speak on challenges facing by telecommunications companies.

Tomorrow, the National Blood Service of Zimbabwe will appear before the Health and Child Care Portfolio Committee chaired by legislator Ruth Labode (MDC-T) to speak on blood stocks, while the Ministry of Industry and Commerce will appear before the Portfolio Committee on Industry and Commerce chaired by Marondera East MP Ray Kaukonde (Zanu PF) to speak on the state of local industries.

The Ministry of Home Affairs was also expected to appear before the Portfolio Committee on Foreign Affairs today to speak on how to improve operational efficiency in the control and movement of people across the country’s border posts.
