
Please register to gain free access to WSJ tools.

An account already exists for the email address entered.

The email address you have entered is already in use.

Please re-enter the email address.

As India gets ready to welcome a new administration, it got some timely reminders of the country’s most ingrained problems.

On Monday, an Indian news channel carried images of security forces in pursuit of alleged militants in the Budgam district of Jammu and Kashmir, a state that borders Pakistan and is the subject of a longstanding territorial dispute between the South Asian neighbors. On Sunday, an Indian soldier was killed and two were injured close to the disputed border, the Indian army said.

Narendra Modi of the Bharatiya Janata Party is set to take office as India’s next prime minister. The BJP secured a landslide victory in national elections last week, ousting the Congress party that has been in power for ten years.

Analysts say Mr. Modi–a Hindu nationalist who has criticized Congress’s foreign policy as weak and vowed in campaign speeches to protect his country’s borders–will likely follow a more muscular foreign policy that will try to focus on strengthening economic ties.

India and Pakistan have fought three wars since independence from British colonial rule in 1947. In the 1990s, New Delhi accused Pakistan of training and financing thousands of militants to infiltrate Indian-held Kashmir. Pakistan denies the allegations.

The countries have held a fragile ceasefire since 2003, but alleged violations of the agreement in 2013 derailed peace talks.

When the BJP occupied the opposition benches of Parliament, its leaders railed against Congress’s handling of border incidents. On the campaign trail, Mr. Modi criticized the government for its response to the alleged beheading of an Indian soldier near the border and the killing of five others last year, asking how India’s leaders could stand by while such atrocities took place.

Economic relations are likely to dominate Mr. Modi’s foreign policy agenda, said G. Parthasarathy, a former Indian ambassador to Pakistan. Deep-seated suspicion between India and Pakistan has prevented trade from growing in the region. Pakistan is yet to grant India Most Favored Nation status which would help ramp up trade and build trust between the countries.

Analysts say that as prime minister, Mr. Modi is likely to hold back on provocative rhetoric against Pakistan, so security issues will not derail his economic agenda. Still, many say, he will take a tougher and clearer stand on violence emanating from Pakistan than his predecessors.

Some analysts even suggest Mr. Modi’s hawkish reputation may allow him more leeway to get closer to Pakistan.

It was during the term of the previous BJP government in 1999 that former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee–who Mr. Modi has described as his role model on foreign policy issues–rode a bus to Lahore to sign a peace accord, raising hopes of a normalization of ties.

Still, India’s next prime minister will likely have to deal with challenges from radical elements in Pakistan who want to encourage conflict between the two countries and may try to provoke a reaction from Mr. Modi. Meanwhile, the withdrawal of U.S. troops from Afghanistan will change the security dynamics in the region and require a tough balancing act from a leader who has little foreign policy experience.

Leela Ponappa, a former Indian deputy national security adviser, said that Mr. Modi already has some international skills. As chief minister of Gujarat, a state renowned for its enterprising business community, he regularly interacted with an array of foreign government officials and businesses. As the leader of a border state, Mr. Modi also participated regularly in meetings on security issues, where, Ms. Ponappa said, his positions had been clear and suggestions constructive.

Follow Niharika and India Real Time on Twitter  @NiharikaSM  and  @WSJIndia .

India Real Time offers analysis and insights into the broad range of developments in business, markets, the economy, politics, culture, sports, and entertainment that take place every single day in the world’s largest democracy. Regular posts from Wall Street Journal and Dow Jones Newswires reporters around the country provide a unique take on the main stories in the news, shed light on what else mattered and why, and give global readers a snapshot of what Indians have been talking about all week. You can contact the editors at indiarealtime(at)wsj(dot)com .

Check out the main contributors to the blog and their bios here .

An error has occured and your email has not been sent.

• Seperate multiple addresses with Commas.

• Must enter an email address.

• You must enter the verification code below to send.

• Invalid entry: Please type the verification code again.

An error has occured and your email has not been sent.

• Seperate multiple addresses with Commas.

• Must enter an email address.

• You must enter the verification code below to send.

• Invalid entry: Please type the verification code again.
