
Senators questioned Secretary of Veterans Affairs at length on Thursday regarding the alleged malpractice taking place at VA clinics throughout the country; and while it lasted more than three hours, the greatest revelation to come out of the hearing was that Secretary Eric Shinseki was angered by the accusations. Yet, he maintained that the veterans healthcare system is “a good system.” That comment, combined with the generally dispassionate tone in which he read his prepared statement to the assembled lawmakers, presented a confusing defense. Unsurprisingly, lawmakers were left split over his role in the agency’s troubled medical system, but many expressed concern over his apparent obliviousness to the situation.

In November, the results of an investigation conducted by CNN revealed that veterans of the U.S. armed forces are needlessly dying because of delays in diagnosis and treatment. An internal document from the U.S. Department of Veterans’ Affairs obtained by the publication painted a picture of government healthcare bureaucracy that overlooked simple medical screenings, like colonoscopies and endoscopies, that could have prevented a number of deaths. At least 82 veterans have died, are dying, or suffered serious injury as the result late diagnoses that postponed important treatment. Interviews the publication conducted with experts showed that the veterans affairs agency was aware of the situation but did almost nothing to remedy the life-threatening medical delays. Rather, the agency attempted to cover up the improprieties. That picture of incompetence has embroiled the Veterans Affairs department in controversy, and put its secretary on the defensive in front of a Senate regulatory body.

If the allegations prove to be true, as the CNN documents suggest, the Obama administration and Shinseki will have failed to deliver the reform promised when the secretary took office in 2009. “I came here to make things better for veterans,” Shinseki told the senators Thursday, acknowledging that reform had been his mandate. “This is not a job. I’m here to accomplish a mission.” His mission from the president was to change the Veterans administration culture so that it would be more responsive to veterans’ needs. But as CNN’s investigation has shown, system-wide problems remain. VA health clinics in Phoenix and Fort Collins, Colorado drew especial notice for the elaborate schemes used by administrators to hide the records of patients who waited months for care. But now “it seems that every day there are new allegations,” according to Senator Richard Burr of North Carolina, the ranking Republican on the committee. Five other facilities, including ones in Cheyenne and San Antonio, have proven to have employed similar manipulations.

Shinseki — a retired Army general who served two combat tours in Vietnam — told the Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs in a Thursday hearing that he was “mad as hell” about the allegations that VA hospitals had delayed important medical procedures and then attempted to cover up the deficiencies. “I could use stronger language, Mr. Chairman, but in deference to the committee, I won’t,” Shinseki told Independent Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont. He has refused to resign, but he did pledge to take action if an inspector general’s investigation uncovers evidence that VA workers manipulated waiting lists in order to conceal the long delays for veterans needing medical treatment. But he did tell lawmakers to wait until any conclusive proof was found before attempting to resolve what is a complex problem. The VA medical system — a true case study in sprawling government bureaucracy — conducts more than 230,000 appointments every day.

“If any allegations are true,” Shinseki told the committee, “they’re completely unacceptable to me.” Further, “if any are substantiated by the inspector general,” who is currently conducting an inquiry, “we will act,” he added. But as of now, “I’m not aware, other than a number of isolated cases, where there is evidence of” VA appointment schedulers manipulating records, Shinseki told the senators. Those few words indicated to his critics that Shinseki does not believe that there are any systemic problems with the agency’s care system.

But there is some evidence that the Obama administration was aware of the abuses. A letter sent last September to the White House from the U.S. Office of Special Counsel detailed abuses found by the Office of Medical Inspector. The report provided evidence that the VA healthcare system is staffed by overworked physicians and schedulers who manipulated patient waiting lists so it would appear veterans were receiving timely care. “Often, multiple walk-ins are booked into a single appointment slot for one provider and wait hours to see a doctor. This double-booking also creates a delay in the wait time for regularly scheduled patients,” stated the letter, referring to a Jackson, Mississippi facility. Jackson Medical Center physician Phyllis Hollenbeck, a whistleblower, alleged that the clinic “overschedules patients for both physicians and [nurse practitioners], resulting in an overworked, understaffed primary care clinic.” These allegations were referred to Shinseki so that an investigation could be conducted, stated the letter.

Inappropriate scheduling practices were a concern as early as 2010. A memorandum sent to the Office of Veterans Affairs from the Under Secretary for Health for Operations and Management in April of that year described “gaming strategies” used at VA facilities to mask poor patient access to healthcare. Plus, over the past several years, the Government Accountability Office has also warned on several occasions that waiting lists at VA clinics were inappropriately handled.

When senators pressed him hard on these reports, Shinseki denied any knowledge. “I can’t say that I remember it,” he said of the U.S. Office of Special Counsel letter to the White House. He said he was not aware of the 2010 memorandum either. Comments made by the VA Secretary indicated that he would not be quick to make changes. In response to questions about whether he would restructure his management team, given the recent evidence of systemic failures over the past few years, Shinseki said that, “I don’t want to get ahead of myself.” Regarding the Senate Committee’s concerns about the agency’s culture of circumventing rules, he added that, “I’m sure someplace in a large organization, you’re always going to have something like that.” However, Dr. Robert Petzel — the VA’s top health official — did resign on Friday.

A numbers of Republican lawmakers, especially those campaigning for November’s congressional midterms , are calling for Shinseki’s resignation, and even those who are giving him tenuous support have expressed surprise at both his lack of awareness of the agency’s problems and his unwillingness to collaborate with the Senate committee.
