
TORRANCE, Calif. – Col. Ahron Hakimi, 311th Expeditionary Sustainment Command support operations chief, represented the 311th ESC at the 55th Annual Armed Forces Observance in Torrance, Calif., May 17.

The Torrance Armed Forces Day Activities is an opportunity for the Army, Air Force, Marines, Coast Guard and Navy to participate in joint operations. On this day, the Navy took the lead as Rear Adm. Patrick Lorge served as the Grand Marshall.

The city of Torrance is one of few cities nationwide sanctioned by the Department of Defense to honor our Armed Forces through an annual Armed Forces Day Parade and Celebration. Its parade has the distinction of being the nation's longest running military parades sponsored by any city.

The day began with a formal formation. Members of all five services stood at attention while the grand marshal, Rear Adm. Lorge, gave a spirited speech, saying that this was a great day to honor all U.S. military service personnel.

The next event was a barbeque at El Prado Park. This was where hundreds of recruits from all five services enjoyed hot food, but more than that, 800 recruits were sworn in a mass ceremony.

At a mid-day luncheon, U.S. Congresswoman Maxine Waters made a passionate speech, thanking all the veterans who have served this great nation. She was also part of the parade precession. Other VIPs included assembly member Al Muratsuchi, Torrance mayor Frank Scotto, National Guard Maj. Gen. Keith Jones, Air Force Lt. Gen. Ellen Pawlikowski and Naval Capt. James Jenkins.

Of course, the highlight of the day was the grand parade. Hundreds of people lined Torrance Boulevard as honored dignitaries, high school and military bands played, while veterans past and present strolled down the avenue.

One person who could not be missed was Medal of Honor recipient Sgt. Kyle White. Honored earlier in the week by President Barack Obama, when he reached the official bandstand, the crowd stood and applauded. When he tried to exit his designated vehicle, the car door was stuck. When he leaped out of the car like a cowboy, the crowd roared.

A cool breeze blew over the event, making it a perfect day.

This work, Col. Hakimi represents 311th ESC at Armed Forces Observance, by CPT Fernando Ochoa , identified by DVIDS , is free of known copyright restrictions under U.S. copyright law.
