
Attention, South Dakota candidates. The largest funder for state government in South Dakota is … the federal government. In the current fiscal year, the Legislature budgeted state government to receive $1,643,807,414 in federal aid. For comparison, state general funds that come from sales taxes and other common state taxes were budgeted at $1,293,068,278. The third category is “other” funds. Those typically come from specific fees and taxes for specific purposes, such as state motor-fuel taxes that are restricted for highway projects. Other funds total $1,130,054,687.

Those numbers all begin with a b as in billion. So when candidates talk about balancing the federal budget, it’s worth considering how much South Dakota receives from the federal government. A 1 percent cut in federal funding would mean a reduction of $16.4 million for state government. There are many, many other ways that the federal government helps fund South Dakota, such as highways, airports, law enforcement, courts, agriculture, environment, food, outdoors, armed forces, parks, monuments, forest and grasslands, reservoirs and dams, weather forecasting, disaster response, health care for the poor and for senior citizens, student aid, veterans, and tribal services such as reservation schools, medical, housing and government.

One of the candidates for federal office said last night he wants to eliminate the U.S. Department of Education. For the coming school year, that would be a loss of $191.9 million to the state Department of Education; the money for the most part gets passed down to local schools and cooperatives. Replacing that sliver of federal aid alone would require approximately 1.5 cents of additional state sales tax.

Copyright 2014 Rapid City Journal. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Jim appears to be right-on, I was surprised at that result, (good search Jim).

Our population base doesn't lend itself well to support things like the interstates running across our state.  Others use these a lot to get to other locations, so in my mind it makes sense to subsidize these roads.  I'd make a similar argument for rural roads so that we can supply the rest of the nation with ag products, etc.

Our lower population makes bases like Elsworth make sense, (lower risk for civilian population cause there aren't as many of us around as in other states), plus lower property expenses, etc, and less hassle for training, (sound problems, etc).

This would be expenses for Dams, etc controlling runoff to help out downstream.  We also need this for irrigation which links back to the food supply issues.

There are tons of other issues like the above that contribute to the federal contributions to our economy, again in my opinion.

According to a Wikipedia article South Dakota sent $5,136,249,000 to the feds.  Mercer wrote that the "Legislature budgeted state government to receive $1,643,807,414 in federal aid."

That's faaaar more sent in than received.

Jim,  it would be faaaar less than what it receives.  That's why we are a welfare state.

It would be interesting to know the amount that South Dakotans send to the feds.

I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site consitutes agreement to it's user agreement & privacy policy.

Username & Password Required!
