
MEMBERS of Parliament and key stakeholders in the health sector want the Ministry of Health to start monitoring all healthcare professionals and healthcare facilities in Uganda.

The MPs argued that if the Ministry can resume the inspecting of health facilities as it was, the country will manage to do away with quack doctors, bring back ethics and gain confidence from the public.

“Doctors steal drugs from hospitals; shout at patients because there is no one to emphasis ethics. The Ministry of Health should take one the responsibility of monitoring and inspecting health facilities as it was. The inspection will help to do away with quack doctors who are giving wrong prescriptions and also hold health workers accountable,” said Mariam Nalubega, the Butambala Woman MP.

Nalubega noted that nurses, doctors and midwives have failed to do their work because they are poorly paid by government.

They argued that the transfer of nursing schools to the Ministry of Education has compromised service delivery and put patients’ lives at risk.

“When nursing students were taken under the Education Ministry that was the end of quality service in health. These days nurses who are produced are not well trained. They do not have people to motivate or guide them,” said Grace Namara, the Lyantonde Woman MP.

Namara noted that poor students with interest in nursing are left out because they cannot afford, and placements are given to rich students who just want to do medicine for prestige, that is why these days we have gynaecologists with long, painted nails, because they are not properly guided and just take the course because of money.

Speaking during the dialogue, Buikwe North MP Dr. Lulume Bayiga, called upon the ministry of health to register all health facilities basing on motivation and not because they can afford to pay the license fee.

“Today we have doctors who can prescribe seven types of drugs for one disease because they want to make money instead of focusing on what will heal the patient, and this has come up because the wrong people have the licenses,” he explained.

VHTs he argued have helped to increase access to health services for communities that are distant from health facilities and also mobilizing communities for public health campaigns.

The Uganda National Health Research Organization director, Dr Sam Okware, pointed out the urgency of responding to the needs of nurses in Uganda, medication review and empowerment of health consumers.

The statements, comments, or opinions expressed through the use of New Vision Online are those of their respective authors, who are solely responsible for them, and do not necessarily represent the views held by the staff and management of New Vision Online.
