
សូមស្តាប់វិទ្យុសង្គ្រោះជាតិ Please read more Khmer news and listen to CNRP Radio at National Rescue Party . សូមស្តាប់ វីទ្យុខ្មែរប៉ុស្តិ៍/Khmer Post Radio .

However, one is heavily backed by the United States’ faux-democracy promoters and offers only further despair and destitution, while the other is heavily opposed by the US and other Western interests, but if successful will restore order to a nation hindered by political instability for years.

Image: Thailand’s Thaksin Shinawatra & Cambodia’s Hun Sen – two despots with deplorable human rights records coddled by the West for their shameless selling-out of their respective nations to the Fortune 500.

The Cambodian people have lived under the tyrannical rule of dictator-for-life Hun Sen for several decades. His “People’s Power Party” has seen uninterrupted rule for over a quarter of a century. In 1997, when last Hun Sen lost an election, he  butchered and exiled his opposition  in a bloody military coup.

Those who failed to flee, according to Human Rights Watch,  were brutally tortured and murdered . Since then, he has presided over a tragically failed state, the victim of the Khmer Rouge,  of whom Hun Sen was a participating member , and since then squatted upon by his regime and a large collection of foreign backers.

He is by far one of the most detestable politicians alive on Earth, yet his utility to the West has provided him so far an international media blackhole in which his crimes and atrocities have been hidden for decades.

This can be explained by the literal selling-out of Cambodia from under the feet of its own people, by Hun Sen to foreign corporate-financier interests.

Hun Sen and his ruling Cambodian People’s Party (CPP) have, in effect, put the country up for sale. Crucially, they permit investors to form 100% foreign-owned companies in Cambodia that can buy land and real estate outright – or at least on 99-year plus 99-year leases. No other country in the world countenances such a deal. Even in Thailand and Vietnam, where similar land speculation and profiteering are under way, foreigners can be only minority shareholders.

Today, the Cambodian military is literally being  sold off to foreign interests  now possessing wide swaths of land as mercenary forces to crush any local opposition.

Back-to-back failed insurrections by Thaksin in 2009 and 2010, after a military coup that ousted Thaksin from power in 2006, saw many of his political allies flee to neighboring Cambodia.

In addition to harboring members of Thaksin’s political machine, Hun Sen went as far as appointing Thaksin himself  as a “government adviser on the economy ,” in an attempt to bolster his lack of legitimacy.

The report went on to describe possible scenarios for an increasingly militarized attempt by Thaksin to eliminate his enemies, a cue assuredly taken from Hun Sen’s bloody exploits.

But now the cozy relationship between Hun Sen and the West appears to be changing. Growing protests on the streets of Cambodia’s capital city, Phnom Penh are starting to poke holes of light into the darkness Hun Sen’s decades’ spanning crime spree enjoyed. The Western media is still granting his regime an undeserved benefit of the doubt, despite the opposition’s overwhelming backing by the West. This may indicate current protests are punitive and not designed to unseat him, quite yet.

Like all of America’s proxy “strongmen,” there are occasionally instances where they are “too strong” and independent to be of much utility to the West. Guiding these regimes back into line with Western interests (or if all else fails, overthrowing them) is the job of US-funded “non-governmental organizations” (NGOs) posing as human rights organizations, independent media fronts, or pro-democracy advocates. In reality, these “NGOs” are none of these. They are simply echo chambers and funding conduits for Western interests to manifest themselves within a targeted nation.

Welcome! You have come to the right place. Khmerization is a home to the Cambodian daily news, which is updated twice daily. Please take a tour and enjoy yourself. Thank you.

Dear Readers,

Due to an increase in offensive and profane comments, Khmerization has decided to moderate all comments. Comments containing offensive language, profanities and racist connotations will not be published.
