
The Rajiv Gandhi University of Knowledge Technologies has announced admissions into its seventh batch of six-year Integrated B.Tech. programme from 2014, in six disciplines, respectively Chemical, Civil, Computer Science Engineering, Mechanical and Metallurgical and Materials Engineering.

The fully residential programme will have a total of 3,000 seats, spread across the university’s three campuses at Basara, Nuzvid, and Idupulapaya respectively, Vice-Chancellor R.V. Raj Kumar informed at a press conference here on Monday.

Fresh pass-outs from SSC or equivalent examination are eligible to apply for the course. Age of the applicant should be below 15 years for general category and OBCs, while for SC and ST categories, it is extended up to 21 years.

Applications will be online, and open from May 21 and application fee of Rs.150 is payable through DD or challan. For more information or for online application, one may log on to the website ‘www.rgukt.in’ or ‘www.aponline.gov.in’.

Last date for receipt of online application forms is June 16, while hard copies of the forms along with relevant certificates should reach by June 21. List of the selected and waitlisted candidates will be uploaded on July 8, while admission counselling will be held on July 23 and 24 across campuses. July 27 will be the date for counselling of waitlisted candidates, and the classes will begin on July 28.

Grade Point Average of qualifying examination will be the criterion for selection, and students who studied in non-residential government schools will be given a bonus of 0.4 on 10 as Deprivation GPA.

Mr. Raj Kumar has also announced that the first batch of six-year B.Tech. from 2008 are all set to finish their course by the month end. The students have done extremely well in academics and won awards at national and international level, he said.

Campus selections are on for the batch, and 20 companies including Infosys, Infotech, Cognizant, and TCS have approached the university so far, he informed.
