
Last-minute advice from some foreign intelligence services, who are currently part of the efforts to free the over 200 abducted schoolgirls of the Government Secondary School, Chibok, stopped President Jonathan from embarking on the trip to Chibok on Friday. They termed the trip “ill-advised and contemptuous”. LEADERSHIP gathered that the initial plan of the president was to visit Chibok early on Friday before heading for Paris, France, where he is currently attending a security summit.

A Presidency source hinted that the president’s planned trip to the troubled town was against the initial advice of Nigeria’s security and intelligence community.

The aborted visit have elicited varied reactions from sections of the country even as the media have been awash with different slants of reports regarding the cancelled visit.

Presidential spokesman Dr Rueben Abati had, in his twitter account, said that there was no such planned visit to Chibok.

Abati’s denial of a planned visit came amidst reports that the presidential advance team had already arrived in Maiduguri for President Jonathan’s visit, just as Governor Kashim Shettima of Borno State reportedly cut short his trip to London in order to receive the president.

Jonathan had been expected to fly on one of his presidential jets from Abuja to Maiduguri, and then head to Chibok in a military helicopter. Chibok is about 130 kilometres to the south of the state capital. To get to Chibok via Maiduguri, an intending traveller must first traverse the strait of the Sambisa Forest.

The source disclosed that some of the president’s men insisted on the visit even after some egg-heads in the nation’s intelligence community hinted of “possible mix-up in intentions” of the visit.

“We all know how these things work; there is no way the media would have reported the visit if arrangements were not made in that regards.

“One would expect them to say no, Mr President is not going to Chibok rather than waiting for today (yesterday) to say so. The truth of the matter is that the idea of the visit was first mooted last week but some highly-placed security chiefs advised against it on the grounds that such a visit was not auspicious.

“But you know our politicians: they want to score points with every little issue and they mounted pressure on the president to embark on the trip, maybe for reasons that may be in the interest of their intentions. As professionals, ours is to advise and the records are there that at least we did advise. Only God knows what some persons wanted to achieve by insisting on the presidential trip to Chibok.

“But luckily for us, some of our foreign partners in the search for the abducted girls had to also intervene after processing some of our findings that there were likely to be protests both in Maiduguri and Chibok. To them, the planned visit was not only ill-advised but contemptuous and these facts were laid before the appropriate quarters before the dawn on Friday,” he said.

LEADERSHIP learnt that the foreign intelligence network specifically advised against President Jonathan’s trip on the strength of what they called “the international media angle to the Chibok saga”. A particular foreign media giant had dispatched a team to cover the visit and “attendant events”.

CURE UR PREMATURE EJACULATION AND LAST LONGER DURING SEX @ WWW. PECULATED. BLOGSPOT. COM .

Cheap Crap! If US, France and Israel intelligence truly advised, they would have encouraged him to go to Chibok and console with the missing girl’s families. This is just another propaganda to absolve the president from a missed opportunity to show the world that he really cares and is presidential.

It’s a lie, the US will not advise him to visit Chibok or Borno, a state under emergency rule due to terrorists. Americans protect their presidents at all costs, we wanna expose ours.

It shows that you are ignorant of world affairs, and you do not watch even NTA (Government mouthpiece) that carried all the visits of Obama and his two immediate predecessors that joined their toops at different times during their tenure to uplift their spirit at the war front in Iraq and Afghanistan. The problem with your type is that, Nigeria, and indeed the world, ends at your backyard.

This is A Foolish argument. The UK, us presidents visit their “troops” in a secure environment AND at a secure time.

Nigerians are too ethnic, political,  and weirdly sentimental to tackle major issues. Lol.

Are u minding Aminu. Hear how dumb he speaks. If u people like kill urselves in the north. we will progress in the south. Don’t go to school, be waiting for GEJ to come to the north so u can fulfill ur evil intentions. U people will kill urselves finish. Nonsense. Every thing is politics for them, even when foreign powers warn against it.

I think you are more dumb than him, Because how can someone believe Northerners will kill, maim, burn THEIR houses and schools, kidnap and destroy THEIR economy just to make GEJ’s rule ungovernable? How dumb and stupid!

I would have loved to say that’s dumb, but it ain’t… “Tell a big lie, wow people.” So for now they are guilty until proven innocent.

NO SIR, YOU DON’T SHOW  THAT YOU CARE BY JUMPING INTO THE WELL TO RESCUE A DROWNING MAN UNLESS YOU WANT TO DROWN ALSO. YOU STAY OUTSIDE THE WELL AND THROW IN THE ROPE TO DRAG HIM OUT OF THE WELL. THE US, FRANCE AND ISRAEL ARE WISER THAN MOST OF YOU AND HAVE SHOWN MORE CONCERN FOR THE LIFE OF OUR PRESIDENT THAN THE APC THAT IS RANTING OVER THE CANCEELED TRIP.

Your analysis does match o. Foreign leaders visits their troops in secured barracks in afghanistan and iraq and not at the frontlines where enemy snipers could be present. The message did not say he was visiting maimalari barracks. The messages says chibok and chibok is a battle frontline not a secured barracks. So you cant compare that to cameron going to a british military base in kandahar.

Hahahhahah, what about if he is already dead in the well, wouldn’t he be brought out to be given a final respect and befitting burial? How sure are u dt these guys are better than us? How sure are u dt these guys did not come to use dis situation to actualize their prediction dt Nigeria break away come 2015? Why are we so myopic, illogical and sentimental in our analysis? This isn’t enough justification 4 Mr President’s trip be cancelled Mr Life First.

I think you should rise above sentiment for once and stop being complicit in this hogwash. So the entire Nigerian Security System cannot provide cover for president to visit a part of the country that is in distress. when he wanted to dethrone Timipre Sylva as Gov of Bayelsa State,the entire security apparatus of the country came in handy.

The issue at hand is to rescue the abducted girls and not presidential consolation. Any body advising the president to visit chibok now is an enemy of this country. Will consoling with the families of the abducted girls bring back the girls? The governor of borno state can hold brief for Mr. president on that.

A copy of SSCE, NECO, GCE certificate or statement of result..

A copy of International passport.

A copy of Birth Certificate (optional).

A copy of your recent Passport Photo.

minimum qualification of five (5) CREDITs.

All applicants for undergraduate degree courses must possess a minimum qualification of five (5) CREDIT, in the Senior Secondary School Certificate (WAEC or NECO).

1. Scanned copies of an official transcript of all university-level courses taken.

2. Scanned copy of Bachelor/Master degree certificate received from a university or equivalent institutions.

3. Three letters of reference (at least one academic).

4. Documents;

a. Soft copy of your Statement of Purpose / Intention (Your purpose in applying to the program chosen, explaining your motivation as well as the areas of specialization which would be of interest to you within the discipline).

b. Scanned copy of your international passport bio data page or valid I.D. card.

c. Scanned copy of Two passport-sized photographs.

d. All other professional certifications/official documents to support your application.

NOTE: For fairness Applicants are may verify admission from the institution’s EMBASSY before paying Tuition fees to the school concern.

President Bush Jr and President Obama were in Iraq at the height of the Iraq war to cheer up the soldiers so also was Hollande of France who was in Mali to cheer up the soldiers, so i don’t get the logic where they will advise GEJ not to pay a similar visit to at least sympathize with the parents of the abducted girls. Please give another excuse that will be convincing to the generality of Nigerians., after all no hostility in Chibok as at now as the town is in mourning period.

If any of these presidents you mentioned above are advised by their security agents not to make a trip, certainly they will not. Please note that of all the trips mentioned above, non was stated in the media until they arrived. Look.. even the pilot who took Bush to Iraq never new until he was asked in the air to change his direction that they were heading for Iraq. Can any of this media houses that keep on reporting rubbish confirm who told them that Jonathan planned to visit Chibok. We should commend efforts being made to rescue the Girls and stop all these nonsense. We are all aware of the history of this country… The North and South have been in struggle for control of power and for sometime the North has been in the lead not until recently… They connived and brought in OBJ who tactically dealt with them and completely reduced them to nothing.. Now they thought Boko Haram’s senseless and devilish activities will collapse the government of Jonathan… they were all laughing and drinking wine when it started… now it has backfired.. no where to run to. They should just move to the south and beg for accommodation. Look some of us know the history of this country and Leadership should not be left in the hands of this so called Northerners because they know nothing. From 1979 to 1999 they ruled this country excluding the few months by Shonekan… they could not develop their place rather they were busy stealing and looting the treasury like IBB and Abacha. After impoverishing their people they now blame it on Jonathan. Have these useless Northern governors not been collecting allocation from the federal government since 1999?… what have they done with the funds? The south has been busy providing free education and even sending people overseas in order to further their education while these fools are busy saying western education is not acceptable. How will they improve… I regret having them as part of Nigeria because their is a remarkable difference between their mentality and that of the southerners.

Your statement that the North has been in power for longer time but still under-developed can be attributed to the fair play of the Northerners. The Northerners always try to equal the equation, trying to be the good neighbor, even do things to their detriment to make others happy. This is called HOSPITALITY! Can you compare this with GEJ’s ordinary less than four years rule? That man has turned Nigeria into an Ijaw nation alone, the little crumbs were given to other Easterners, which makes you guys so blind to all his failures (Maybe that is the reason why you have and might never rule Nigeria (Apart from Azikwe).

The blame on Jonathan is authentic, he is the CSO of the Federation and evrything stops on his desk. He is the President, he should start acting like one!

To date, all your insinuations that Northern elders  are behind Boko Haram as up to date not proven, even with all the security apparatus behind GEJ and your likes.

The greatest mistake the North made is joining this ill-marriage with the East, and we regretted the amalgamation. Especially now that there is a president who came from that part of Nigeria and has continued making a fool out of us all. I feel ashamed being a Nigerian now, coz people all over the world see the president talking so confused and clueless and think we are all the same. No wonder all the recent verdicts from world acclaimed leaders/media are unanimous in rating of GEJ’s failures.

No wahala…. I know that when a fire starts burning in a man’s house, He will be the first to put it off. This is my verdict…. Northern Nigeria … Good morning.

That only happens if and when the fire is minor and one can control it. Which is why in big fires, people run to save their lives and allow the fire brigade do their jobs…..

The fire was minor when the sect was formed…. The fire was minor when they were recruited by Modu Sherrif the former Governor of Bornu state to rig elections for him and intimidate his opponents with a promise to islamise Bornu state ……. The fire was minor when two of Yusuf’s Boko haram persons were nominated and confirmed commissioners in Modu Sherrifs cabinet…… The fire continued to ignite slowly when both Yusuf and one of the commissioners was murdered in cold blood by security agents as a cover up. The fire got busted thereafter and the brother of the former governor who won ANPP primaries and became flag bearer was murdered. The fire got out of hand when political opponents of Jonathan took charge off them and started using them with the intent to destabilize the government which they could not and now all has collapsed and everyone is running for shelter. No more dancing and drinking of wine. I will say no more on this until 2015 elections are over.

I perceive that your hatred for GEJ has overruled your sense of right judgement. If you had a brother or a son in the same position, would you advise him to visit Chibok in that situation, after being advised by the state and foreign intelligence? It is true that he should visit Chibok out of courtesy, but sometimes, some rules are meant to be bent for the greater good. If you have not yet realised this fact, You can never be a good adviser. And if you keep insisting that GEJ was supposed to ignore the warnings about the danger ahead of the trip, then obviously, you want him dead.

Usman, A.

Why has Modu Sherrif you mentioned being closed to GEJ since he assumed power in 2011. In fact they came togather when GEJ visited Borno Last year despite Modu Sherrif is an APC national Member.

bashwas, are you sincere that you regret the amalgamation of North and South ? YOUR people are ready for war for any move that would lead to disintegration. Your people  utilized their many years of governance, both military and civilian administration ,to load the North with many states and imaginary population to the disadvantage of the south. Let us stop unnecessary politics and pray for the release of the innocent girls. Your people have been faulting GEJ for accepting foreign assistance, but they forgot that Egypt, Britain, Russia and most moslem countries participated in the defeat of Biafra. Did’nt they pull out their soldiers, especially air men as soon as Biafra surrendered.. Why the noise that the foreign assistance is not to our advantage. Or are you suggesting that the quick end of the insurgency will collapse some evil plans against GEJ’s administration.

That’s a different scenario here boss. This our situation we all know is highly politically motivated..

When will the Nigerian Journalist grow up from this useless Amala reporting? I am really disappointed in the calibre of Journalist we have. For sometime now the Nigerian media has completely lacked investigative Journalism. I am just wondering what informs their write ups. Most times Gossips and rumors are even more truthful than what they report. This guys should just go back to school. If they are not busy collecting money from APC to write rubbish, they are busy doing copy cat. I am just fed up. Again …. you guys write rubbish.

It is said, “love your neighbour as yourself but not more than yourself” please GEJ, be careful not to let APC push you to your early grave (God forbids). They have an evil plan greater than a coup!

the Mining site his office. He sat for all the days with the families of those trapped until the last man was rescued. That is a LEADER who cares for his people. Recently when a  students ship sunk in Korea with over 200 students who unfortunately lost their lives, the Prime Minister resigned his appointment, though it was no fault of his, but the concern for human feelings made him to resigned, that’s what I called a LEADER.

embraced all Nigerians as one people, irrespective of tribe or religion, all we are saying is let’s have LEADERSHIP with human FEELINGS and who will take responsibility of a single soul killed in what ever circumstances.

Useless President.

Easy way to join the Illuminati brotherhood in the world.

Easy way to join the Illuminati brotherhood in the world.

Easy way to join the Illuminati brotherhood in the world.

Easy way to join the Illuminati brotherhood in the world.

Easy way to join the Illuminati brotherhood in the world.

Easy way to join the Illuminati brotherhood in the world.

Easy way to join the Illuminati brotherhood in the world.

Easy way to join the Illuminati brotherhood in the world..

Easy way to join the Illuminati brotherhood in the world..

Easy way to join the Illuminati brotherhood in the world.
