
When President Obama nominated Sylvia Mathews Burwell to succeed former Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius, many assumed the former budget director would breeze through her Senate confirmation. But now two Senate Republicans are looking to shake things up and turn Burwell’s confirmation process into yet another fight over the president’s health care law…shocker!

Republican Sens. Ted Cruz and Mike Lee, the Tea Party darlings who orchestrated last fall’s government shutdown, sent a letter to the HHS secretary on Friday—calling to delay Burwell’s confirmation until the administration provides more information about Obamacare enrollment numbers and the law’s implementation.

Republicans have been skeptical of the White House’s enrollment numbers for months. The Obama administration says more than 8 million people have enrolled, but some GOP lawmakers say the real number of people actually getting coverage through the exchanges is much lower, since the figures don’t reflect how many people have paid their first month’s premiums. The Obama administration has not provided those figures yet.

During her two confirmation hearings GOP lawmakers were quick to challenge Burwell about the numbers, to which, like other administration officials, Burwell pointed to insurers’ estimates that about 80 to 90 percent have paid for their plans. Cruz and Lee, however, were unsatisfied with her response, which prompted the letter.

Though Burwell is expected to be confirmed by the Democrat-controlled Senate, the GOP lawmakers will make waves in order to call attention to the law’s rocky rollout ahead of the midterm elections.

The move comes on the heels of a separate letter from Republican Sens. Orin Hatch and Chuck Grassley demanding answers from the administration regarding failed state health care insurance exchange websites.

So far, at least four largely inoperable state websites – in Massachusetts, Maryland, Nevada and Oregon – have cost the federal government $4 billion. That number is expected to rise as the states spend more money to replace or rebuild the bad sites.

Senate Republicans have also sponsored legislation that would require states to reimburse the federal government the hundreds of millions of dollars they have spent to build the failed websites.

The letters and legislation is a part of the GOP’s strategy to continue putting heat on Obamacare throughout the midterm elections.

Republicans earlier in the year vowed to offer their Obamacare alternative—but that has since faded , after millions began getting insurance under the new law. Now it appears that they will be going with the attack dog strategy—at least until after the midterms.
