
Instead of seeking to understand why Indians voted for the BJP in such great numbers, they are being presented as an irrational mob ‘misled and intimidated by a mammoth election campaign funded by big business’.

From The Guardian to The Economist, Modi has been depicted as a    Hindu fanatic who bodes ill for India. After the BJP’s victory, many    comments took an ugly turn. One piece on the Guardian’s website    carries the following title: ‘ NarendraModi    and the BJP bludgeoned their way to election victory ’. A cartoon depicts    a victorious Modi surfing on a landslide with a dark cloud looming over him    that says ‘Gujarat riots’. In France, the leading newspaper Le Monde writes that one only has to observe the conduct of this ‘corpulent Hindu    extremist’ in order to realize that ‘something very troubling is about to    happen in India’.

Such accounts reflect ideological platitudes rather than genuine    understanding. If the European intelligentsia is this blinded by ideology, it    will not be able to prepare our youth for the world of the 21st century, where    India is bound to be a major player. Worse, our politicians, diplomats and    business people will succumb to ideological stories about Indian politics and    society.

Indeed, this has happened many a time. Between 2002 and 2012, the diplomats of    EU member states refused all contact with Modi. This policy was based on    allegations of his complicity in the Gujarat riots of 2002 and claims that he    is a ‘Hindu fascist’.

Inspired by Indian secularists, western commentators depict the BJP as an evil    force, which will throw India into the dark ages. Some even agree that it    concerns a ‘fascist’ party, as though this term can be bandied about like    a cheap epithet. In reality, the BJP is a democratic party similar to many  right-of-centre parties in Europe: combining a liberal socio-economic policy    with the aim of reviving traditional culture. But, as is the case with    nationalist parties in Europe, this aim unfortunately takes the form of    retrograde nationalist rhetoric.

This does not mean that the BJP’s election victory is a victory for Hindu    nationalism. On the one hand, it is a vote for more economic growth and better    governance, after a series of corruption scandals in the Congress party. On    the other hand, it reflects the voice of a people emancipating itself from a    colonial inferiority complex and wishing to rediscover its cultural strengths.

From an Indian perspective, Europe’s double standard must be bewildering:    India’s potential prime minister was treated as an untouchable for years,    whereas Obama—who is responsible for upholding the abominations of  Guantanamo, drone attacks, secret torture centres and spying programmes—is    received as a hero. This policy is guided by an age-old story that dismisses    India as an immoral and backward culture. If Europe continues to tell such    stories, she will lose her way and her standing in the world of the 21st    century.

Recently, a 19-year-old Indian visitor to the EU put it as follows: ‘This    continent should just retire gracefully’. You can only imagine how painful    it is for a European to hear how the future leaders of India see us. However,    we do not despair, for there is hope for the old continent. After all, we are    also the culture that generated the scientific revolution and still continues    its commitment to the search for truth.

It is this Europe that should now wake up and open her eyes to the new world    of the 21st century. It is this Europe that will meet India anew and treat her    like the sister she is.

As an Indian living in the EU, I am apalled by how much of the discourse between the EU and India is dominated by village idiots on either side. On the European side there are the the annoying ones with a colonial hangover who still talk of India needing aid and not investment, while the Indian side has far too many arrogant nitwits like that 19 year old visitor who wants Europe to retire gracefully. Such cacophony is best ignored. The truth is that there are intelligent elements on both sides who realize how much they have to offer each other. Europe is still one of the biggest producers of knowledge, technology and scientific miracles, and India is a fast developing powerhouse with an ambitious, well spending and tech savvy middle class. The two need each other, and without doubt, the mature on either side will ensure that the partnership stays strong.

Arun Kumar,

>>>> "You may wallow in your inanities if you so choose. For the rest of us......"

>> This is like the thief who says that he should be ever vigilant against the police, so that he can be free to help people guard their belongings.

>>  is now just an 'inanity' for muslims like anwaar.

This is like the thief who says that he should be ever vigilant against the police, so that he can be free to help people guard their belongings. Does not make sense. But it is pretty normal for secular- masked communal fascists not to make any sense like the Ostrich burying its head in the sand and assuming that no one can see it.

Secular- masked communal fascists have one simple agenda – Secularism when in minority, rabid communalism when in majority. To them secularism is a mask to be used when in minority to advance their hideous communal agenda. That is why one does not see them preaching secularism in the land of barbarians because their communal agenda has already been achieved there. They are forever searching virgin territories, to continue the expansion of their communal agenda.

1. Scathing, passionate, even angry critiques are welcome, but please do not indulge in abuse and invective. Our Primary concern is to keep the debate civil. We urge our users to try and express their disagreements without being disagreeable. Personal attacks are not welcome. No ad hominem please.

4. Our endeavour is to keep these forums unmoderated and unexpurgated. But if any of the above three conditions are violated, we reserve the right to delete any comment that we deem objectionable and also to withdraw posting privileges from the abuser. Please also note that hate-speech is punishable by law and in extreme circumstances, we may be forced to take legal action by tracing the IP addresses of the poster.

6. Please do not copy and paste copyrighted material. If you do think that an article elsewhere has relevance to the point you wish to make, please only quote what is considered fair-use and provide a link to the article under question.

7. There is no particular outlookindia.com line on any subject. The views expressed in our opinion section are those of the author concerned and not that of all of outlookindia.com or all its authors.

8. Please also note that you are solely responsible for the comments posted by you on the site. The comments could be deleted or edited entirely at our discretion if we find them objectionable. However, the mere fact of their existence on our site does not mean that we necessarily approve of their contents. In short, the onus of responsibility for the comments remains solely with the authors thereof. Outlookindia.com or any of its group publications, may, however, retains the right to publish any of these comments, with or without editing, in any medium whatsoever. It is therefore in your own interest to be careful before posting.
