
The International Secretariat of the World Organisation Against Torture (OMCT) requests your URGENT intervention in the following situation inthe Republic of Moldova.

The International Secretariat of OMCT has been informed by a reliable source about the critical health conditions of and the lack of adequate medical care for Mr. Beşleaga Vitalii and Mr. Bevziuc Serghei, two prisoners held in Prison n°3, in Tiraspol (УИН-3), in the Moldovan Republic of Transdniestria (MRT) [1] .

According to the information received, Mr. Bevziuc Serghei suffers of chronic paraproctitis (an inflammation around the rectum) with abscesses and Mr. Beşleaga Vitalii suffers of type 2 diabetes mellitus [2] , diabetic nephropathy, diabetic neuropathy [3] , diabetic angiopathy, partial complicated cataract, and hypertension. Mr. Beşleaga Vitalii’s health problems were diagnosed years ago and require regular medical attention. On 12 December 2013, a Medical Consultative Comission of Health Center Varnita, Anenii Noi district, examined both of them and confirmed that they need permanent medical assistance. However, no medical treatment or care was provided.

According to their relatives, their illnesses have reportedly deteriorated due the lack of basic medical care and treatment. The medical center located in Tiraspol prison, where both are currently being held, fails to meet medical standards of care. There is a lack of medicines, medical equipment and qualified personnel. Both families have reportedly sent medicines to the prison but it is not clear if Mr. Beşleaga Vitalii and Bevziuc Serghei have received them.

According to the same information received, Mr. Beşleaga Vitalli has been feeling very ill, has had difficulties to move and he has experienced dizziness and hypertension due to his diabetes. Nevertheless, he has not received any appropriate diabetes care. His blood sugar levels have reportedly never been measured although it is an important part of diabetes care. Likewise, due to the lack of adequate medical assistance, Mr. Bevziuc Serghei has been suffering from perirectal abscesses, with pus oozing down the legs. On 24 December 2013 a private doctor was allowed to visit and examine Mr. Bevziuc Serghei. He reportedly concluded that Mr. Bevziuc  Serghei needed an urgent medical intervention.

On 28 March 2014, following various requests before the competent authorities to get appropriate medical care, Mr. Beşleaga Vitalii and Bevziuc Serghei appealed to the European Court of Human Rights and requested an urgent examination of their request. Mr. Beşleaga Vitalii and Mr. Bevziuc Serghei invoked violations of articles 3 (Prohibition of torture), 13 (Right to an effective remedy), and 5 (Right to liberty and security) of the European Convention on Human Rights.

The OMCT is gravely concerned about the critical health conditions of Mr. Beşleaga Vitalii and Mr. Bevziuc Serghei, and recalls to the de facto Transnistrian administration its responsibility to effectively ensure the physical and psychological integrity of all persons deprived of liberty in accordance with regional and international human rights law, and in particular the European Convention on Human Rights, the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment of Punishment, and the UN Standard Minimum Rules for the Treatment of Prisoners. OMCT urges the de facto Transnistrian administration to immediately transfer Mr. Beşleaga Vitalii and Bevziuc Serghei to specialized institutions or civil hospitals where they can receive adequate medical care and treatment for their illnesses.

OMCT also recalls the findings and recommendations entailed in the report by Senior Expert on Human Rights in Transnistria, Mr. Thomas Hammarberg, entitled “Report on Human Rights in the Transnistrian Region of the Republic of Moldova” published on 14 February 2013.

i.               Guarantee the physical and psychological integrity of Mr. Beşleaga Vitalii and Mr. Bevziuc Serghei;

ii.              Order their immediate transfer to specialized institutions or civil hospitals where they can access adequate medical examination and adequate medical treatment for their illnesses;

iii.            Guarantee that they have access to their families and lawyers;

iv.            Ensure that adequate conditions of detention and medical services are guaranteed to all persons that have been deprived of liberty, according notably to the UN Standard Minimum Rules for the Treatment of Prisoners;

v.              Guarantee the respect of human rights and the fundamental freedoms throughout the country in accordance with national laws and international human rights standards.

[1]         The MRT is a separatist entity that split from the Republic of Moldova in 1990 but that has not been recognized by the international community.

[2]                 Type 2 diabetes mellitus causes high blood glucose (sugar) levels, which can lead to a number of complications if untreated.
