
The convicted murderer who went on the run from police for the fourth time this weekend has been arrested by officers in Greater Manchester.

Arnold Pickering, 44, was jailed for life in 1991 after killing a man in Oldham, and failed to return to Kennet Prison in Liverpool on Saturday after leaving on day release.

Today Merseyside Police said Pickering had been arrested on suspicion of being unlawfully at large at an address also in Oldham.

A spokesperson said officers from Greater Manchester Police had found Pickering at around 11.45am and that he has now been returned to custody.

A second inmate at Kennet Prison, 51-year-old Thomas Moffett from Blackburn, Lancashire, also disappeared on Saturday but was last night arrested by Lancashire Constabulary on suspicion of being unlawfully at large.

The escape of the two men came just two weeks after the armed robber Michael Wheatley – widely known as the “Skull Cracker” - absconded from an open prison in Kent, also while on temporary release.

The spate of cases has led prisons minister Jeremy Wright to call for changes to the day release process to be brought in “as a matter of urgency”.

“I am not prepared to see public safety compromised,” he said. “The system for allowing prisoners out on temporary licence has been too lax up till now and we are making major changes to address this.

Speaking on BBC Radio 4's Today programme this morning, the Justice Secretary Chris Grayling said the incidents were “unacceptable”.

Pickering had previously absconded in December 2009 when he was let out on day release from Kirkham Prison to work on the bins in Manchester city centre, and handed himself in four days later in Motherwell, Scotland.

While awaiting trial in March 1991 he also fled from custody at Strangeways, now Manchester Prison, and in 2006 he reportedly spent a full nine days on the run from Ford open prison near Arundel.

Peter McParlin, chairman of the Prison Officers Association (POA), said earlier that overcrowding in prisons meant people were being transferred to lower-security prisons who “are unsuitable for open conditions”.
