
Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own.

I write about science, literature, and big ideas. Previously, I spent 7 years at Bloomberg, and my work has appeared in outlets including the Kenyon Review, Seed Magazine, the New York Observer, the Philadelphia Inquirer, the Awl, and Greenfriar. You can subscribe to my newsletter at tinyletter.com/lopatto.

Science’s past is not so noble. In light of Nicholas Wade’s recent book , I thought it might be worthwhile to stroll down the horror show that is science’s memory lane. These aren’t the worst things that happened in the name of science; they’re merely the first historical examples that come to mind. There’s a reason why institutional review boards were invented, however cumbersome they may seem: man’s extensive history of inhumanity to man.

Bring up the bodies, said the devilish medical students of old New York. Do you know how the very first riot in the U.S. came to be, in 1788? In New York, medical students dug up the bodies of slaves who had been worked to death in order to dissect them. “The medical students from Columbia and New York Hospital only had to walk a couple of muddy blocks to reach the African burial ground, as well as the potter’s field just next to it. There’s every reason to think the graverobbing was an open secret around early New York, known and tolerated by elites who justified the growing anatomical expertise in the new nation produced—just like much of the rest of the early city was produced—on the backs of blacks.” The riot apparently started when a medical student waved a human arm at a small child. The rampaging crowd destroyed the anatomy workroom. A year later, a law was passed to restrict medical students’ looting; it was loosely enforced.

Nazi anatomists as the authorities of “legitimate rape.”  Half of the doctors in Germany joined the Nazi party. Their research was as humane as one might expect from Nazis. One anatomist got to pick the bodies he wanted while they were still living. Another dissected his friend and kept the heart. One of the world’s finest anatomy books, still in use, was drawn by a Nazi, who expelled Jews from the university faster than any other school in the period.

The shame of Tuskegee (pdf) For 40 years, treatment for syphilis was withheld from study participants. The study participants were told they had “bad blood,” not syphilis, and when antibiotics were invented, no one ever informed them they could drop out of the study and get more lasting treatment. The study’s participants were uniformly black. The reason the antibiotics were withheld? To observe the natural course of the disease. President Bill Clinton apologized to the survivors in 1997. The incident is one of the lowest points U.S. medical history, and a deliberate choice to violate one’s vow to do no harm, not merely in one instance but at an institutional level. At a very, very high institutional level: the U.S. collaborated with the government of Guatemala to deliberately expose people to sexually transmitted diseases.

You may see, as I do, a connecting line between these incidents: they target the most vulnerable people within a society.

Scientific racism stretches back as far as Carl Linnaeus , the father of modern taxonomy and the reason why scientific names of species are generally unpronounceable and unmemorable. “Races” were taken to be part of the taxonomy; the subspecies were represented by color. Whites were, unsurprisingly, “very smart;” Asians were “stern” and “strict;” American indigenous people were “stubborn” but “happy” and “free.” Black people are described as “sly,” “slow,” and “careless,” with a “sluggish” and “lazy” temperament. Later writers on racial differences focused closely on black people’s sexuality, characterizing them as being more lustful than whites.

The real tragedy here is the number of experiments that were designed to “prove” these stereotypes true, and the number of people who suffered as a result. Take, for example, the treatment of Saartjie Baartman, who was kept as a slave in Cape Town. Her owner agreed to have her sent along with some animals for an exhibition in London, where she was one of two women exhibited as “Hottentot Venus,” for the express purpose of Londoners to gaze at her buttocks. She died in 1816 at 26, of unknown causes. Georges Culver, a naturalist of the era, declared her the missing link between humans and apes, and after her death, made a plaster cast of her body, and pickled her brain and genitals to place them on display.

Here’s the thing: race has no genetic basis. Things can be said about someone’s genetic ancestry, but usually the ancestry is more complicated and diverse than one’s skin tone might imply. Though race has a social reality , we can’t say it has a genetic one.

Why bring up shit like this ? We get it already, America has a horrible past and it’s pounded into our heads daily now. You spoke of riots, I wouldn’t be surprised to see some coming soon with the shit that’s getting spread around these days.

Acknowledging our past may lead us to a better future.
