
The Department of Aerospace Engineering's undergraduate and graduate programs are consistently ranked by US News and World report amongst the Top Five public aerospace engineering departments in the nation with its graduates highly sought after by leading corporations throughout the world.

Aerospace engineering is a dynamic and growing department with 21 faculty, six named faculty professorships, annual research expenditures of approximately $16 million and cutting-edge facilities such as the Alfred Gessow Rotorcraft Center and the Glenn L. Martin Wind Tunnel. The department has a vibrant research and educational environment in several core areas, including: aerodynamics and propulsion, smart and composite structures, space systems, robotics, rotorcraft, autonomous systems and hypersonic systems.

United Technologies Corp. (UTC), based in Hartford, Connecticut, provides high technology products and services to the building and aerospace industries. UTC businesses include Pratt & Whitney, Sikorsky, UTC Aerospace Systems and UTC Building & Industrial Systems. For more information, visit UTC's website at www.utc.com or follow us on Twitter: @UTC .

Sikorsky Aircraft Corporation is a world leader in aircraft design, manufacture and service. With development programs including the S-97 Raider™ featuring X2 Technology®, the CH-53K "King Stallion" heavy-lift helicopter and the S-76D™ helicopter, Sikorsky Aircraft continues to explore and introduce state-of-the-art technologies for military and commercial markets. The organization builds on Sikorsky Aircraft's 90 years of innovation and will increase the scope of previous efforts by expanding collaborative arrangements spanning government technology agencies, academic institutions, other United Technologies Corporation facilities, and entrepreneurial businesses where research and product development take place in cooperation with Sikorsky's engineers and technicians. For more information, visit www.sikorsky.com or follow us on Twitter: @SikorskyAircrft.
