
A convicted murderer who failed to return to prison after leaving on day release at the weekend has been arrested in Greater Manchester for being unlawfully at large.

Pickering, 44, from Chadderton, Greater Manchester, failed to return to HMP Kennet in Maghull, Merseyside, after leaving the category-C jail on day release on Friday.

It was the third time he had gone on the run, and the second since being jailed for life in 1991 for stabbing to death Thomas Leigh, a 53-year-old blind man that Pickering wrongly thought to be a paedophile.

The incident came less than two weeks after the armed robber Michael Wheatley, known as Skullcracker, was caught by police in east London, having spent four days on the run, prompting alarm about the practice of allowing dangerous convicts out on day release.

Another prisoner, Thomas Moffet, 51, from Blackburn, Lancashire – serving an indeterminate sentence for a number of robberies carried out in his home town in 2006 – also failed to return, but late on Sunday he was arrested by officers from Lancashire constabulary.

The justice secretary, Chris Grayling, said it was unacceptable for someone who had absconded to be held in open conditions.

Speaking on BBC News, he said the case showed there was "a further loophole that I now need to close".

Grayling said it was "right, proper and sensible" for prisoners to be prepared for release by being held in open conditions, even if they had committed serious, violent offences. But, he added: "If people break the rules, if they abscond, if they stick two fingers up at the system, there should be consequences. Those prisoners should be placed back in closed conditions, and those prisoners will be."

Grayling added: "I question now whether we should have people who have absconded before in open conditions at all. That's my task for today."

He also said that in such cases town leave would be curbed and risk assessments reviewed. And Grayling pledged that electronic tags would be used on prisoners in open conditions if they had a record of absconding, once the technology was available.

Speaking to Sky News he added: "We are tearing up the system as it exists at the moment."

Pickering last absconded in December 2009 when he was let out from HMP Kirkham to work in Manchester city centre. On that occasion, he had been one of eight prisoners taking part in a controversial scheme run by the Prison Service with Enterprise Manchester, emptying bins for Manchester council. He handed himself in four days later in Motherwell.

Pickering also escaped from Strangeways in Manchester before he went on to stab a man to death in Oldham in 1990. He was jailed in 1991 for life and ordered to serve a minimum of 18 years.

Merseyside police previously said Pickering and Moffet had been risk-assessed as suitable for temporary release on licence by the Ministry of Justice.

The Conservative backbencher Philip Davies, MP for Shipley, called the latest disappearances an "absolute scandal". He questioned why convicted murderers were ever given temporary release when figures which he obtained through parliamentary answers showed 106 had absconded in the past 10 years.

He said that when he tabled an amendment to the criminal justice bill currently going through parliament that would have prevented the temporary release of murderers, it was blocked by the government.

"It is an absolute scandal in the prison system. How on earth people like this can ever be given temporary release from prison on licence is beyond me," he said.

For Labour, the shadow justice secretary, Sadiq Khan, expressed concern that public safety was being put at risk through the release of the wrong prisoners. "This further incident, coming only a matter of weeks after the Michael Wheatley fiasco, will cause the public huge concern," he said. "These types of incidents are becoming a habit on David Cameron's government's watch. For almost 20 years there was no category-A prisoner escape, yet on their watch that has changed.

"With government policy meaning worse overcrowding and slashed staffing levels, the fear is that this cutting of corners is putting the public at risk as a result."

Peter McParlin, chairman of the Prison Officers Association (POA), said cases of prisoners being put in unsuitable open conditions were the result of prison overcrowding and staff shortages.  He said: "There is immense pressure on the system and it is clear to me that the tick-box mentality that goes into transferring prisoners to open conditions has failed the public."

Our editors' picks for the day's top news and commentary delivered to your inbox each morning.
