
YOUTH Development Organisation executive director Partner Siabutuba has urged stakeholders demanding the release of the final draft Constitution to be level-headed.

Mr Siabutuba said stakeholders should embrace unity and peace in their quest to demand for release of the document and subsequent enactment of the new Constitution.

He was speaking in Choma at the weekend at Saint Mary’s Catholic Church during a Southern Province prayer meeting convened by the grand coalition on people driven constitution for Zambia.

“As we demand for our Constitution we need to be level-headed and ensure that we embrace our unity and peace because this is our country,” he said.

The civil society campaign for a people-driven Constitution in Zambia had organised the prayer meeting attended by some political leaders with a goal dubbed ‘Rescue the Constitution through the demand for the immediate release of the final draft constitution’.

Among other objectives of the civil society campaign was to demand for a legal framework and clear roadmap for the remaining part of the Constitution-making process and a referendum as mode of adopting the Constitution.

Alliance for Democracy and Development (ADD) president Charles Milupi urged Government to release the final draft constitution to warrant the enactment of the new document.

United Party for National Development (UPND) leader Hakainde Hichilema said the constitution was an important document that should be enacted in line with expectations from the people of Zambia.

Mr Hichilema said the Constitution was significant because it contained basic fundamental freedoms of the people of Zambia hence need for them to demand its enactment from Government.

Grand coalition spokesperson Macdonald Chipenzi said the Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) would continue to press Government for the release of the draft constitution.

He said, if Government would not release the draft Constitution by October 5, 2014, the CSOs would shun the forthcoming Golden Jubilee celebrations to mark Zambia’s 50 years of Independence.

THE Parliamentary Accounts Committee (PAC) yesterday heard that former  Chipata Central  Member of Parliament, (MP) Lameck Mangani irregularly single-sourced and awarded a borehole drilling contract worth K360,000 from the Constituency Development Funds (CDF) to a contractor without the knowledge of the council.

Submitting before the PAC, Ministry of Local Government and Housing acting Permanent Secretary Thomson Banda said Mr Mangani single-sourced and awarded the contract to drill the boreholes to Yelezya Enterprises without authority from the council.

The PAC heard that the company was engaged to drill the 17 boreholes in Chipata at a cost of K360,000. The scope of works included drilling and equipping the boreholes.

As of January 2014, the boreholes had been drilled and the contractor had been paid the whole amount.

Authority (ZPPA).

He explained that the council only became aware of the contract when the contractor demanded payment.

But PAC members, led by Chipangali MMD MP Vincent Mwale took the ministry and the Chipata Council to task. over the issue. They said the awarding of contracts was outside the mandate of MPs.

Lubanseshi independent MP Patrick Mucheleka and his Mwembeshi counterpart from UPND,  Austin Milambvo wondered how the council paid for the boreholes when it was not involved in the awarding of the contract.

Chipata Town Clerk Davis Musenge explained that Mr Mangani wrote to the then former Chipata town clerk and recommended that the company drills the boreholes.

He said the town clerk further received a letter from the then Minister of Local Government and Housing, instructing him to pay the said company.

done.
