
As German decision makers are being pressed both by the Kiev regime and – their backers in the US to support new sanctions against Russia, German political and business elites see these sanctions as a threat not only to the German, but also to the whole of the EU economy.

Why would the US hold Germany, and bigger Europe hostage to its own interests in Eurasia? Radio VR talks to Dr. Richard Wellings, Deputy Editorial Director at the Institute of Economic Affairs, London, and Victor Grossman, American journalist and author, based in Germany.

Germany, the locomotive of the EU economic growth, has been split over the issue of sanctions imposed on Russia over Ukrainian crisis. German decision makers are being pressed both by the Kiev regime and – their backers in the US to support new sanctions against Russia.

Shortly before visiting Berlin acting Ukrainian Foreign Minister Andriy Deshchytsia told Die Welt: "If German politicians don't want to be responsible for the further destabilization of the region, then Berlin needs to take a harder line with Moscow".

....I think there are some geo-strategies, particularly in the US who are worried about Russia’s recent economic success. So, now its economy is growing very rapidly over the past few years and it is now a similar size to the economy of Germany. And in a sense there are those in America who are worried that the EU and Russia are getting much closer together and you get a Eurasian economic power block with EU, Russia and China, trade union increasingly between one another, and of course US geographically is quite a peripheral country. It could be left out of this trade. So, it has to do with geostrategic power relations and long-term shifts in world trade the US is very concerned about...."

"…Mrs. Merkel is torn by this same controversy or the same conflict. I think on the one hand, she finds it very difficult to break away from the forces, those people in Washington who want to move ahead. I think Ukraine is the next step after all they’ve already been involved in Georgia and in Azerbaijan. I think some of them even look towards Moscow as a second Maidan Square. She is under the pressure from these people but she is also under pressure from the economic interests in the country and from the public. So, she is torn, she says "go ahead with sanctions but not too far”. She is torn by both forces and I cannot predict which will be stronger.

…Obama is under pressure from various sources, and one important group pushing Obama is to move ahead, which was in Syria and against Iran and, of course, Libya, and in Ukraine. And he pushes Germany. On the other hand, there are other forces including some in the military who say "go easy", and perhaps those are the ones who are able to stop any military action in Syria and to work for peace with Iran. These are the forces, which we hope can also modulate the views on Ukraine, that they don’t just keep pushing further and further and making a much more bloody situation in Ukraine than it is now. It is terrible as it is now. I think these forces that I don’t trust are looking not only to Ukraine, which would practically cut off Russia from much of its southern side, I think they are looking further. They’d like to expand not only to Kazakhstan but to Russia too. Some of them have said it openly."

All rights reserved.
