
We have re-imagined our design in a bold new way. Before we roll it out for everyone, we are giving select readers an opportunity to try out the new design. We welcome your feedback.

We've removed you from the beta test of the new design.

Please note: if you clear your cookies you may be invited back to the beta. In order to prevent this from happening, please do not clear your SFGate.com cookies for the next 30 days.

The emergence of smartphones with great cameras and the widespread adoption of social networking have combined to turn photos into a key communications tool. In fact, that's a gross understatement. By late 2013, an estimated 350 million photos were being uploaded to Facebook every day.

The explosion in casual photography has spawned myriad ways to share and save phone photos. You can e-mail them or attach them to text messages, or send them directly to photo-sharing or online storage sites. You also can have photos that you take with your phone backed up to the cloud automatically.

Google+ has been something of a dud as a social network, but it's great for automatically backing up photos online. Auto backup also is a feature of Dropbox and Microsoft's OneDrive. Apps for all of these services are available for iPhones and Android phones (Google+ is installed on newer Android models).

Users of iPhones also can use Apple 's My Photo Stream to automatically sync photos to other Apple devices. But it only saves photos in iCloud for only 30 days.

Google, OneDrive and Dropbox have limits on the amount of stuff you can store for free. You can always buy more space, but it's probably best to use these services to back up photos temporarily, until you can transfer them to a computer (or high-capacity flash drive) for permanent storage.

A: The going rate, for a traditional landline or an Internet-based service like Vonage, seems to be $30 to $35 a month including all the various and sundry fees. You may be able to cut the price a bit by bundling phone service with Internet and TV from a cable or satellite provider. But you can do better.

Inexpensive Internet phone services include BasicTalk and Ooma. BasicTalk, from Vonage, costs $10 a month, and you don't have to pay for the box that connects to your wireless router. With Ooma, you need to buy the Ooma Telo box ($150 list price), but the basic service itself is free.

Both BasicTalk and Ooma offer unlimited nationwide calling, with features including caller ID, call waiting and voice mail.

My question to you is, why will you need a home phone at all? Presumably, you will be taking your mobile phone with you, and these days, that's all anyone really needs. Neither of my adult sons has a home phone, but that hasn't affected my ability to reach them, because they never even answer their mobiles.

A: There are a number of good apps, but you can't go wrong with Google Translate (free for both Android and iPhones). You can type a word, phrase or sentence (in English or another language) and have it translated instantly into the language of your choice. You also can use voice translation, where you speak to the phone, and it responds by speaking the translation. This is especially good for getting directions.

You can use the phone as an interpreter to tell your cabdriver where you want to go, and if you reverse the languages, the cabbie can tell you why the drive from the train station costs 50 euros.

The only drawback is that Google Translate - like most translation apps - requires a data connection, either via mobile wireless or Wi-Fi. If your wireless carrier doesn't have an affordable international data plan, make sure your smartphone is carrier-unlocked and buy a prepaid SIM card in each country you visit.

Time to Split: Many people use social networking sites to locate and get together with their buddies. Now comes an "antisocial networking" app that helps you avoid people. Split, from Gottasplit.com, lets you create a list of people (ex-spouses, insurance salesmen, etc.) whom you'd rather not encounter, then uses their status updates from services like Facebook, Twitter and Instagram to keep track of their whereabouts. When someone you're trying to avoid is nearby, you get an alert, along with a suggested escape route. You also can scan a location before heading out, just to make sure you won't run into the wrong people.

The Split app is free and available in both Android and iOS versions.

Confluence of factors means few in Napa will get paid out.

Billy Crystal's moving tribute to his late friend during Emmys.
