
With just two weeks to go before the deadline for Mayor Will Flanagan’s administration to hand over the fiscal 2015 budget for City Council approval, some of the members are expressing concerns about just what will be delivered and how the city will pay for it.

“I don’t know what the hell is going on,” City Councilor Leo Pelletier said.

Last week administration postponed an editorial board meeting scheduled for Tuesday this week with The Herald News to discuss the fiscal 2015 budget, citing its intent to meet with individual city council members.

Ann O’Neil-Souza, Flanagan’s chief of staff, said on Monday she’s made calls to every city councilor to make appointments with the finance team for meetings today and Wednesday.

What concerns City Councilor Leo Pelletier, and keeps him up at night he said, are issues like a possible pay-as-you throw program which the council has no say in other than when voting to approve the budget. He’s also worried about how to plug shortfalls due to circumstances like the shuttering of the land fill.

“It’s crazy, where is the money going to come from?” Pelletier said.

City Council President Joseph Camara said the administration informed him of a meeting last Tuesday and he was just about to confirm.

As far as how he would vote on the budget, Camara said he won’t commit to anything until he sits down with the administration and sees where the money will come from to fund services.

City councilors Michael Miozza has called the budget process arcane “and clouded in mystery,” particularly what direction the city will take for a new solid waste program and how the city will pay to increase the planned fire department layoffs to a staff of 153 in fiscal 2015, that will now grow to 175 firefighters.

Miozza said school officials have reached out for support of its proposed budget of $99 million from the city.

“I had to turn them down. I can’t advocate because I don’t know the overall budget and I don’t understand yet how we’ll fill all the gaps,” Miozza said.

Page 2 of 2 - City Councilor Raymond Mitchell said at this late stage in the process, the City Council won’t have much of an opportunity to voice their opinions on a lot of their concerns with the closing of the landfill, manning the fire department and meeting school spending requirements.

For City Councilor Jasiel Corrreia II, his first budget is a “doozy” and the freshman member said his prime concern is that the city meets net school spending and would not support a budget that doesn’t reflect it.

City councilors Daniel Rego and Paul DaSilva could not be reached for their comments.

Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.
