
Three police killed in Egyptian capital as students rally in favour of ousted President Morsi, Interior Ministry says.

Three Egyptian policemen have been killed at Cairo's al-Azhar University, the Interior Ministry said, a week before the presidential election that former army chief Abdel Fattah el-Sisi is expected to win.

The assailants stepped out of two cars and opened fire on a security checkpoint just outside the university late on Monday night, security sources said.

Nine people were also wounded in the attack, the ministry said. It said the shooting happened as students were protesting in favour of President Mohamed Morsi, who was toppled by the army after mass protests against his rule last summer.

Armed groups have also stepped up attacks on security forces since Morsi's overthrow, killing hundreds of police and soldiers.

In an interview with Reuters news agency last week, Sisi said Egypt needed support from the United States in its battle against "terrorists" who pose a threat from several areas, including the Sinai Peninsula and the border with Libya.

Egypt has accused the Morsi's Muslim Brotherhood of involvement in many of the attacks, and the group has been declared a terrorist organisation.

Security forces have devastated the Brotherhood since Morsi's fall, killing hundreds in the streets and arresting thousands. Hundreds have been given preliminary death sentences in court.

More than one-quarter of Gaza's population has been displaced, causing a humanitarian crisis.

Italy struggles to deal with growing flood of migrants willing to risk their lives to reach the nearest European shores.

Content on this website is for general information purposes only.   Your comments are provided by your own free will and you take sole responsibility for any direct or indirect   liability. You hereby provide us with an irrevocable, unlimited, and global license for no consideration to   use, reuse, delete or publish comments, in accordance with Community   Rules & Guidelines  and  Terms and   Conditions .
