
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

BIRMINGHAM, Alabama  - A judge this morning set June 24 as the date for a hearing on whether the Ensley man charged in the  May 10 shooting death of Birmingham police Officer Keary Hollis  should be granted a bond so he can be released from jail.

Jefferson County Circuit Judge Clyde Jones also said that a preliminary hearing will be held at that same time for Patrick Johnson.

Salvagio had stated in a motion submitted Sunday that "the blood alcohol level of the victim (officer Hollis) is a factor in the defense of the defendant."

Deputy Jefferson County District Attorney Carl Randall told the judge that prosecutors did not have a problem with the video and blood sample requests. But he told the judge he did not know for sure whether a blood sample from the officer was taken or tested for alcohol. Deputy District Attorney Joe Roberts also is a prosecutor in the case.

The judge also granted a request by Salvagio that all court proceedings be recorded.

Salvagio said after the hearing that he had come to court today hoping to get the judge to hear evidence on why Johnson should be granted a bond that was reasonable. A number of family and friends from Johnson's church attended this morning's hearing prepared to testify on Johnson's behalf.

Salvagio said he understood why the judge set the bond hearing for next month because today's hearing was to be just an initial appearance.

A number of others in the packed courtroom were there on behalf of Hollis and his family.

Johnson was arrested the next morning after the fatal  shooting of Hollis, who was off-duty at the time,  outside a Bush Boulevard convenience store.

The shooting happened after Hollis accidentally backed into Johnson's motorcycle, knocking it over, a witness said. As Hollis began to drive away, Johnson ran after him and fired shots into Hollis' car.

© 2014 Alabama Media Group All rights reserved ( About Us ).

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
