
THE doubling of train services on the popular Oban and Glasgow route was launched today.

Community celebrations with a piper greeted the first arrival in the West Highland town this morning.

The increase in service to six per day Mondays-Saturdays was assisted by a partnership between public-private Highlands and Islands Transport Partnership co-ordinating body Hitrans, Argyll and Bute Council and First ScotRail.

Funded by the rail firm, the new services include an early morning train from Oban which will reach Glasgow before 9am – which will suit both business and leisure travellers – and a new evening service which will connect with the southbound Caledonian Sleeper at Crianlarich.

The other northbound new services from Glasgow are at 10.37 and 16:37, while southbound there will also be an extra train at 14.41 in addition to the new 05:20 and 20.37.

Transport Minister Keith Brown said: “I’m delighted to see these additional services between Glasgow and Oban get underway and welcome this important improvement to the Scottish rail network.

He said these enhancements were a direct result of the Scottish Government successfully negotiating a continuation of the ScotRail franchise to the 31st March 2015.

The minister said: “By doubling the trains on the route, we offer regular commuters more travel options and provide the local economy with a boost by making it even easier for visitors to get a taste of the fantastic tourist offering in Argyll and Bute.

Councillor Duncan Macintyre, who represents Oban North and Lorn and is also a Hitrans Board Member, said the opportunities range from daily commuting into Oban from stations from Crianlarich to Connel Ferry to day trips to Glasgow for work, education and leisure.

He added: “There will also be faster services with the last train of the day, the 2036 from Oban, arriving in Glasgow in less than three hours.

“There are improved connections with Calmac ferries to the Inner and Outer Hebrides - and Oban’s waterfront will be more accessible to visitors from Central Scotland, the rest of the UK, even Europe.

© 2014 Johnston Publishing Ltd.

This website and its associated newspaper adheres to the Press Complaints Commission’s Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion, then contact the Editor by clicking here .

If you remain dissatisfied with the response provided then you can contact the PCC by clicking here .

The Scotsman provides news, events and sport features from the Edinburgh area. For the best up to date information relating to Edinburgh and the surrounding areas visit us at The Scotsman regularly or bookmark this page.

For you to enjoy all the features of this website The Scotsman requires permission to use cookies.

Cookies are small data files which are sent to your browser (Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome etc) from a website you visit. They are stored on your electronic device.

This is a type of cookie which is collected by Adobe Flash media player (it is also called a Local Shared Object) - a piece of software you may already have on your electronic device to help you watch online videos and listen to podcasts.

Yes there are a number of options available, you can set your browser either to reject all cookies, to allow only "trusted" sites to set them, or to only accept them from the site you are currently on.

However, please note - if you block/delete all cookies, some features of our websites, such as remembering your login details, or the site branding for your local newspaper may not function as a result.

A tool used by some of our advertisers to target adverts to you based on pages you have visited in the past. To opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

Our sites contain advertising from Google; these use cookies to ensure you get adverts relevant to you. You can tailor the type of ads you receive by visiting here or to opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

This is used to help us identify unique visitors to our websites. This data is anonymous and we cannot use this to uniquely identify individuals and their usage of the sites.

This comes from our ad serving technology and is used to track how many times you have seen a particular ad on our sites, so that you don't just see one advert but an even spread. This information is not used by us for any other type of audience recording or monitoring.

ComScore monitor and externally verify our site traffic data for use within the advertising industry. Any data collected is anonymous statistical data and cannot be traced back to an individual.

Our Classified websites (Photos, Motors, Jobs and Property Today) use cookies to ensure you get the correct local newspaper branding and content when you visit them. These cookies store no personally identifiable information.

We use Grapeshot as a contextual targeting technology, allowing us to create custom groups of stories outside out of our usual site navigation. Grapeshot stores the categories of story you have been exposed to. Their privacy policy and opt out option can be accessed here.

Our partner for Newspaper subscriptions online stores data from the forms you complete in these to increase the usability of the site and enhance user experience.

Add This provides the social networking widget found in many of our pages. This widget gives you the tools to bookmark our websites, blog, share, tweet and email our content to a friend.

We use Advertising agencies to provide us with some of the advertising on our websites. These include (but are not limited to) Specific Media, The Rubicon Project, AdJug, AdConion, Context Web. Please click on the provider name to visit their opt-out page.
