
The past 2 weeks have been hectic for me as I have been attending an Evangelism Course 3 (E 3) at my church which some people interpret it as an Encounter with God. I had to attend the course first before I can lahlela umlenze. From church I rushed to Cultural Village Power Park in Soweto for the Hansa Pilsner Dreamers and Kalawa Jazmee 20 year Celebration. I was surprised to get to a relatively empty park at around 5 nogal for a gig scheduled for 12.

Any who…I really appreciated how Siphokazi and Amon (MCeez) held it down to Busiswa, Professor to make it as if they were delivering to a 1000 people instead of a handful that was in-front of them. The line-up for this event was all Kalawa I mean Oskido, Uhuru, Trompies, Professor, Thebe, Trompies, Lulo Café, Fistaz, DJ Zinhle, Sphe, Naves, Vetkuk vs Mahoota, Busi and many many more.

Getting down and dirty with Kalawa”s Kandi.  I love her personality.

I equally love these two..

A closer look of this sweet person, I asked her about her bf and she said “udliwa e Durban” yena.

Some Sushi treats.

I don’t think people envy these two. They can have a farm or be bff’s with Beyonce no-one would be envious I would be shocked if they break-up *sigh* Mongezi and Mome.

Winnie was drunk in love when she performed Brenda’s songs, the pot-skryf she has on her head is a definite MUST GO!

Candy, Taller-Mo and poser!

Terry and Mampho nibahle!

Akhumzi I volunteer to be ur personal trainer papa ngeke uzogula phela manje.

Lmao! Soccerbabe Oscido is a typecaster.

Zeeba I like you , you sound and look like a happy person.

So Winnie’s claim to relevency is singing Brenda songs now.

Lootlove such an underrated hot chick though.

Busiswa ke mapakisha wa mampela..

Lootlove yena she gives me gooseskin, she’s really a cool kid.

Siphokazi lacks everything yaz, I just can’t!

Jersey ya TT Mbha = BAUSS!

And then Jackie crawled outta somewhere. Ayi!

Tjoo Busiswa umdaka shame,akanisi mdla tu maan. LootLove is Bauss shame.

“I don’t think people envy these two. They can have a farm or be bff’s with Beyonce no-one would be envious I would be shocked if they break-up *sigh* Mongezi and Mome.”<< Can i just LOL. i love them tho even with the oddnessnedd.

This Busiswa chick always looks untidy! This shorts & pantyhose look, aai ek weet nie. Amon and them filthy sneakers! I heard he did a gastric by-pass from a “close” friend of his. Kudos to him! Looking at Lootlove’s tummy, I thought I was looking at my tummy there for a split second. It’s a blessing to have a defined tummy, I know from hearing about the continues complaints of my pot-bellied pals. Siphokazi seems to pull off the casual look much better than when attempting to dress-up. Has Mome lost weight?! A full pic would’ve been nice. Brenda Fassie’s impersonator was having a bad hair day!

@ Soccerbabe; about Durbanite businessmen swimming in the HouseInVaal’s pool nhe. *sigh* I have a potential lover in that part of the world and the first thing I thought when contemplating making him my lover was precisely that. Don’t know if it’s all in the mind but it doesn’t help that he seems to be spotting the “symptoms”. But then again I didn’t want to be stereotyped and “narrow-minded”. But I will thread carefully.

Kabomo ufana no Minion man.. aai angekhe he looks so sleepy… can we get him a stylist as well.

Yhooo Zeeba you looking good, o slimile neh, you even look half the size of Candy on pic 2. Why okare Mixwell ntse a go shela so Zeeba? LOL. Le Akhumzi looks skinnier, such a funny ass that one.

I know i’m porbably weird but i love Siphokazi hle, I also adore Mampho le Terry. Moitheri looked great, i’m not sure about Mampho’s Sheep skin jacket…you know those sheep that never got a haircut in their life and di rata go pitika mo dichileng, they have lezinto ezilengayo like those things on her jacket.

Lootlove looks good, she looks like that boy wa di dreads lana, her bff.

Winnie Khumalo ke sure she was at home, a freifa stupu and heard sgubhu sikhala, washiya yonke into athi ithi ngiyobona zkhiphani. Ebe ele gone a ile!

Zeeba that millionaire guy isn’t he the one that was arrested, and said he is 21 or 26, Madla Lamba if im not mistaked? And that’s a watch but a clock on his hand.

So Brandy is not the only artist to perform at empty ndawos? Ohh ohk.

but the Brenda’s impesonator has always had those dirty looks.. tjo inwele zakhe ange zasinda..

The millionaire is JABULANI NGCOBO.. Akhumzi,I want to make you my top..

Mampho looked horrible – saw that outfit ka zoom in at the market earlier that day – yuck.

Terri on the other hand is flawless, tjessis!

@Yoza, do thread carefully dear. My friend based in Durbs says icircle yomjaivo incinci and bayadlelana bodwa hence its spinning out of control that side and she’s also open about her status and has named a few well known guys and doctors.

Winnies hair gives me OPWs lady weR3000 brazilian weave vibes lol..

I don’t think people envy these two. They can have a farm or be bff’s with Beyonce no-one would be envious I would be shocked if they break-up *sigh* Mongezi and Mome.

That guy is from DBN and he is a millionaire, according to Vuzu’s Top Shayela.

50 Shades, that was Bridget Masinga. Siphokazi is too short for such.

and oh, if you want a pic to show with your comment, go get a gravatar !

Notify me of followup comments via e-mail. You can also subscribe without commenting.
