
Share This Story!

Sheriff's Office: Teen tweet said he would "bring an AR15 to school and kill everyone."

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Sheriff's Office: Teen tweet said he would "bring an AR15 to school and kill everyone."

Sheriff's Office said the 18-year-old student's tweet said he would "bring an AR15 to school and kill everyone."

An 18-year-old Anthem student was arrested Monday morning after sending a tweet Sunday night in which he threatened to bring an assault weapon to his high school, according to the Maricopa County Sheriff's Office.

Nicholas Goettl, a senior at Boulder Creek High School in Anthem, posted a tweet Sunday night that read, "For my senior prank I'm going to bring an AR15 to school and kill everyone," the Sheriff's Office said in a statement issued Monday afternoon.

A Sheriff's Office posse member, who aids Boulder Creek High School with security, was notified by his wife, who was made aware of the posting, the statement says.

After an investigation into the posting, it was determined that Goettl had also posted information on Facebook that referred to seniors starting a "riot" in response to some seniors being disallowed to walk during graduation because of an incident involving vandalism at the school, according to the Sheriff's Office.

Sheriff's deputies interviewed the suspect at his father's home in Anthem, where he admitted to posting the threat, the statement says.

Goettl was arrested and booked into the Fourth Avenue Jail on Monday morning on suspicion of interfering with an educational institution and threatening/intimidating, according to booking information on www.mcso.org .

Boulder Creek High School, which is part of the Deer Valley Unified School District, is in session until Thursday, according to Boulder Creek's website. The school's graduation ceremony is scheduled for Friday.

A Deer Valley Unified representative told 12 News that the district was working on a statement Monday afternoon.
