
A widow who claimed her husband's death was caused by asbestos exposure whilst working at a Staffordshire cemetery in the 1970s has lost her legal battle.

Una Abbott, aged 74, said her bricklayer husband of 40 years Dennis had recounted details of how he had inhaled asbestos dust at Cannock cemetery.

Lawyers for the widow, of Conwy, in North Wales, claimed Cannock Chase Council failed in its duty of care by not protecting him properly.

But the local authority denied he was ever in contact with asbestos while in its employment.

And at London's High Court, Judge Peter Ralls QC dismissed Mrs Abbott's claim for around £130,000 in damages, saying he had 'great sympathy' for her but her case had not been proved.

Judge Ralls said Mr Abbott worked for the council between 1973 and 1979, after joining from Staffordshire County Council, and lived in the Cannock area before retiring from his lifelong career as a brickie in 1979.

In April, 2010, he complained of chest pains and his condition worsened when he and his ballroom-dancing instructor wife went on a holiday cruise soon after, the judge added.

He was told that he might have mesothelioma - an incurable cancer of the lining of the lungs almost always associated with asbestos -  in December, 2010 and deteriorated quickly, dying at the age of 80 in January, 2011.

Mrs Abbott said that, four months before his death in 2011, her husband asked her to write down his memories of working with "asspesters" at the Pye Green Road Cemetery in the late 1970s, which he blamed for his terminal illness.

He had told her that labourers had refused to lay a ceiling coating in an outbuilding beside the Sexton's house in the graveyard, so he was then given the job and denied protective gear.

Mrs Abbott, who first met her husband when she was 15, earlier told the court: "When he asked for a mask he was told to 'get on with the job'."

Judge Ralls said the building Mr Abbott probably meant was a mess room used by gravediggers, but that subsequent surveys in 2005, 2010 and 2013 revealed no asbestos there.

He found that Mr Abbott had accurately recounted what he believed to be a brush with asbestos and described his wife as a "witness of truth".

But he ruled: "At the end of the day, I am driven to the conclusion that, whatever Mr Abbott must have believed on looking back at events, I am not satisfied that there was any form of plaster or decorative coating that contained asbestos.

"Whilst I have great sympathy with the deceased, and for Mrs Abbott, I am compelled to conclude that the burden of proof has not been discharged and the claim must be dismissed."

The judge granted permisson for Mrs Abbott to challenge his decision before the Court of Appeal.
