
Share This Story!

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Teachers of Visalia Unified School District formed committees as a way of evaluating math textbooks recommended by the California Department of Education. The math books were adopted to be used by VUSD and will be in kindergarten through eighth grade classes beginning in August.

After a months-long process that began in January, Visalia Unified School District board of education members made the decision at the board meeting to purchase new math books for its kindergarten through eighth grade classes. The books are expected to make their debut in classrooms in August for the new school year.

The Houghton-Mifflin Harcourt “Go Math” Books were recommended by the California Department of Education in January and had to go through an extensive review by Visalia teachers before being recommended to board members.

The books are not only complementary with the instruction of the new California Common Core State Standards — the standards each grade level are expected to learn each year and that are projected to be fully in place at Tulare County and all California schools by fall — but according to VUSD Superintendent Craig Wheaton, were due for their regularly scheduled update.

According to Wheaton, textbooks at Visalia schools are updated roughly every seven years to ensure students are learning new and updated material.

Because the new math books heavily support Common Core instruction, they will include changes to reflect this. They will have a heavy focus on concepts that include reasoning, repeated reasoning, viable argument, modeling and math tools.

According to VUSD officials, what this equates to is a more thorough understanding of math. It lends to a more practical application of an often largely challenging subject and is less focused on fact memorization and more rooted in applying math to the real world and preparing students for college and careers.

For nearly five months, VUSD staff have been working at deciding whether to adopt any new math textbooks for students.

After the state released a list of recommended books in January, the district began looking at the material.

Two committees of Visalia teachers were formed and the evaluating began.

The publishers of the recommended textbooks presented their material in recent weeks. Tuesday, after the committees recommended the adoption of the new Houghton-Mifflin Harcourt books, the board decided to adopt the books for K-8 grades.

Wheaton said the district has already begun processing the order for the new books. Teachers will receive teaching material in June on how to instruct with the new books and the books will be in the hands of Visalia students in August when the new school year kicks off.

The cost to purchase and implement the new books is estimated at $3.2 million, Wheaton said.

The district is using roughly $2 million from funds provided by the state for the implementation of Common Core is reaching into other funds to finance remaining costs.

English instructional textbooks were purchased by VUSD last year and schools began using those at the beginning of this current school year. VUSD officials are currently looking at reviewing new math books for high schools and are anticipating to have the books ready for Visalia high school students for the 2015-16 school year.
