
Voters wait to cast their ballots in Athens, 18 May 2014 (Photo: Reuters) The results of yesterday's first round of local elections were at once a victory and defeat for both ruling New Democracy, with Syriza gaining strong momentum by placing first in the Attica region (which includes about a third of the national electorate) and a close second in the Athens mayoral race, but with New Democracy dealing the opposition stinging defeats in most all prefectures and local races, where Syriza polled substantially lower than its 2012 results.

The result is at best an uncertain indicator of how the electorate would vote in a general election, given the fact that both Syriza and New Democracy framed the local elections as a referendum on government policy and stability.

Moreover, even in the key Athens and Attica contests where Syriza is neck and neck with the government-backed candidates, it is far from certain whether the main opposition will be able to forge the necessary alliances with other parties whose candidates were locked out of the second round.

In the two top races, New Democracy has already made clear that it will support incumbents Giorgos Kaminis in Athens and Yannis Sgouros for the Attica region.

The Communist Party (KKE), which increased its 2012 electoral percentages in may regions, has said that it will not support candidates from other parties in a second round.

It is difficult to gauge where voters who gave Golden Dawn candidate Ilias Kasidiaris over 16% of the vote in the Athens mayoral race will turn, as a large chunk of the extreme right party's voters have chosen Golden Dawn as an anti-establishment protest vote, and not due to its neonazi ideological leanings.

Aside from being the incumbent with support from the two governing, establishment parties (which Golden Dawn describes as crooks and thieves), Kaminis has also adopted an especially combative stance against Golden Dawn's illegal and racist activities in Athens, which means he is hardly the obvious choice for either disgruntled extreme right or protest voters.

The factor that works in Syriza's favour is that the surprisingly impressive finish in Attica and Athens could motivate the party's base to come out and vote in the second round, in the hopes that the fresh results could achieve the clear condemnation of government policy that yesterday's elections failed to deliver.

Given the mixed results in the local elections, both the top parties and political pundits have concluded that the nationwide European Parliament returns will be viewed as a referendum that will reflect the public's verdict on government policy, and thus determine whether Prime Minister and New Democracy Antonis Samaras and Pasok leader Evangelos Venizelos will opt for snap polls.

Some reports have indicated that elections will be held if Syriza surpasses the combined vote of New Democracy and Pasok nationwide. Others suggest that a Syriza lead over ND of over five points nationwide in the European Parliament election will trigger snap polls.

Though government spokesman Simos Kedikoglou ruled out early elections last night, New Democracy will continue to frame the European elections as a choice between political stability under the current government or instability in the case of a Syriza win, leaving all possibilities open and stirring fear over the prospect of a Syriza win.

"Greece cannot afford to return to uncertainty and instability," a New Democracy political TV ad ominously warns, regarding a possible Syriza win on May 25.

Not surprisingly, New Democracy is spinning the mixed results of the first round of balloting as a "vote for stability".

Deputy premier and foreign minister Evangelos Venizelos, offering the government's first comprehensive readout of yesterday's results at a televised press conference on Monday, played down but did not rule out the prospect of general elections after next week's local run-offs and European vote.

Depicting Sunday's results as an overall defeat for Syriza nationwide, Venizelos said the opposition failed in almost all regions to reach its own target of locally surpassing its 2012 general election results.

At the same time, Venizelos revived the government's euro or drachma scare tactics, arguing that the government's implementation of the bailout memorandum averted a hard bankruptcy, that would have led to capital controls, people being able to withdraw only €100 a week from banks, and a likely eurozone exit.

Venizelos said the prospect of general elections will depend on the general political "atmosphere" shaped by the May 25 elections and whether the margin of a potential Syriza victory is large enough to challenge the democratic legitimisation of the government.

Clearly the government will do all in its power to avoid snap polls – which are frowned on by the troika – and its dual pronged strategy is on the one hand to cultivate a post-electoral image of a national unity government, with the possible inclusion of fresh centre-left forces, and on the other that the government has a viable, comprehensive economic growth strategy.

After May 25, Venizelos said the government's top aim will be to "unify the nation" and transcend the "virtual civil war environment" between pro-memorandum and anti-memorandum parties, which he said was an artificial dichotomy.

Venizelos also said is crucial for the government to show people that it has an economic programme that could create jobs.

Rattling off various sectors in which several hundred thousand jobs might be created, Venizelos spoke of an extremely optimistic and as yet unimplemented government plan to create 300,000 jobs in a special programme for the unemployed, 45,000 in the agricultural sector, 77,000 in the area of energy and environmental protection, and 260,000 jobs in tourism, and 240,000 jobs in trade and commerce. He also said it is "inconceivable" that the shipping industry will offer fewer than 10,000 new jobs, underlining that the figures are largely based on highly uncertain projections.

As for his own political survival, Venizelos insisted that without Pasok's participation in the government there can be no "progressive stability", and he expressed hopes that the election results can rally Greece's social democratic forces into a scheme that can bolster the government's stability.

"We say No to Tsipras and yes to government stability," Venizelos declared.

The Pasok leader described Golden Dawn's high polling numbers in Athens and Attica as alarming, and he attributed those results in large measure to Syriza allegedly challenging the legitimacy of democratic institutions and thus fuelling the anti-establishment vote.

"The opposition has undermined trust in Greece's democratic institutions, fuelling extreme political parties," Venizelos said of Syriza.

He maintained that in countries like Ireland and Portugal that also received bailout memorandums, there was no rise in the polling rates of the far right.
