
A British tourist taken hostage in Yemen in an incident orchestrated by Abu    Hamza then used as a human shield during a bloody firefight voiced his    relief on Monday night at the radical preacher’s conviction on terrorism    charges.

Laurence Whitehouse and his wife Margaret were part of a group of 16 Western    tourists ambushed by armed men in December 1998. Margaret and three others,    including two more Britons, were shot dead after being held for 26 hours as    the Yemeni Army mounted a heavy-handed operation to free them.

Mr Whitehouse told The Telegraph: “This has taken a long time, even though    there was evidence of his involvement early on.

Another of the hostages to escape with their lives, Eric Firkins, 70, also    expressed concern that the Islamist preacher had been allowed to breed hate    on the streets for so long.

“I was angry the Government was that sensitive to racial issues that they    didn’t want to antagonise Muslims by arresting the preacher,” said Mr    Firkins, a retired chemistry tutor.

“Abu Hamza said during his trial he was only a mouthpiece and had no other    involvement in the hostage situation. That is far from the truth.

“I wanted justice for what I had been through. It was his fault I was taken    hostage, that people had been killed.

“When he was arrested I felt some justice had been done, when he was    extradited I felt I could put it in the past – it’s the responsibility of    another country now.

Mrs Whitehouse was shot dead as she tried to staunch the bleeding of another    fatally wounded hostage.

Mr Whitehouse said that it had been clear since early 1999 that Abu Hamza had    played a crucial role in the terrorist attack, but insisted he was not    seeking revenge against the Islamist preacher.

“The involvement of Abu Hamza came out in spring 1999 and by autumn that year    it was clear that he was the instigator of the hostage-taking,” said Mr    Whitehouse.

“I’m pleased by the fact that after a long period of time he’s actually been    brought to trial and that these events have been aired in public more    explicitly and openly than has previously been the case.

“I’m not interested in revenge or retribution because I think that way is    destructive for everybody.

In a remarkable coincidence one of the men in the group of 16 victims in the    Yemen hostage taking was a specialist in theology who had expressed serious    concern about the activities of Abu Hamza even before being kidnapped.

David Holmes, who survived the ordeal but died from a tropical disease five    years later, had even seen Abu Hamza preach at Finsbury Park mosque in north    London, his brother said.

Martin Holmes, 76, from Hampshire, said: “He used to run a hostel for overseas    students run by the Methodist church.

“He used to go to Finsbury Park mosque where Abu Hamza was preaching. Indeed,    he saw him preach many times.

“When we used to chat about the London scene he mentioned this Islamic    preacher with a hook who spread this violent criticism of the Western way of    life, and that the police were just standing there and letting it all    happen.

“David had already formed a very critical opinion of Abu Hamza.

David died in 2003 aged 68, a few days after returning from a trip to Niger,    west Africa, where he had contracted cerebral malaria, his brother said.

“Someone from the American justice system got in touch a few years ago and    wondered if my brother would make an appearance at any forthcoming court    hearing.

The court heard that Hamza admitted supplying a satellite telephone to the    kidnappers, and the equipment was used to make a call between Hamza and Abu    Hassan, the leader of the hostage-takers, shortly before the 16 hostages    were taken in December 1998.

“The satellite phone did feature in my brother’s recollections of the event,” said Mr Holmes.

“The kidnappers told the hostages to stand up as the Yemeni Army was    approaching, using them as a human shield,” said Mr Holmes.

“One of the hostage-takers produced the phone and told my brother to call the    Prime Minister of the time [Tony Blair].

“I don’t think he phoned Downing Street but I remember saying to him later    'You should have phoned me instead to see if there was anything I could do’.

David was a “strong Christian” and had taken a degree in theology at Oxford    University, his brother said.
