
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .

If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .

Video will begin in 5 seconds.

A Sydney woman and her three children have returned home after her husband died in a high-speed boating accident off the coast of Fiji.

Mark Hardaker, 40, was celebrating his wife's 40th birthday at  the Mana Island Resort and Spa when he decided to take a fishing tour. He never came back.

Fijian West police say Mr Hardaker, from Toongabbie in Sydney's west, was on a boat with three other men when another vessel slammed into them at a high speed on Thursday.

Fairfax Media understands the boat that crashed into Mr Hardaker's boat was driven by a local operator and had been carrying too many people at the time.

Mr Hardaker's widow, Vanessa, and their children flew home the following day.

Mr Hardaker's sister-in-law described him as a doting father who loved his wife.

“Mark is the most amazing thoughtful selfless person I will ever know in my life,” Alana Rice wrote on Facebook.

“He adored my sister and forver [sic] loved his children,” she said.

Mr Hardaker's step-mother Gay Bookallil said she was devastated by the loss.

“We are absolutely devastated and cannot begin to express how sorry we are for our much loved daughter-I-law Vanessa and grandchildren Georgia, Sam and Jake,” she posted online.

Fijian West police spokesman Naina Ragigia said  the other people on board Mr Hardaker's boat had received treatment for a number of injuries.

He also said the company operating the vessel had never been involved in an accident before.

A Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade spokeswoman confirmed the death and were helping to organise for Mr Hardaker's body to be flown home.

Daredevil wingsuiters take on 'epic challenge'

Onlookers cheer as two Dutch wingsuiters jump from a helicopter and soar around the Euromast building in Rotterdam.
