
A HIV+ nurse was sentenced  to three years in jail today for criminal negligence after she pricked herself with a needle before injecting a child.

Rosemary Namubiru, 64, was convicted for using a intravenous needle on the child after pricking herself - a decision slammed as 'deeply flawed' by HIV/AIDS campaigners.

Throughout her trial, the nurse maintained she was not acting in malice and the incident was an accident. Two tests have shown the child was not infected with HIV, according to court records.

Scores of international activist groups  rallied around the nurse - saying she was the victim of stigma and  discrimination because of her HIV status and should not face trial.

Despite their support, she was found guilty of criminal negligence for allegedly in court today and sentenced to three years behind bars.

A DFID spokesperson said: 'We ended direct payments to the Ugandan government last year.'

According to the Overseas Development Institute, the country received $1.6bn (£960m) in total from western countries in 2011, making it the world's 20th largest aid recipient.

Following the incident in January this year, the nurse was later denied bail in a controversial decision by a magistrate who ruled that she posed a danger to the public.

The nurse was charged under a colonial-era law against negligence that  spreads a deadly disease.

However, since she was charged Ugandan lawmakers have passed a law  specifically criminalizing the intentional transmission of HIV as part  of the government's efforts to stem the growing rate of HIV in this East  African country.

That measure also has been criticised by groups that  say such a law will be difficult to enforce and may also be used to  violate the rights of people living with HIV.

Some organisations said her trial was unwarranted and she should only have faced disciplinary action from the local nurses' association.

Asia Russell from the Global Access Project said: 'The  deeply flawed ruling shows that stigma and discrimination against  people with HIV is alive and well in Uganda.

'Because of her HIV  status, Rosemary's trial was plagued from the beginning with bias.  Rosemary never had the presumption of innocence the Constitution  guarantees.'

The comments below have been moderated in advance.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
