
Salman is facing severe charge of culpable homicide not amounting to murder.

MUMBAI: Things heated up for actor Salman Khan in the 12-year-old hit-and-run case on Monday after a bartender identified him in a court saying that the actor had come along with his friends in a group to have drinks in a five-star hotel on the night when Khan allegedly ran over his car over people sleeping on footpath in suburban Bandra.

The actor is on trial in the sessions court facing a severe charge of culpable homicide not amounting to murder.

Moloy Baug, 42, who works in a restaurant, deposed as prosecution witness against the actor.

The prosecution wanted to establish that the actor had drinks at the restaurant before getting in the car later. "I was working at Rain Bar and Restaurant. My duty hours were from 5:30pm till 2am. I was working as a steward. Salman Khan and his friends came to the bar/restaurant at 11pm. The bar was crowded that day. There were at least 200 to 250 customers. Salman Khan and his friends were standing at the bar counter," he told the court as a prosecution witness during the trial.

"They placed their order with the manager who asked me to serve them. They had a Bacardi white rum and cocktails. They ordered prawns and chicken and I served them. They were at the bar till 1.10am. Salman Khan was a regular visitor at the bar," he said and looking at the actor said, adding that "He is present in the court today."

The police had recorded Baug's statement earlier. He said he had learnt of "an accident" from the newspapers.

In his cross examination by defence lawyers who wanted to show that the bar was crowded and it is impossible to remember who is present and what a customer orders, Baug said, "It was Friday and a club night. The bill for the order used to be prepared on the computer. Many tables are arranged in the hall ... One table has around five customers and that is reflected under the column cover in the bill. Every table has a table number ... If someone orders at the bar counter then the person who takes the order has a particular code number which is also reflected in the bill in a code number. If two people take orders then there would be two code numbers."

The lawyers also raised doubts over the bartender's deposition and suggested that there was no confirmation in the witness statement that it was Salman who ordered alcoholic drinks and consumed them. During his cross-questioning, Baug said, "There were five waiters working in the bar. It is impossible to remember who orders what, it is impossible to say from memory."

On the lawyer questioning him, Baug admitted that it was not Salman Khan who placed the order. "The order for drinks was not placed by Salman but by his friends. The area where drinks are served have dim lights. You cannot see what people are consuming at another table."

He added, "You cannot see the table where Salman was sitting from the place where Rizwan, the manager, was sitting."

Another prosecution witness Laxman More, 38, a policeman, who was Salman Khan's brother Sohail Khan's bodyguard also deposed on Monday. He said, "I was on night duty the night of the accident. At around 10.30pm, Sohail started for Rainbar hotel. Sohail went inside Rainbar. I was asked to stand outside. After some time, Salman came to Rainbar with his bodyguard Ravindra Patil ... Patil and me were chatting outside. After sometime, Salman and Sohail came out. Vikram Phadnis also came out."

Later during his cross examination by the defence lawyer, the cop said he had not seen the car in which Salman Khan came but just saw him entering the restaurant.
