
President John Dramani Mahama has once again registered his trust and confidence in Vice President Kwesi Bekoe Amisssah-Arthur with special thanks for his huge role in the organization and participation of the just ended National Economic Forum (NEF).

That the NEF was in the right direction towards the Better Ghana Programme is seen in the Ghanaian tradition of coming together to talk through any differences in order to find practical solutions to communal problems.

The Forum came out with far-reaching consensus to positively affect the economy of Ghana.

The President described the work of the Vice President as exemplary and the lead role by the Vice President before and during the forum has also come up for tonnes of commendation.

The Secretary General of the TUC, Kofi Asamoah couldn’t agree more with the President.

Another participant, Dr Steve Manteaw of ISODEC and a steering member of the Ghana Extractive Industry Transparency Initiative, was full of praise for the Vice President.

The thumbs- up by the President to the Vice President is not misplaced. He believes in the man who partnered him after the unfortunate demise of the late President Atta Mills almost two years ago to complete the first term of the Mills-Mahama Administration.

Vice President Amissah-Arthur, who prior to his elevation to the position of the Vice President, was the Governor of the Bank of Ghana, was vetted by Parliament and safely sailed through with his approval before assuming the position.

And when it came to the time for the ruling National Democratic Congress (NDC) to seek the mandate of Ghanaians to continue with the Better Ghana programme in the 2012 presidential elections, here again was Vice President Amissah-Arthur toured the nook and cranny of the country and contributed to the victory of his party.

His schedule was demanding, at times working very late into the night, depriving himself of everyday conveniences to ensure that the NDC was retained.

Here was a Vice President who has risen through the ranks from the era of the Provisional National Defence Council (PNDC) to when Ghana re-entered constitutional rule in 1992.

A look at his profile might bring out the competencies of the man through his days as a student and his professional life.

The Cape Coast born economist had his General Certificate of Education “O” and “A” Levels at the Mfantsipim Secondary School in Cape Coast from 1964 to 1971.

He proceeded to the University of Ghana, Legon where he obtained a Bachelor of Science Degree in 1974 and subsequently his Master of Science Degree in 1976, both in economics.

He wrote his thesis on “Public Policy and economic growth, a model of economic growth-Ghana” 1956-1974.

Mr Amissah-Arthur lectured at the Department of Economics at the University of Ghana between 1980 and 1988. Prior to this, he was a research assistant at the Institute of Statistical, Social and Economic Research between 1974 and 1975.

He later joined the Economic Department of the University of Ghana as a teaching assistant from 1977 to 1978 going on to become an assistant lecturer in 1979. He was a lecturer at the Department of Economics, Anambra State College of Education, Awka, Anambra State, Nigeria between August 1981- July 1983).

Between 1983 and 1986, Amissah-Arthur served as a special assistant to the Provisional National Defence Council (PNDC) Secretary of Finance and Economic Planning, Dr Kwesi Botchwey. He became Deputy Secretary for Finance in the PNDC government from February 1986 until March 1993.

From April 1993, he continued as the Deputy Minister of Finance in the first NDC Government after the establishment of constitutional rule until 1997.

He was responsible for the preparation of the Annual Public Investment Programme, Management of the budget of the Government of Ghana and managing the bilateral and multilateral assistance to Ghana.

Mr Amissah-Arthur worked as a Consultant for the World Bank in the Gambia and also served as a consultant for the Netherlands government Education project in Ghana. Between 1988 and 2000, he worked as Senior Economist for the Sigma One Corporation in Ghana and between 2001 and 2002; he was on assignment for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Denmark.

Mr Amissah-Arthur was appointed Governor of the Bank of Ghana in October 2009 by late President John Atta Mills, this position he held till 6 August 2012 when he became the Vice President.

It was during his tenure as the Governor of the Bank of Ghana that the country attained a middle income status.

President Mahama made no mistake in selecting Mr. Amissah-Arthur as the Vice President and he deserves commendation for his indefatigable effort to bring the economy on an even keel.

As President Mahama, who registered his satisfaction with the outcome of the Forum noted, the Government’s economic team has been emboldened by the agreements reached.
