
Hordes of people throng the Rashtrapati Bhavan’s State Rooms. A distinct smile plays on their lips as they look at artefacts that speak of Indian heritage, culture and tradition.

This is the scene as observed in a black and white photograph, hung up, among others, as part of the exhibition ‘Down Memory Lane’.

What the visitors (in the image being talked about) curiously look around at is a large exhibition of Indian arts and crafts – Indian Art Exhibition, that returned to India after being displayed at the Burlington House in London.

The artefacts for this exhibition were lent by the major museums of India and private owners, and Jawaharlal Nehru ensured these objects were showcased upon their return so that they could be enjoyed and appreciated by the people of India.

On their return, the objects were first displayed in the State Rooms of the Rashtrapati Bhavan (then called the Government House) on August 15, 1949.

The blueprint and a miniature model of the Government House are also a part of this exhibition comprising 57 photographs, retelling the tale of the National Museum and its history.

It was in the winter months of 1947-48 that the Indian Art Exhibition was curated and just a year before, in 1946, the idea of building a national museum for India was proposed by the Gwyer Committee.

Headed by Sir Mourice Gwyer (whose portrait is also displayed), the first Chief Justice of the then Federal Court, the committee chalked out the plan and the National Museum came into existence as Nehru laid its foundation stone on May 12, 1955, as shown in one of the photographs.

Among these vignettes are few eyebrow-raising moments that make the viewer travel back in time. One such image is of Pt Nehru being escorted by Dr Grace Morley, the first director of the National Museum.

“Dr Grace Morley was in India for her research in those days and was made the director due to her accomplishments in the field of museology. Since most of the officers in those days were of British origin, she was the perfect choice and delivered her duties even after the independence of India,” informs Indra Vats, assistant curator (education) at National Museum.

A shot that evokes instant reaction is the one in which Dr Morley and Pt Nehru are shown standing under the Mandappa in Wood Carving Gallery of the National Museum.

There are also photographs of dignitaries such as Indira Gandhi, Dr S Radhakrishnan and Dr Zakir Hussain visiting the Museum on various occasions.

Apart from documentation of their visits, the displayed photographs also show the different galleries and group pictures of staff members who were a part of the institution.

However significant, when displayed against a grey backdrop, the photographs lose their charm and appear dull.

The presentation thus doesn’t receive much appreciation but the placement of the photographs in a semi-circular manner does mange to bring the past closer to the present.
