
Robert Birgenau is the latest victim to be shot down by a whiny flank of students and faculty members. This time, it’s the objections of fraction of those who make up a small, liberal arts institution in Pennsylvania called Haverford College.

Birgenau was set to give Haverford’s Class of 2014 the commencement address, this past weekend, and you would have been mistaken for thinking that the former chancellor of the University of California, Berkeley would have been welcomed, known as he is for his support of gay, undocumented and minority students throughout his career, and that the honorary degree they were set to bestow would have been given with gratitude. Birgenau is an influential and important thinker among the country’s higher education leaders.

Instead, Birgenau was given the cold shoulder, to put it mildly. About 50 students and three professors (who, interestingly enough, have degrees from Berkeley) out of an undergraduate body of less than 1,200 and faculty of about 150 sent Birgenau a letter demanding that if he was to appear, he concede to nine conditions. The group’s objections center on the former chancellor’s actions during a 2011 Occupy protest on his campus, during which university police used batons to disburse protestors. To give some perspective, that’s only about 4 percent of the student body and 2 percent of faculty who signed.

Birgenau’s actions in 2011 were a misstep, certainly, but one that he appears to have almost immediately regretted and investigated, once he saw video of how the police handled themselves. He certainly doesn’t warrant being blackmailed, which is what the Haverford student body’s letter amounts to.

His commencement is not the only one that has been successfully disputed to the point invited speakers opted out or the administration capitulated. Christine Lagarde, head of the International Monetary Fund, recently cancelled a speech to Smith College in Massachusetts due to protests against IMF’s policies in poorer nations. Condoleeza Rice, a former secretary of state, disinvited herself from delivering the commencement at Rutgers University because of protests to her role in Bush administration foreign policy. Women’s rights activist Ayaan Hirsi Ali had her invitation to speak at Brandeis University rescinded because she made anti-Islamic comments.

“Such reversals, whether initiated by the school or the speaker, were once rare, but have become more common in the last few years,” according to the New York Times.

This generation of scholars, the first to have lived the entirety of their lives so far under the ubiquity of the Internet, have been spoon-fed unlimited, on-demand gratification. Having been brought up picking only the input with which they agree, is it any surprise some of them can’t tolerate being disagreed with and throw a tantrum? We’re not saying this is universally true of everyone aged 21 and younger, and to see the exceptions, you only have to talk to some of the graduates of the Frederick County school system. But we have to wonder if one of the downsides to being perpetually connected is a growing echo chamber of generational confirmation bias. Are these the first, rotten shoots of a trend? We hope not.

Sure, by all means disagree with Birgenau, Rice, Lagarde or Ali, but at least hear them out. At least be exposed to an alternative point of view. Otherwise, the only lesson is self-entitled myopia, pure and simple, which students will carry into the post-graduation world to employers — who aren’t as sympathetic as academic centers to their juvenile, whiny extremism.

1 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language.

2 Don't Threaten or Abuse. Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated. AND PLEASE TURN OFF CAPS LOCK.

3 Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.

4 Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.

5 Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.

6 Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness accounts, the history behind an article.

Welcome to the discussion.

rzak21703 posted at 12:25 pm on Mon, May 19, 2014.

I'm trying to remember ANYTHING anyone has ever said at any commencement speech I have been to and I'm drawing a blank.  I think commencement speeches are totally overrated and don't big name speakers get big dollar "honorarias." The bottom line with ANY graduation speech is "This is the start of a new day for you graduates." That's it, nothing anyone can say ever gets remembered so anyone can give the speech and the graduates could care less.  Of course, before graduation, the liberals just want to complain and then take credit for showing how INTOLERANT liberals really are.  So why waste three or four hours on a graduation ceremony, just mail out the diplomas and maybe if you don't have to spend money on a speaker, lower the student's tuitions.  Here's the convoluted thinking of liberal colleges.  My daughter's college's dining hall ONLY served meals worth eating when the parents were allowed to eat there when we moved our kids into the dorms.  The meals that day were awesome and the day afterwards when it was just students eating was when the complaints started about a lack of food, and not much of a selection.  Well, around the holidays, the President of the college did a very noble thing, he GAVE AWAY a whole slew of frozen turkeys to a food bank.  Well, the problem is WE the parents paid for all the FOOD and instead of fixing it for our sons and daughters, they gave it away.  I don't think my daughter EVER had roasted turkey in the four years she was there.  How is spending other people's money and then deciding to donate food they decided NOT to feed to the students even legal?  Of course, he got great press as a great guy helping the hungry while the students went hungry and had to eat swill or order pizza or chinese take out.

veritas posted at 9:45 am on Mon, May 19, 2014.

I LOVE it when the lefties start eating their young:  The NY Times terminates a female managing editor (whom they had been under paying) for managing like a man.  Now spoiled, petulant liberal students practice their obsession with "fairness" and political correctness by shouting down/shutting down not just moderate and conservative commencement speakers, but fellow lefties as well, with tactics despots the world over would be proud of. This is all great spectator sport for those with a more sensible, sensitive and civilized approach to honest and open public debate of the issues.  What excellent -- entertaining --examples of Reaping what you sow... Pigeons coming home to roost... etc., etc.

Thinkbig posted at 9:37 am on Mon, May 19, 2014.

Good column.  We are seeing this growing trend of intolerance for other view points and it is alarming.  People are being fired, humiliated etc. for having an opinion, even privately and it is not good for America.

sodalite3 posted at 9:14 am on Mon, May 19, 2014.

" I would have loved to hear what Condie said"...but remember it is not your graduation....it is theirs and they have or should have a role is selecting the speaker at THEIR graduation.

You want to hear what Condie says...well pay to attend one of her speeches or tune in FOXey news.

chesapeakecountry posted at 9:03 am on Mon, May 19, 2014.

kjswartz posted at 8:16 am on Mon, May 19, 2014.

Aren't these commencement speakers arranged by the student government under the advice of the faculty?  That way, it's the student government's fault.
