
Bute will be visited by Scotland's local government minister Derek Mackay MSP on Tuesday, May 20.

Proposals to give more powers to island communities will be discussed further when Scotland’s local government minister Derek Mackay visits Bute this week.

Mr Mackay will meet Bute councillor and Argyll and Bute provost Len Scoullar, who chairs a council working group on island issues, together with council leader Dick Walsh and chief executive Sally Loudon, on Tuesday.

Opportunities to increase local autonomy and improve island services will be discussed following talks earlier this year with representatives from Orkney, Shetland and the Western Isles on giving greater powers to island-only authorities.

Following his meeting on Bute, Mr Mackay will also visit islands in the Highlands and North Ayrshire to continue engagement with councillors there.

Discussions have included Crown Estate functions, renewable energy, transport, island proofing measures and a range of other matters important to Scotland’s islands.

Ahead of his meeting with Argyll and Bute Council, Mr Mackay said: “It’s crucial that all of Scotland’s island communities have their say on how decisions are made for them.

“That’s why I am keen to meet with Argyll and Bute Council’s islands working group and to visit North Ayrshire and the Highlands, to hear further views from mainland councils who have islands in their areas.

“This is important to complement the progress being made at the Island Areas Ministerial Working Group, so that we have the fullest possible view of island opportunities.

“We made a commitment to councils with islands in their areas that we would consider how the emerging proposals from that Group could apply to them and I am looking forward  to these discussions.

Mr Mackay chairs the Scottish Government’s Island Areas Ministerial Working Group, which comprises the leaders and chief executives of Orkney, Shetland and Eilean Siar (Western Isles) and the minister for environment and climate change, Paul Wheelhouse.

Get your favourite newspaper at a great low price.

Call us on 0844 292 0216 or click here to start your subscription today!

© 2014 Johnston Publishing Ltd.

This website and its associated newspaper adheres to the Press Complaints Commission’s Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion, then contact the Editor by clicking  here .

If you remain dissatisfied with the response provided then you can contact the PCC by clicking here .

The Buteman provides news, events and sport features from the Rothesay area. For the best up to date information relating to Rothesay and the surrounding areas visit us at The Buteman regularly or bookmark this page.

For you to enjoy all the features of this website The Buteman requires permission to use cookies.

Cookies are small data files which are sent to your browser (Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome etc) from a website you visit. They are stored on your electronic device.

This is a type of cookie which is collected by Adobe Flash media player (it is also called a Local Shared Object) - a piece of software you may already have on your electronic device to help you watch online videos and listen to podcasts.

Yes there are a number of options available, you can set your browser either to reject all cookies, to allow only "trusted" sites to set them, or to only accept them from the site you are currently on.

However, please note - if you block/delete all cookies, some features of our websites, such as remembering your login details, or the site branding for your local newspaper may not function as a result.

A tool used by some of our advertisers to target adverts to you based on pages you have visited in the past. To opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

Our sites contain advertising from Google; these use cookies to ensure you get adverts relevant to you. You can tailor the type of ads you receive by visiting here or to opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

This is used to help us identify unique visitors to our websites. This data is anonymous and we cannot use this to uniquely identify individuals and their usage of the sites.

This comes from our ad serving technology and is used to track how many times you have seen a particular ad on our sites, so that you don't just see one advert but an even spread. This information is not used by us for any other type of audience recording or monitoring.

ComScore monitor and externally verify our site traffic data for use within the advertising industry. Any data collected is anonymous statistical data and cannot be traced back to an individual.

Our Classified websites (Photos, Motors, Jobs and Property Today) use cookies to ensure you get the correct local newspaper branding and content when you visit them. These cookies store no personally identifiable information.

We use Grapeshot as a contextual targeting technology, allowing us to create custom groups of stories outside out of our usual site navigation. Grapeshot stores the categories of story you have been exposed to. Their privacy policy and opt out option can be accessed here.

Our partner for Newspaper subscriptions online stores data from the forms you complete in these to increase the usability of the site and enhance user experience.

Add This provides the social networking widget found in many of our pages. This widget gives you the tools to bookmark our websites, blog, share, tweet and email our content to a friend.
