
OPINION polls are everywhere. They are the devalued currency of modern politics. Sorry then to add to the babble, but I did a quick one of my own in our house. My question was this: “What does Europe mean to you?” I thought it would be timely, what with the European parliamentary elections coming up this week.

My eight-year-old daughter looked up from watching her American TV programme and replied with another question. “What’s Europe?” My partner launched into a long explanation of how Britain needs to be part of Europe so that the rest of the world takes us seriously as a global force. And my son wandered into the room and inquired if we were having another debate about the Eurovision Song Contest, because if we were, that man with the beard dressed as a woman was really funny.

I recognise that our opinions might not count for much in the political arena. We’re not going to get quoted on Newsnight. We’re not going to form the basis of some erudite think-tank report. I doubt Nigel Farage will be beating a path to our door hoping to sign us up to his Ukip cause. It doesn’t mean we don’t have views that count, though. And mine? To be brutally honest, I don’t much care what happens in Brussels right now.

I feel so far from its reach, going about my daily business, working, budgeting, shopping, cooking and attempting to keep my little family on the right track day in and day out that its business has so little to do with me I forget it’s there.

I feel no tangible personal connection, even though I happen to know my own MEP, Labour’s Linda McAvan, as an acquaintance. I have nothing but respect for her. She works hard, and is a lot more approachable than many politicians that I’ve encountered over the years. I’ll vote for her, but not really for party political reasons. I won’t spend ages deliberating over her take on climate change or women in the European Parliament. I’ll just tick the box and think, good lass, carry on for Yorkshire and the Humber.

Local council elections matter a lot more to most of us than anything which happens across the Channel. The European debate is a luxury only those with nothing else to worry about can afford to get entangled in. It’s too complex, too far away and too riven with nastiness and political opportunists. I know people who have so little to live on they have never even left the country.  The Euro means nothing to them. They will never visit France, never mind tie themselves in knots over the cost of imported wine.

I am afraid that most of us are too busy worrying about the prices in our own local market to worry about what’s happening in the Common Market. Banging on about Europe diverts attention from problems which are happening right here on the doorstep. And it’s negative and counter-productive to blame all our ills on what happens overseas. Or on those migrants who come to Britain from elsewhere. We should look to our own communities, our own towns and cities and fix these first. If it came down to it, I’d much prefer our politicians to concentrate on that than pontificate about what might happen in some imagined future of full European Union.

I don’t want to sound parochial, though. That’s why I asked my lot what they think. It’s so important to have an understanding of how the wider political process works and how we fit into it all.  That said, I think we should be wary of getting bogged down in party politics. We should save our energy for the big push. If we ever get the European referendum David Cameron keeps promising us, we will all be called to account. A simple vote, in or out, will polarise opinion once and for all. For now, we have to be realistic. We only have so much energy to expend on politics, and events in our own country take enough keeping up with as it is.

Our views might not be represented at the polling booth this year, because so few of us will bother to turn out and make our mark. That doesn’t mean we haven’t got a voice, though. So go ahead. Ask the question in your own home too. Even when all the votes have been counted this Thursday, that’s what counts in the end.

© 2014 Johnston Publishing Ltd.

This website and its associated newspaper adheres to the Press Complaints Commission’s Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion, then contact the Editor by clicking here .

If you remain dissatisfied with the response provided then you can contact the PCC by clicking here .

Yorkshire Post provides news, events and sport features from the Yorkshire area. For the best up to date information relating to Yorkshire and the surrounding areas visit us at Yorkshire Post regularly or bookmark this page.

For you to enjoy all the features of this website Yorkshire Post requires permission to use cookies.

Cookies are small data files which are sent to your browser (Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome etc) from a website you visit. They are stored on your electronic device.

This is a type of cookie which is collected by Adobe Flash media player (it is also called a Local Shared Object) - a piece of software you may already have on your electronic device to help you watch online videos and listen to podcasts.

Yes there are a number of options available, you can set your browser either to reject all cookies, to allow only "trusted" sites to set them, or to only accept them from the site you are currently on.

However, please note - if you block/delete all cookies, some features of our websites, such as remembering your login details, or the site branding for your local newspaper may not function as a result.

A tool used by some of our advertisers to target adverts to you based on pages you have visited in the past. To opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

Our sites contain advertising from Google; these use cookies to ensure you get adverts relevant to you. You can tailor the type of ads you receive by visiting here or to opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

This is used to help us identify unique visitors to our websites. This data is anonymous and we cannot use this to uniquely identify individuals and their usage of the sites.

This comes from our ad serving technology and is used to track how many times you have seen a particular ad on our sites, so that you don't just see one advert but an even spread. This information is not used by us for any other type of audience recording or monitoring.

ComScore monitor and externally verify our site traffic data for use within the advertising industry. Any data collected is anonymous statistical data and cannot be traced back to an individual.

Our Classified websites (Photos, Motors, Jobs and Property Today) use cookies to ensure you get the correct local newspaper branding and content when you visit them. These cookies store no personally identifiable information.

We use Grapeshot as a contextual targeting technology, allowing us to create custom groups of stories outside out of our usual site navigation. Grapeshot stores the categories of story you have been exposed to. Their privacy policy and opt out option can be accessed here.

Our partner for Newspaper subscriptions online stores data from the forms you complete in these to increase the usability of the site and enhance user experience.

Add This provides the social networking widget found in many of our pages. This widget gives you the tools to bookmark our websites, blog, share, tweet and email our content to a friend.
