
Students at several universities around the country have made what they believe is a reasonable request: to be given a heads up if any material they are assigned to read contains any material that may be upsetting to them.

They are officially called 'trigger warnings' which originated from the Internet, according to The Christian Science Monitor, and their purpose is to alert people if the content they are about to see could possibly upset them due its obscene nature. Examples include everything from images of torture to domestic abuse.

It's an idea that has gotten the most attention at the University of California's Santa Barbara campus where the student government made a formal call for them to be included in course syllabuses, according to the New York Times. A few other colleges that have made similar requests include Oberlin College and the University of Michigan.

The idea originated from Santa Barbara sophomore Bailey Loverin back in February after she she watched a film in one of her classes that described rape. She was a victim of sexual assault, and while it didn't make her feel threatened in any way she still talked to the professor afterwards. She said that students should have been warned beforehand of what the film was going to show.

Not everyone agrees that these 'trigger warnings' should be implemented, and one of those people is Santa Barbara's professor of sociology, Lisa Hajjar, who often uses graphic images when she discusses war in her classes.

"Any kind of blanket trigger policy is inimical to academic freedom, " she said , according to the New York Times. "Any student can request some sort of individual accommodation, but to say we need some kind of one-size-fits-all approach is totally wrong. The presumption there is that students should not be forced to deal with something that makes them uncomfortable is absurd or even dangerous."

The New York Times reports that, to clarify her stance, Loverin said in a recent interview that, "We’re not talking about someone turning away from something they don’t want to see. People suddenly feel a very real threat to their safety — even if it is perceived. They are stuck in a classroom where they can’t get out, or if they do try to leave, it is suddenly going to be very public."

During an event about bias put on by the English Department at the University of Michigan, according to the Huffington Post, many of the speakers said that such trigger warnings are necessary for books that contain "racially offensive passages." The UCSB student resolution says that trigger warnings are appropriate for "portrayals and discussions" that involve "rape, sexual assault, abuse, self-injurious behavior, suicide, graphic violence, pornography, kidnapping, and graphic depictions of gore."

While Angus Johnston, an associate professor at Hostos Community College in the Bronx, NY, and student activism historian, said that classrooms have always been the best place to discuss these difficult subjects, but something has changed.

"What's different now is, partly as a result of this new ethos in the online world of trigger warnings, you are seeing people being willing to assert themselves and say, 'My emotional well-being does matter," he explained , according to the Huffington Post.

Despite the arguments from both sides, there are no colleges that currently require trigger warnings, according to The Christian Science Monitor. But that doesn't mean that concerns aren't being addressed. For example, the executive council at UC Santa Barbara released a statement that said most faculty members already use some form of a notification system to warn students that difficult content will be discussed.

The council also said it would work with any student regardless of their concerns, reiterating that the "overall goal is to foster a climate of inquiry that allows students to learn, and faculty to teach, as freely and productively as possible."
