
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .

If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .

Video will begin in 5 seconds.

A Fijian skipper is in custody, charged with manslaughter, after a Sydney father-of-three died in a high-speed boat crash.

Mark Hardaker, 40, was celebrating his wife's 40th birthday with their  family at the Mana Island Resort in Fiji when he was killed on a fishing trip last Thursday.

Mr Hardaker, from Toongabbie in Sydney's west, was on a small fishing boat when a fibreglass boat crashed into the boat he was on.

Police spokesman Inspector Atunaisa Sokomuri said officers arrested boat driver Jimi Bepe, 33, and charged him with manslaughter and committing a reckless and negligent act.

Mr Bepe was refused bail after his brief appearance before Nadi Magistrates Court on Monday.

He will remain behind bars until his next court date on June 4.

"He was the captain of the boat that struck the deceased. He remains in custody," Inspector  Sokomuri said.

"The case has been transferred to the High Court of Fiji at Lautoka," he said.

Mr Hardaker's widow, Vanessa, and their children have since flown back to Sydney.

His sister in-law Alana Rice described him as a doting father who loved his wife.

“Mark is the most amazing thoughtful selfless person I will ever know in my life,” Ms Rice wrote on Facebook.

“He adored my sister and forver [sic] loved his children,” she said.

Mr Hardaker's step-mother Gay Bookallil said she was devastated by the loss.

“We are absolutely devastated and cannot begin to express how sorry we are for our much loved daughter-in-law Vanessa and grandchildren Georgia, Sam and Jake,” she posted online.

Fijian West police spokesman Naina Ragigia said the other people on board Mr Hardaker's boat had received treatment for a number of injuries.

He also said the company operating the vessel had never been involved in an accident before.

A Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade spokeswoman confirmed the death and were helping to arrange for Mr Hardaker's body to be flown home.

Daredevil wingsuiters take on 'epic challenge'

Onlookers cheer as two Dutch wingsuiters jump from a helicopter and soar around the Euromast building in Rotterdam.
