
McLennan County Republican Party volunteers Kathy Endres (left) and Noel Lucio look over a list before approaching potential independent voters. during a weekend Keep Texas Red walk in Waco. McLennan County’s local party was one out of 22 walks state-wide on Saturday.

McLennan County Republican Party volunteer Zach Maxwell registers volunteers for the local chapter’s Keep Texas Red walk over the weekend.

McLennan County Republican Party volunteers Kathy Endres, left, and Noel Lucio, right, look over a list before approaching potential independent voters during a weekend Keep Texas Red walk in Waco. McLennan County’s local party was one out of 22 walks state-wide on Saturday.

McLennan County Republican Party activists Kathy Endres and Noel Lucio knocked on doors Saturday to sway registered independents to vote conservatively in the upcoming local and state elections.

For Endres, the local walk was less about preventing liberalism from creeping into the county, and more about presenting a better image than what they say is normally associated with the Republican Party.

“It’s to educate the people on what the conservative base actually is, instead of being (seen as) rabid,” Endres said.

Endres and Lucio were one out of five local teams who knocked on doors during the weekend in conjunction with 22 other Keep Texas Red walks statewide.

Keep Texas Red is a political organization created in response to the Democratic grass-roots movements Battleground Texas and Turn Texas Blue, which sprung up after President Barack Obama’s re-election in 2012.

Republican Party Chairman Ralph Patterson said he is not threatened by these movements and thinks the county is becoming more conservative.

Republicans are the dominant political party in the county. The 2012 primary elections brought out 13,248 voting Republicans to the Democrats’ 668, according to the McLennan County Elections Office’s website.

Democratic Party Chairman David Schleicher disagrees with Patterson and thinks the tea party faction of the Republican base could drive the moderates toward the left.

The Republican base is splitting with the tea party, focusing more on social issues and another portion focusing primarily on fiscal responsibility and business, Schleicher thinks.

If the two strains can’t meld, it could be detrimental to the party, he said.

“The (tea party) may push the ‘business Republicans’ to join the Democrats,” he said.

Schleicher also said Democrats are becoming more vocal, which could inspire more people to vote if they think their opinions will carry weight.

“In the past, they’ve been silent,” Schleicher said.

Patterson said the weekend’s red walk allowed Republicans to reach out to those seeking more information on political candidates. He said he wants people to see that it is not simply radical political activists who are concerned about the country’s future, but local residents also.

Patterson said McLennan County’s Republican Party was chosen to host a block walk because of the strong local base.

Even while competing with Baylor University’s graduation, about a dozen people attended, including Precinct 2 Commissioner candidate Tony Abad and the new Precinct 5 Constable candidate Salvador Romero.

The teams passed out fliers with information on the gubernatorial and Senate races, along with Abad’s information.

Abad will face long-time Commissioner Lester Gibson, a Democrat, in November.

The teams were dispatched with lists of independent voters in the area and asked questions about what issues people felt were important in the upcoming elections.

The teams started off slowly with only a few answered doors, but those who did answer were pleasant and receptive.

Patterson said although he thinks the county is becoming more conservative, beliefs don’t count unless they go to the polls.

Posted in Politics on Monday, May 19, 2014 6:01 pm.

We're always interested in hearing about news in our community. Let us know what's going on!

No commercial reproduction without written consent.

Electronic reproduction of any kind prohibited without written consent.
