
As Prince Harry walked solemnly between rows of cream-coloured headstones in    the Commonwealth war cemetery beneath Monte Cassino, veterans of the    campaign recounted their lingering anger at being unfairly labelled “the    D-Day Dodgers”.

Although it was one of the toughest campaigns of the Second World War, the    Battle of Monte Cassino, which lasted five months and ended in mid-May 1944,    was almost immediately overshadowed by the Allied landings in Normandy two    weeks later.

The British and Commonwealth soldiers who fought at Monte Cassino were    disparagingly referred to as D-Day Dodgers, despite believing that the four    successive battles they took part in were easily as gruelling as the    liberation of France.

Many of them had been continuously in action for a year or more and had fought    hard in North Africa.

The infamous remark was reportedly made by American-born Lady Astor, a society    beauty and Britain’s first woman MP.

By coincidence, Prince Harry was flanked at the ceremony of remembrance by one    of her descendants – Lord Astor, Under Secretary of State and Lords    spokesman on defence.

Despite ironically embracing the alleged insult, which they sarcastically    celebrated with a song called “The Ballad of the D-Day Dodgers”, veterans    still remember it vividly, despite most now being in their nineties.

“It was reported to us that she called us D-Day Dodgers,” said Matthew    MacKinnon-Pattison, 89, who served with The Argyll and Sutherland    Highlanders at Cassino and attended Monday’s ceremony at the Commonwealth    War Graves cemetery, where 8,000 Allied dead are buried.

“But we were here at Monte Cassino long before D-Day – we got here in January    of 1944.

“And we had done our own D-Days before that, with the landings in Sicily,    Salerno and Anzio,” said the former infantryman, who later joined the SAS    and was parachuted behind enemy lines in northern Italy.

But Lord Astor, who followed Prince Harry in laying a wreath at the foot of    the Cross of Sacrifice memorial, insisted that the story was entirely    apocryphal and that it was unfair to attribute the remarks to Lady Astor,    his great-aunt.

“She always denied she ever made that remark. In fact she swore to her dying    day that she never said it.

“She had three sons and four nephews fighting in the war, including in Italy,    so it seems very odd that she would say such a thing. The story just doesn’t    make sense. My father, her nephew, was out here with the Household Cavalry.    He was captured and spent nearly a year in a POW camp. My great aunt would    hardly have accused him of being a D-Day Dodger.

British veterans continue to believe, however, that Lady Astor was behind the    slur.

Ivor Gaskill, 90, who served with The Royal Hampshire Regiment, said a common    belief was that Lady Astor developed a grudge against troops in Italy    because a daughter of hers had been treated poorly by a British major    serving there.

"That's why she went and called us the D-Day Dodgers. That's why she was    very bitter," said Mr Gaskill, from Canterbury in Kent, who recalled    the misery of being shot at and shelled constantly while crouched in    water-logged slit fox holes.

He hoped Prince Harry’s two-day visit to Monte Cassino might finally give the    veterans some of the recognition they deserved.

"I thought we were forgotten. It's great to see him here. It's marvellous    of him to do it," he said.

The Prince was in contemplative mood as he walked between the headstones,    which commemorated soldiers from regiments drawn from across the Empire – from the Royal Artillery to Princess Patricia’s Canadian Light Infantry, the    Mahratta Light Infantry and the Rajputana Rifles.

He strolled between the lines of impeccably-kept graves alone, in the shade of    oak and pine trees, as more than 100 veterans of the battle from Britain,    New Zealand and other Allied nations looked on.

After meeting a group of British veterans of Monte Cassino, the Prince said: “This has always been referred to as the forgotten campaign - to me it makes    no sense at all.
