
CHICO &GT;&GT; An explosion Sunday evening allegedly caused by the refining of marijuana into "honey oil" left a Chico State student with second-degree burns, according to authorities.

The Chico fire and police departments were called to a residence in the 800 block of Rio Chico Way just before 7:30 p.m. Sunday after receiving reports of an explosion and fire, and reportedly found 21-year-old Robert Vehrs injured.

Vehrs is believed to have been making a large amount of butane honey oil in his bedroom when the fumes created by the process found an ignition source and caused a flash fire, said Doug Patterson, a detective with the Butte County Sheriff's Office Special Enforcement Unit. Vehrs yelled fire, which prompted his roommates to call 9-1-1, and he also reportedly tossed part of the makeshift lab through a window.

Members of the SEU, which is handling the investigation into Sunday's incident, are trained to look for items used in the practice of refining marijuana into a honey-like consistency.

SEU detectives served a search warrant and allegedly located items indicating the manufacturing of the substance, including a glass dish, more than 100 cans of butane, extraction tubes, marijuana "shake" — trimmings and leaves — mats with honey oil and scales, Patterson said.

"This is way beyond personal use," he said.

Psychedelic mushrooms packaged for sale and prescriptions pills were allegedly also found in Vehrs' room, according to authorities.

Vehrs suffered burns to his torso, arms and part of his airway, Chico fire Capt. Aaron Lowe said Monday. Vehrs was transported to Enloe Medical Center by ambulance, but his injuries were serious enough that he could have been transferred to the UC Davis Regional Burn Center in Sacramento.

There was no further information on Vehrs' condition or his whereabouts by deadline.

There was minimal damage done to the home and nothing outside caught on fire when the items were thrown out, Lowe said. However, there was potential for the entire residence to catch on fire.

Lowe said the dangerous practice of making honey oil is becoming more prominent in the community.

There were two other people in the residence at the time of the explosion, but no one else was injured.

The occupants, who were Vehrs' roommates, were shaken up by the incident, Lowe said.

The residence where the explosion occurred is a three-story home that is divided into three separate units at each floor.

Vehrs, who was identified as a university student by Patterson, and his roommates reside in the top floor.

Vehrs will have a warrant issued for his arrest and is facing charges of manufacturing a controlled substance, arson, possession of concentrated cannabis, maintaining a residence for the manufacturing or sale of honey oil, and other drug related offenses.

Authorities are not looking to pursue charges against anyone else at the moment and Patterson said Vehrs' roommates were not aware or involved in the operation.

Contact reporter Almendra Carpizo at 896-7760.
