
An 18-year-old woman thought she was going to be raped when Rolf Harris pinned her against a wall and groped her, a court has heard.

Giving evidence at Southwark Crown Court in London, the woman said she met the entertainer while on holiday in Malta in 1970.

Her boyfriend hurt his foot while swimming and Harris, now 84, came out of a bar and helped them find a doctor.

The woman then went back to thank the artist and he took her into a side room, offering to show the aspiring art student some of his work.

It is claimed he pinned her against a wall and gave her a “slobbery” kiss before touching her intimately.

The alleged victim is not named on the indictment because the claimed incident happened abroad before such crimes could be prosecuted in the UK, but she has been called as a prosecution witness.

Harris is accused of 12 charges of indecent assault against four alleged victims between 1968 and 1986, all of which he denies.

He listened intently from the glass-walled dock, with wife Alwen and other family members including his niece and brother-in-law watching from the public gallery.

The court also heard from two other women who are prosecution witnesses and were flown from Australia and New Zealand to give evidence.

The first of the women told the jury of six men and six women that when she was  11, Harris told her that he wanted to be the first person to give her “a tongue kiss”.

She said she was at a family friend’s home in Australia in 1969 while she was off sick from school, and came downstairs in her pyjamas to find Harris, who had been polishing a piece of wood.

It is claimed that Harris got her in “a gentle hug” and kissed her, putting his tongue in her mouth.

She said: “It seemed like it lasted forever but it must have been very quick. I was quite repulsed by it. Absolutely repulsed.” Jurors were told that another woman was 16 or 17 and was working for a wine company at a party in New Zealand in 1970 when she met the entertainer.

She said that she and another member of staff had photographs taken with Harris and his friend, and he gave her his autograph.

At first he was “very friendly and very relaxed”, and was “being stupid”, posing for the pictures, she told the jury.

But Harris then asked her to dance, slid his hand on to her bottom and put it between her legs.

After the woman felt Harris’s hand between her legs, she said she pushed him away and left the venue. The woman told the jury she informed her mother about what had happened the next day.

The trial continues.

© 2014 Johnston Publishing Ltd.

This website and its associated newspaper adheres to the Press Complaints Commission’s Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion, then contact the Editor by clicking here .

If you remain dissatisfied with the response provided then you can contact the PCC by clicking here .

The Scotsman provides news, events and sport features from the Edinburgh area. For the best up to date information relating to Edinburgh and the surrounding areas visit us at The Scotsman regularly or bookmark this page.

For you to enjoy all the features of this website The Scotsman requires permission to use cookies.

Cookies are small data files which are sent to your browser (Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome etc) from a website you visit. They are stored on your electronic device.

This is a type of cookie which is collected by Adobe Flash media player (it is also called a Local Shared Object) - a piece of software you may already have on your electronic device to help you watch online videos and listen to podcasts.

Yes there are a number of options available, you can set your browser either to reject all cookies, to allow only "trusted" sites to set them, or to only accept them from the site you are currently on.

However, please note - if you block/delete all cookies, some features of our websites, such as remembering your login details, or the site branding for your local newspaper may not function as a result.

A tool used by some of our advertisers to target adverts to you based on pages you have visited in the past. To opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

Our sites contain advertising from Google; these use cookies to ensure you get adverts relevant to you. You can tailor the type of ads you receive by visiting here or to opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

This is used to help us identify unique visitors to our websites. This data is anonymous and we cannot use this to uniquely identify individuals and their usage of the sites.

This comes from our ad serving technology and is used to track how many times you have seen a particular ad on our sites, so that you don't just see one advert but an even spread. This information is not used by us for any other type of audience recording or monitoring.

ComScore monitor and externally verify our site traffic data for use within the advertising industry. Any data collected is anonymous statistical data and cannot be traced back to an individual.

Our Classified websites (Photos, Motors, Jobs and Property Today) use cookies to ensure you get the correct local newspaper branding and content when you visit them. These cookies store no personally identifiable information.

We use Grapeshot as a contextual targeting technology, allowing us to create custom groups of stories outside out of our usual site navigation. Grapeshot stores the categories of story you have been exposed to. Their privacy policy and opt out option can be accessed here.

Our partner for Newspaper subscriptions online stores data from the forms you complete in these to increase the usability of the site and enhance user experience.

Add This provides the social networking widget found in many of our pages. This widget gives you the tools to bookmark our websites, blog, share, tweet and email our content to a friend.

We use Advertising agencies to provide us with some of the advertising on our websites. These include (but are not limited to) Specific Media, The Rubicon Project, AdJug, AdConion, Context Web. Please click on the provider name to visit their opt-out page.
