
Scottish political parties have entered their final week of campaigning ahead of the European Parliament election on Thursday.

A recent ICM survey for the Scotsman painted a positive picture for the SNP, who command a 9-point lead in voting intention over Labour, on 36% and 27% respectively. They are ahead of the Conservatives on 13%, Ukip on 9%, and the Lib Dems and Scottish Greens on 7% each.

First Minister and SNP leader Alex Salmond said the poll results “confirm that in Scotland voters are faced with a straight choice between Tasmina Ahmed-Sheikh and Nigel Farage’s UKIP for Scotland’s sixth seat”.

He said a vote for the SNP, who hope to win three seats, “is a vote for a tolerant, welcoming Scotland that rejects the deeply unpleasant politics of Nigel Farage’s UKIP”.

The election campaign has been dominated by the upcoming referendum on Scottish independence, with candidates arguing over what impact the referendum will have on Scotland’s position in the EU.

Salmond said an SNP vote would “keep Ukip’s agenda out of Scottish politics”, but Ukip’s top candidate in Scotland, David Coburn, has called on “anybody who wants to get out of the European Union, whether they be pro-independence or anti-independence [… to] vote for Ukip”.

The eurosceptic party’s leader Nigel Farage has said he believes his party could win one or two of Scotland’s six seats in the European Parliament.

The Scottish Conservatives are confident they’ll hold their sole seat in Brussels despite their right-wing challenger, but top candidate Dr Ian Duncan came under fire over the weekend for making an allegedly racist remark.

Former Lib Dem leader Charles Kennedy MP has called for Scots to vote for the Scottish Liberal Democrats, who he said are “making the positive case for Scotland staying in Britain and in Europe because that is best for Scotland”.

Kennedy said it was “essential that those of us who understand that Scotland can achieve more as part of something bigger stand up and make our voices heard”.

But the Scottish Green Party believes that voting Green will best “show that Scotland is a staunchly progressive nation that will not be seduced by [Ukip’s] politics of selfishness and hate”.

The party’s top candidate, Edinburgh councillor Maggie Chapman, says she “passionately [believes] that the movement of people between countries is good for our society and economy”.

The European Parliament election takes place in Scotland on 22 May and the result will be declared on 26 May.
