
An Australian woman has told the trial of Rolf Harris in London that the entertainer assaulted her at the home of family friends in Darwin when she was 11 or 12 years old.

The 84-year-old entertainer is on trial charged with 12 counts of indecent assault against four girls between the 1960s and 1980s, the youngest of whom was aged just seven or eight at the time of the alleged offence. He denies all the charges.

The woman, who is not a complainant in the case because the alleged abuse took place outside the UK, said she was being looked after by family friends one day in the late 1960s when she was unwell and could not go to school.

She said Harris was visiting and when alone with her, asked her age.

She told the court that when she replied he said: "Good. I want to be the first to introduce you to a tongue kiss."

The woman said she froze as Harris approached her, put his arms around her and gave her a tongue kiss.

She told the court that she still feels frazzled and panicky if someone leans in to kiss her.

A New Zealand woman, who is also appearing at the trial as what is known as a bad character witness, told the court that Harris had a "dark and evil side" and indecently assaulted her when she was 17 years old.

The woman, who was flown to the UK to testify for the prosecution, told the court Harris asked her to dance at a function she was working at in 1970.

In emotional testimony, the woman said Harris was very friendly, and she felt completely comfortable with him, but things changed when he asked her to dance and he put his hands up under her dress between her legs.

The witness said she told her mother soon afterwards about what Harris had happened.

"I sat down and told her what a disgusting, vile, repulsive man that he was, and how he had totally taken away trust," she said.

She told the court she has lived for more than 40 years with the memory of being assaulted by Harris and the relief she felt when her husband told her Harris had been arrested.

Quizzed as to why the alleged assault was not reported to police, the woman said times were different then, and that there was a sense it was a man's world - and even if a girl had been assaulted it was somehow their fault.

In cross-examination Sonia Woodley QC, the defence counsel for Harris, tried to highlight inconsistencies between the witness's initial police statement and her evidence in court.

The witness was angered by Ms Woodley's questions, telling her not to "twist" her testimony and asked how she slept at night.

The prosecution has called the women to try and build its case that Harris showed a consistent pattern of abuse of girls and young women over a long period of time.

The court has previously heard from two alleged victims of Harris.

One woman told the trial Harris touched her inappropriately when she was about seven or eight years old and met him at a community event.

Another alleged victim, a former childhood friend of Harris's daughter, said he began a sexual relationship with her when she was a 13-year-old.

The trial continues.

If you have inside knowledge of a topic in the news, contact the ABC .

An aid worker becomes a little girl's sole guardian after Ebola wipes out a family in Sierra Leone.

This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.
