
The BBC will ask viewers to choose between six of the toughest scientific challenges of our time to become the focus of the £10m Longitude research prize.

BBC2 's Horizon programme, marking its 50th birthday this year, will kick off a month-long poll on Thursday asking viewers which issue the prize, developed and run by Nesta, the UK's innovation foundation, should aim to tackle.

They include dementia, antibiotics resistance, paralysis, sustainable food and clean water. Viewers will also be able to vote for research into paralysis and eco-friendly flight.

The £10m prize, marking the 300th anniversary of the Longitude Act which sought to tackle the great challenge of the time of pinpointing a ship's position at sea,  was launched by David Cameron last year.

Professor Brian Cox, the pop star turned particle physicist who has become the face of much of the BBC's science programming, said the corporation had a key role in "democratising science".

"In order to democratise science and bring the public into making decisions about the direction of research you have to first educate them and that is one of the key achievements of Horizon and BBC science in general," Cox said at the launch at the BBC's Broadcasting House in central London on Monday.

The shortlist of six topics was drawn up by Nesta and the Astronomer Royal and chair of the Longitude committee, Lord  Rees, who drew on the advice of more than 100 experts in their field.

Lord Rees said the £10m prize fund was "less than a thousandth of what the UK spends on research and development every year. It maybe won't change the world but it could have disproportionate impact, a higher bang for our buck".

He said the aim was to "stimulate innovation rather than what's been done already and boost up and coming talent. Unlike Nobel and similar prizes which routinely go to geriatrics for work done decades earlier."

"There is no manifest number one problem as there was in the 18th century," he said.

"There are many broad societal problems demanding fresh thinking and a pressing need for the UK to channel more brain power into innovation to jump start new technologies and enthuse young people."

The result of the public vote will be unveiled on BBC1's The One Show on 25 June. The expert group will then decide what format the prize should take and what challenges will be set.

Rees said: "Success must require genuine breakthroughs but be credibly achieved within five years."

BBC director general Tony Hall said the idea was to "take something that is 300 years old and making it relevant today. It has one big bold question at its heart - if you had £10m to change the world today, what would you do?"

• To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian on Twitter and Facebook .

Our editors' picks for the day's top news and commentary delivered to your inbox each morning.
