
ECOWAS Parliament on Monday in Abuja pledged its total solidarity and support to the government of Nigeria in the current war against terrorism and insurgency.

Speaker of the parliament, Mr Ike Ekweremadu made the pledge during the opening ceremony of the 2014 first ordinary session of the third legislature of the ECOWAS Parliament.

“We condemn in strongest terms the brigandage and mindless waste of human lives and property by the renegades who go under the cover of so-called religious extremism to commit crimes against humanity.

“We condemn in strongest terms the senseless abduction of over 200 young and harmless school girls in Chibok, Borno State, by the Boko Haram,’’ Ekweremadu said.

The speaker added that the parliament, however, commended the rising global concern and solidarity to bring back the abducted girls and flush out the insurgents.

“We commend the governments of France, Israel, USA, Britain, China and other members of the global community who have rallied round Nigeria to bring back the girls alive.

“The parliament also supports steps taken by the ECOWAS Chairman, Mr John Mahama in invoking the relevant aspects of the ECOWAS Counter Terrorist strategy,’’ he said.

Ekweremadu noted that the world by the support, had demonstrated, once more, that the insecurity in any part amounted to insecurity of the whole world.

The speaker said the parliament welcomed in particular the initiative of the government of France to host a summit of Nigeria and her neighbours focusing on Boko Haram and their partners in terrorism.

He, however, said a summit comprising Heads of State and Governments of all West and Central Africa nations on their soil would be a more holistic and strategic approach.

Ekweremadu said that the summit in France should serve as prelude for an all-inclusive summit of both economic blocs.

He, therefore, called on Boko Haram militants to unconditionally release the abducted girls, lay down their arms and renounce the acts of terrorism and insurgency in the country.

“The world will neither relent nor rest until their evil intentions are terminated and normalcy returned to the affected areas,’’ the speaker added.

Ekweremadu also reiterated call for the actualisation of the draft Legislative Act on the enhancement of the powers of the parliament.
