
A WIGAN ex-pat has launched a desperate appeal to help save the life of his severely ill son and bring him home from China.

Michael Martland from Parbold moved to the Far East in 2007 and on May 5 this year became the father to baby Constantine.

But then came the devastating news that the boy has a rare heart syndrome known as Hypoplastic Right Heart Syndrome, which requires a three-step heart operation to survive.

It means that he can only function with the left side of his heart with the right pretty much useless.

Immediately after his birth Constantine was taken away from his parents, Chinese policy decreeing that he needs to be isolated and on the second day Mr Martland, a Kindergarten teacher in Beijing, and wife Cath were told their son had 24 hours to live as the hospital did not have the correct resources.

As a result the distraught couple discharged their son and upgraded him to the Western-style AnZhen Hospital, with tremendous help from Mr Martland’s friend and boss Daphne Hutagalung, where doctors confirmed Constantine has a chance of life although he faces risky surgery.

Post-op survival depends on the individual and the strength of their body and Constantine needs to wait until he is a month old.

Once he has had a BT Shunt operation – which tries to start the left side of the baby’s heart beating – it should be possible for him to fly back to the UK for the second operation.

However, the couple have used all their life savings on hospital fees and are now launching a desperate appeal to raise money for their son to continue his treatment.

“We still need to raise more so Constantine can have the first operation so he can return safely to the UK for the second and third step operations,” said Mr Martland, 30.

“For the first few months, Constantine will be isolated as he cannot risk to be infected, therefore we will not be able to see him for that length of time.

At the moment, Constantine is in a stable condition and there is a good chance he will survive such a risky procedure.

However, the family are now desperately raising funds to move him out of China to continue his treatment.

Mr Martland added: “With Constantine stable enough we contacted Helen Walker from the Alder Hey hospital who was extremely understanding with our situation.

“We had an idea to fly Constantine from Beijing to Liverpool using the SOS International Group but as it turns out that because of the severity of his condition and lack of prior insurance we could not afford to fly him out with the medical assistance.

“So at least the first operation must be performed here in Beijing, and it’s usually common for a child to be in the hospital for four months average before they are discharged. Our life savings, which were meant to be used for a return to the UK, have been spent in a matter of days. “That is why we are asking for help and donations for Constantine and other children who need similar help when insurers find it difficult to provide for them.

A target of £15,000 has been set with a third of that being raised by the time the Wigan Evening Post went to print.

On not being able to see his son, Mr Martland said: “It is difficult for us but at the same time, we find this a painful yet small price to pay for a chance at life for our boy.

For more information, including how to donate, visit https://www.indiegogo.com/projects/uk-baby-with-hypoplastic-right-heart-syndrome-needs-your-help.

© 2014 Johnston Publishing Ltd.

This website and its associated newspaper adheres to the Press Complaints Commission’s Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion, then contact the Editor by clicking  here .

If you remain dissatisfied with the response provided then you can contact the PCC by clicking here .

Wigan Today provides news, events and sport features from the Wigan area. For the best up to date information relating to Wigan and the surrounding areas visit us at Wigan Today regularly or bookmark this page.

For you to enjoy all the features of this website Wigan Today requires permission to use cookies.

Cookies are small data files which are sent to your browser (Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome etc) from a website you visit. They are stored on your electronic device.

This is a type of cookie which is collected by Adobe Flash media player (it is also called a Local Shared Object) - a piece of software you may already have on your electronic device to help you watch online videos and listen to podcasts.

Yes there are a number of options available, you can set your browser either to reject all cookies, to allow only "trusted" sites to set them, or to only accept them from the site you are currently on.

However, please note - if you block/delete all cookies, some features of our websites, such as remembering your login details, or the site branding for your local newspaper may not function as a result.

A tool used by some of our advertisers to target adverts to you based on pages you have visited in the past. To opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

Our sites contain advertising from Google; these use cookies to ensure you get adverts relevant to you. You can tailor the type of ads you receive by visiting here or to opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

This is used to help us identify unique visitors to our websites. This data is anonymous and we cannot use this to uniquely identify individuals and their usage of the sites.

This comes from our ad serving technology and is used to track how many times you have seen a particular ad on our sites, so that you don't just see one advert but an even spread. This information is not used by us for any other type of audience recording or monitoring.

ComScore monitor and externally verify our site traffic data for use within the advertising industry. Any data collected is anonymous statistical data and cannot be traced back to an individual.

Our Classified websites (Photos, Motors, Jobs and Property Today) use cookies to ensure you get the correct local newspaper branding and content when you visit them. These cookies store no personally identifiable information.

We use Grapeshot as a contextual targeting technology, allowing us to create custom groups of stories outside out of our usual site navigation. Grapeshot stores the categories of story you have been exposed to. Their privacy policy and opt out option can be accessed here.

Our partner for Newspaper subscriptions online stores data from the forms you complete in these to increase the usability of the site and enhance user experience.

Add This provides the social networking widget found in many of our pages. This widget gives you the tools to bookmark our websites, blog, share, tweet and email our content to a friend.
