
Subscribe Our Weekly Newsletter!

Please enter the valid email address.

Kim Kardashian and her superstar fiancé have officially arrived to Paris for their luxurious and lavish wedding festivities.

The two landed in the City of Light Sunday and were spotted at the Charles de Gaulle Airport with their daughter, North West and 12 suitcases in tow.  The wedding was speculated to be in Paris, but recent reports have confirmed that it will actually take place in Florence, Italy.

Paris will instead host the pre-wedding festivities before the couple and their guests make their way to Italy. Still, in efforts to keep the wedding details a secret, it looks like KimYe has confused their guests. They are also said to be out of the loop and have no clue as to what is really going on.

"Kim and Kanye have told all guests different info. no one knows all of the details," an insider said.

Insiders confirmed  that Kardashian will indeed make a "huge, chic fashion statement" in a Vera Wang dress, despite West's alleged claim  that he doesn't want her to wear the same designer she rocked in her previous wedding to Kris Humphries.

As for the pre-wedding parties in Paris, invites have directed guests to the Chateau Louis XIV. West has requested the pool to be turned pink. The couple will even be putting in their own air freshener system so the venue's scent will be to their specific liking.

A Chateau Louis XIV employee revealed, "They have gone to great lengths to make sure the place smells lovely."

Rumor has it that Italy is where North West was conceived.

Kardashian recently cleared up  rumors  that their wedding would be aired on Keeping Up With the Kardashians. She revealed that while fans will get to see the entire process of the wedding, but the ceremony will be kept private.

Featured Video : Angie Martinez Leaves Hot97 to Join Power 105.1, Chelsea Handler's New Show with Netflix, and Lupita on Vogue in New Entertainment Buzz!

Please enter the valid email address.

The fourth episode of 'The Mentalist' season 7 will be called "Pink Rocks."
