
Login  /  Register  | 3 premium articles left before you must register.

Shaquan Green, 20, of 172 Hawthorn Road, Apt. F20, New London, was charged Friday with breach of peace, second-degree larceny and third-degree robbery.

Vivian I. Volovar, 57, of 81 Valley Road, Mystic, was charged Friday with failure to drive right and evading responsibility.

Russell B. Thompson, 64, of 247 Plant St. was charged Saturday with unsafe backing of a motor vehicle and driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs.

Joanna M. Kaminksi, 24, of 156 Kings Highway, #123, was charged Saturday with first-degree failure to appear in court.

Marco Solis, 26, of 151 Burningtree Drive was charged Saturday with interfering with a police officer, possession of an assault weapon and disorderly conduct.

Jessica Solis, 27, of 151 Burningtree Drive was charged Saturday with interfering with a police officer and disorderly conduct.

James A. Varnell II, 28, of 30 Lincoln Ave., #1, New London, was charged Saturday with driving with a suspended license or registration, driving without registration, driving while using a mobile device and second-degree failure to appear in court.

Anita A. Longo, 29, of 4 Fitch Ave., was charged Saturday with use of drug paraphernalia.

Elizabeth A. Soto, 45, of 6 Cliff St. was charged Saturday with violation of probation.

Bruce D. Skidgel II, 25, of Willetts Avenue was charged Saturday with larceny by possession.

Corey Inglesby, 22, of 514 Ocean Ave. was charged Sunday with driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs, failure to drive right, driving with a suspended license or registration and driving an unregistered vehicle.

Peterson Succes, 26, of 603 Boswell Ave., Norwich, was charged Sunday with disorderly conduct and interfering with a police officer.

Katriana Blizaine, 20, of 603 Boswell Ave., Norwich, was charged Sunday with second-degree breach of peace and interfering with a police officer.

Renay M. Allen, 40, of 100 Pond Meadow Road was charged Saturday with evading responsibility and failure to drive right.

Corbin V. Grabowski, 21, of 38 Pine Road, Griswold, was charged Saturday with third-degree burglary, sixth-degree larceny, possession of heroin and possession of drug paraphernalia.

Zachary R. Cote, 22, of 188 Hickory St. was charged Saturday with third-degree burglary, sixth-degree larceny and possession of burglar's tools.

Donald Matthews, 36, of 63 Cedar St. was charged Saturday for driving with a suspended license or registration, failure to obey a stop sign and improper signaling.

Thomas Kemp, 61, of 120 Gallup Hill Road, Ledyard, was charged Sunday with driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs, failure to drive right and improper headlight use.

Robert Coates, 26, of 205 Avery Hill Road, Ledyard, was charged Saturday with violation of a protective order.

Joanna Denver, 36, of 62 Asylum St. was charged Saturday with second-degree assault, violation of a protective order, disorderly conduct and making a false statement.

Carl E. Ullmann, 26, of Flintlock Road, Apt. 84, Ledyard, was charged Saturday in Ledyard with breach of peace and interfering with a police officer.

Scott Corna, 27, of 68 Kings Highway, Groton, was charged Thursday in Montville with second-degree failure to appear in court.

Shauna Clemons, 19, of 47 Massachusetts Road, Oakdale, was charged Saturday with interfering with a police officer, possession of less than 4 ounces of marijuana and fifth-degree larceny.

Kerri Metzermacher, 38, of 15 Porach Road, Uncasville, was charged Saturday with fifth-degree larceny.

Police logs reflect arrests, not convictions. For information on the outcome of criminal and motor vehicle arrests: www.jud2.ct.gov/crdockets/SearchByDefDisp.aspx.

Commenting on this article has been disabled.

Go to grad school.

Clean up your Facebook page; your employer doesn't want to see your keg-stand prowess.
