
Linda Brown Smith, shown in an undated photo, was a third grader when her father started a class-action suit in 1951 against the Board of Education of Topeka, Kan., which led to the US Supreme Court's 1954 landmark decision against school segregation.

That’s the tragic legacy of another milestone that passed this Saturday, the 60th anniversary of Brown v. Board of Education, when the Supreme court struck down “separate but equal” schooling. It was a major victory in the civil rights movement and it meant that cities and states could no longer maintain separate systems for black and white students. Yet, while the social transformation that Brown v. Board set in motion did have its impact, for a time, it didn’t endure.   Today, segregation is resurgent all across the country, including here in Massachusetts.

By a number of measures, segregation seems to have gotten worse . One way to see this is by looking at the growth of “highly segregated” schools, meaning those schools where at least 90 percent of the student body is non-white. Massachusetts now has seven times as many highly segregated schools as it had two decades ago. And while, in 1980, just one in fifty black students attended such a highly-segregated school, the number is now one in four.

Yes. Eight-five percent of students in highly segregated schools are low-income. And this has actually gotten worse over time. Fifteen years ago, only 70 percent were low-income.

The link between segregation and poverty goes beyond these highly segregated schools, though. Across Massachusetts, the average white student goes to a school where 23 percent of the kids are low-income. The average black student goes to a school where 59 percent are low-income.

Since 1990, the proportion of hispanic students in the public schools has more than doubled, and they, too, are feeling the effects of resegregation. Twenty-eight percent of hispanic students are enrolled in highly segregated schools, which is higher than the share of black students and growing faster.

Judging from the situation of minority students, it’s not clear that Massachusetts even has a first-rate education system. The big reason people tout our schools is that for the last decade we’ve outperformed all other states on national tests of reading and math . But when you break the numbers down by race, things look quite different. On the 8th grade reading test, for instance, Massachusetts comes out 9th in terms of educating black students. And when it comes to educating hispanic students, we’re 33rd, behind Texas and South Carolina.

It’s hard to analyze segregation patterns in Boston because there are so few white students. Even though roughly half the city is white, white students make up only 14 percent of public school students. This by itself is an enormous demographic shift. In the 1960s, 68 percent of Boston public school students were white.

As a society, we seem to have lost faith in the old instruments of equalization, like court mandates and citywide busing. Yet, we haven’t found any new, more popular approaches, which  means for now we are just watching as our schools become more and more segregated.

There are a number of possible approaches. More affordable housing in suburban communities could help make our neighborhoods less segregated. We could improve and expand METCO , which is a program that lets students in segregated urban districts attend better schools in nearby towns. And we could do more to equalize funding and support schools in low-income areas.

Whatever the approach, though, we need to find something that will work. It’s not enough to pretend that segregation is over because the Supreme Court said so 60 years ago. If that decision, Brown v. Board of Education, is to have any meaning, it has to mean that our black, white, and hispanic students actually go to school together.

You can now read 10 free articles.

Read it all, now.

Don't miss any of your favorite stories again. Read the stories that matter to you as much as you want, whenever you want when you subscribe to BostonGlobe.com.

The login information you entered does not match an account in our records.

To activate FREE access as a home delivery subscriber start here.

If you don't have a subscription, you can view our digital offers here.

Please check your e-mail for a message from BostonGlobe.com with the subject line "BostonGlobe.com password request." Click the link in the e-mail to choose a new password for BostonGlobe.com, and note that your new password will also be used for your Boston.com membership.

Enter your e-mail address below. We’ll send you an e-mail with a link to reset your password.

Continue reading by subscribing to BostonGlobe.com for just 99¢ .

Continue reading by subscribing to BostonGlobe.com for just 99¢ .

Stay informed with unlimited access to Boston’s trusted news source.
