
The Tutsi Project will help equip young rural schoolgirls with vocational and entrepreneurial skills to economically empower them and prevent them from resorting to sex as a source of livelihood.

The official launch of the project, which was attended by 140 schoolchildren from 14 beneficiary schools, was performed by the Municipal Chief Executive for Keta, Mr. Sylvester Torneayavah and it attracted traditional rulers, government officials, parents and teachers.

Mr. Torneayavah lauded the efforts of GAOFI to promote the well-being of the girl-child. He gave the assurance that the municipal assembly would provide budgetary support for the smooth roll-out of the project in 2015.

The Founder and President of GAOFI, Mrs Grace Amey-Obeng, said the foundation, which was an NGO, had been involved in efforts to prevent young girls from engaging in the sex trade.

She said under the circumstances, GAOFI had come up with a strategy to “prevent the fire instead of fighting the fire”. Tutsi, she says, is a scheme meant to ensure that young rural schoolgirls do not engage in sex as a source of livelihood in the first place. The founder of the Tutsi Project said as part of the project, 10 girls would be chosen to be mentored by women entrepreneurs in their vocation or business areas during a two-week stay in Accra.

Mrs. Amey-Obeng, who also doubles as the CEO of the FC Group of Companies, said Tutsi Innovation Centres would be set up at Blemazado, Woe and Blekuso, all in the Keta Municipality, to offer training in ICT, vocational skills, photography among others.

All 140 pupils who attended the ceremony were presented with certificates of participation, as well as books and clothing donated by individuals and corporate bodies.

Companies that donated items included the FC Group, Edlorm Villas, Glory Oil, Dziram Eye Clinic, Prime Logistics, Xellers Groceries, Riversyl, Girlfriends, Bambino, Everpure, Eden Tree, Fobasca, E toys & more, AABN, Star oil, uniBank and Traffix Catering Services.
