
A jury found Egyptian-born cleric Abu Hamza Al-Masri guilty of 11 terrorism related charges Monday afternoon in a New York City courtroom, paving the way for a potential life sentence.

The 12-person jury deliberated for only just as many hours,   Reuters reported, before finding the 56-year-old former London   imam guilty of all 11 counts he faced.

According to a New York Times report from 2012 shortly after he   was extradited from the UK, the cleric told the court he wanted   to be addressed by his birth name, Mostafa Kamel Mostafa.

The US had successfully sought his extradition for eight years   after he was indicted in the US in 2004 for various terrorism   related charges. Until then, Mostafa was serving time in Britain   after being accused of inciting violence there, where he had   gained notoriety for fiery sermons delivered as a at London's   Finsbury Park mosque. Combined with his indistinguishable   appearance — Mostafa is missing one-eye and both hands—the cleric   had no problem making waves on both sides of the pond.

When Mostafa was finally brought to New York, prosecutors began   preparing for a high-profile terrorism case in which they hoped   to show that the cleric had helped plan the 1998 kidnapping of   American tourists and others in Yemen, and tried to help set up a   terrorist training camp in Oregon; Mostafa denied the allegations   up until this week’s conviction.

On Monday, CNN reported that Mostafa accused prosecutors of using   "pay-as-you-go witnesses" and a "cut-and-paste"   approach in court in order to ensure a guilty verdict.

"The deliberations confirmed our fears they would focus on   words and ideas rather than the evidence," defense attorney   Jeremy Schneider said after the verdict was announced.

"This is what we feared, that there would be no deliberations   at all, essentially," co-counsel Joshua Dratel told Reuters. "Beliefs are not a crime."

Nevertheless, the United States attorney who prosecuted the   accused terrorist celebrated this week’s conviction.

Mostafa faces a maximum of life in prison when he is sentenced   later this year in September.

@Eireann Emerald: you know, that good old holy bible that says that selling your daughter is ok, that slavery is fine, that if your child curses you he must be killed, that virgin women victims of rape have to marry their rapist, that the stars are fixed and don't move. That book that tells you that god impregnated a virgin woman with himself so he can come in flesh and let himself be killed to forgive the people he created because he simply thought that killing all humans in yet another flood would be a waste of his tim. Jesus said he didn't come to abolish the old law but to reinforce it.

You need a psychiatrist.

email before you can log in.

successfully!
