
It may be recalled that Manish Tewari, Minister for Information and Broadcasting had told exchange4media earlier that he didn’t know anything about digitisation when he took the charge as Minster in October 2012.

This week India will choose its 15th I&B Minster and broadcasters are hoping that a lot will be achieved and done in the coming five years.

exchange4media spoke some of the leading news broadcaster about what their expectations from the upcoming Information and Broadcasting Minister.

K V L Narayan Rao, Executive Vice Chairperson, NDTV and President, News Broadcasting Association highlighted some key points.

• To further strengthen self/independent regulation. All broadcasters whether news or non- news, must fall under the authority of the NBSA (for news)  or BCCI (for other genres). An independent media is crucial for a democracy.

• To reduce Carriage fees (under any name) substantially, even eliminate them. There is no place for carriage fees in a digitized environment and continuing high carriage fees are making the business of broadcasting unviable.

• To ensure that fair subscription revenues flow to broadcasters in keeping with world norms. At the moment barely 10 per cent of total revenues come from subscriptionand even that is concentrated in the hands of a few broadcasters. We must get to at least 50 per cent of revenues coming from subscription. A consistently available alternative to advertisement revenues is essential.

ABP News CEO and Vice President, NBA, Ashok Venkatramani wants the upcoming minister to continue to drive the digitisation agenda for the broadcasting industry and find a lasting solution to the menace of carriage fees which continues unabated.

“I would like the minister to take a decisive step in putting a reasonable cap on it”, said Venkatramani.

The most difficult thing for the broadcaster in last few years was to deal with the regulator TRAI. There have been times when regulator came up with different recommendations and news broadcasters sought the help of High Court.

He also highlighted that it should be made mandatory for all holders of news channel licenses to mandatorily comply with the NBSA guidelines for self regulation of the news content.

The ad cap and digitisation effect has been challenging for every news broadcaster be it Hindi or English broadcaster. There are many news channels who own not more than one channel and India TV is one of them.

Dhawan also mentioned that free to air channels specifically those which have already created pull for themselves must be allowed to operate without the carriage fees and yearly permission renewal for the channels to be changed to once in three years.

While there are several matters the upcoming minister will have to address,  FDI is one of them.
