
Dominique Strauss-Kahn is to sue for defamation the makers of Welcome to New    York – the scandal-struck film that is the talk of the Cannes festival – saying it contains “accusations of rape”.

The disgraced former International Monetary Fund chief’s lawyer has apparently    not seen the film, which comes with a legal disclaimer but whose main    character – played by Gérard Depardieu – has undeniable parallels with DSK,    as he is known.

However, Jean Veil, his lawyer, told Europe1 radio on Monday that his client    was “disgusted” by the movie and had asked him to file a complaint for    defamation because of “the accusations and insinuations of rape throughout    the film”.

Describing it as "intolerable" Mr Veil said: "We have the right    to fiction, but not the right to accuse.

"DSK like everyone has the right to be forgotten," he added.

Talking about the film itself, which he said Mr Strauss-Khan – once tipped to    be French president – has no intention of seeing, Mr Veil was unequivocal.

The complaint will be filed in a court in the coming days, Mr Veil said.

Welcome to New York, which is available to download for €7, was premiered in a    small cinema in Cannes on Saturday afternoon – sparking a huge scrum for    seats.

At a press conference after the film, Mr Depardieu said the film was a "unique    adventure because it's drawn from a news item that everyone has read".

Miss Bisset plays the part of Anne Sinclair, DSK's former wife and a    journalist.

On Sunday, Miss Sinclair also said she was sickened by the film, claiming it    was anti-Semitic.

Writing in the French version of the Huffington Post, which she edits, she    said she was “disgusted with the so-called face-to-face between the two    principal characters, upon which the authors and producers of the film    project their fantasies about money and Jews”.

But she said she did not plan to sue the filmmaker as that would only provide    more publicity for the film.

“I do not attack filth. I vomit it,” she wrote.

In May 2011, Mr Strauss-Kahn, now 65, was accused of sexually assaulting    Nafissatou Diallo, a Sofitel chamber maid.

Criminal charges were ultimately dropped and he reached an out-of-court civil    settlement thought to be at least $1.5 million (£890,000).
