
Formal plans have been submitted for a state-of-the-art brewery and visitor attraction on Ness Bank, Inverness City by the owners of the Glen Mhor Hotel and Apartments in Inverness.

Formal plans have been submitted for a state-of-the-art brewery and visitor attraction on Ness Bank, Inverness City by the owners of the Glen Mhor Hotel and Apartments in Inverness.

Jon and Victoria Erasmus are involved in a number of hotel and leisure businesses across Scotland and have have been working since 2012 on a proposal to develop the riverside gap site situated between 8 and 10 Ness Bank, running from Haugh Road to Ness Bank.

Historically, brewing had taken place in the Haugh area of the city since the 1700s.

After extensive travel to view manufacturers and concepts it is likely that Kaspar Schulz, market leader in brewing technology, will supply a fully automated and customised 15-20hl stainless steel German brewing plant to allow manufacturing to the highest standards. Coupling leading German technology with the best Scottish ingredients, the couple behind the venture believe that the brewery can be the source of world-class Highland beers.

The brewery and visitor attraction's goals are to produce the highest possible quality beer for the local and regional market; produce the highest quality packaged beer for export to international markets; source all ingredients locally; deliver a unique visitor attraction and experience,

As well as these aims, the brewery also wishes to give both visitors and locals to the area a greater and more fulfilling experience within the capital of the Highlands; produce locally sourced and freshly prepared food, offering visitors a shop window to the finest produce the Highlands of Scotland offers; and create a retail offering and gallery showcasing locally produced wares and art.

The Inverness Brewery will create at least a dozen new jobs in Inverness while also bringing millions of pounds in tourism revenues to the area. It is hoped that the building can start early in 2015.

We moderate all comments on HeraldScotland on either a pre-moderated or post-moderated basis.
