
John Lockwood Kipling's design for the Wedgwood Memorial Institute, and inset, his son Rudyard Kipling.

Amidst the mounds of pineapples, limes, lemons and mangoes, something of Stoke-on-Trent makes its appearance.  For in the fountain's array of naturalistic sculptures – mixing gargoyles, goddesses, monkeys and alligators – there lurks a little bit of Burslem.

The man who designed it was one John Lockwood Kipling, Professor of Architectural Sculpture at the Bombay School of Art.

Across Victorian Bombay, Kipling and his students provided the city's public buildings with many of their most celebrated designs.

Bombay is a long way from Burslem, but Kipling had learned his craft in Stoke-on-Trent, where his 1863 design for the facade of the Wedgwood Memorial Institute won first prize.

Indeed, he was so enamoured with North Staffordshire that he named his first son after Lake Rudyard.  Rudyard Kipling, the finest poet of Empire, would describe his birthplace of Bombay as the 'Mother of cities to me', but his name suggests we can also claim a little of him.

All of which is an important reminder of the numerous ways in which the history of Stoke-on-Trent is bound up with the history of the British Empire.

And this is the subject of a remarkable new exhibition, curated by Claire Blakey at the Potteries Museum and Art Gallery, opening this weekend. It's theme is the supply and representation of the British Empire through Staffordshire pottery.

Because it was from the kilns and pot banks of Stoke-on-Trent that the forts, bungalows and government houses of the Empire were supplied with ceramics. And, at the same time, the exotic, oriental imagery of Empire returned to North Staffordshire to influence the design and aesthetic of our ceramics sector.

To begin with, the trade went the other way.  In the 17th and 18th centuries, millions of pieces of Chinese porcelain were imported into Britain by the East India Company.

But as Spode and then Wedgwood cracked the secret of Porcelain, they started to take advantage of Britain's colonial markets abroad. And by far the most important of those imperial markets were the Thirteen Colonies of the Americas.

So in the archives of the Wedgwood Museum is a letter from Wedgwood's Liverpool merchants, Thomas Bentley and Samuel Boardman, dated September 25, 1764, requesting over 1,600 pieces for immediate export, including cauliflower and pineapple moulded wares, black glazed wares, tortoiseshell dishes and fifty dozen white plates.

Ironically enough, Wedgwood would himself become a leading proponent of American independence from Britain. Ever the entrepreneur, he even saw good sales in it.

Even if American sales dipped after independence in 1776, Wedgwood's success in supporting the Trent and Mersey Ship Canal meant that The Potteries' had the means to export their wares across the world.

And, more often than not, that meant the colonies. So whether it is Spode dinner sets in Barbados, Wedgwood cups and saucers in Calcutta, or Minton tiles in Singapore and Bombay, the potteries of Stoke-on-Trent used the trade networks of the British Empire to supply the world.

Like Manchester cottons, Birmingham metal goods, or Bradford woollens, the power of empire was a vital contributor to the success of our industry.

Indeed, the Empire Porcelain Company specifically created the 'Empire Ware' brand to take advantage of the colonial market.

Pottery provided the perfect canvas on which to depict the exotic. The potters of Staffordshire could react quickly to the latest events and discoveries.

In 1836, a French trader captured four giraffes in the Sudan and brought them to London for the zoo.

This event inspired prints which pottery manufacturers, in this case John Ridgway of Shelton, used to create transfer-printed patterns.

Some markets required very specialised wares, such as those by W T Copeland for the Islamic market, printed with verses from the Quran.

But just as Stoke-on-Trent prospered on the back of Empire, so the end of Empire also hit our profits.  When we look at the story of British de-industrialisation from the 1960s and '70s onwards, the loss of our protected, colonial markets has to feature prominently.

In successive decades, the wheel of Empire turned again as former colonial districts in Pakistan, India and  Kashmir began to provide labour for our industries and made Britain's cities more multi-cultural. And now we are trying to supply today's rising Empires with our own products.

The exhibition ends with teapots made by the Longton firm of Hudson's made for export to the growing middle-class of China.  Whichever way the global empires of tomorrow develop, it will be sure to shape the economy and society of Stoke-on-Trent.
