
MI5 faces claims that it has been complicit in torture as recently as this February, after a former British resident told how he was beaten by Egyptian security forces working closely with the UK.

Ahmed Diini, 25, alleges that he was questioned by a member of MI5 earlier this year while being tortured in an Egyptian prison. The claim challenges assurances given by Britain’s security and intelligence agencies last year that they no longer take part in operations where a suspect is being tortured or illegally detained by a foreign state.

In November, the head of MI5 told MPs that his officers would never participate in or condone torture.

Mr Diini, a grandson of the deposed Somalian dictator Mohamed Siad Barre, alleges that during his eight months’ imprisonment in Cairo he was shackled, hooded, repeatedly beaten, stripped and threatened that his wife would be raped. He also alleges he was threatened with electrocution and being whipped.

In a letter written from his prison cell and smuggled to his lawyer, Mr Diini says that during his detention and torture he was visited this year by a British man who, he believes, works for MI5. He says the man promised him his freedom if he agreed to work for the security service.

Mr Diini, who is a Dutch national but has two daughters living in the UK, refused the offer. He claims he was first targeted by MI5 when he lived in Birmingham between 2006 and 2011 and felt so worried that he complained to the media about his harassment.

Mr Diini, who was arrested by the Egyptian security agency a few weeks after the military deposed the government of the Muslim Brotherhood last year, says that the British agent interviewed him for half an hour, ending the conversation by saying: “I will be back so make your decision wisely, it’s your freedom.” Two days after this meeting he claims his Egyptian guards made him watch a man tied against a wooden cross being whipped with a rubber hose.

CAGE, which campaigns against abuses associated with the war on terror, and which has led investigations into Ahmed Diini’s case for eight months, says this is the most compelling evidence of British complicity in torture since 2008. The case is now being investigated by the United Nations Human Rights Committee.

Ahmed Diini left the UK to marry a German woman in 2011 but while he was away he was served with an exclusion order signed by the Home Secretary, who accused him of being involved in Islamic extremism. Unable to return to the UK he took his wife and children to live in Egypt. In March this year he was freed by the Egyptians without charge but on his way back to Holland he was arrested in Istanbul on a US arrest warrant. He is currently in prison in Turkey awaiting further requests from America which has accused him of being a member of al Shabaab, the Somalia-based terrorist organisation.

Mr Diini’s family escaped Somalia when he was three and he has not been back. He first settled in Holland and is a Dutch national but he had moved to Britain where he had studied and worked as a security guard at a school.

A spokesman for the Egyptian embassy in London said the allegations would be investigated but was unable to comment. MI5 declined to comment on the case.

2001: British terror suspects and enemy combatants  captured in Afghanistan by US forces are flown to  Guantanamo. Some are held first at the US Bagram air base near Kabul. Many claim that the UK was involved in their rendition and torture.

2010: UK Government pays Guantanamo detainees up  to £20m in return for  dropping their claims of  British complicity in torture and rendition.

2012: Ministers agree to pay more than £2m to the family of a prominent Libyan  dissident abducted with the help of MI6 and secretly flown to Tripoli where he was tortured by the security police of the dictator Muammar Gaddafi.

2013: The Gibson inquiry into UK complicity in torture and rendition concludes that the British government and its intelligence agencies had been involved in rendition operations, in which  detainees were kidnapped and flown around the globe, and had interrogated  detainees whom they knew were being mistreated.
