
Geagea Says Hariri Talks Tackled Aoun Nomination, Stresses FPM Chief Not 'Consensual'

Lebanese Forces leader Samir Geagea on Monday said his Paris talks with former premier Saad Hariri tackled MP Michel Aoun's presidential nomination and the fact that the Free Patriotic Movement leader has proposed himself as a “consensual” candidate.

"I demonstrated with ex-PM Saad Hariri all the aspects of the political process related to the presidential vote and we discussed all the possible solutions to the crisis and raised all the possibilities," Geagea said during a press conference in the French capital, according to a statement distributed by the LF's media department.

"Ex-PM Hariri said that among the possibilities is the fact that General Michel Aoun has proposed himself as a consensual candidate. He said 'let's discuss how much General Aoun is a consensual candidate' and that's what we did ... and I had a very objective stance on the matter," Geagea added.

"I told him that contacts with the FPM are welcome and are beneficial for the country, knowing that we had tried to communicate with Hizbullah and the party did not show any desire to communicate with us," the LF leader said.

Geagea stressed that Aoun cannot "suddenly become a consensus nominee after having spent nine years in a totally different political camp."

"Moreover, no one has informed us that the memorandum of understanding with Hizbullah has been annulled,” Geagea added.

But he pointed out that he does not have a “veto” on any candidate.

“Should General Aoun win, I will be the first person to congratulate him,” he said.

“Remarks attributed by some media outlets to LF leader Samir Geagea about ex-PM Saad Hariri's stance on the endorsement of Change and Reform bloc MP Michel Aoun's presidential nomination are incorrect, curtailed and totally inaccurate,” the LF's media department said in a statement.

Geagea was earlier quoted as saying that Hariri suggested during their Paris meeting the possibility of endorsing Aoun as a “consensual” candidate.

Geagea and Hariri held talks that lasted more than three hours in Paris on Sunday, the second such meeting between them in two days.

“The viewpoints were identical regarding the need to hold the presidential vote within the constitutional deadline, to reject vacuum and to make all possible and needed efforts and contacts to prevent it,” said a statement issued Sunday by Hariri's office.

The two leaders' talks come amid a flurry of political consultations in the French capital, which witnessed Sunday a meeting between Progressive Socialist Party leader MP Walid Jumblat and Saudi Foreign Minister Prince Saud al-Faisal.

Jumblat is also expected to meet with French President Francois Hollande while Geagea is scheduled to hold talks with a number of French officials.

Speaker Nabih Berri has called for a May 22 parliamentary session to elect a new president, which will be held two days before the end of President Michel Suleiman's term.

Should quorum be secured, the session would be the fifth since April 23.

Geagea received 48 votes during the first session, falling short of the 86 votes needed to be elected president from the first round. Most of the March 8 forces boycotted the sessions that were held afterwards, forcing a lack of quorum.

Y.R.

Aoun consensual ? There is nothing consensual about Aoun.

Even pure Aounist hate Aoun as he has strayed away from his beliefs and values.

It will be the end of Lebanon if Aoun becomes president.

Do not give in to Hezbollah blackmailing and terrorism. They will not impose a candidate.

The only possible president for Lebanon is one who believes in the republic and state of Lebanon and who will put an end to Hezbollah's weapons !

@Southern : Aoun is patriotic ? How do you see that ? He supports Iran's army in Lebanon breaching our sovereignty. He supports Syria raping our land everyday with their bombs.

Aoun is a traitor !

certificate of patriotism to Lebanese.

Only Lebanese Justice can decide on who is a Lebanese Patriot or not.  The same Lebanese Judtice - which you as an Iranian do not recognize - and same Lebanrse Justice which indicted your Iranian Hezbollah on terrorism charges.

"What this report does not mention is the heated exchanges that were heard by many & reported."

just wanted to know boar.

Gentlemen the snore knows all there is about everything... he knows what Hariri thinks before Hariri does and remember if Mr snore say's so it Must be Fact!

Sleiman Frangieh a criminal who personally murdered a bunch of people in a church in Mezyara and then some become president.

Bashir Gemayel a criminal responsible for the Aquamarina Safra massacres and then some became president.

I don't care what was Aoun's previous alignments nor his previous stances.

What matters to me for Aoun to be an acceptable president is the following.

Will he pledge to be a Lebanese President and to work on making State Authority the only authority over Lebanese Soil.  Will he pledge to make the Lebanese State Armed Forces the only forces reigning supreme in Lebanon over all and having sole command over Lebanese territory.

Aoun has already made it clear - He said if i become president "Hezbollah's arms will not be my priority" i.e. he will let the status quo going....i.e he will not work on strenghening Lebanese State & Army - He will keep State auhority weak - With Iranian Hezbollah in chsrge of Lebanon's foreign agenda & in charge of war & peace in Lebanon, and also.running its own mini-state undermining Lebanese state in all aspects.

That's what makes Aoun unfit to be a Lebanese President.

HA weapons are both USeless & collaborators to both Zionist & Takfiris.

And most importantly Iranian sectarian occupation militia - Hezbollah - is undermining Lebanese state and its strengh and is the devisive factor in Lebanon.  Only the LAF can unite all Lebanese behind it to face all threats.  Hezbollah existences serves only to keep Lebanese divided & serves to stir civil strife by imposing Iranian sectarian agendas against the wishes of rest of Lebanrse.

Texas, the only people that ever made Lebanon a weaker state, was Israel and your Zionist masters. People such as you want to see Lebanon part of greater Israel or Saudi Arabia, it wont happen. So stop your dreaming, get into reality. In Syria you lost, in Lebanon you lost. Your time is over, even Hariri & Jumblat has discovered this. People such as yourself, keep screaming the same nonsense everyday, the rest of us is not a part of your dream world. The Resistance is here to stay, it is the will of the Lebanese people, not the will of your Zionist takfiri masters ofcourse.

Me - I haven't lost a thing.

It is the Lebanese living in Lebanon who lost their lives & properties in your Hezbollah divine victory.

Its the Lebanese living in Lebanon who lost lives & properties in your Hezbollah armed attack.against Beirut in May 2008.

It is the Lebanese living in Lebanon who lost lives & properties in your multiple car bimbings & assassinations.

Its the Lebanese living in Lebanon who suffered from total economic, social & security deterioration during Hezbollah 3 years of cabinet hijacking.

It will be again the Lebanese People that will suffer from same deterioration in all aspects of their lives - if Aoun becomes president & pursues the rotten Status-Quo that you so cherishly want to uphold.

Only An Iranian traitor such as yourself Mystic & Southern would wish Lebanese such a Bleack prospect to them as Maintaining "Animal Farm" Status Quo  - because it suits the purposes of their Iranian sectarian strategy.

Hariri will not endorse Aoun. This is all part of the dance.

"Suggesting the possibility" of endorsing Aoun is a long way from actually endorsing him.

Efforts are being made to get M8 traitors to appear at Parliament to carry out their constitutional duty, instead of carrying out orders from the Ayatollah by obstructing the vote and having a vacancy at the Presidential office.

I don't believe Geagea ever presented himself as a consentual candidate.

In any case, if Geagea cannot be president, neither can Aoun.

I hope both never meddle into politics in the first place !

You are laughing too early.he who laughs last laughs best.

They are thumbing you down because you are reasonable, a rare commodity around here. You must be a nice family man with concerns for his children's future. You are absolutely correct, in my humble opinion, that the last person we need as president is someone who will declare war on HA. Sometimes you hold your nose and vote because of the alternative. Good to hear a voice of reason.

Aoun should be the next president, and Hariri the Prime minister as the only hope for better days and stability in Lebanon. I think both have the power to do good things for the country. They will both come in the same plane to Beirut either from Saudi Arabia or from Paris.

End of Story.

Aoun will play a major role in releasing HA forces from Syria as he is the only one to be able to negotiate with the party and PM Hariri will erase all Takfiries in the country.

In my opinion,whenever someone really really asks for something and all he does is criticise you for not giving him that thing,the best medicine is to give him his wish and let him show us how he intends to manage it. Let Aoun take the presidency,let us see what you will do and how you will manage the rules of the state with your memorandum of understanding with the Hezb and lets see how successful you will be.if he does well then good for Aoun and for leb, if he doesn't then I hope all the Aounis will have the proof that you cant sleep with the devil and go to the Church every Sunday at the same time.

againthe roar proves to us that he doesn't read.

Hariri will vote for geagea. its been said many times. now whether jumblat will vote for aoun (under HA pressure) or not, is another subject.

but you only have a propaganda that your boss told you about this morning.

please roar, think yourself. don't let other people think for you.

now, if jumby decides to vote for aoun, and aoun gets elected, doesn't mean that Hariri left geagea alone.

there's the people who read and follow and do their own analysis, and there's the people like you who propagate hatred without any backup.

at least read before you post, so that you post can make any sense.

noce roar,

a typical FPMer: NO answer so resort to insult.....you learned your lesson well.

what I stated are facts. that doesn't mean that I agree with it or that I don't.

please reply to what is posted and show me where I am wrong, WITHOUT INSULTS.

geagea is as bad as aoun. they both will take us backward. we need a candidate that will bring jobs to our country. that will hep the economy grow. that will give hope to the people and not make them wait in line at embassies to get a visa and leave for good.

not aoun and not geagea can do that. and for sure, not HA and his fictif battle against Israel.

This turning in circles is proving one point, that neither Geagea nor Aoun will make it to Baabda, both are spent cartridges, both provide no solution, both are Non-consensual and both come loaded with luggage of yesteryear. The Lebanese need to know that neither M8 nor M14 are capable of providing any solutions, their mutual hatred will keep going till there will be no more Lebanese in Lebanon, so it's best to turn the page on both oligarchs, and let's get back to square one shall we? Where a sizable proportion of the Lebanese have called for new faces. Masalan I am beginning to get pretty happy with this term, Your Excellency President Demianos Kattar, a real good person, fully capable to lead by good example.

Excuse my ignorance here, I genuinely don't know who that person is, can you enlighten me or post a link to some info page or anything. Genuine request. From my side, I have always admired the way Ziad Baroud conducted himself with he was in charge of the elections, seemed like someone who can take charge and act independently.

HA to stay north of litany ??????this is way worse than the armistice signed in the 40s.

trust me, only the state can protect all its people and their dignity.

HA by himself cannot do anything.

I talk to you about Lebanon and its economy you reply back about the Palestinians.

HA is not doing anything to help boost the Palestinian peace and resolve the Palestinian in Lebanon. on the contrary he is making it worse.

plus HA is destroying Lebanon's economy. think about your own house before you start whining about your neighbor.

one way of resolving the Palestinian issue is to take them to KSA and some other arab countries and have them wait for peace there.

you are so brainwashed you refuse to see the true problem.

Israel is happy that you think this way, do you know why? because you will keep Lebanon drowning for years and years until its empty from its own citizen, by refusing to look at the real problem and blame everything on Israel.

Israel has now secured its border with Lebanon.....with the help of hezballa.

Lebanon will never be able to grow again, if there is no central government responsible of everything and in control of everything.

- is hezballa really helping Lebanon's economy grow by making it look like he is fighting Israel.

wow, some of the comments or replies or whatever you call them are just fascinating.

"The best argument against democracy is a five-minute conversation with the average voter."

No doubt that they probably did discuss the Aoun Candidacy.  But Aoun has said that he will declare his candidacy only if he is a "consensus candidate".  Given Aoun's commitments to Hezbollah and M14's stand with regard to Hezbollah, Aoun can only become president by election, not by consensus.  He is not a consensus candidate, but then, neither is Geagea. The difference is that Geagea knows that he is not a consensus candidate and operates within the paradigm of elective politics.  Aoun continues to entertain the fiction that he is a consensus candidate if only his political opponents would enter his world and drink the Kool-Aid.

3- make them feel they are isolated with what they do, and encourage them to join the civilized world.

4- wait until the big solution from big players dictate the fate of HA's arms. once un-armed, it will be very easy to make a deal that will keep everybody at east about his future in a country, all under the law.

right now, HA are above the law and resort to assassinations. that is putting everybody else in a defense mode. it is HA who is attacking and preparing for civil war and not the other way around.

That's my point, they are above the law, they are untouchable by any lebanese or foreign authority for that matter, unless it's Iran. You can not stop them doing what they're doing, whatever it is that they think they are doing. We know they can not possibly succeed in turning Lebanon into an islamic "Iran-like" state, not because we are tough mofos but because the international community won't allow it. So let them do whatever they are doing, let the scenario play, keep our families and children safe, let them have their day and proclaim their victory, until everyone who is backing them sees for themselves that this not the way to fight the other evil they are afraid of, we have two evils to beat, nothing good can EVER come from extremism, be it sunni, shiaa or christian.

I agree with you.

but what I add to your post is what I noted in points 2 and 3 above.

don't stop them. leave them alone and let them do what they want. just don't support what they do and don't defend it. keep criticizing them verbally.

by defending them, you are providing them the cover they need to keep doing what they do. let them feel no one is happy. otherwise, they will not stop.

If Hezbollah believes as it says in strong state institutions, Raad so spoke over the weekend, then why should their be a war between Hezbollah and the Government over Hezbollah placing its weapons under the authority of the State?  Every loyal Lebanese would concede the position vis a vis the State and its institutions.

But then Hezbollah and its arms are Lebanese in name only. Actually these are Iranian loyalists who will respond only to the authority emanating from Tehran.  How long can Lebanon afford to ignore this reality before dealing with it.  M14 seeks to be realistic, where as Hezbollah wished to continue its existence behind a thinner and shorter veil of Lebanese legitimacy.

the Syrian refugee problem would not have become a problem if the previous government, controlled by HA, tried to control it.

but the denial by M8 that something is happening in Syria caused this chaos.

the refugee problem will be dealt with after a president is elected. save the house first, then go to solving the other problems.

as for HA problem, read above.

religiously, the majority of Syrians are sunnis. so mustakbal is better equipped to deal with them.

financially, Lebanon cannot handle it. you need international backing and financing. HA has none of those backing. so again HA cannot do it.

last but not least, HA had 3 years to deal with it. look at where we are now and tell me if you trust them to deal with it for another 3 years or more.

Flame, the fact you are Lebanese in this day and age means you are sectarian, even if you yourself don't want to be. I'm not defending anyone here btw just replying to your comment. Everybody seems to support somebody no matter the objective or the program, all Lebanese parties are sectarian by nature and the Syrian conflict is sectarian by fact. If you think that there is any non sectarian solution to any Lebanese problem then I applaud you for your optimism. Furthermore, throwing the accusations of sectarianism on M14 solely is beyond logic since the M8 backbone is purely sectarian driven by the Shiaa doctrine of HA. All Lebanese share the problem of the Syrian refugees, to whom I have the utmost sympathy, but I have to disagree with you when you say that this is not a sectarian issue, because at its core this is all it is.

No i'm saying patriots are against Bashar and Hezbollah weapons. And yes, half the lebanese are not patriots.

Actually, much less than half given 45% didn't vote for M8 or M14 ... So effectively, half of 55% voted for M8 ... Live with it ! You live in an illusion !

Half the population think your strong leader is a coward, and the other half think the other leader is a criminal, back to square one.

exactly, and this is why none of these two people should get elected.

we don't want a president who will spend his mendate defending himself or attacking the other half.

we need a president who will get us to work. who will solve social problems.

Lebanon is too small to play a role in the world policy. so better forget about foreign policy and allegiance, and focus on lbanon only.

Jusrice minister Ashraf Rifi referred Hermel, Tripoli, Dahieh & Shatah bombings to Judicial council.

We all know what that means for Hezbollah -  Rifi crossed a Red Line.  Hezbollah will therefore chose Rifi as their next assassination victim - in their bid to push Hariri to vote for Aoun as president. Just like they assassinated Shatah to make him back down from his not-joining Hezbollah in cabinet stance.

calling "harb, obeid, qahwaji" nobody, shows your lack of respect to the other half of the population. if you leanred this from the FPM, then that means for sure aoun cannot be president, because the president is for all the people, and respect all the people.

no one is a nobody ya flame.

learn respect and know that nothing can be imposed by force on Lebanese.

that doesn't mean not to have a political opinion about someone.

I respect harb and qahwaji. but I think we should stop the trend of electing generals of the army.

there's a proverb according to which ' forwarned is forearmed'.

IF you do commit the unthinkable and nominate the deserter for the presidency, you will lose a lot of votes at the next elections. you should even prepare yourselves for the worst, splitting the party.

Everything will split.  Army w jor also. Our wepins wouldn't be our Pens any more.

Lots of pro Future are disappointed, they want a strong answer to the attacks on Lebanon. I can tell you that half of their personalities thinks Saad is too soft.... if they nominate Aoun it will toll for the dead.... bye bye united Mustaqbal.

Nothing matters, really, genuinely, nothing. What matters is that we keep talking, try to find something in common so that one day, when the regional developments allow us to build a country, we won't be the tribal people we are now. This is all good, countries are not built in 5 decades, in which 3 were spent in a meaningless regional war with only one loser, Lebanon. I love my country, I always will, no matter how many times SOBs try and ruin it, it is still the most wonderful place on this planet. We are the most civilised people when we are individuals, we're good people, intelligent individuals. We haven't learned how to behave as a people though, religion and wonderful lovely decent leaders have never allowed us to express ourselves as a nation. The day will come when we all realize how pathetic all this fighting is, how meaningless the f..... Cause is.

I love and respect every one of you, I truly do, I admire your passion from all sides, I just wish you can one day direct that passion away from individuals and put it into rebuilding our most wonderful and beloved Lebanon.

If you truly believe there is such a thing as consensual in the Lebanese political arena then you are clearly fooling no one. You are either with or against certain principals. Aoun is now a moderate and passive diplomat even consensual?  Lol. Consensual amongst the M8 element perhaps. In that case Geagea has consensus amongst M14 so please stop trying to paint Jedo as a saint for clearly all your hard work is being undone by the great ex general himself.

roro snap out of it, you are not at work serving fast food... no need to keep yelling NEXT .

Just get it over with, nothing will change anyway... the iranian militia's gunmen & their arsenal of rockets will keep making the rules and informing them by threat or assassination.
