
For his four days in the witness box in his US terrorism trial, Abu Hamza    indulged in a shameless and desperate attempt at reinvention.

Gone was the menacing ranting Islamic preacher, jabbing his distinctive    prosthetic hook as he delivered incendiary sermons to his followers at a    north London mosque.

Instead, in court in New York, he tried to come across as reasoned and calm, a    man of moderation who continually asserted that he was unaware of, or not    involved in, acts of terrorism - and even claimed that he acted as a    peacemaking intermediary with Muslim extremists.

That portrayal was a far cry from the case made by US prosecutors as they took    the Manhattan jury 3,500 miles across the Atlantic to the four-story    red-brick structure of the Finsbury Park mosque.

It was from here that the Egyptian-born cleric, formerly known as Mustafa    Kamel Mustafa, dispatched loyal lieutenants for terrorist training from    Oregon to Afghanistan and helped organise a hostage-taking of Western tourists by Islamic rebels    in Yemen, the court was told.

The Finsbury Park mosque was long known to have served as a clearing house for    radical Muslims after Hamza arrived as imam in 1997. His hate-filled rants    inspired attendees such as Richard Reid, the failed “shoe bomber”, Zacarias    Moussaoui, one of the 9/11 terror plotters, and Mohammed Sidique Khan, one    of the four suicide bombers who blew themselves up on public transport in    London on July 7, 2005.

But US prosecutors argued that Hamza was doing much more than just delivering    the sort of venomous sermons that earned him a six-year jail term at the Old    Bailey in 2006 for inciting racial hatred and soliciting murder.

In a courtroom just a few blocks away from the site of the World Trade Centre    attacks of Sept 2001, they told the jury that he turned the mosque into his “base of operations for the global export of violence and terror”.

In Britain, Hamza had deliberately courted controversy and revulsion with his    inflammatory rabble-rousing. But in the witness box in New York, he was at    pains to try to shed the caricature of Islamic pantomime villain.

His beard and hair are deep silver now, his large bulky figure a reminder of    the physique that helped him find work as a nightclub bouncer after he    arrived in Britain in 1979.

With his stumps exposed, the skin around them red and blotchy, and    steel-framed glasses held in place by a thick black chord around his neck,    he appeared at times as much avuncular as sinister.

The cleric, who lost his hands and an eye in an explosion, shuffled papers    with his stumps and put on a prosthetic limb to take notes. His hook was    removed by the US authorities for security reasons after his    2012 extradition.

Never one to underestimate the worth of his own voice, Hamza overruled his own    legal team and said that he would testify in his own defence. His courtroom    remarks would be "important for historians, researchers, investigative    journalists and analysts", he noted in a written submission to the    judge.

In his husky voice, his accented English mixed with tones and phrases of    London, he recounted his version of his life story after he moved to Britain    from a non-religious family in Alexandria, Egypt, to study and pursue his    dream of a “Western life, American style”.

A civil engineer by training, he appeared to sound nostalgic as he described    working on infrastructure projects at Sandhurst, noting the military    academy’s popularity with royalty “like Prince Harry”.

He repeated past claims that plans for Sandhurst that were discovered when his    house was raided by police in 2004 were only there because he had worked on    the facility. He had taken them to Afghanistan but he had never shared them with anyone as that would be a breach of trust,    he said indignantly.

Hamza also finally gave his own version of how he lost his hands and an eye.    He had previously allowed admirers and foes alike to believe that the    injuries were sustained while he was taking part in jihad in Afghanistan or    in de-mining work there.

But now he told the court that he suffered the injuries in Lahore, far from    the Afghan border, while moving badly-manufactured explosives during a road    project involving the Pakistan military in Aug 1993.

Asked by his defence lawyer if he was aware of other accounts of how he lost    his hands, he sighed and smiled as he responded: "All sorts of stories.    Some people say I went to Saudi Arabia and stole money, and they cut off my    hands. The gossip never ends."

He was also now keen to portray his activities during his visits to    Afghanistan and Pakistan in the early 1990s as primarily philanthropic,    claiming others had embellished his jihadi credentials.

Nonetheless, he acknowledged that after returning to Britain in 1993, where he    received his first hook prosthetic from the NHS, he was regarded as a “hero” by many in the Islamic community for the injuries he had sustained.

His standing was further bolstered during the Bosnian war as he led several    aid convoys to assist the beleaguered Muslim population and worked with a    brigade of foreign Islamic volunteers fighting the Serbs and Croatians.

He was recruited in the mid-1990s first to run a mosque in Luton and then he    moved to the role of imam at Finsbury Park, supported financially by his    disability payments from the British taxpayer.

And it was from here, prosecutors said, that he “devoted” his life to a    campaign of violent global jihad, telling jurors that he had lied under oath    in a blatant attempt to “fool” them.

They spelt out the 11 allegations against him in three sets of terrorism    charges. These involved dispatching Feroz Abbasi – a Ugandan-born Briton who    had moved out of his family home in Croydon to live at the mosque led by his    mentor Hamza – to Afghanistan to be trained at an al-Qaeda terror camp in 2001 as part of his support for Osama bin Laden’s terrorist    group.

They entailed sending two trusted aides from Finsbury Park to follow up on the    work of an American convert who tried to establish a training camp for    aspiring jihadists in a dry remote corner of rural Oregon, chosen because    its terrain bore a resemblance to that of Afghanistan.

And they included advising Islamic rebels in the Yemen on the hostage-taking    of 16 Western tourists in 1998 as negotiating chips to swap for the release    from prison of a group of British Muslims – including Hamza’s stepson – arrested a few days earlier. Three British holidaymakers and an Australian    were killed in the Yemeni army operation to release them.

Saajid Badat, a British terrorist “supergrass”, testified by video link from    London that he met Mr Abbasi after the young Briton arrived in Afghanistan    in early 2001 and saw him again about two weeks later at al-Qaeda’s al    Farouk terrorist training camp.

He later translated for Mr Abbasi when he was asked by senior al-Qaeda figures    if he would conduct attacks on American and Jewish targets.

Mr Abbasi was captured by an Afghan faction after the fall of the Taliban    regime in late 2001 and handed over to US forces. He was one of the first    terror suspects transferred to the Guantánamo Bay detention centre, but he    was released without charge more than three years later.

James Ujaama, an American convert to Islam who moved to London to work for    Hamza at the Finsbury Park mosque after hearing his fiery sermons on tape,    told the court how the cleric “ordered” him to accompany Mr Abbasi to    Afghanistan in 2001.

Ujaama moved to London to run the English-language website of Hamza’s    Supporters of Sharia organisation after plans fizzled out for the jihad    training that he tried set up on an Oregon ranch.

In the third set of allegations – the Yemen tourist kidnapping – the jury    heard compelling testimony from two American women about their terrifying    ordeal as human shields in the gunfight between their Islamic rebel captors    and government forces.

One of the women, Mary Quin, later travelled from the US to the Finsbury Park    mosque to ask Hamza about his reported role in the incident. In excerpts of    the taped encounter played to the court, he told her that the hostage-taking    was justified "Islamically" and that it was intended to help    secure the release of "my people" from jail.

Hamza acknowledged in court that he provided the satellite phone that the    kidnappers used and that he spoke to the leader of the gang while they were    holding the tourists. But he said that he had bought the device several    months earlier and that his role was simply as a “mouthpiece” for the    extremists, comparing himself to Gerry Adams.

He insisted that he had no prior knowledge of the hostage-taking and that he    was not aware at the time that the British Muslims – including his stepson – had been rounded-up by the Yemeni authorities or that another son was on the    run. Asked why he referred to the release of “my people” to Ms Quin, he said    that he had mixed-up his personal pronouns because he was tired and    suffering from the impact of his diabetes when he spoke to her.

Hamza spent much of his four days in the witness box asserting his ignorance    of events. He said that he had no knowledge of the Oregon training camp – an    operation that in any case the defence dismissed as little more than “Boy    Scout” weekend target practice.

And the cleric also insisted that he had no idea that Mr Abbasi had left the    mosque for Afghanistan, even though he acknowledged that he was like a “father” to the then 21-year-old who had fallen out with his own family over    his religious extremism.

Under cross-examination, the “supergrass” Badat acknowledged that the only    time he saw Mr Abbasi at al-Farouq, his fellow Briton was digging a spade    into dirt, but he said that those attending the camp were given military    training for violent jihad operations.

Hamza’s repeated protestations of innocence and ignorance were dismissed as “absurd” Mr McGinley. “When he spoke about jihad he was not the calm man you    saw in the witness box,” he told the jury. “He was enraged, loud, screaming,    passionate. He was his true self at that time.

Prosecutors displayed items seized from the Finsbury Park mosque by British    police – a camouflage suit, a hatchet, an army helmet and a gas mask. Also    submitted in evidence was a volume of an encyclopedia of jihad found in    Hamza’s house. “This is not a dictionary, this is not the Encyclopaedia    Britannica, it’s a manual on how to kill and kidnap,” he noted.

Hamza did indeed repeatedly bemoan that he was being taken out of context by a “cut and paste” prosecution, even when confronted with his own words.

Excerpts from his London sermons on the Islamic justification for enslaving,    selling and killing non-believers “like a pig, like a cow” – the words that    helped earn his British convictions – were played to the jury. So were his    expressions of “love” for Osama bin Laden and claim that “everybody was    happy” after the terror attacks about of Sept 2001 that wreaked such horror    just a few streets away from the courtroom at the World Trade Centre.

Hamza sought to explain them away by their context, as he did his past    comments praising Osama bin Laden when he expressed his “love” for him and    described him as "a reformer, a victim of American policies and a    good-hearted person".

He insisted that he had even been critical of bin Laden at times. “Every    person has good or bad in him,” he said, before listing the good qualities    of the al-Qaeda founder, beginning “he is humble”.

Although Hamza was not charged with any offences related to the 9/11 terror    atrocities, the jury listened intently as he was asked about his views of    the attacks.

He denied having anything to do with a flier describing 9/11 as “a towering    day in history” for a seminar marking the first anniversary of the attacks    in which he participated. Instead, he said several times that he believed    the towers’ collapse was caused by explosives – an “inside job” to give a    pretext for war.

It was only under cross-examination that Hamza’s veil of calm and moderation    slipped. He repeatedly sniped back at the prosecution, prompting Katherine    Forrest, the exasperated judge, to tell him “obey the rules” and “don’t make    speeches”.

His lawyer, Jeremy Schneider, also referred to the World Trade Centre as he    pleaded with the jury for them to treat him fairly.

But Mr McGinley, the prosecutor, urged jurors not to fall for the cleric’s    witness box testimony.
