
COLPITTS World Travel has boosted its team at its Edinburgh-based European headquarters and at its base in Aberdeen.

The corporate travel specialist has hired Lucy Mathers as a senior business travel consultant in Aberdeen, with her arrival taking the headcount in the north-east office to 12.

Colpitts has also recruited Joanne MacDonald at its groups and visa team in Edinburgh.

Ian Scholes, head of European operations at Colpitts World Travel said: "We're delighted to welcome Lucy and Joanne to the growing Colpitts team.

"These new recruits come on the back of recent client wins across the company and they underline our intention to invest to support further growth across UK and European markets."

LAW firm Morisons has announced four appointments, with three joining its team in Edinburgh and one in Glasgow.

Andrew Boccoli has joined the property team as a solicitor specialising in construction and infrastructure law in Edinburgh, where Drew Fox and Aidan West have respectively bolstered the reparation and litigation teams.

Chala McKenna has joined as a solicitor within the commercial dispute resolution team in Glasgow.

Morisons managing partner Peter Duff said: "We welcome our new appointments who bring with them a wealth of talent which will help drive our growth strategy and continue to ensure we deliver the range of services which best support clients today."

LIVINGSTON-based housebuilder Walker Group has appointed Lynda Fleming as its new sales manager.

Ms Fleming has more than 17 years experience in the property industry, having previously served as associate director at DTZ Residential and sales manager at Stewart Milne. She began her career as an interior designer.

Ms Fleming said: "It is nice working for a Scottish based family-owned business as they really understand their customers and the areas in which they build.

"Most of the site managers have been with the company for many years and that shows in the quality of the homes they construct.

"There has been a huge improvement in the property market in recent months and it is an exciting time to work in residential sales."

FG BURNETT has promoted Ross Sinclair to director after boosting the company's presence in the industrial sales, letting, asset management and development sectors in central Scotland.

Mr Sinclair, who is based in Glasgow, has been instrumental in extending the company's industrial stock level, which has increased from approximately 500,000 sq ft to 2 million sq ft since his arrival in 2011. This has followed the addition of several new key clients such as Buccleuch Property, Credential, Hansteen, M7, and MEPC.

FG Burnett managing director, Angus MacCuish, said: "Ross has done an exceptional job in winning a number of high profile instructions in the industrial sector and has built up a very good stock level, which has enhanced our position in the Glasgow commercial property market."

The company has also announced a series of appointments in its Aberdeen office, with building surveyor Stuart Fyvie moving up to associate, Sara Mathieson stepping up to senior surveyor, and Sylvia Clement taking on the role of Office Manager.

We moderate all comments on HeraldScotland on either a pre-moderated or post-moderated basis.
