
Russian Foreign Ministry commissioner on human rights, democracy, and supremacy of law Konstantin Dolgov has called on the Kiev administration to stop illegal arrests of journalists. "Illegal arrests of journalists by the de facto administration of Ukraine should stop. It's a major violation of freedom of the press," Dolgov said on Monday.

The Russian Foreign Ministry made similar demarches in the OSCE Secretariat in Vienna and the Kiev headquarters of the OSCE mission in Ukraine, Interfax reports.

Journalists of Russian television station LifeNews were detained by Ukrainian military servicemen in Kramatorsk in the evening of May 18.

The letter has been posted on the television channel's website. Reports said earlier that Lifenews reporters Oleg Sidyakin and Marat Saichenko were detained at a checkpoint near Kramatorsk. The reporters have been out of contact ever since.

"Our reporters last got in touch with the editorial office at 1:50 pm Moscow time, when they were near a checkpoint on the city limits. Oleg Sidyakin managed to send out an SMS message saying that they were having big problems," the posting says.

Coordinator of the Information Resistance group based in Kiev, Dmitry Tymchuk, said that two Russian reporters were detained by Ukrainian law enforcement people near Kramatorsk and they will be handed over to the Ukrainian law enforcement services. "These citizens had a TV camera and were filming preparations for an assault on the Ukrainian law enforcement contingent's positions," Tymchuk wrote on Facebook.

Ukrainian law enforcers have detained a group of TV journalists from Russian media holding LifeNews near the south-eastern Ukrainian city of Kramatorsk, the TV holding said in a statement transmitted to TASS on Sunday.

"Reporters were presumably stopped at a checkpoint near the city of Kramatorsk. There is no cellular phone communications with them," the statement runs.

Sergei Lavrov and Frank-Walter Steinmeier "expressed concern about the continuing clashes and agreed that the situation must be de-escalated urgently, the violence should be stopped in order to avoid further fatalities and favorable conditions should be created for a truly comprehensive national dialogue on constitutional reform," the Russian Foreign Ministry said.

"The parties also spoke about the importance of roundtable discussions, taking into account that the interests of the country's southeastern regions must be duly represented," it said.

Lavrov pointed out that Kiev must stop using force against protesters as the April 17 Geneva statement requires, and commended the role of the OSCE's special monitoring mission in areas of confrontation in promoting accords on the content and sequence of practical steps to ease tensions.

German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier believes the West should cooperate with, not confront, Russia over Ukraine.

Cooperation with Moscow is crucial in many important issues, including a peace settlement in Syria, Afghanistan and the Iranian nuclear program, he said in an interview with the Die Thüringischen Landeszeitung newspaper.

Of late, Steinmeier has been criticized by conservative-minded CDU/CSU politicians and SDPG representatives, who are displeased with his department's attitude towards Russia amid the crisis in Ukraine and would like it to see it coordinating its actions more closely with other European Union member states. Some argue that Germany doesn't take proper account of Russia’s interests.

Steinmeier acknowledged in the interview that he saw no clear strategy that could guarantee success but expressed confidence that the conflict in Ukraine could and must be resolved peacefully, promising to do all in his power to achieve that.

The Ukrainian crisis won't disappear with the wave of a magic wand, the minister said. He fears that if no peaceful solution is found, the further escalation of the crisis might cause a new split in Europe.

Speaking about sanctions, Steinmeier warned that they might hit weaker European economies. Those calling for economic sanctions should know that "we will all have to bear the costs," he said.

All rights reserved.
