
It is only in Ghana that two peas cannot exist in the same pod. One will try to kick the other out. Unfortunately we are quick to forget that though the teeth and tongue fight sometimes, they exist in the same mouth and work together, despite their differences, for the body’s health.

I was not surprised to read that FIPAG and all the other AGs are mounting a boycott of the Ghana Movie Awards. Read here.

I am convinced there is a bitter spirit that lives in some of the older generation of Ghana filmmakers. I say that from experience. They have this thirst for attention and recognition and some seriously misplaced sense of being indebted to.

A pastor in my church died sometime back and my mum and I had a talk about the funeral. It was in Ghana so I could not be there. My mum said, there were so many people, she could not participate in the proceedings. Above all, so many important people were present and as such, half of the time was spent introducing them.

I vividly recollect Ama K Abebrese coming under fire for hosting AMA Awards and forgetting to acknowledge some celebrities present.

Notice the pattern: The funeral of this great man was sacrificed for the introduction important guests. Who cares how important they are? The only important thing that day was sending a great man home. No one needed any introduction.

We are here to hand out awards, not stroke anyone’s ego.

The desire to be recognized. Me, Me, Me, Me. It is so selfish.

It’s that need to be kowtowed to that is setting the Ghana Film Industry back. It’s not about you, not about me, not about anything but about the film we are making, or about the growth of the industry. Unless we begin to take ‘self” out of the equation and concentrate fully, make a total and complete sacrifice for the industry, nothing will happen!

If there is one thing I know about Fred Nuamah, it is that he is hard headed. He doesn’t listen to anything. He talks more than he listens. But! His heart is in a very good place. He is doing an amazing job giving the industry something to look forward to yearly. For all the years Fipag was in existence, what stopped them from initiating an award? Suddenly, because Fred is not involving them by mentioning their names and maybe sending a brown envelope their way, they are peeing on themselves. Pathetic.

By the way, what movies are they looking to award themselves? Azonto Ghost? Asamoah Gyan 1&2? Kyeiwaa 7&8?, Tear my Bra 1&2? Assuming they create their own awards and award a best movie, can that film stand tall in the world of film? Please, let us stop bickering, ask ourselves pertinent questions and answer them honestly.

Before you release a film via opera sqaure, you pay 500ghc. At the end of each year, this money is shared about certain members of FIPAG and co. I don’t understand. What is the basis of that?  Mafia things. Or as the youth of today prefer to put it: #mafiatinz.

FIPAG should be concerned with creating an identity for Ghanaian cinema. Our films are all over the place. There is no set identity, whereas you pick up the film knowing these are the elements of a Ghanaian film. These are the characteristics. Everything being done is a blatant copy of someone else’s idea. There are so many untold stories and as a people, we have an identity but, it is never present in our films. It’s either glamour or cheesy comedy.

I say categorically to FIPAG.  You are NOT a statutory body in Ghana. You do NOT represent the Ghana Film Industry. You represent your own interest and as such, you have no right to control the industry the way you do, or ban and un-ban anyone. Your control extends to your members only. The fact that departments in Ghana are so bribe-able that you can bribe a policeman to arrest anyone you want or determine who is Ghanaian and who is not doesn’t mean you are state recognized.

Fred can continue run his awards (the freddys’) as he wishes and you tell your members not to be a part. The worst you will do, since you control opera square is ban folks who participate in the awards, from selling in your market. Now that, is an act of insecurity. Like a man who beats his wife.  A bully who uses his power to intimidate those weaker than him.

Actors Guild playing puppet to FIPAG is just sad. Which actors? What does being a member of actors guild benefit anyone? When I came to Ghana to start working I wrote letters to GAG, I employed actors from there, paid them and I spoke to them about their concerns. Anyone can take a photo and become an actor. That is NOT how to become a member of an actors guild. There is a process, which cements the efficacy of the guild. But anyone with a spare 35gh in their pocket pays and becomes a member. And this continues because this is how the leaders of these guilds SCAM, yes you read it, SCAM gullible wannabe actors. FIPAG, GAG all the AGs are scams. Surviving on monthly dues. This accounts for the constant fight over money.

I am daring one member of FIPAG, to raise money, go out there and make a GOOD film which will travel across the globe and create attention for GHANA. When that is done, I’ll accept that you have grounds to talk.

Until the filmmakers outside of FIPAG unite and march to the government, present a clear cut case for the industry which involves economic boosters for the nation, and demand for statutes, FIPAG will continue to win.

I still don’t understand why GHAFTA is so stagnant!

Oh well…hugs and kisses. Leila.

Spyghana.com is a premier news source that covers daily news of Ghana, Africa and the World over. Today, the site is updated 24 hours a day, seven days a week with follow-ups and breaking news, as well as original reporting, entertainment and sports. And our traffic has grown accordingly.
