
I  would challenge anyone to find anything more tragic than the killing of a child, particularly when that child has died at the hands of the person they rely upon most.

As a human being, it is upsetting. As a professional social worker, heading an organisation which leads professional social workers, it is not only upsetting but also worrying. Worrying, because of the inevitable blame and finger pointing that is never far away from our profession.

Social work is often talked of as a “damned if you do, damned if you don’t” profession.

I don’t like that phrase, as it may lead those outside the profession to question the integrity of social workers, giving the implication, as it does, that it doesn’t seem to matter what they do. But what social workers do and what they don’t do matters a lot, not just to those who directly receive support from social work, but to the wider community as well.

And in terms of child protection, what social workers do is crucial. Whether working for local authorities or the health, third or independent sectors, they work with thousands of families every year to make sure they know how to bring up and look after their children well and how to nurture and care for them and how to keep them safe.

But when things go wrong, the public and the media have an appetite for someone to blame and, rightly or wrongly, they tend to blame social work.

Things do go wrong, of course they do – sometimes social workers make mistakes just as teachers, police officers, doctors, nurses and lawyers make mistakes. But social workers seem to be the default group to blame when a child is harmed.

I’ll give you an example. In August 2010, Theresa Riggi stabbed her three children to death in Edinburgh, before attempting her own suicide. When discussing this awful event, a BBC journalist told me her first reaction to the story was to ask the question, “Where were social work?”. Social workers, to the best of my knowledge, were not involved with this family and no one had said they were, but the presumption by this journalist (and she was not alone) was “something has gone wrong, children have been harmed, social work should have prevented this”.

This kind of reaction is all too common and not only is it incorrect, it has far-reaching consequences. It peddles the belief that social workers can prevent any child from being murdered. It promotes the belief that social workers are involved in all cases where children die. It promotes the belief that education, health, police and communities have no role to play. And it takes the focus off the real perpetrators – the person or persons who did actually kill the child – off the hook.

But more fundamentally than all of this, it damages a profession; a profession that, in the midst of unprecedented levels of poverty and drug and alcohol misuse, we depend upon more than ever.

Being a social worker working in child protection is a difficult and stressful job. We need a steady supply of talented, committed, compassionate people to do this job. And if we want quality people to come into social work and to join the army of those who do their best and more every day to protect some of the most vulnerable in society, we need to stop making their job harder by crushing their morale and constantly sticking the boot in, where it is not deserved.

What makes the pressure even worse though, is that social workers don’t stick up for themselves. They can’t. They are focused on the people they support and they applaud their achievements more than they do their own. They often won’t be identified in the press in case they are recognised going into people’s homes and they don’t talk about the people they work with, because that would be a breach of trust and confidence.

So, as the cases of the deaths of these children come to court, perhaps those preparing the media stories and those consuming them would consider looking at the whole picture and the real picture.

If social workers make mistakes, they will be dealt with and punished and their role in any such incident should indeed be highlighted, but we shouldn’t risk paralysing a profession in order to give the public the comfort of having someone to blame quickly.

© 2014 Johnston Publishing Ltd.

This website and its associated newspaper adheres to the Press Complaints Commission’s Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion, then contact the Editor by clicking here .

If you remain dissatisfied with the response provided then you can contact the PCC by clicking here .

The Scotsman provides news, events and sport features from the Edinburgh area. For the best up to date information relating to Edinburgh and the surrounding areas visit us at The Scotsman regularly or bookmark this page.

For you to enjoy all the features of this website The Scotsman requires permission to use cookies.

Cookies are small data files which are sent to your browser (Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome etc) from a website you visit. They are stored on your electronic device.

This is a type of cookie which is collected by Adobe Flash media player (it is also called a Local Shared Object) - a piece of software you may already have on your electronic device to help you watch online videos and listen to podcasts.

Yes there are a number of options available, you can set your browser either to reject all cookies, to allow only "trusted" sites to set them, or to only accept them from the site you are currently on.

However, please note - if you block/delete all cookies, some features of our websites, such as remembering your login details, or the site branding for your local newspaper may not function as a result.

A tool used by some of our advertisers to target adverts to you based on pages you have visited in the past. To opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

Our sites contain advertising from Google; these use cookies to ensure you get adverts relevant to you. You can tailor the type of ads you receive by visiting here or to opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

This is used to help us identify unique visitors to our websites. This data is anonymous and we cannot use this to uniquely identify individuals and their usage of the sites.

This comes from our ad serving technology and is used to track how many times you have seen a particular ad on our sites, so that you don't just see one advert but an even spread. This information is not used by us for any other type of audience recording or monitoring.

ComScore monitor and externally verify our site traffic data for use within the advertising industry. Any data collected is anonymous statistical data and cannot be traced back to an individual.

Our Classified websites (Photos, Motors, Jobs and Property Today) use cookies to ensure you get the correct local newspaper branding and content when you visit them. These cookies store no personally identifiable information.

We use Grapeshot as a contextual targeting technology, allowing us to create custom groups of stories outside out of our usual site navigation. Grapeshot stores the categories of story you have been exposed to. Their privacy policy and opt out option can be accessed here.

Our partner for Newspaper subscriptions online stores data from the forms you complete in these to increase the usability of the site and enhance user experience.

Add This provides the social networking widget found in many of our pages. This widget gives you the tools to bookmark our websites, blog, share, tweet and email our content to a friend.

We use Advertising agencies to provide us with some of the advertising on our websites. These include (but are not limited to) Specific Media, The Rubicon Project, AdJug, AdConion, Context Web. Please click on the provider name to visit their opt-out page.
