
A recent interview reminded us that attitude and drive win the game.

By Mary Catherine Brooks, The Register-Herald, Beckley, W.Va.

, board of education members voted 5-0 to give the property to the commission.

, which is expected to open in August.

Blackwell said the building is currently being used for storage and could be used for future office space.

"We desperately need the space," Mullins said.

"It will be used daily," he added, noting the commission will maintain and secure the property.

Mullins said he knew the property had been flooded in 2001, 2009 and 2010; but the associated problems had been addressed.

"Flood is an act of God, and, if it happens again, we'll take care of it," he emphasized.

Mullins had already investigated the details of taking over the insurance, including flood insurance, on the property and indicated insuring that portion of the building would not be a problem.

Only one classroom sits in the 100-year floodplain, he said.

The existing flood-wall can also be expanded if need be, Mullins told schools officials.

Two board members, however, questioned giving the property to the commission.

He added that he believes elected officials should be good stewards of taxpayer dollars and the Riverside property had been flooded; and paying for flood insurance is using tax dollars.

"I think we have proven we are good stewards," Mullins said.

, Knotts said.

Mullins, however, was not about to be strong-armed into a commitment.

"I'm not going to say no, but I'm not going to say we'll do this," Mullins told Knotts. "This is a worthy cause..."

Blackwell said the school is raising money, there would be some state grant money, and funding from MountainHeart -- which has pre-school children attending classes there, for the new playground.

said it had never occurred to commission members to ask the board to pay anything for the 117 acres donated for the new Huff Consolidated site.

noted the board had given away several closed schools, including Mullens Grade,

, also a board member, noted that when school children and their parents help raise funds for a project, they feel invested in the project. He said the pattern had been established years ago by Blackwell and that it had worked very well over the years. As a result, the county schools have good facilities that are well maintained and envied by other counties, Davis noted.

"We just don't throw money at something, then run," Davis said. "We plan..."

Davis also indicated one school's project should not be favored over another school.

, according to officials.

building to the commission, which passed with a 5-0 vote.

, schools maintenance director, said that, sometime in the future, the middle school will have to be replaced.

The old school can't be lifted out to build a new one, he said. A new middle school will, when the need arises, have to be built on the former junior high school property, Brewer said.

festival, Blackwell said.
