
INDIANAPOLIS | The Indiana Court of Appeals ruled Monday that a trial must be held to determine whether a central Indiana school corporation is liable for injuries suffered by two middle school students who were shot by another boy in a dispute over a girl.

In its 3-0 decision, the appeals court said the Metropolitan School District of Martinsville is not entitled to immunity under Indiana's Tort Claims Act because the implementation of the principal's school safety plan does not fall under the protections of that law.

In addition, the court insisted only a trial can assess whether the school failed in its duty to protect the students because school officials had numerous warnings and might have reasonably expected the shooting to occur.

"Under the facts and circumstances before us in the record prior to trial, we conclude that there exist genuine issues of material fact on this issue and that the school district has not proved as a matter of law that the shooting was not foreseeable," wrote Appeals Judge Paul Mathias.

The school district previously failed to persuade the Morgan Superior Court to toss the lawsuit filed by parents of the two injured students.

It still can ask the Indiana Supreme Court to review the appellate decision.

Michael Phelps, now 19, was an eighth-grader at Martinsville West Middle School on March 25, 2011, when he shot Chance Jackson twice in the stomach. The ejected shell casings hit Jackson's friend, Brandon Kent, injuring his hand.

At the time of the shooting, Phelps was suspended from school with expulsion pending due to a prior threat to "blow up the school." He was unnoticed by safety monitors at the school doors when he slipped into the building and shot Jackson in a vestibule.

Phelps was tried as an adult in 2011 and convicted of attempted murder. He's serving a 30-year prison term.

Copyright 2014 nwitimes.com. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Username & Password Required!
