
WHILE Zimbabwe, just like many, is a male dominated country, it has emerged that the majority of Zimbabwean men have never been to school.

This is according to the final Zimbabwe National Statistics Agency (ZimStats) report on the 2012 national census, which also revealed that the majority of women in Zimbabwe have infact been to school.

The report says 51 percent of the male population has never been to school with Mashonaland Central and Masvingo provinces recording the highest number of uneducated men, at 14,5 and 14 percent respectively.

Harare and Bulawayo provinces have the lowest number of unschooled men, with 10, 6 and 11,3 percent respectively.

The census report, which put the national population at just over 13 million, also shows that one is more likely to get hitched in Mashonaland Central, which has the highest percentage of uneducated men.

The ZimStats data reveals that 49 percent of females in the country have never attended school, again with Mashonaland Central recording the highest, at 13,9 percent.

It also highlights that Harare and Bulawayo provinces have the lowest number of uneducated females at 9,2 and 9,8 percent respectively.

strides in providing a decent education for its population.

"Independent research done by the United Nations has shown Zimbabwe as being one of the most literate countries in Africa. Saying 51 percent of men in Zimbabwe have never attended school, I think is totally untrue," said Dr Ndlovu.

"The reason why we have been rated as one of the most literate populations is because various measures have been taken to ensure that every Zimbabwean is educated.

"There are adult literacy programmes. There is at least a primary school in every village around the country and there is the recently introduced ECD age catchment in schools."

Bulawayo provincial education director Dan Moyo declined to comment on the national statistics but said education was profound while literacy means being able to "read, write and calculate".

Socialite Cont Mhlanga said Zimbabwe made meaningful headway in terms of education through adult literacy campaign movements soon after Independence, hence the high literacy rate.

and write which can be taught elsewhere," said Mhlanga.

According to the ZimStats 2012 report, the population age at 15 years who had completed at least grade three was classified as literate.

Around 49 percent of males and 51 percent of females had attended school.

Of those who had already left school, 54 percent were females while 46 percent were males.
