
Beloit College graduates Hannah Lucile Tepsa helps Nicholas Mischler fit his cap on as they wait in line for the commencement ceremony on Sunday.

Never give up on discovery.

That’s what Kevin Young told the graduating class at Beloit College during the commencement ceremony Sunday.

Young, a professor of creative writing at Emory University in Atlanta, told the students after he graduated from college he got a writing fellowship at Stanford University.

Young told the students to never give up on learning, and to become an autodidact themselves wherever they end up after graduation. He said while in San Francisco he also became a book collector as well as a poet, which opened up new avenues of knowledge. He encouraged the students to find that similar passion.

Young said while the advice is probably obvious it might not be as easy as the students believe it to be. Most of all, he said, it’s OK to make mistakes.

Beloit College President Scott Bierman said the college and students have a “quid pro quo” agreement when they came in as freshman.

Graduate Sophia Maloney was one of the last speakers as she addressed her fellow classmates. Maloney told the students to use what they’ve learned in Beloit to affect the outside community.

While there is uncertainty that lies ahead for the graduates, Maloney said, they are well prepared to figure it out, and that it is OK to make mistakes.

1 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language.

2 Don't Threaten or Abuse. Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated. AND PLEASE TURN OFF CAPS LOCK.

3 Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.

4 Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.

5 Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.

6 Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness accounts, the history behind an article.

Welcome to the discussion.

We're always interested in hearing about news in our community. Let us know what's going on!
