
PATNA: The purpose of Patna University (PU) administration behind introducing entrance test for admission to the undergraduate courses more than a couple of years back with a view to selecting the best talents and raising the academic standard has been far from satisfactory, feel the academics.

"Earlier, we used to get mostly good students when admission was made directly on the basis of marks secured by the applicants at the last qualifying examination. But, following the introduction of entrance test, we are selecting students even of inferior merit," said Patna College sociology teacher and Patna University Teachers' Association former general secretary Randhir Kumar Singh.

Singh pointed out that students admitted on the basis of first list of candidates selected on the basis of performance at the entrance test are deserving, but subsequent admissions made by lowering the cutoff allow even undeserving students to enter the colleges. Needless to say, it is these 'undeserving' candidates who have been creating all sorts of nuisance on the college campus in recent years. With a view to filling all the sanctioned seats in the colleges, the authorities go on lowering the cutoff marks, thereby compromising with the merit of students being selected for admission. And, surprisingly enough, even then, 50 to 60 seats remain vacant, both in Patna College as well as B N College, said Singh.

Patna Science College physics teacher Rohit Raman observed that the really good students were not being selected for admission due to the faulty pattern. The entrance test gives more importance to general knowledge and less to the subjects studied by the students. Furthermore, the constant lowering of cutoff for admission also facilitates admission of less meritorious students. The college should announce the minimum qualifying marks in the entrance test and must not lower it down even if the seats remain vacant, he said.

B N College geology teacher Akhileshwar Tiwary asserts that there has hardly been any difference in the quality of students being selected for admission in various undergraduate courses following the entrance test. In fact, PU colleges have not been getting good students in their degree courses since the days intermediate teaching was delinked from these colleges in 2006-07. Earlier, students joining these colleges after class X were groomed well at +2 stage by competent teachers in these colleges, he said.

It is interesting to note that the state government had initially objected to the PU's proposal for introducing the entrance test for admission. The same was introduced only when the proposal was approved by the chancellor in 2012.
