
Police and Crime Commissioner Tony Lloyd today demanded ‘proper answers’ from prison bosses after a convicted murderer went on the run for a THIRD time after he was allowed out of jail on day release.

A huge manhunt was launched after Arnold Pickering, 44, from Chadderton , failed to return to his cell as required on Saturday night. He was recaptured on Monday.

In 1991 Pickering managed to escape through a gap in the roof of a visiting area at Strangeways Prison . He was caught seven hours later.

He had been on remand at the time charged with murder.

Later that year he was jailed for life and told he would serve a minimum 18 years behind bars for stabbing to death neighbour Thomas Leigh, 53, at his home in Oldham after he wrongly thought he was a paedophile.

Pickering was allowed out of HMP Kirkham in Lancashire in 2009 - again on day release - but again absconded.

He had been allowed out to work on the bins in Manchester when he went on the run.

Four days later, he handed himself into the authorities in Motherwell, Scotland.

Despite his track record, the Ministry of Justice assessed him as suitable for day release from HMP Maghull, a category C prison in Merseyside, on Saturday morning.

A full alert was raised when he failed to return to his cell on Saturday night.

A second prisoner also absconded, Thomas Moffett, 51, from Blackburn, but he was picked up on Sunday night.

As Justice Secretary Chris Grayling promised to tighten guidelines on day release schemes, Greater Manchester’s Police and Crime Commissioner demanded answers on how a convicted murderer with a history of escape was allowed out of his cell.

He said: “In the end, the safety of the public has always got to be the central issue when considering day release. It is clearly really concerning that someone with a history of absconding while on day release has been able to do so again.

“I am not opposed to schemes where a prisoner on the brink of release is given support to help reduce the risk of reoffending. But it has to be done sensibly and in a way that does not endanger public safety.

“The Ministry of Justice - from Chris Grayling through to the people who make the decisions - have to come up with proper answers about what has happened here.

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

The Manchester Evening News and www.manchestereveningnews.co.uk conform to the newspaper industry's voluntary Code of Practice, administered by the Press Complaints Commission.

If you feel we have made an error in a report, or have fallen below our usual high standards, please write in the first instance to: Rob Irvine, editor, Manchester Evening News, Mitchell Henry House, Hollinwood Avenue, Chadderton, Oldham OL9 8EP.

M.E.N. Media is one of the north west’s largest media providers and reaches 7 out of 10 people in Greater Manchester every week.

Online, manchestereveningnews.co.uk welcomes 2.4million unique users who experience12.4million page views every month.

Our newspapers include the flagship Manchester Evening News - Britain's largest circulating regional daily with up to 130,485 copies - as well as 20 local weekly titles across Greater Manchester, Cheshire and Lancashire.

Free morning newspaper, The Metro, published every weekday, is also part of our portfolio, delivering more than 200,000 readers in Greater Manchester.

Greater Manchester Business Week is the region’s number one provider of business news andfeatures, targeting a bespoke business audience with 12,687 copies every Thursday.

Every month, M.E.N. Media’s print products reach 2.2 million adults, spanning from Accrington in the north to Macclesfield in the south.

Rob Irvine was appointed editor-in-chief of MEN Media and Trinity Mirror Huddersfield in April 2012.

Rob joined Trinity Mirror in 2001 and was editor of the Daily Post North Wales for seven years. He was also publishing director for Trinity Mirror North Wales and Cheshire.

He grew up in Stockport, Greater Manchester and has worked in the local newspaper industry for 27 years.
