
God sent a freak rain storm to tell Staten Island die-hard Republicans that, "no, Mafia congressman Mikey Suits Grimm is not getting a raw deal; he's getting his just desserts." Another force-- the Beltway GOP Establishment-- is sending a signal of their own: they are drying up Grimm's funding.

Already in financial trouble because he's diverted hundreds of thousands of dollars in campaign funds into a high dollar law firm keeping him out of prison, Grimm now faces an NRCC that doesn't want to waste more money on his. The GOP version of the DCCC's Frontline Program-- the "Patriots Program"-- has basically dumped Grimm in all but name. He's still on their website but he was asked to stay away from a recent fundraiser. Republican Party officials would rather use the money on a longshot race against Dan Maffei on behalf of a fourth tier candidate, John Katco, with virtually no chance to win. NRCC chairman Greg Walden (R-OR) has written Grimm off , something he would never have done without the explicit approval of John Boehner.

House Republican leaders are pulling the plug on Rep. Michael Grimm’s reelection campaign, cutting off cash infusions from the national party’s main campaign committee to the embattled Staten Island lawmaker.

Without the campaign cash from DC, Grimm is effectively on his own as he works to win reelection in a competitive district while under federal indictment for tax fraud, obstruction, and perjury.

“As long as these legal issues are playing out there we’re going to hold off,” National Republican Campaign Committee chair Greg Walden (R-Ore.) told the Post.

…Boehner isn’t offering Grimm much public support, although Grimm told reporters the speaker hasn’t asked him to resign.

“I think all members should be held to the highest ethical standards,” Boehner said Tuesday.

“Mr. Grimm is under indictment. He resigned from his committee assignment and I think he made the right decision,” he said.

Boehner hasn't ever had a warm relationship with Grimm, going back to their very first meeting when Grimm sat down in the Speaker's office and asked him to change the rules to allow Members to pack heat on the floor of the House. Boehner was mortified and instructed his staff to make sure Grimm was never alone with him again. DC Republicans would now like to replace Grimm on their line but it's too late  (unless they nominate him for a judgeship, which could be embarrassing… even for Republicans).

Grimm keeps calling his 20-count criminal indictment a witch hunt and has endeavored to paint himself as a victim. "There are people that don’t like Michael Grimm because Michael Grimm is outspoken," Grimm said. "I speak my mind. I speak plainly, and it’s always gonna be that way. Listen, at the end of the day, you know. I’m a Marine. I don’t relent." In her new book, A Fighting Chance , Elizabeth Warren singled Grimm out for a teaching moment-- on deranged Republican hypocrisy. It was at a time when she was still a Harvard professor but was running around Capitol Hill meeting with as many congressmembers show could about establishing the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. She was so optimistic because it was such a simple idea-- protecting banking customers from criminal behavior the same way federal agencies protect consumers in other areas. Mikey Grimm didn't get it. “He told me all about himself," she wrote. "He’d joined the U.S. Marines when he was 19, and he had been decorated for his service in Desert Storm. He got a degree from Baruch College, a public university in New York, went to law school, and joined the FBI, where among other things, he was part of the Financial Fraud Squad. He talked in animated terms about the great work he’d done with the FBI and the terrific training he’d received. Then he launched a small business before running for office… I didn’t care about his Tea Party ties. He’d been in law enforcement and dealt with Wall Street corruption. I was sure that someone like him would really appreciate the importance of having a watchdog like the consumer agency."

Before he was indicted for cheating the government-- and the taxpayers-- out of millions of dollars, a classic Al Capone indictment-- she wrote that she would like to ask him, "Would you rather fly in an airplane without the Federal Aviation Administration checking air traffic control? Would you rather swallow a pill without the Food and Drug Administration testing drug safety? Would you rather defend our nation without a military and fight fires without our firefighters?"

"Boehner hasn't ever had a warm relationship with Grimm, going back to their very first meeting when Grimm sat down in the Speaker's office and asked him to change the rules to allow Members to pack heat on the floor of the House. Boehner was mortified and instructed his staff to make sure Grimm was never alone with him again."

Cheers,

Grimm is a corrupt demagogue; a liar and a cheat. Indeed s shameless sociopath.

But he is also the most liberal Republican in the House, according to the American Conservative Union, and second most liberal according to Heritage.
