
The 31-year-old Manor Academy teacher who will become the youngest large-scale secondary school principal in the UK from September insists her age will give her a distinct advantage.

Donna Trusler has been appointed to the top job at the Mansfield Woodhouse school on Park Hall Road after just nine years in the profession.

The former Djanogly City Academy, Greenwood Dale and Essa Academy sociology teacher insists she has ‘all the relevant experience’ and is ready to step up after two years as deputy head at Manor.

She will replace Jonathon Hickman, who is retiring after 15 years in the role, and is keen to embrace the latest technology, as well as demand the highest standards from students and teachers.

“I feel very proud and excited by my appointment,” said Mrs Trusler. “The curriculum now installed is called ‘stage not age’, meaning that age is irrelevant and it’s the stage you are at that matters - and that also applies to me.

“When I was first told of my appointment I was 30, but I was a stage where I felt ready.

“I have achieved a huge amount already in my career and I bring a fresh, innovative approach and an understanding of what our kids need.

“I understand the increasing importance of technology and that is reflected by the way I use an Ipad so much in my job, which wouldn’t have happened 10 years ago.

Manor underwent a latest Ofsted inspection last week with results due back shortly after the May half term.

The school will hope to improve on past results, which saw it placed in special measures after an ‘inadequate’ Ofsted report in October 2011, which was followed by a ‘room for improvement’ rating in December 2012.

Mrs Trusler added: “I want this institution to be outstanding, not just in Ofsted terms, but in its relationship with the community and so the students half the ultimate experience here.

“I want an increased support for primary schools and for our post-16 provision.

“I’m confident our recent upward curve will continue. When I arrived at the school it was in special measures, but we have since had really positives Ofsted feedback where they have said we could be outstanding.

Mrs Trusler says the school is ‘unrecognisable’ from the one she first joined.

“We have a new curriculum offering a wide breadth of choice. We have new construction courses, a new hair salon in Mansfield Woodhouse and our own nursery, for example,” she said.

Another area of change has been in a restructuring of staff, with Ofsted having previously raised concerns over the quality of teaching.

Mrs Trusler also paid tribute to the efforts of Mr Hickman during his tenure at the helm.

“Jonathon is a very strong person who I consider a friend as well as a colleague,” she said.

“He has given me the benefit of his experience with regard to the local community and the history of the school, and been hugely supportive in the new agendas and changes I have introduced.

Get your favourite newspaper at a great low price.

Call us on 0844 292 0216 or click here to start your subscription today!

© 2014 Johnston Publishing Ltd.

This website and its associated newspaper adheres to the Press Complaints Commission’s Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion, then contact the Editor by clicking  here .

If you remain dissatisfied with the response provided then you can contact the PCC by clicking here .

Mansfield and Ashfield Chad provides news, events and sport features from the Mansfield area. For the best up to date information relating to Mansfield and the surrounding areas visit us at Mansfield and Ashfield Chad regularly or bookmark this page.

For you to enjoy all the features of this website Mansfield and Ashfield Chad requires permission to use cookies.

Cookies are small data files which are sent to your browser (Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome etc) from a website you visit. They are stored on your electronic device.

This is a type of cookie which is collected by Adobe Flash media player (it is also called a Local Shared Object) - a piece of software you may already have on your electronic device to help you watch online videos and listen to podcasts.

Yes there are a number of options available, you can set your browser either to reject all cookies, to allow only "trusted" sites to set them, or to only accept them from the site you are currently on.

However, please note - if you block/delete all cookies, some features of our websites, such as remembering your login details, or the site branding for your local newspaper may not function as a result.

A tool used by some of our advertisers to target adverts to you based on pages you have visited in the past. To opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

Our sites contain advertising from Google; these use cookies to ensure you get adverts relevant to you. You can tailor the type of ads you receive by visiting here or to opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

This is used to help us identify unique visitors to our websites. This data is anonymous and we cannot use this to uniquely identify individuals and their usage of the sites.

This comes from our ad serving technology and is used to track how many times you have seen a particular ad on our sites, so that you don't just see one advert but an even spread. This information is not used by us for any other type of audience recording or monitoring.

ComScore monitor and externally verify our site traffic data for use within the advertising industry. Any data collected is anonymous statistical data and cannot be traced back to an individual.

Our Classified websites (Photos, Motors, Jobs and Property Today) use cookies to ensure you get the correct local newspaper branding and content when you visit them. These cookies store no personally identifiable information.

We use Grapeshot as a contextual targeting technology, allowing us to create custom groups of stories outside out of our usual site navigation. Grapeshot stores the categories of story you have been exposed to. Their privacy policy and opt out option can be accessed here.

Our partner for Newspaper subscriptions online stores data from the forms you complete in these to increase the usability of the site and enhance user experience.

Add This provides the social networking widget found in many of our pages. This widget gives you the tools to bookmark our websites, blog, share, tweet and email our content to a friend.
