
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

In the fall of 2005, Laurie Casebonne and Ian Schnoebelen drove to New Orleans from Birmingham, AL, where the couple had evacuated in advance of Hurricane Katrina. "Just like everybody else, we expected it to be a three day party," Casebonne recalled.

As the evacuation began to resemble something more like a relocation, the partners, in Casebonne's telling, "started to get the entrepreneurial spirit. We started to talk about opening a wine and cheese shop in Birmingham." On the day they drove back into New Orleans, Casebonne and Schnoebelen's plan was to pick up their belongings from their Marigny home and return to Alabama to execute their idea.

"We were driving down Chartres Street, and I turned to Ian and said, 'I'm having second thoughts,'" Casebonne recalled. "He said, 'I am, too.'"

Delighted to discover their house had power when air conditioning was one of the most desired commodities in town, the couple sat down to write the business plan for the restaurant they'd always dreamed of opening but had never (in Casebonne's words) had "enough gumption" to start.

That restaurant became Iris , which opened in the Carrolton neighborhood (where Boucherie is today) in early 2006 before moving to the French Quarter in 2008. The restaurant is closing at the end of this week, when Casebonne and Schnoebelen will turn their full attention to running Mariza , their Italian restaurant in Bywater.

8 ½ years is short by New Orleans restaurant standards, but the period of Iris' run was an unusually transformative time in New Orleans. It opened when the phrase "the new New Orleans" was just gaining traction. The early example Iris provided of what that phrase really meant proved to be remarkably prescient.

This is how Casebonne described the idea behind the original Iris: "We wanted a small place. We wanted to have high quality food, but we didn't want it to be a crusty place. I didn't want it to matter if my tattoos showed. We wanted to have a good wine program. We wanted to have a great cocktail program. We wanted Ian to be able to show what he could do with his food, but we also wanted it to be a restaurant where all our friends would be comfortable. We pretty much opened exactly the place we wanted to open."

Iris generated a lot of positive attention; Food & Wine Magazine named Schnoebelen one of the country's Best New Chefs just over a year after it opened. Iris didn't appear to enjoy the prolonged popular success of some of the other post-Katrina restaurants that opened around when it did – Cochon and La Boca are two obvious examples – but its combination of culinary ambition, daring mixology and tattoo-friendliness was very well ahead of the curve, and pursued at a time when launching a business in New Orleans was not a good way to demonstrate one's sanity.

"Of all the excellent new restaurants that sprouted in that heady time (post-Katrina), when the city's wounds had yet to harden into scars, (Iris) was arguably the gutsiest," I wrote in a 2009 review of Iris ' then-new French Quarter location. "While the partners had strong resumes -- Schnoebelen was a chef at Lilette before the levee breaches, and Casebonne is a veteran of the dining rooms at Lilette and Peristyle -- neither had ever owned a restaurant... And at a time when New Orleanians were clinging to home-grown cultural traditions like mama bears cling to their cubs, Iris entered the fray with mango-balsamic Champagne cocktails and seared duck breast with Spanish chorizo and picholine olive jus. The combination of modern, decidedly un-Southern food and mad-scientist cocktails put Iris in a league with trend-conscious restaurants you're more likely to find in New York or Atlanta, which was central to its appeal from the get-go."

That last sentence could apply to any number of restaurants – or, perhaps even more to the point, gastropubs – that have opened in New Orleans in the last 4-5 years. On the eve of Iris' closing, it seems appropriate to reflect on the strength of vision that brought it into existence, and the "new normal" it helped birth at a time when it appeared normalcy was a privilege New Orleanians would never again enjoy.

Check here if you do not want to receive additional email offers and information.

Thank you for signing up!

Please check you inbox, and approve the verification email. If you don't see it, check your spam folder.  To view and subscribe to any of our other newsletters, please click here .

© 2014 NOLA Media Group. All rights reserved ( About Us ).

The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of NOLA Media Group.

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
