
Both the Missouri House and Senate approved the measure which now heads to Governor Jay Nixon's desk.

A new strategy for school protection could be allowing certain, trained teachers to carry a gun in the classroom.  It is a very real possibility now that both the Missouri House and Senate have approved a bill calling for just that.

"Senate Bill 656 is a bill that's heavily supported by the NRA (National Rifle Association)," said Representative Kevin Elmer of Nixa.

Elmer helped push Senate Bill 656 through.  He believes arming teachers would make Missouri schools safer.

"They would go through some pretty stringent training similar to what a lot of police officers have to undergo," he said.

That training, Elmer said, would be defined by the Department of Public Safety.

Teachers who completed the training could then carry concealed weapons.

"We want it to appear as the teachers are not armed to the students, so it looks like a normal setting, but you're enabling them to be armed," Elmer said.

Supporters see the change as another tool in the toolbox of school safety, but some educators have said they have concerns.

"We don't feel arming teachers or administrators is really an option for us right now," said Zac Rantz, the safety coordinator for Nixa Public Schools, part of the district Elmer represents.

"I think there's a lot of liability issues, a lot of what's the training look like.  There's just a lot of those unanswered questions," Rantz said.

The bill leaves it up to local school boards to determine if arming teachers is the best solution for their schools.  As for Nixa schools, they will continue to look to four school resource officers and high-tech security upgrades to keep their students safe.

The measure also calls for changing the minimum age for conceal and carry permit holders, taking it from 21 down to 19.

No email address was supplied by .                                 To complete your registration on this site, please supply an address.

Please confirm or modify the email address to which you will have subscription offers sent.

For a more personalized experience, please supply the following optional information.
