
UNITED NATIONS, New York – Gladys Kalibbala, a journalist in Uganda, knows what loss looks like. She has seen it hundreds of times, in the faces of children without homes and in the desperation of mothers searching for their children.

“In 2011, I profiled Christine Nakabuye, who had just been brought to work as a maid around Kampala,” said Ms. Kalibbala, who writes for the Kampala-based newspaper New Vision.

Ms. Kalibbala wrote about Christine in her ‘Lost Children’ column , where she covers children who are lost or abandoned by one or both of their parents. Her column – and her advocacy on behalf of the children she profiles – has drawn global attention to a widespread problem.

Around the world, vulnerable families fracture under the strain of extreme poverty.

Households headed by women, who receive fewer opportunities and less pay than men, are among the most vulnerable. Too often, children are pulled from school so they can find jobs or care for younger siblings. Others are left unattended while their parents work.

Some, like those profiled by Ms. Kalibbala, go missing.

To support such families, the Programme of Action recommended “increasing the earning power of all adult members of economically deprived families, including the elderly and women”.

Yet 20 years later, families remain as vulnerable as ever.

In too many countries, working remains incompatible with the demands of childcare. And women continue to make significantly less money than men, making it more difficult for them to support their children.

UNFPA’s Executive Director, Dr. Babatunde Osotimehin, underscored these points in a statement for the International Day of Families , on 15 May. “I call on governments to create environments that support all families through, for example, measures that enable parents to reconcile family and work responsibilities, and housing, education, and social support policies that recognize the growing diversity of household arrangements,” he said.

UNFPA works to promote access to sexual and reproductive health services, including voluntary family planning services, in Uganda and around the world. But an alarmingly high proportion of people, particularly the poor, still live without access to these services.

Ms. Kalibbala has received numerous awards, and she was recently featured in a documentary film, Misconception , for her work on behalf of children.

Ms. Kalibbala’s work has inspired others to take action, as well.

After the publication of her story about Christine, the girl who had been forced to work as a maid, a school director from Entebbe, a city just outside Kampala, contacted them.

But there is much more work to be done, she notes. Communities must address the underlying issues that leave children vulnerable and their families struggling.

Until then, Ms. Kalibbala is determined to continue her advocacy, making it possible for even lost children to find hope.

ReliefWeb has been the leading online source for reliable and timely humanitarian information on global crises and disasters since 1996.

Location Maps - Country maps for your reports and presentations.

Humanitarian Icons - Ready-to-use symbols and icons. Free download.

RSS - Subscribe to information finely tuned to your needs.
