
An unparalleled offering of Limousin females met a truly insatiable demand at Newark on Saturday (17 May) when the centre recorded its second 100% clearance of Limousin breeding stock in five weeks.

Auctioneers Paul Gentry said this week’s sale which included the dispersal of the Pennys and Birdies herds, as well as drafts from the Ironstone, Rachels, Scorboro, Threaphurst, Bosworth, Charleston and Bowtells herds, had seen interest from far and wide and buyers willing to invest strongly in what was arguably the finest collective offering of Limousin genetics this summer.

“Once again Newark has proven itself as the place to sell pedigree stock, we have the facilities and the staff to offer a top class service and coupled with that we have a strong following of loyal buyers willing and ready to invest in the right breeding stock.

Leading the prices on Saturday was the September 2007-born Uruguay daughter Clochette from William Bird’s Birdis herd dispersal.

This one is out of the Mercator daughter Urne and sold Pd’d four to five months in-calf again to Brutus. She was the pick of Danny Sawrij for his Swalesmoor herd, Lockerbie. Mr Sawrij also took her heifer calf, Birdies Isabeau at 3800gns, with this one being an April 2013-born Brutus daughter.

Following her was a 10,000gns sale for Scorboro Equity, once again offered in the Birdies dispersal. This Scorboro Aramis daughter, originally bred by Jim Bloom, is out of the Ronick Upshot daughter Scorboro Aramia. With a beef value of +56, she sold with a heifer calf at foot by Brutus and was knocked down to the Gascoines Group for their Gascoines herd, Newark.

The same buyers then paid 8000gns for Corridan Diamond, an October 2008-born daughter of Corridan Arkle from the Birdies dispersal. Sired by the Sympa son, Corridan Arkle, this one is out of the Greenwell Major daughter Corridan Uvette and sold with a Brutus bull calf at foot, Birdies Jim.

A 7500gns bid then saw the Gascoines Group back in spending mood securing Bailgate Flavia again from the Birdies dispersal. She’s by the 100,000gns Haltcliffe Vermount and is out of the Vagabond daughter Greenwell Donatella. This one was originally purchased out of Newark for 4100gns and sold today with a Brutus bull calf at foot, Birdies Jez.

And making 6200gns was the the Objat daughter, Newmarque Fleur, also from William Bird, who found a new home with George McCague, Newry, Northern Ireland, at 6200gns. This one is out of a Rocky daughter, Newmarque Celia and carries a beef value of +38. She’s been PD’d to Brutus and sold with a Brutus heifer calf at foot.

Another well sought after lot from the Birdies herd, the French-bred female Virgule was then knocked down at 6000gns. Sired by Snoopy, this one is out of the Hardy daughter Joconde and sold with a Brutus heifer calf at foot to Chris Clements, Bury St Edmunds, Suffolk.

A pair then sold at 5500gns, with the first being the French bred Uraine, a Manoir daughter out of Panure, a Highlander daughter. This one, again from Birdies, sold with a Nenuphar heifer calf at foot to D Thomas, Cwmann, Lampeter.

The other at this money was again from the Birdies herd dispersal, Corridan Daisy. This Corridan Arkle daughter is out of the Rubis sired Corridan Amour. She sold with her Brutus sired heifer calf at foot to the Gascoines Group, Newark.

At 5000gns Mark Phillips, Castle Douglas, purchased Corridan Delphinium, once again from the Birdies herd. Another by Arkle, she is out of the Nenuphar daughter Corridan Veronica and sold empty, but with a Bonux bull calf at foot.

A 4800gns was enough to buy the Birdies herd stock bull, Brutus, with this Usty son being out of Hirondelle, an Espoir daughter. Bred in France by Earl Laugautriere, this 2006-born bull sold to F and S M Stamper.

Next up at 4500gns was Confluence Dixie, a Dauphin daughter out of Rachels Anne, a Ronick upshot daughter who carries Ronick Iceman on the dam side. Again with a Brutus bull calf at foot, this one heads to Messrs Minshall, Stoke on Trent.

Trading at the same price was the Hudscales Churchill daughter, Newmarque Eleanor. This one is out of the Daim daughter Westside Philippa, herself a daughter of the Cannon daughter Broadmeadows Jiji. This one sold to J H Tennant, Bridlington, with a Mas Du Clo heifer calf, Birdies Jessica at foot.

The April 2008-born Corridan Diddy then traded at 4200gns selling to P J and S Edward and Sons. She’s by Corridan Alladin and out of Corridan Pamela, a Bailea Mihriz daughter, herself a Goldies Huntsman daughter. She sold empty, but her Brutus heifer calf, Birdies Ingrid, went at 3000gns to J H Tennant.

And making 3700gns was Corridan DIY, a Corridan Alladin daughter out of the Sympa dam Corridan Visaversa. She sold with a Brutus bull calf at foot to Messrs Simcock, Herefordshire.

The final call of 3500gns or more came from C Cameron, Aberdeen, when buying Rachels Hermoine from the Woolhouse family’s draft. This Rachels Dynamite daughter is out of Rachels Rebecca, a Rachels Luigi daughter and sold having been AI’d to Vagabond.

Create your own advertisement or send someone a special message.

© 2014 Johnston Publishing Ltd.

This website and its associated newspaper adheres to the Press Complaints Commission’s Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion, then contact the Editor by clicking  here .

If you remain dissatisfied with the response provided then you can contact the PCC by clicking here .

Farming Life provides news, events and sport features from the Belfast area. For the best up to date information relating to Belfast and the surrounding areas visit us at Farming Life regularly or bookmark this page.

For you to enjoy all the features of this website Farming Life requires permission to use cookies.

Cookies are small data files which are sent to your browser (Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome etc) from a website you visit. They are stored on your electronic device.

This is a type of cookie which is collected by Adobe Flash media player (it is also called a Local Shared Object) - a piece of software you may already have on your electronic device to help you watch online videos and listen to podcasts.

Yes there are a number of options available, you can set your browser either to reject all cookies, to allow only "trusted" sites to set them, or to only accept them from the site you are currently on.

However, please note - if you block/delete all cookies, some features of our websites, such as remembering your login details, or the site branding for your local newspaper may not function as a result.

A tool used by some of our advertisers to target adverts to you based on pages you have visited in the past. To opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

Our sites contain advertising from Google; these use cookies to ensure you get adverts relevant to you. You can tailor the type of ads you receive by visiting here or to opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

This is used to help us identify unique visitors to our websites. This data is anonymous and we cannot use this to uniquely identify individuals and their usage of the sites.

This comes from our ad serving technology and is used to track how many times you have seen a particular ad on our sites, so that you don't just see one advert but an even spread. This information is not used by us for any other type of audience recording or monitoring.

ComScore monitor and externally verify our site traffic data for use within the advertising industry. Any data collected is anonymous statistical data and cannot be traced back to an individual.

Our Classified websites (Photos, Motors, Jobs and Property Today) use cookies to ensure you get the correct local newspaper branding and content when you visit them. These cookies store no personally identifiable information.

We use Grapeshot as a contextual targeting technology, allowing us to create custom groups of stories outside out of our usual site navigation. Grapeshot stores the categories of story you have been exposed to. Their privacy policy and opt out option can be accessed here.

Our partner for Newspaper subscriptions online stores data from the forms you complete in these to increase the usability of the site and enhance user experience.

Add This provides the social networking widget found in many of our pages. This widget gives you the tools to bookmark our websites, blog, share, tweet and email our content to a friend.
