
CANCER sufferers and other patients will get psychological support at Oxford hospitals through a project believed to be the first of its kind in the UK.

A full-time psychiatrist and three mental health nurses are expected to be hired by the autumn to lead the scheme.

They will work with patients to offer them specialist support alongside their treatment, rather than having to go to separate services.

The psychiatrist will split their time between cancer patients and other divisions, with £200,000 a year budgeted for cancer patients.

Eynsham cancer campaigner Clive Stone, 66, who won a 2007 battle to get a drug for his kidney cancer on the NHS, welcomed the news.

About 300 out of the 3,000 people seen each year at the Oxford Cancer Centre at the Churchill Hospital, Headington, are expected to seek help.

There are also plans to get a psychiatrist for the Women’s Centre, and another for Oxford Children’s Hospital by the end of the year.

Another for clinical neuroscience – for patients with conditions such as epilepsy – is also expected to be in place by the end of 2014.

Project leader Prof Michael Sharpe said: “Oxford’s medical hospitals have not really had much in the way of psychological support for patients.

He said people frightened of whether they will be in pain will be talked through treatment, while other issues that can be tackled include finances and family.

Research shows 60 per cent of depressed cancer patients who get such support see a substantial improvement within six months, he said.

Trust psychiatrist Jane Walker, who works at Headington’s Sobell House Hospice two days a week, said such support is vital.

The Oxford University Hospitals NHS Trust plan builds on a scheme for in-house support that saw 20 psychologists and eight psychiatrists spread across departments in March last year.

Since 2004, Churchill patients have been able to get psychological support from the site’s Maggie’s charity.

We want you to enjoy your visit to our website. That's why we use cookies to enhance your experience.  By staying on our website you agree to our use of cookies. Find out more about the cookies we use .
