
Israel Chemicals’ Dead Sea potash operation is simply too valuable for them to relinquish.

The threats made by Israel Chemicals Ltd. (TASE: ICL ) to end the majority of its investment in Israel and to fire many workers is one of the biggest and ugliest financial media spins we have seen in a long while.

The draft recommendations of the Sheshinski II Committee seek to strike a balance between maintaining adequate profitability for ICL, and making adequate royalty payments to the government, i.e., the taxpayer. This follows many years during which ICL enjoyed tax benefits under the Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investment, which it lost eligibility for a little over two years ago, and, with it, the relatively low tax rates. Sheshinski II seeks to fix a years-old distortion, not to deliver a blow to ICL. Any attempt to otherwise describe the reality is itself a severe distortion, to say the least.

ICL will not abandon the Dead Sea, period. It doesn’t matter how many threats are sounded by management - ICL will not leave. The company’s revenue last year was $6.2 billion, half of it in Israel. You don’t walk away from $3 billion so quickly. Profit last year was $820 million. But there is another side to the story, beyond money. Dead Sea potash can be stored for long periods of time, due the environmental conditions, unlike potash at other mines around the world. This is a unique advantage of the Dead Sea, and it is one of the reasons that Canadian potash giant Potash Corp. is eyeing ICL and has tried to buy control of the company.

Does that sound familiar? No? Allow me to refresh your memory. In 2010 Noble Energy and Yitzhak Tshuva’s Delek Group staged an all-out war against the first Sheshinski Committee, which recommended raising the government's take from the gas discoveries, following the discovery of the Tamar gas field. Then, too, the companies threatened that the Sheshinski Committee would chase investors away, and said that the government could not change the laws retroactively. At one of the heated hearings on the subject in the Knesset, a Noble Energy representative even threatened that the US would take Israel to the International Court of Justice in The Hague.

And the rest is history. The recommendations of the first Sheshinski Committee passed, the Tamar field opened, and the gas is flowing. Because when you are holding onto a treasure, you don’t rush to let it go.

If there is a threat more hollow than the threat to leave Israel, it is the threat of massive layoffs at ICL. The same ICL that conducted months-long negotiations over the voluntary retirement of 115 Rotem Amfert Negev workers is now threatening to fire thousands of workers? The same ICL that sought to fire 127 workers, encountered a workers union as strong as a rock, and eventually reached a settlement in which it gave exceedingly generous benefits to the workers it let go - now it will fire thousands of workers? Hundreds? One would have to be very, very naive to believe this.

Government decision makers would be well advised to ignore ICL’s empty threats, and to act in favor of the public interest, to repair the historic injustice. The effects of Sheshinski II’s recommendations will be very similar to those of the first Sheshinski Committee: the threats will vanish, and the investment will continue.

You comment was recieved and soon will be published.
