
Share This Story!

This year will be especially memorable for UPrep. It's the school's first graduating class for Grand Rapids Public Schools' first career-oriented school.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

GRAND RAPIDS, Mich. (WZZM) -- Thousands of local high school students are nearing graduation. This year will be especially memorable for UPrep.

It's the school's first graduating class for Grand Rapids Public Schools' first career-oriented school.

UPrep started six years ago thanks to a huge donation from Amway Chairman Steve Van Andel. The tuition-free school has now prepared 30  students for college and careers.

Before the walls of UPrep even went up, Shawntieasia Johnson and Adam Gentry were Panthers.

"We're basically the leaders of the school," she said.

They're among the 30 students from the UPrep's first graduating class this spring. The school started with 100 sixth and seventh graders in 2008 and has added a grade level each year.

"You start six years ago with any idea. To fast forward with the growth that we've had," said principal Daniel Williams, "we're very excited about where we are."

The hallway bulletin board is a  smorgasbord of seniors' dream universities.

Shawntieasia is headed to Western Michigan University for business and clothing design.

"I actually do get to do an internship in Paris," she said.

But she wonders if she'd be going to Paris, or standing here, now, literally, without UPrep.

"I used to be shy. I found myself not being able to get up. That's all we do here, we present in front of the school and the class all the time. Those are things we need to learn," she said.

Her internship through UPrep brought her to ArtPrize and to a clothing boutique.

Adam has taken on marketing internships as he heads to Northwood University.

"[For the] River Bank Run, I was a mascot two times. Yea, that was fun," he said.

UPrep partners with a number of organizations, which offer 80 different internships to students.

"Doctors, PAs, physical therapy," he said. "Students are at the police department now interning with police officers."

Williams says the program has also helped students realize they might not want to take a certain career path.

"Now they don't have to find that out when they're freshmen and sophomores in college," he said.

Students take what they learn and create projects.

"It just introduced me to the real world," said Adam.

And now it's almost time for the real world. Adam and Shawntieasia say they're ready, and thankful.

"I'm very thankful for this because...if I had to pay for tuition here already, and then pay for tuition when I got to college, that's a lot," she said.

Admission to UPrep is done by a lottery, through open enrollment.

Principal Daniel Williams says only a few of his students are a few credits shy of graduating from UPrep.

The seniors graduate on June 7th.
