
SCOTTISH INDEPENDENCE: Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg has launched an attack on the SNP and Ukip as he drew a direct comparison between the parties and accused them of attempting to “create division”.

The Liberal Democrat leader claimed both Alex Salmond and Nigel Farage wanted to “talk up difference” as he delivered a keynote speech in Edinburgh ahead of the European Parliament elections this week.

Mr Clegg’s attack came after an ICM poll for The Scotsman showed the Lib Dems face the prospect of losing their only European seat north of the Border in Thursday’s elections.

He claimed both the SNP and Ukip would “put Scotland’s position in the EU at risk” with an independent Scotland facing obstacles to winning membership and Mr Farage seeking to engineer the UK’s exit from the European Union.

The ICM survey showed the SNP on a 36 per cent share of the vote, with Labour on 27 per cent, the Tories 13 per cent and the Lib Dems 7 per cent – a result that would see Mr Clegg’s party lose its only Scottish MEP.

Ukip is expected to make sweeping gains in the elections south of the Border. But the 9 per cent it polled in Scotland in the ICM survey would see it fail to win a Scottish seat.

Mr Clegg’s attack on the SNP came as he called on Mr Salmond to “play a role” in delivering more devolution in the event of a No vote in the independence referendum.

He suggested the political muscle of the Nationalists could make it “more likely” for more powers to be handed to Holyrood.

Linking Ukip and the SNP, and comparing them to those campaigning for a No vote, he said: “On the one side, you have those whose first impulse is to talk up difference, create division, pretending we live in a world where states can still thrive when they stand alone.

Speaking to the media later, Mr Clegg refused to speculate on whether the Lib Dems faced another electoral meltdown in this week’s elections, three years after the party saw its representation at Holyrood slump from 17 MSPs to five.

However, he conceded that his party faced a more difficult challenge than at the last European election in 2009, when George Lyon was returned as the party’s only MEP in Scotland.

Mr Clegg suggested that Lib Dem involvement in the Conservative-led coalition government at Westminster could affect the party’s prospects in the elections.

SNP MSP Annabelle Ewing last night accused Mr Clegg of making “empty promises” about devolution.

She said: “Given that Mr Clegg’s party have been promising home rule for over 100 years, people in Scotland are unlikely to view them as the guarantors of anything, except continued Tory rule from Westminster.

© 2014 Johnston Publishing Ltd.

This website and its associated newspaper adheres to the Press Complaints Commission’s Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion, then contact the Editor by clicking here .

If you remain dissatisfied with the response provided then you can contact the PCC by clicking here .

The Scotsman provides news, events and sport features from the Edinburgh area. For the best up to date information relating to Edinburgh and the surrounding areas visit us at The Scotsman regularly or bookmark this page.

For you to enjoy all the features of this website The Scotsman requires permission to use cookies.

Cookies are small data files which are sent to your browser (Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome etc) from a website you visit. They are stored on your electronic device.

This is a type of cookie which is collected by Adobe Flash media player (it is also called a Local Shared Object) - a piece of software you may already have on your electronic device to help you watch online videos and listen to podcasts.

Yes there are a number of options available, you can set your browser either to reject all cookies, to allow only "trusted" sites to set them, or to only accept them from the site you are currently on.

However, please note - if you block/delete all cookies, some features of our websites, such as remembering your login details, or the site branding for your local newspaper may not function as a result.

A tool used by some of our advertisers to target adverts to you based on pages you have visited in the past. To opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

Our sites contain advertising from Google; these use cookies to ensure you get adverts relevant to you. You can tailor the type of ads you receive by visiting here or to opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

This is used to help us identify unique visitors to our websites. This data is anonymous and we cannot use this to uniquely identify individuals and their usage of the sites.

This comes from our ad serving technology and is used to track how many times you have seen a particular ad on our sites, so that you don't just see one advert but an even spread. This information is not used by us for any other type of audience recording or monitoring.

ComScore monitor and externally verify our site traffic data for use within the advertising industry. Any data collected is anonymous statistical data and cannot be traced back to an individual.

Our Classified websites (Photos, Motors, Jobs and Property Today) use cookies to ensure you get the correct local newspaper branding and content when you visit them. These cookies store no personally identifiable information.

We use Grapeshot as a contextual targeting technology, allowing us to create custom groups of stories outside out of our usual site navigation. Grapeshot stores the categories of story you have been exposed to. Their privacy policy and opt out option can be accessed here.

Our partner for Newspaper subscriptions online stores data from the forms you complete in these to increase the usability of the site and enhance user experience.

Add This provides the social networking widget found in many of our pages. This widget gives you the tools to bookmark our websites, blog, share, tweet and email our content to a friend.

We use Advertising agencies to provide us with some of the advertising on our websites. These include (but are not limited to) Specific Media, The Rubicon Project, AdJug, AdConion, Context Web. Please click on the provider name to visit their opt-out page.
