
Thousands of activists are taking to the streets to protest EU policies ahead of elections for the EU parliament scheduled for the end of May.

The most powerful member economically of the EU , Germany, saw protests in Hamburg and Berlin the capital. In Berlin there were clashes between police and the protesters. About a thousand protesters marched through the center of Berlin. They were part of the "Blockupy movement".

Protesters called for equal rights for refugees. At least four protesters were arrested by police.

During the demonstrations the House of the German Economy was pelted with eggs that were filled with colored paint, to protest the EU's crisis management policies and social injustice. A Blockupy rally was also held in Hamburg. In that rally the police used water cannons against the crowd as some protesters threw items at the police. Several people suffered injuries. The group deliberately marched through the HafenCity towards the Philharmonic Hall as they believe affluent areas of the city represent the "most visible symbol of ostentatious elite culture, corruption and waste in Hamburg". These rallies are part of the larger Blockup campaign movement focused on the European Central Bank. The campaign is to run from May 15-24.

Spain too saw protests organized by "Los Indignados" (The Indignant) sometimes known as the 15M movement since it was first organized on May 15 2011 in response to government austerity measures, corruption in government, and soaring youth unemployment. The rallies took place on the third anniversary of the movement.

About one thousand gathered at Puerta del Sol square in Madrid protesting austerity measures, as well as new laws that restrict abortion rights and the right to protest. Meanwhile in Greece the lefist anti-austerity Syriaza party surged forward in local elections. The Syriza candidate for Athens mayor led the incumbent by slightly less than two percentage votes even though the incumbent is backed by many more moderate leftists. Another Syriza candidate for governor of the Attica region was also leading. He called for a referendum on the government's bailout policies.
