
Prince Harry at the cemetery.

Prince Harry pauses to reflect on the lives lost in one of the bloodiest battles of the Second World War.

Touring the Commonwealth Cemetery at Cassino, the prince, a serving army officer, joined veterans, dignitaries and representatives of British regiments and Forces’ organisations at a moving open-air service to mark the 70th anniversary of the battle of Monte Cassino, where tens of thousands of men fought and died to take the strategically important monastery.

Harry was first to lay a wreath of poppies with a handwritten note that said: “In memory of those who paid the ultimate sacrifice for our country, I thank you - Harry”.

In 1944 Nazi forces were encamped on the heavily fortified rocky outcrop, topped by the holy site, and were frustrating the Allies’ march north to Rome.

Taking the position was crucial, with Allied forces from Britain, America, New Zealand and beyond involved, but progress was slow, and under constant Nazi bombardment.

An estimated 250,000 men were killed or wounded before a Polish unit raised their national flag at the outcrop’s summit on May 18, 1944.

During the service a minute’s silence was observed after a bugler had sounded the Last Post.

The Chaplain General, the Reverend Jonathan Woodhouse told the congregation the area experienced some of the fiercest fighting in war.

At the reception veteran Ivor Gaskill, 90, who served with the Royal Hampshire Regiment as a private, faced the horrors of Monte Cassino aged just 18.

He said: “I remember trying to get up the hill - we were up to our waists in mud and water, soaking wet, hungry and full of lice.

“We were being shelled and shot at constantly but it was just a case of keep going. What else was there to do? You couldn’t run away.

“The hill was covered in snow and it never stopped raining. You had to do it all in darkness.

“The Germans were in the same state as us - they were wet through, cold and hungry like we were but they had the best position.

The veteran who returns each year to the site where so many of his friends died - welcomed Prince Harry’s visit saying: “I thought we were forgotten.

The infantryman, from Canterbury in Kent, survived Cassino but was injured during a later attack near Lake Trasimeno in Umbria where he suffered shrapnel wounds “all over” and lost an eye.

The great grandfather stayed in the Army for 22 years.

British vet Anthony Pittaccio, 85, from Felixstowe in Suffolk, who is of Italian descent, served with New Zealand forces at Cassino - and signed up while holidaying with his family near Cassino as a 14-year-old.

Of his decision to fight he said: “It was out of a sense of wanting to do something.

Mr Pittaccio had been on a break in Italy in 1939 with his family when the war broke out and they were stranded in the region.

He joined the war effort as an interpreter - but was not allowed to get involved in the action because of his age.

He said: “At headquarters where I was stationed, we were always under shell fire. It was deafening.

“But I was forbidden to go into a fire fight position and that was very frustrating. I wanted to go - I was a 14-year-old lad.

© 2014 Johnston Publishing Ltd.

This website and its associated newspaper adheres to the Press Complaints Commission’s Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion, then contact the Editor by clicking here .

If you remain dissatisfied with the response provided then you can contact the PCC by clicking here .

Yorkshire Post provides news, events and sport features from the Yorkshire area. For the best up to date information relating to Yorkshire and the surrounding areas visit us at Yorkshire Post regularly or bookmark this page.

For you to enjoy all the features of this website Yorkshire Post requires permission to use cookies.

Cookies are small data files which are sent to your browser (Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome etc) from a website you visit. They are stored on your electronic device.

This is a type of cookie which is collected by Adobe Flash media player (it is also called a Local Shared Object) - a piece of software you may already have on your electronic device to help you watch online videos and listen to podcasts.

Yes there are a number of options available, you can set your browser either to reject all cookies, to allow only "trusted" sites to set them, or to only accept them from the site you are currently on.

However, please note - if you block/delete all cookies, some features of our websites, such as remembering your login details, or the site branding for your local newspaper may not function as a result.

A tool used by some of our advertisers to target adverts to you based on pages you have visited in the past. To opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

Our sites contain advertising from Google; these use cookies to ensure you get adverts relevant to you. You can tailor the type of ads you receive by visiting here or to opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

This is used to help us identify unique visitors to our websites. This data is anonymous and we cannot use this to uniquely identify individuals and their usage of the sites.

This comes from our ad serving technology and is used to track how many times you have seen a particular ad on our sites, so that you don't just see one advert but an even spread. This information is not used by us for any other type of audience recording or monitoring.

ComScore monitor and externally verify our site traffic data for use within the advertising industry. Any data collected is anonymous statistical data and cannot be traced back to an individual.

Our Classified websites (Photos, Motors, Jobs and Property Today) use cookies to ensure you get the correct local newspaper branding and content when you visit them. These cookies store no personally identifiable information.

We use Grapeshot as a contextual targeting technology, allowing us to create custom groups of stories outside out of our usual site navigation. Grapeshot stores the categories of story you have been exposed to. Their privacy policy and opt out option can be accessed here.

Our partner for Newspaper subscriptions online stores data from the forms you complete in these to increase the usability of the site and enhance user experience.

Add This provides the social networking widget found in many of our pages. This widget gives you the tools to bookmark our websites, blog, share, tweet and email our content to a friend.
