
On Sunday we once again hopped into our little Reneaut Megane (we've nicknamed her Megan for obvious reasons) and set upon our 418km drive to the city of Tours in the Loire Valley. The tolls for using the highways here are difficult to fathum (about $90aud for this stretch) but it's also easy to see the money is spent on maintaining a safe and well presented network. This 400+kms was made in a little over 3 hours and that's with some rain slowing us down along the way. The rain and cold (about 5℃) followed us into Tours and the windchill was doing its best to dampen the spirit aswell. Our kingsize bed and hot shower were certainly pleasant sights when we made it to our hotel room.

Skip forward a few days and this morning we prepare for our last big drive in France from Tours to Bordeaux (about 340km) and it's hard to know exactly what to say about our last couple of days.

....The Loire Valley is certainly that for Tours. This place is spectacular. It is a place of natural beauty that words nor pictures can do justice - but we can try.

. The flowers are vibrant and engage both sight and smell encapsulating spring time in the French countryside. The villages scattered throughout the valley are warm and friendly while maintaining a quaintness that romanticises the soul. Amboise, where Leonardo (the artist, not the turtle) lived his years after moving to France was especially memorable. As for the river Loire which feeds the valley, I get the impression of it having its own lifeform while also being the life source for an entire region for centuries.

It is little wonder the money in France was spent here building chateau after chateau that now add another dimension to the area. Today we visited several of these castles - Chambord and Chenonceau were especially magnificent. While they are simply tourist attractions in 2014, one can only imagine the lives lived in what we now consider to be history.

My, what a time you honeymooners are having.  The photos say it all......the hot pink rose, the chateau looks magnificent, romantic and enchanting, the bride seems to be on cloud nine, and the groom scrubs up in great form.  Your blog has been something to look forward to and doesn't disappoint.  Love.

I enjoyed this phrase. It really paints the picture.
