
National Historic Trails Interpretive Center and Trails Center Foundation, 1501 N. Poplar St. (near the Casper Events Center).

The NHTIC is open from 9 a.m.-4:30 p.m. Tuesday-Saturday through May (open Sunday, May 25, for the Smithsonian exhibit); and 8 a.m.-5 p.m. Tuesday-Sunday, June 1-Labor Day.

For more information, call 261-7780 or 265-8030 or go to www.blm.gov/wy/st/en/NHTIC.html.

As the National Historic Trails Interpretive Center (NHTIC) wraps up school visits, hosting nearly 3,000 students this year, the staff is preparing for a summer of family-oriented activities and events.

The first special event begins Sat., May 24, with the facility hosting a new traveling exhibit, said NHTIC manager Mike Able. “Journey Stories” was created by the Smithsonian Institution; the NHTIC is the exhibit’s first Wyoming stop.

The exhibit features six stations about various journeys, including slaves sailing to America, European immigrants going through Ellis Island, and pioneers traveling across the trails.

“The thread that runs through [the stations] is courage and resilience,” Miller said.

The exhibit will be at the NHTIC through July 20.

On Saturday, May 31, the NHTIC Foundation will host an event called Pioneer Games. Participants will engage in activities similar to what the pioneers who traveled the trails experienced, according to Foundation Executive Director Aubrey Valdez.

“We wanted to do something very family-friendly, giving people insight to what folks who traveled these trails went through,” she said.

Participants will make their mark on Independence Rock, climb the Sierra Nevada mountains and cross the Columbia River, all of which are replicas, Valdez said. They also will be ferried across the North Platte River (the pond between the NHTIC and the Casper Events Center) and have an opportunity to pull a handcart. The cost is $25 for ages 16 and older, and $10 for children under 16. The event, which will be held from 10 a.m.-4 p.m., will take place outdoors between the Events Center and the NHTIC and is a new fundraiser for the foundation, Valdez said.

A 5K fun run/walk, which begins at 9 a.m. at Crossroads Park, will kick off the day, and Chad Lore and the Avengers will play music during the day’s festivities. A gumbo cook-off is also planned, starting at 12 p.m.

“There’s a lot going on [May 31],” said Valdez.

Several more NHTIC events are planned through the summer, including Pioneer Days, a re-enactment slated for 9 a.m.-5 p.m. June 14, and 9 a.m.-2 p.m. June 15. These days are free and open to the public, Able said, and will feature infantry and cavalry drills, pioneer handcarts, Dutch oven cooking and blacksmith demonstrations, and living historians re-enacting pioneer life.

On Tuesday, June 17, the annual Pony Express re-ride will take place, with a mochilla exchange at the NHTIC planned for the morning hours. This year’s ride goes west to east, covering the miles ridden by the original Pony Express during the mid-1800s from California to Missouri. Riders from the Casper and Glenrock areas will be part of the re-enactment through the Casper area, and this event is also free, Able said. Attendees will learn more about the history of the Pony Express and the re-ride taking place this year.

The fun and learning don’t stop there. Starting in July, a program series will take place at 1 p.m. Saturdays and Sundays. A variety of topics will be explored through special speakers and NHTIC volunteers.

Topics for the 30 to 40-minute talks include explorer and mapmaker John C. Fremont; hardships experienced by trail emigrants; frontier photographer William Henry Jackson; and pioneer fiddle music.

Additionally in July, a series of Saturday evening programs will begin. These will tie into the “Journey Stories” exhibit, Miller said.

“We’re going to celebrate the theme of mobility,” he said.

Upon the conclusion of the Smithsonian “Journey Stories” exhibit, an art exhibition will be erected. Called “Tracks They Left Behind,” the project features paintings by local artist Jim Kopp and his perspective after reading some of the emigrant diaries.

The display runs through September and paintings will be for sale, with part of the proceeds benefiting the NHTIC Foundation, Vlcan added.

Also on tap: once-a-month history hunts hosted by the foundation. This program, another fundraiser for the organization, started May 16; the next one takes place June 20. The project continues the third Friday evening of each month through October, Valdez said.

Those participating will start at the NHTIC, find their clue, and move on to the next location. A prize awaits the winning group at the end of the hunt, and snacks will be provided to all “detectives.” A theme is woven into each month’s event. Plans for upcoming history hunts include the Sandbar and ghost signs, Valdez said. The entry fee is $10 per person or $50 for a team of six. Children ages 10 and under are free.

Copyright 2014 CasperJournal.com. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Username & Password Required!
