
The Congress Working Committee (CWC), as expected, has unanimously rejected the offers of Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi to resign from the posts of President and Vice President of the party, taking moral responsibility for the historic backlash in the general elections.

Hinting at an overhaul at various levels of the party — including change at the top of party-run state governments — the CWC has authorised Sonia to take necessary steps to “revamp” the party organisation.

The party has made both the Government and the party leadership responsible for the setback in the elections. However, Sonia has indicated in her speech that there should be a review of the policies and programmes to study whether they have reached the people.

The party accepted shortcoming at the Government and party levels. “It is obvious that there were shortcomings. Its is also clear that we failed to read the profound changes that had taken place in the country during the 10 years since the UPA was voted to form Government,” a statement by the party said.

The leadership also said that both the Government and the party must share responsibility for the failure. “Corrective measures must be taken at the level of the party and at the level of the State governments formed by the Congress,” the statement added.

In her opening remarks, Sonia termed the results as “extremely bad” and said she takes full responsibility for the “crushing defeat” and is “prepared to relinquish” her position. “Have we fully identified ourselves with the aspirations of our people? Are we in tune with the aspirations of the youth who today have access to education and information far greater than ever before? Have the benefits of growth really reached the people?” she asked CWC members.

Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, who spoke after her, said he will take responsibility for the flaws on the part of the Government. He said the Government could not answer properly on issues such as price rise and corruption. He further said Sonia’s resignation is not an option to address the situation and urged the party to face the challenges in a united manner.

Rahul said the Congress does not have the culture of fixing accountability on its leaders and he will start that culture by resigning from the post of vice-president.

“The entire CWC rejected the offer and told them that discussions are the need of the hour to rejuvenate the party,” said Congress General Secretary Janardan Dwivedi.
