
One year after a school board task force began studying a “balanced calendar” for Netherwood Knoll Elementary School, it has recommended spreading the idea even wider.

That despite an apparent lack of support from district parents and even its own study.

On Monday, the task force presented a summary of its findings to the school board, suggesting that despite a solid majority of district parents being opposed to the idea of a balanced calendar, the district should look into a balanced calendar for all students from kindergarten through eighth grade. A recent survey of district parents revealed a higher amount of support for a balanced schedule if all schools were on the same schedule, instead of one.

Prompted by a 2007 school board “vision paper” on a balanced calendar, the task force has met since last July, conducting a parent survey in March. Of the 163 responses to supporting a balanced calendar (distributing 176 school days over 10 or 11 months instead of nine), 55.2 percent wanted to keep the same schedule, with 38.7 percent preferring the balanced calendar (6.1 percent had no preference).  Asked their support of a balanced calendar if all district schools were included, 55 percent said yes, with 45 percent against the idea.

Netherwood Knoll Elementary School, cited “pretty significant” summer learning loss as a main impetus for seeking information on a balanced calendar, as well as stress issues for students and staff.

“Things are different than a few years ago,” he said.

The task force’s FAQ on a balanced calendar states that changing academic expectations and government “challenges and mandates” have “significantly changed” the way school looks and feels.

Task force member and second-grade teacher Andrea DeNure said the group spent a lot of time looking at achievement data, both before and after the summer break.

“There is some significant learning loss in that three-month time,” she said.

District parent Jeff Kling of Oregon said the group was “doubling down” on a balanced calendar when a “large percentage” of parents made it perfectly clear they didn’t want it.

“When did ‘No’ become ‘Yes?’” he asked. “When 61 percent of parents said they didn’t want a balanced calendar, and Mr. Rikli’s response is the same concept, but now going through K-8, disrupting more parents lives in the district.

Looking to the future, member Steve Zach said board members need to start thinking about larger items like personalized learning, teacher compensation and a possible balanced calendar, and how they fit into the district’s long-term planning.

Board members approved three projects be completed for $93,5000 as part of the 2014-15 Capital Maintenance Plan: $43,500 for removing asbestos flooring and replacing carpet with Marmoleum flooring in four rooms at Brooklyn Elementary School, replacing carpet with Marmoleum flooring in five rooms at Prairie View Elementary School for $25,500 and spending $24,500 (which includes $16,400 from the insurance company) to resurface the main gym floor at Oregon High School to correct water damage from last year.

The floors are scheduled to be installed this summer.

Citing progress made and work yet to be done, the board approved spending $75,000 from the district’s 2014-15 Fund 10 for professional development for personalized learning during the next four school years. The money will not come out of the district’s fund balance.

For the 2014-15 school year, 35 will open enroll out of the district, and 117 will open enroll into the district, said superintendent Brian Busler.

Looking to gather more input at meetings, board president Dan Krause said he’s going to open up meetings in the future to let audience members “chime in” during the meeting itself, and not regulate their comments to the traditional public comment period at the beginning of meetings.
