
Sometimes it is hard to know whether some of Ukip’s candidates in the European parliamentary elections have genuinely distasteful views or are just plain daft. According to David Coburn, Ukip’s lead candidate in Scotland, Alex Salmond was guilty of a “sectarian” stunt for visiting a mosque on the election trail.

Eh? By any standard of logic, even a warped one, the comment doesn’t make any sense. To be sectarian, one would, at the very least, refuse to visit places of worship associated with one particular faith while happily visiting others. Mr Salmond can be accused of many things, but that is certainly not one of them. Indeed, in this case, as Scotland’s First Minister, he was surely trying his utmost to be non-sectarian.

In an attempt to explain himself, Mr Coburn said that if he had visited a Roman Catholic cathedral, he would have been accused of playing the religious card. Eh, again? We are completely unable to imagine any  connection between Roman Catholics and Ukip’s principal policies of being anti-immigration or being against British membership of the EU.

Some, we concede, may think there is a sinister link between the EU’s founding Treaty of Rome and the fact that the RC Church has its seat of temporal governance in Rome. But such people, we also reckon, are given to wearing tinfoil hats.

So it is tempting to dismiss Mr Coburn’s remarks as mere nuttiness. But it is becoming more obvious by the day that there are just too many outbursts by too many Ukip people for the party to be regarded as just harbouring a few cranks, like any political outfit. The candidate who said that comedian Lenny Henry should go back to a “black country”, the Scottish official who said that Glasgow City Council was for “lesbians, gays [and] communists”, the councillor who blamed flooding on gay marriage … the list goes on and on.

True, some of these people have been kicked out of Ukip. But there’s the leader himself, Nigel Farage, on the radio and saying some pretty unpleasant things about Romanians, as though to be Romanian is to be a criminal. And when asked to apologise for this absurd stereotyping, he refuses to do so on air, and only does so many hours later.

One straw in the wind does not make a solid case for there being a nearby haystack, but when it becomes a blizzard of straws, it is fair to assume that the haystack is near and in a state of collapse. But Ukip, quite extraordinarily, despite all the evidence that it harbours rather a lot of intolerant and racist people, is not at all about to fold in on itself.

Moreover, it is not impossible that by next week Mr Coburn will be an MEP representing Scotland. Voters will have the democratic choice of accepting or rejecting such opinions at the ballot box on Thursday. Mr Coburn could do himself and his party a favour by withdrawing his remark in  advance of the election.

It is not as though Dalgety Bay is remote and rarely visited. It is right next to a township of several thousand people and hundreds of children, whose parents constantly worry that they are at risk. Children being children, temptations to ignore instructions and go play on the beach will always exist. That radioactive particles coming off Second World War aircraft instruments dumped offshore were being washed onshore has long been known.

The Committee on Medical Aspects of Radiation in the Environment believes that these are unconnected with cancer rates in nearby communities. But it believes they are a risk to health. It surely cannot have taken three years to reach that conclusion – testing a sample of the particles, which are described as “high  activity”, ought to have produced the necessary evidence a lot quicker than that.

The committee says that it has not been able to determine the magnitude of the contamination or how long the natural decay of radioactive elements might take for the danger to disappear of its own accord. But the suggestion that an offshore barrier should  be constructed implies that it thinks the risk may be pretty  substantial.

© 2014 Johnston Publishing Ltd.

This website and its associated newspaper adheres to the Press Complaints Commission’s Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion, then contact the Editor by clicking here .

If you remain dissatisfied with the response provided then you can contact the PCC by clicking here .

The Scotsman provides news, events and sport features from the Edinburgh area. For the best up to date information relating to Edinburgh and the surrounding areas visit us at The Scotsman regularly or bookmark this page.

For you to enjoy all the features of this website The Scotsman requires permission to use cookies.

Cookies are small data files which are sent to your browser (Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome etc) from a website you visit. They are stored on your electronic device.

This is a type of cookie which is collected by Adobe Flash media player (it is also called a Local Shared Object) - a piece of software you may already have on your electronic device to help you watch online videos and listen to podcasts.

Yes there are a number of options available, you can set your browser either to reject all cookies, to allow only "trusted" sites to set them, or to only accept them from the site you are currently on.

However, please note - if you block/delete all cookies, some features of our websites, such as remembering your login details, or the site branding for your local newspaper may not function as a result.

A tool used by some of our advertisers to target adverts to you based on pages you have visited in the past. To opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

Our sites contain advertising from Google; these use cookies to ensure you get adverts relevant to you. You can tailor the type of ads you receive by visiting here or to opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

This is used to help us identify unique visitors to our websites. This data is anonymous and we cannot use this to uniquely identify individuals and their usage of the sites.

This comes from our ad serving technology and is used to track how many times you have seen a particular ad on our sites, so that you don't just see one advert but an even spread. This information is not used by us for any other type of audience recording or monitoring.

ComScore monitor and externally verify our site traffic data for use within the advertising industry. Any data collected is anonymous statistical data and cannot be traced back to an individual.

Our Classified websites (Photos, Motors, Jobs and Property Today) use cookies to ensure you get the correct local newspaper branding and content when you visit them. These cookies store no personally identifiable information.

We use Grapeshot as a contextual targeting technology, allowing us to create custom groups of stories outside out of our usual site navigation. Grapeshot stores the categories of story you have been exposed to. Their privacy policy and opt out option can be accessed here.

Our partner for Newspaper subscriptions online stores data from the forms you complete in these to increase the usability of the site and enhance user experience.

Add This provides the social networking widget found in many of our pages. This widget gives you the tools to bookmark our websites, blog, share, tweet and email our content to a friend.

We use Advertising agencies to provide us with some of the advertising on our websites. These include (but are not limited to) Specific Media, The Rubicon Project, AdJug, AdConion, Context Web. Please click on the provider name to visit their opt-out page.
