
Missouri Air Force ROTC graduate Jordan Webb receives his officer commission from Commander Ken Webb at the ROTC Commissioning of Officers on Sunday in MU's Memorial Student Union. Webb, a pilot, will serve at Vance Air Force Base in Oklahoma.

COLUMBIA — Kimberly David has spent countless hours with her doctoral supervisor, Wendy Reinke, an associate professor in the College of Education.

But that didn't prevent Reinke from having a few jitters before the culmination of their five years of work together Sunday. As David prepared for her commencement ceremony, Reinke was a little worried that she'd trip while trying to give David her doctoral hood.

"We put a lot of time and effort into our doctoral candidates so I can trip over her on stage," Reinke said.

David received her doctorate in school psychology, and she was one of 268 new MU graduates who received their doctorates. Many of these freshly minted PhDs were recognized in Jesse Auditorium on Sunday afternoon during the hooding ceremony for doctoral candidates.

During the ceremony, the doctoral candidates are hooded by their mentors, an act that symbolizes their becoming PhDs in their respective fields. The intimate nature of the ceremony helps reiterate the close bond that is formed between doctoral candidates and their mentors.

"This is just the culmination of many years of hard work and the celebration of reaching a certain level of quality and creativity," said Dave Pintel, a professor in the School of Medicine.

This bond was the focus of MU Chancellor R. Bowen Loftin's address to the doctoral candidates, and he encouraged graduates to consider mentoring themselves.

"You will receive more back as a mentor," he said. "Taking that person from one place to another enhances your intellect, and every single one has taught me something."

Families and friends of former Air Force cadets gathered in MU's Memorial Student Union to witness the commissioning of officers. The ceremony honored ten cadets who took the Oath of Commissioned Officers and became Second Lieutenants in the Air Force.

After taking the oath, the officers' families pinned their new rank on their uniforms, and they received their first salute. Many of the officers chose family members or close friends who serve in the Air Force to perform their first salute, making the moment even more special.

Matthew Beckum just graduated from MU with a degree in atmospheric science and is starting a career in cyberspace operations.

"This is just really the start of the beginning of my career," he said.

He joined the Air Force to serve his country and explore the world. He will be stationed at the Keesler Air Force Base in Biloxi, Miss.

Nine other Second Lieutenants joined Beckum in taking their oaths Sunday, and they will begin their Air Force careers in areas such as nuclear and missile operations and special investigations across the country.

U.S. Rep. Vicky Hartzler encouraged graduates to continue to innovate and discover in the world of agriculture.

"You are the new pioneers who will change the world — today and tomorrow," she said.

On Sunday, new graduates and families continued to celebrate MU commencement with ceremonies for graduates from the School of Law, Trulaske College of Business and master's and educational specialist candidates from the Graduate School.

Sunday marked the third and final day of MU gradation ceremonies. More than 5,300 students were honored over the course of the weekend.

Report corrections or additions here. Leave comments below here.

You must be logged in to participate in the Show Me the Errors contest.

Don't use obscene, profane or vulgar language.

Don't use language that makes personal attacks on fellow commenters or    discriminates based on race, religion, gender or ethnicity.

Don’t solicit or promote businesses.

We are not able to monitor every comment that comes through. If you see   something objectionable, please click the "Report comment" link.

You must be logged in to comment.
