
Don't be surprised if your barber soon suggests you get a colonoscopy.

Mercyhurst University and UPMC Hamot will train 15 local barbers today on ways to talk with their customers about colorectal cancer and the benefits of getting a colonoscopy.

The Barber Shop Talk project is funded by a grant from the Pennsylvania Department of Health and targets barbers who serve African-American customers. African Americans are diagnosed with colorectal cancer at a higher rate than the general public and are more likely to die from it, said John Reilly, M.D., a Hamot colorectal surgeon.

"It's all about access, education and encouragement," Reilly said. "Colon cancer is a cancer that can be prevented 99.9 percent of the time with regular, preventive colonoscopies. But you have to get them."

A colonoscopy is a procedure in which a thin, flexible tube with a camera is inserted into the colon to check for polyps, which often turn cancerous if left in the colon.

Marcus Cleckley, who owns Cleckley Barbershop at 26 W. Eighth St., is one of the barbers who will attend today's training session at Hamot.

Cleckley knows how deadly colon cancer can be. His sister died from the disease.

"It strikes home for a lot of us. I don't know anyone who hasn't been touched by colon cancer or some other type of cancer," Cleckley said.

Talking about colon health in a barbershop isn't that far-fetched. Barbershops have long been a place where men can gather and discuss a variety of subjects, including health issues, Cleckley said.

"We talk with our barbers about things we don't bring up with other people," Cleckley said.

Still, Cleckley isn't sure yet how he will start conversations with his customers about colon health.

It's important to tailor a conversation so that it's specific to each customer, Reilly said.

"Barbers know their clients, especially the ones who come in on a regular basis," Reilly said. "If a client starts talking about their health, that's an opportunity."

Cleckley said he expects to receive brochures and other information at today's meeting that he can pass out to his customers.

DAVID BRUCE can be reached at 870-1736 or by e-mail. Follow him on Twitter at twitter.com/ETNbruce.
