
The Maury County Election Commission on Monday certified the Republican party primary results from May 6, Election Administrator Todd Baxter said.

The first-ever Republican primary for county offices attracted 7.29 percent of the 46,300 registered voters in the county, although there was only one contested race.

The three-man race for the Republican nomination for mayor ended with retired firefighter Charlie Norman defeating challengers Scott Cepicky and Mike Bennett, both of Spring Hill.

A Columbia man faces multiple charges stemming from a Sunday incident in which he allegedly endangered three children while attempting to flee a Maury County sheriff’s deputy.

Matthew Garrett Anderson, 19, 1445 Old 99 Hwy., remained jailed Monday facing 11 charges stemming from an encounter with the deputy who was attempting to stop his motorcycle. His bonds total $30,000.

According to an incident report, Sgt. Sam Barnes recognized Anderson’s 2002 yellow Suzuki while driving on James Campbell Blvd. from a previous incident on Friday. The deputy reported that Anderson accelerated rapidly then went into oncoming lanes reaching speeds close to 100 mph.

The deputy said Anderson went through the intersection at 17th Street “without concern for the public” and came close to three small children in the road near a parked car. Anderson then continued until he crashed at the Galloway intersection and then fled on foot, according to the report.

Barnes chased the suspect and detained him at gunpoint, according to the report. Anderson was not injured in the crash.

Five elementary schools and one middle school are offering summer remediation programs to students selected by their teachers.

These programs are federally funded through the district’s Title I schools and free to students who attend. Programs are for students who attended Brown Elementary, Highland Park Elementary, McDowell Elementary, Riverside Elementary, Mt. Pleasant Elementary and Mt. Pleasant Middle schools this semester.

The summer remediation programs are designed to provide learning through challenging, creative and interactive enrichment classes. Low student-to-teacher ratios enrich the experience.

The Old Hi-Way 50 Drive In in Lewisburg will participate in the Live at the Drive In music series on June 19 with a live cast concert of Jimmy Buffet &the Corral Reefer Band. Buffet is performing in Ft. Worth, Texas.

The Old Hi-Way 50 Drive In is located at 1584 Fayetteville Highway in Lewisburg. For tickets and information go to Margaritaville.com/liveatthedrive-in.

Comments posted below are from readers. In no way do they represent the view of Stephens Media LLC or this newspaper. This is a public forum.

Comments may be monitored for inappropriate content but the newspaper is under no obligation to do so.  Comment posters are solely responsible under the Communications Decency Act for comments posted on this Web site. Stephens Media LLC is not liable for messages from third parties.

Obscene, explicit, or racist language.

Copyrighted materials of any sort without the express permission of the copyright holder.

Personal attacks, insults or threats.

The use of another person's real name to disguise your identity.

Comments unrelated to the story.
