
Share This Story!

Robert Pattinson rates his car sex after having backseat relations with Juliet Binoche and Julianne Moore in Cannes Film Festival films.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Robert Pattinson smiles at the 2014 Cannes Film Festival.

CANNES, France — Robert Pattinson is getting quite a reputation at the Cannes Film Festival.

The Twilight star has returned to the festival with David Cronenberg's Map To the Stars, where his character has  sex with an older actress (played by Julianne Moore, 53) in the back seat of a town car.

In 2012, Pattinson was in Cannes with another Cronenberg film, Cosmopolis. In that film his character had sex with Juliette Binoche, 50, in the back of a limousine.

Pattinson was put on the spot at a festival news  conference on Monday when he was asked, "Who was the better passenger?"

The question caused Pattinson, 28, to blush madly and do a lot of giggling before answering, but he gamely took it on.

"They are both like sevens," said Pattinson while sitting right next to Moore at a table. After another laugh he revised his answer.

"Obviously, Julianne," he said. "It was a wonderful experience, just extremely sweaty."

The act in the confined space has its challenges. Pattinson told USA TODAY in 2012 that his scene with Binoche was difficult.

"There's not enough space to really do it," he said. "So she's banging her head on the ceiling. It ended up being kind of funny. But it's supposed to be kind of erotic."

The Canadian Cronenberg, who also directed the explicit car-sex movie Crash in 1996, shrugged off the notion that he focuses on car sex in his movies. He pointed out that cars played a tremendous role in the sexual revolution, "because people could get away from their parents and being supervised."

"It's not like I invented sex in cars," Cronenberg said.  "There is an entire generation of Americans spawned in the back seat."

"I don't think I'm breaking new territory," the director added. "Besides, why wouldn't you? There are such great cars."
