
Reggie Rockstone, the originator of hip-life music in Ghana, has called on the hip-life fraternity to join in the campaign for fairness, transparency, and equity in the distribution of royalties by the Ghana Music Rights Organization (GHAMRO).

Rockstone was among the several music right owners who turned up at a seminar last Tuesday to call on the interim GHAMRO Board headed by Carlos Sakyi, to respect the constitution governing its operations.

Okyeame Kwame, Kojo Antwi, Daddy Lumba, Abrantie Amakye Dede, Rex Omar, Zeal, Daddy Bosco, Prodigal, Appietus, Bessa Simons, and Obour were also present at the event.

Speaking at the seminar, Rockstone said royalties are crucial to musicians, especially hiplife artistes who are in the majority and the young crop of artistes in Ghana’s music industry.

He said hiplife musicians would be the ones to suffer most in the future if they did not join the campaign to ensure the proper handling of royalties.

Reggie was at the seminar with the two members of the newly constituted VVIP group, which used to be VIP until Promzy exited.

However, current hot artistes like Sarkodie, Samini, Shatta Wale, Castro, EL, Joe B, Kaakie, Stonebwoy, Chase Forever, SK Originale, Guru, Obrafour, Kwabena Kwabena, R2bees, Efya, Tiffany, Jon Germain and 4×4 among others were missing at the event.

Reggie expressed disappointment at the number of hiplife artistes who turned up at the meeting, urging them to get involved in such activities.

“I know we shouldn't wash our dirty linen in public. All right, this is for television. I am quite disappointed in how many of the hiplife soldiers turned up for this meeting. If you are watching and you are home, I want you to understand something; I have things to do too.

“This fight is for you (hiplifers). It is not for us; when your uncles can get up, come here, and represent. So please, I don’t know if they informed you or they didn't.

“However, this fight is about you because if you leave me alone, I am ok. I am ok. We can eat. It is about you – hiplife, transparency and accountability,” Reggie Rockstone said.

A number of hiplife artistes had raised red flags in the past for not receiving royalties since they started their career.

Reggie felt this was the time to make sure they stood up for what rightfully belonged to them.
