
Rolf Harris trial: Entertainer 'pinned 18-year-old holidaymaker against the wall and kissed her'

A British holidaymaker feared she was going be raped by Rolf Harris after he persuaded her to join him in the back room of a Maltese bar after she admired his artwork based on the hit song ‘Two Little Boys’, a court has heard.

The entertainer suggested the 18-year-old joined him to look at other paintings before he pinned her against the wall, started kissing her, and put his hand inside her clothes, Southwark Crown Court was told.

The woman – who had chatted happily with Mr Harris about art moments before – said that he suddenly stopped the alleged attack, cuddled her and apologised for what had happened, the woman told the hearing.

The woman – one of three women who gave evidence against the 84-year-old entertainer yesterday – said that they met when she went for help to a bar after her boyfriend cut his foot on the seashore.

After collecting towels to staunch the bleeding, she said that Mr Harris directed her to a nearby doctor to get the wound checked. She said that she was assaulted after she returned to the bar to thank him for his help and to talk with a man who had become a television personality.

She said that Mr Harris was with two other men. She was invited to have a drink while they had a “nice conversation” about art school and what they were doing in Malta.

She said that she admired a picture inside the bar signed by Mr Harris that showed two boys and their horses that appeared based on his former number one hit song.

Mr Harris suggested they went inside to see some more, the woman told the court. “I thought it was a nice gesture from a kind person,” she said. She said they went into a room with a red sofa, pictures on the wall and the entertainer shut the door behind them before launching the attack.

Mr Harris is accused of 12 counts of indecent assault against four women spanning some 18 years from 1968. The entertainer denies all of the charges.
