
Last Modified: Sunday, May 18, 2014 at 8:26 p.m.

LAKE WALES | Longleaf pines are relatively slow-growing trees that take longer to reach maturity than many other species.

And so it is for Longleaf Business Park in Lake Wales. Enthusiasm surrounded the public-private partnership when construction began in 2001, yet the 164-acre property remains well below its potential occupancy level.

Yet the developer and economic development officials in Lake Wales are feeling newly sanguine that Longleaf Business Park is ready for the growth spurt that has eluded it so far. Their main source of optimism: the opening of the nearby CSX Central Florida Intermodal Logistics Center in April.

The CSX facility, described as the nation's most advanced rail terminal, is capable of processing 300,000 containers a year.

"Between the city and I, we've gone through a lot of hardship on this park, but we're still standing and we're going to continue to stand, and I think now is the time for us," said Joe Miranda, the private developer of the property. "I'm more optimistic now than I've been in the last 15 years."

A commercial real estate company and the Lake Wales Area Chamber of Commerce are teaming up to market the park to potential buyers more aggressively than in the past. Both have put up "for sale or lease" signs at the property, which sprawls along the west side of U.S. 27 starting a mile south of S.R. 60.

The chamber also prominently features Longleaf Business Park on the economic development section of its newly redesigned website.

Miranda developed the park on speculation of finding buyers. Under the agreement he signed with the city, Lake Wales invested about $5 million for roads, utilities and other infrastructure at the property.

The project attracted some early occupants but soon bogged down. Miranda concedes that attempts to lure more buyers and tenants essentially stalled in recent years.

The property now has seven  buildings, but only about 48 percent of the 254,000 square feet of available space is occupied, said Larry Bossarte, the broker now handling the property for Miranda. Miranda said only 7,500 square feet of the 137,000 square feet he owns at the park is leased.

All of the available buildings are condominiums, Miranda said, making them available for sale or lease. Options exist for construction on 18 additional parcels at Longleaf, Miranda said.

A vacant 38,000-square-foot building on the north end of the park previously housed a Harley-Davidson dealership. The business opened amid fanfare in 2006 but closed three years later. The owners of Harley-Davidson of  Lakeland own the building and are looking for a buyer or tenant, Bossarte said.

In another setback, Rotanis Pet Products, an early occupant of one building, went out of business, Miranda said. Two other tenants, The Learning Center and Spin Magnetics, have moved out, Miranda said.

The biggest bright spot for Longleaf has been the presence of Kegel LLC,  a manufacturer of bowling products. The company bought the first  building constructed and now occupies 72,000 square feet of space, Miranda said, and purchased another parcel with a commitment to build on it.

Citizens Bank and Trust owns the ground floor of an office building at the south end of the park, and Miranda has offices on the third floor. Tenants at the park include the State Fire Marshal's Office.

Most recently, Georgia-based Fiddlers Ridge Winery began leasing space at the park.

In the past, the marketing of the park fell to the Lake Wales economic development department, said Bossarte, a broker with Coldwell Banker Commercial Saunders Ralston Dantzler Realty. That department has since been placed under the authority of the chamber.

Bossarte, who is on the chamber's board of directors, said he has fielded many recent inquiries from potential buyers or tenants. He said most fit in the category of light manufacturing.

Along with the opening of the CSX facility, Longleaf's principals are encouraged by plans for extension of a runway at the Lake Wales Municipal Airport.

"We're within five minutes of all this that's taking place," Miranda said, "so we feel this is what's going to get this park going, get this park as successful as we planned from the beginning."

All involved with Longleaf emphasize that the park is "shovel ready" for new construction, meaning infrastructure and permits are already in place.

'A HUGE ASSET'

Kevin Kieft, who has been hired as executive director of the Lake Wales Area Chamber of Commerce and Economic Development Council, said he was given a tour of Longleaf Business Park during the interview process. Kieft, who assumes his new job June 2, said the property is one of the reasons he accepted the offer.

Kieft, until recently a regional director for the Indiana Economic Development  Corporation, said marketing Longleaf will be a high priority for him.

"It's pretty rare when you have a basically move- in ready industrial, commercial-type building," Kieft said. "Up here, every day we deal with (companies saying), 'We can't find a building; we can't find the right fit.' To have that right there is a huge asset."

Reader comments posted to this article may be published in our print edition. All rights reserved. This copyrighted material may not be re-published without permission. Links are encouraged.
