
Families hoping for a school holiday getaway next week face hefty half-term price hikes on the railways – with even the cheapest tickets costing up to double what they would in term time.

A price-comparison exercise revealed even the lowest fares on offer over the half-term break are significantly higher than those just a few weeks later – and in some cases more than twice as much.

Rail firms deny deliberately pushing up prices to profit from families wanting to travel during the school holidays.

But they accept ‘airline-style pricing’ means the cost of a ticket at times of increased demand – such as school breaks - will be higher than at slacker periods such as term time when demand will be less and discounts greater.

The half-term  price-hike on the railways is the  latest school-holiday penalty paid by hard-pressed parents who already face higher prices from airlines, travel firms and hotels - at home and abroad.

It has even prompted Prime Minister David Cameron to suggest staggering the school year to end the potential for profiteering by smoothing out the peaks and troughs of high and lower demand.

The ‘Advance’ saver tickets, for a fixed time with no flexibility, are usually made available up to 12 weeks in advance of travel with prices starting low and then rising in stages as the cheapest ones are sold out.

But watchdogs say customers have no idea how many are available at the cheapest prices.

A lack of transparency  means it is impossible to know the degree to which train companies make available – or restrict – the cheaper ‘Advance’ saver tickets because these tickets are unregulated and sold at the discretion of the rail operators.

With the help of Passenger Focus, the Daily Mail looked at the prices of a cross-section of the cheapest return journeys for a family of four – two adults and two children - during next week’s half-term period, and compared them with the same journeys four weeks later in term time.

To compare prices with a normal working week and to avoid complications with the Bank Holiday weekend, the half-term dates chosen for travel were going out on Tuesday May 27 and returning on Friday May 30.

The term-time dates four weeks later were going out on Tuesday June 24 and returning on Friday June 27. Prices were taken from the National Train Enquiries website.

Yet such is the lottery of ‘airline style pricing’ that some prices were changing before our eyes even as the ‘bookings’ were being made.

From  London Paddington to Torquay on First Great Western the cheapest  ‘Advance’ saver ticket price for the family was £211.10. Four weeks  later in school term-time that same journey was available at £176.

A family making a trip from London’s Kings Cross to the historic city  of York on state-run East Coast would pay £237 for an Advance  saver-ticket next week, dropping to less than half that price at £108.60  a month later in term time.

A family of four on a city break to the capital traveling from  Liverpool to London Euston during half-term next week on Virgin Trains  will pay £163 for an Advance saver compared to £144 a month later in  term-time.

A family traveling from Peterborough to Edinburgh at half term will pay  £312 for the cheapest Advance saver we could secure on East Coast.

That  compares to £219 a month later in term time – a difference of £93 or a  hike of 42 per cent.

The Rail Delivery Group, which speaks on behalf of the rail industry, accepted that ‘airline style pricing’ meant prices rise when demand is highest.

Latest figures from the Office of Rail Regulation (ORR) show that discounted tickets such as ‘advance’ and off-peak fares accounted for 40 per cent of train company revenue and raised £3billion in 2012-13.

The comments below have not been moderated.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
