
A World War II veteran who acted as interpreter for Field Marshal Montgomery at the German surrender in May 1945 has died at the age of 91.

Welshman Derek Knee was the last surviving member of German and British military staff who spent two days negotiating the surrender of German forces in north-west Germany, Denmark and Holland at Luneburg Heath, in north Germany.

Mr Knee who died on Sunday lived in Barry, and was a keen member of the Cardiff Gramophone Society.

In 2005 he gave a poignant interview to the Western Mail describing the “extraordinary” surrender of Germany army chiefs to Monty in a tent at his headquarters near Hamburg, which set off a chain of events culminating in Victory in Europe Day on May 8, 1945.

On April 30, 1945, the intelligence officer heard on German radio news that Hitler had committed suicide and Grand Admiral Karl Dönitz had been named as his successor.

On May 2 he was told that Dönitz was seeking an armistice and that a German delegation wished to come through the Allied lines.

A German-speaking officer was wanted and Mr Knee was ordered to report to Field Marshal Montgomery’s 21st Army Group Tactical HQ on Lüneburg Heath, to which the German delegation was taken by car.

Speaking in 2005 he said: “We were all a bit taken aback.

“We couldn’t really grasp the significance on the world scene of what was happening.

“It appeared to be much less important than it really was.

Captain Knee, who had been studying French and German at Cambridge University before becoming caught up in the conflict, said his colonel came over to him and said the delegation needed a German-speaking officer.

“To start with I didn’t know who they were,” he said.

He remembered having to translate Monty’s often brusque words during the two days of negotiations in the woods.

“If you had been there at the time you would have thought he was addressing a group of vacuum cleaner salesmen because he just said, ‘What do you want?’ really very abruptly, very sharply,” Mr Knee said.

“He was not prepared to make any concessions.

“They said they’d come to discuss certain matters which (Admiral) Doenitz, who had taken over from Hitler, thought they should discuss.

Cpt Knee kept the letter for years, eventually donating it to the Imperial War Museum.

Montgomery was demanding an unconditional surrender but the German officers said they were not qualified to offer it.

With Cpt Knee acting as interpreter and with the aid of maps, Montgomery impressed upon the officers the hopelessness of the German position and told them to return the next day with the necessary authorisation.

By May 4 the story had gone around the world.

At Lüneburg Heath a carpeted tent had filled with war correspondents.

Montgomery, sitting at the head of the table, read out the instrument of surrender.

Each of the delegates – Admiral Hans-Georg von Friedeburg, General Eberhard Kinzel, Rear Admiral Gerhard Wagner and Colonel Fritz Poleck — was ordered to sign in turn.

Two weeks after the surrender was signed Cpt Knee was one of the group who went to arrest Doenitz and the rest of the German government in Flensburg.

On his return to Lüneburg Cpt Knee saw the body of Heinrich Himmler who, having been taken there for identification, had committed suicide.

After the war ended he returned to Cambridge to complete his languages degree and another in economics, marrying his wife Margaret in 1947.

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

Join us on social media.

For the latest local news straight to your Twitter, Facebook feed, e-mail inbox or tablet .

WalesOnline.co.uk conforms to the newspaper industry's voluntary Code of Practice, administered by the Press Complaints Commission.

If you feel we have made an error in a report, or have fallen below our usual high standards, please write in the first instance to: Ceri Gould, Online Editor, WalesOnline.co.uk, Media Wales, Six Park Street, Cardiff CF10 1XR. Tel: 029 2024 3672.

We reach over 1,384,563* unique users a month with dedicated coverage of all things Welsh.

WalesOnline is part of Media Wales, publisher of the Western Mail, South Wales Echo, Wales on Sunday and the seven Celtic weekly titles, offering you unique access to our audience across Wales online and in print.

Ceri has been editor of WalesOnline since April 2012. She was previously executive editor of Media Wales and deputy editor of the Western Mail. She started her career on the Glamorgan Gazette.
