
The bond between friends on the Arlington school board was on display Thursday when Trustee John Hibbs grew misty-eyed as he said goodbye to longtime friend and fellow Trustee Tony Pompa .

Pompa isn’t moving or removing his four daughters from the school district, but he left his seat on the school board behind Thursday after an unsuccessful run for the Texas Senate in the March primary.

Hibbs and other trustees honored Pompa, while outgoing state Rep. Diane Patrick, R-Arlington, gave Pompa a flag flown over the state Capitol and a resolution from the House of Representatives honoring him for his drive and business savvy.

But Hibbs was the one to draw tears from Pompa when he spoke of their friendship and his faith in his future.

Hibbs’ voice cracked, Pompa reached for the tissues, and the room went silent.

Then board President Bowie Hogg recalled Pompa’s struggle moving from Mexico at age 11 to become a U.S. citizen at 19 after marrying his college sweetheart, Julie Pompa.

The two went on to have five daughters, now ages 9 to 21, and Pompa is now owner of General Assembly , a professional merchandising services organization. He said he has no plans to seek another public office anytime soon.

At that moment Julie Pompa began to cry, too.

Board Vice President Jamie Sullins invited four of the Pompa daughters to sit in her seat and talk about their dad.

“It was kind of boring, but I’m glad he got elected,” one of the little ones said.

He said the school board he is leaving behind is one that has evolved from compliance-driven to performance-driven.

He’ll be missed as a trustee, but he’ll always be a friend, Superintendent Marcelo Cavazos said.

Arlington school Trustee Tony Pompa is honored at his last school board meeting Thursday. From left: Superintendent Marcelo Cavazos; wife, Julie Pompa; Pompa, state Rep. Diane Patrick, R-Arlington; and school board President Bowie Hogg.

Arlington school Trustee Tony Pompa with his wife, Julie, and four of his five daughters at his last school board meeting Thursday. The couple have 9-year-old twins, an 11-year-old, a 15-year-old and a 21-year-old.

We welcome your comments on this story, but please be civil. Do not use profanity, hate speech, threats, personal abuse, images, internet links or any device to draw undue attention. Our policy requires those wishing to post here to use their real identity.
