
Coronation Street stars not only won big on stage at the BAFTA TV awards - but with their glamorous ensembles on the red carpet.

Soap stars including Kate Ford, Julie Hesmondhalgh, Samia Ghadie, Michelle Collins and Jane Danson all dazzled in sophisticated ballgowns as they headed to the showbiz extravaganza in London on Sunday night.

And Samia and Julie’s red carpet looks were particularly impressive - as BOTH had taken part in the Great Manchester Run earlier in the day - sweating it out in searing temperatures over 10km.

Samia, who plays the soap’s Maria Sutherland, wowed the red carpet in a full length black gown with sheer panels around her waist and diamante detailing, meanwhile Julie also went for full-length black with a chunky jewelled necklace.

Michelle Collins looked stunning in a nude lace dress with full length overlay teamed with nude heels, while her on-screen daughter Jane Danson opted for a strapless midnight blue gown with diamond details.

Kate Ford, who plays soap baddie Tracy Barlow, went for retro glamour in a 1950s-style black prom dress with diamond detail on the collar.

They joined a galaxy of stars from the TV world at the glitzy bash.

Other style winners on the red carpet included Stockport’ s Tess Daly in a glamorous nude and black spotted prom dress as she joined her new Strictly Come Dancing co-presenter Claudia Winkleman on the red carpet, and Good Morning Britain host Susanna Reid who dazzled in a full-length red gown.

Former BAFTA winner Sheridan Smith cut the most impressive dash by rocking a purple quiff as she headed to present a gong at the bash in a white fitted dress.

But naturally it was supermodel Naomi Campbell who stole the style show - looking effortlessly glamorous in a floor length silver gown with a daring show of cleavage.

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

The Manchester Evening News and www.manchestereveningnews.co.uk conform to the newspaper industry's voluntary Code of Practice, administered by the Press Complaints Commission.

If you feel we have made an error in a report, or have fallen below our usual high standards, please write in the first instance to: Rob Irvine, editor, Manchester Evening News, Mitchell Henry House, Hollinwood Avenue, Chadderton, Oldham OL9 8EP.

M.E.N. Media is one of the north west’s largest media providers and reaches 7 out of 10 people in Greater Manchester every week.

Online, manchestereveningnews.co.uk welcomes 2.4million unique users who experience12.4million page views every month.

Our newspapers include the flagship Manchester Evening News - Britain's largest circulating regional daily with up to 130,485 copies - as well as 20 local weekly titles across Greater Manchester, Cheshire and Lancashire.

Free morning newspaper, The Metro, published every weekday, is also part of our portfolio, delivering more than 200,000 readers in Greater Manchester.

Greater Manchester Business Week is the region’s number one provider of business news andfeatures, targeting a bespoke business audience with 12,687 copies every Thursday.

Every month, M.E.N. Media’s print products reach 2.2 million adults, spanning from Accrington in the north to Macclesfield in the south.

Rob Irvine was appointed editor-in-chief of MEN Media and Trinity Mirror Huddersfield in April 2012.

Rob joined Trinity Mirror in 2001 and was editor of the Daily Post North Wales for seven years. He was also publishing director for Trinity Mirror North Wales and Cheshire.

He grew up in Stockport, Greater Manchester and has worked in the local newspaper industry for 27 years.
