
A New Zealand woman who claims she was assaulted by Rolf Harris as a teenager in 1970 exclaimed "they finally got the bastard" when she heard the entertainer had been arrested more than 40 years later.

The woman, who can't be named for legal reasons, gave evidence at Harris's indecent assault trial in London on Monday.

She met the entertainer when she was 16 or 17 while working for a wine company at a function in New Zealand.

The woman initially asked for Harris's autograph and posed for photographs with him.

The famous artist and singer then asked her for a dance.

"In a flash, in a moment, I saw the dark side of a man who I thought could be trusted," the witness said on Monday.

"I was in a public place, he slid his hand down my back against my bottom and then in a moment put his hand up my skirt and tried to put his hand in between my legs."

She added she felt Harris's hand "going up between my legs".

The woman cried as she recalled the alleged assault at Southwark Crown Court.

She told her mother at the time that Harris was a "disgusting, vile and repulsive man" who'd destroyed her trust.

Years later she told her husband and in April 2013 he was the one to break the news that Harris had been arrested in the UK.

"They've finally got the bastard," she said then.

"All those years later it was unbelievable the relief I felt."

The woman subsequently got in touch with British police and was interviewed.

Defence lawyer Sonia Woodley QC on Monday questioned why the Kiwi initially told police that Harris had tried to put his hand between her legs but in court said he definitely had done so.

The woman explained it was all "one movement".

Pressed by Ms Woodley, however, the witness snapped: "How do you sleep at night?"

"I am telling the truth," she continued.

"I would enjoy your respect."

The defence lawyer suggested Harris's hand may have "innocently" wandered down her back in 1970 but insisted it never went under her dress.

The court also heard from two other so-called "bad character" witnesses on Monday.

One was 18 and on holiday with her boyfriend in Malta in 1970 when she claims Harris assaulted her in a bar.

The woman, now in her early 50s, said she and Harris had been discussing one of his paintings hanging in the bar when he said: "I've got some more if you'd like to see them?"

She followed him into a side room where he pushed her up against a wall and started kissing her in a "slobberly" way.

Then he allegedly touched her breasts over her dress before putting his hand beneath her underpants.

Afterwards the then 18-year-old was relieved.

"I was happy that was it," the witness explained to the jury.

"I thought I was going to be raped."

Ms Woodley later suggested Harris never touched her in Malta.

"I can assure you he did," she replied.

A third witness said in Darwin in 1969 Harris stuck his tongue into her mouth when she was 11 or 12.

Harris asked how old she was and then said "good I want to be the first one to introduce you to a tongue kiss", the court heard.

He then assaulted her.

The Australian witness on Monday said she'd had an aversion to being kissed ever since.

The prosecution plans to call at least three more bad character witnesses who say Harris harassed them in Australia between 1986 and 1991.

The entertainer can't be charged over the incidents because they occurred outside Britain but the prosecution says the women's evidence adds weight to the crown's case.

Harris is charged with indecently assaulting four girls in the UK between 1968 and 1986. The 84-year-old denies all 12 counts.
