
Tanzanian cement manufacturer Tanga Cement Company Limited (TCCL) has spent TZS163 million in 2014 as part of its corporate social responsibility programme, according to local reports. In 2013, the company spent a total of TZS88.4 million in the education sector alone, which represents 27% of the total funds set aside for the company’s projects in Tanzania.

During a ceremony marking the donation of 1000 bags of Simba cement to the Pangani District, Ben Lema, TCCL Plant Manager, noted that the distribution of cement bags to schools and health centres in the country has been done through the company’s Community Social Initiative (CSI) programme, which supports Tanzanian communities in the areas of education, health, community sustainability and environment. Lema commented that better schools and better equipment is needed to encourage economic growth.

According to reports, the company’s contribution to the Pangani District amounted to approximately TZS12.8 million. The donation will help to build laboratories and hostels for secondary schools and housing for doctors and teachers throughout the district.

Furthermore, TCCL recently donated a total 1000 bags of cement for the construction of secondary school laboratories in the Korogwe District, Tanga Region. The total cost of the donated cement was around TZS13.1 million.

During the handing-over ceremony, Mr. Reinhardt Swart, TCCL’s Managing Director, said; “Tanga Cement Company Limited understands the importance of education for the development of any nation and that is why education is one of the focus areas of the CSI programme. It is with no doubt that without education no country will develop”.

“The Government of Tanzania has been putting emphasis on scientific studies and we all know that laboratories are a must for science subjects; you cannot produce scientists without having laboratories. We have been supporting the education sector in Tanzania by building and furnishing classrooms in Tanzania. Today we are supporting the Korogwe district with this cement for the construction of laboratories in secondary schools. This is also our support to the development of the country’s education sector. The country needs more scientists and engineers to work for companies like Tanga Cement,” Swart continued.

World Cement is a portal to added value information generated by Palladian Publications' cement-sector magazine. It also features an industry directory, events listings and a regional insight section.
