
You must be registered to comment and vote on comments.

City and Park Board officials in Minneapolis are considering giving control of the proposed "Yard" in downtown east to a third-party entity.

Council Member Jacob Frey said the two entities met Friday to discuss who will take control of operations and maintenance of the park, which will adjoin Wells Fargo ’s new corporate campus near the Vikings stadium.

Although an agreement has not yet been signed, Frey said the city and Park Board are coming to a consensus that giving control to an outside entity, like a non-profit or conservancy, is the best option. Frey said The Yard project is too big for the city or the Park Board to handle on its own.

The third-party group would consist of city, park board and community representatives. Frey said there may be representatives from other groups as well, such as the Vikings or Ryan Companies.

“I think at this point it’s premature to say there’s any kind of consensus developing,” said council president Barb Johnson, who supports having an outside entity manage the Yard. A final decision will likely need to be approved by the council and the Park Board, she added.

Johnson observed that downtown parks are “a different kind of animal” that rely on a different model than typical parks to be successful.

Park Board Superintendant Jayne Miller said she disagreed with the notion that a concensus is forming.

Frey said the agreement could come in the next few weeks because the park is on a “tight timeline.“It’s important that we have an end decision so that we have an entity that is able to fundraise,” Frey said.

One idea that the group discussed was giving the ownership of The Yard to the Park Board, Frey said, which would then lease all operation and maintenance to the conservancy.

Once the conservancy is formed, its first task will be fundraising.

The park is made possible by about $18 million in city bonding dollars, much of which was allocated for site acquisition and demolition of the Star Tribune building . About $1.1 million was projected to be left over for a basic park, and the Vikings agreed to pay another $1 million for improvements.

The bonds, which are also helping fund a nearby parking ramp, are expected to be repaid using parking revenues.

In January, members of the Park Board grumbled about the prospect of taking over the Yard. Park Board President Liz Wielinski said at the time it could cost $300,000 a year just to mow, shovel and light a basic park -- not accounting for any additional amenities.

“It’s the gift that keeps on taking,” Wielinski said at the time.

Arlene Fried, co-founder of Park Watch, said the process should be subject to hearings and more public scrutiny. She questioned Frey’s assertion that there was a tight timeline.

Your comment is being reviewed for inclusion on the site.

StarTribune.com welcomes and encourages readers to comment and engage in substantive, mutually respectful exchanges over news topics. Commenters must follow our Terms of Use .

Keep it civil and stay on topic.

No profanity, vulgarity, racial slurs or personal attacks.

Comments with web links are not permitted.

Comments that violate the above will be removed. Repeat violators may lose their commenting privileges on StarTribune.com.

Comments will be reviewed before being published.
