
Until recently, Nawal Msaad was an outgoing University student - but she has now come to be known as the first British Muslim woman accused of Syria-related terror offences.

Please wait while this video loads. If it doesn't load after a few seconds you may need to have Adobe Flash installed.

Until recently, Nawal Msaad was an outgoing University student - but   she has now come to be known as the first British Muslim woman accused   of Syria-related terror offences.

In an exclusive interview,   she told me that nothing could be further from the truth. "Those who   know me, know that I have strong views against terrorism and against   religious extremism."

The 27-year-old was arrested at Heathrow airport in January, as she   was about to travel to Turkey. At the time, it was widely reported that   Ms Msaad was trying to smuggle 20,000 euros to Syria in her underwear -   something she denies.

She appeared in court on Monday along with her friend and co-accused, Amal El-Wahabi, 27, and mother-of two young children.

The pair are accused of together making arrangements to smuggle the   money to Syria, knowing that it that it would or may be used for the   purposes of terrorism. They both stood in the dock and pleaded not   guilty.

Afterwards, Ms Msaad spoke to us about what she has   been through since her arrest. It is unusual for someone awaiting trial   to speak to the media - but Ms Msaad told me she felt strongly that she   wanted to protest her innocence.

She told me: "It's not me,  my  character, who I stand for, I have strong views against terrorism,   against religious extremism. I'm a Muslim, it makes my religion look   not-peaceful, and it's not a true representation of Islam. I hope people   can understand why I'm angry.

The Londoner says she feels British Muslims are being unfairly   targeted. She recently wrote on her Facebook page: "I can't help but   wonder if I had been called Natalie from Surrey whether the authorities   would have pressed terrorism charges against me."

Following her arrest, she had to spend seven weeks on remand and   turned 27 inside. "It was awful," she said, "It was really stressful and   it was scary."

Ms Msaad was eventually granted bail - but has to wear an electronic   tag and is under a curfew as part of her bail conditions. She says   without the support of her family she wouldn't have been able to get   though her ordeal.

The families of both women were in court to support them. Their trial is due to begin on the 7 July.
