
PREMIER Will Hodgman has vowed to fight the Federal Government for tens of millions of dollars it has ripped from the Tasmanian health system.

About $27 million will be withdrawn next financial year, which the State Government says is equal to the loss of 59 hospital beds, or 5000 operations. It comes as a Mercury investigation reveals a series of bungles at the Royal Hobart Hospital.

A MAN was forced to wait 30 hours for an urgent operation on his groin.

A WOMAN, 76, had exploratory cancer surgery cancelled – a week before the operation.

A SORELL woman received X-ray and CD records belonging to another patient.

See today’s Mercury for more on the RHH bungles.

The state is set to lose $1.7 billion in federal health funding over the next decade.

The Federal Budget has also sparked a campaign by GPs opposing plans to charge a $7 co-payment to visit doctors, amid concerns it will lead to a surge in presentations to hospital emergency departments.

Mr Hodgman yesterday said he was seeking to have “sensible and constructive” discussions with his federal counter­parts, including Prime Minister Tony Abbott.

The Premier said Tasmania was being unfairly disadvantaged by cost-cutting measures in the Federal Budget.

“We have learned over ­recent days ... there will be ­direct and immediate impact on Tasmania’s health system. It’s my job to put a strong case to Canberra to why that is unreason­able, why that’s unsustain­able,” he said.

Mr Hodgman said the Government ­remained committed to its promise of $76 million to reduce elective surgery waiting lists.

But Opposition Leader Bryan Green said the Premier should reveal which election promises would have to be ­broken to help cover the “disastrous” funding shortfall from the Federal Budget.

Mr Green said the Government could not cover the shortfall and keep $500 million worth of promises.

“I can’t see how they can do that without sacking thousands of public servants or going on a privatisation ­agenda,” he said.

Health Minister Michael Ferguson said the buck stopped with the former state government.

Mr Ferguson said the Service Agreement signed by Labor last July was responsible for the budgetary shortfall which had seen elective surgery slashed and a steep ­increase in cancellations.

“This is their legacy,” he said.

He was adamant the ­promised additional $76 million for the RHH budget would start to flow from July 1 when a service agreement was signed.

Dog whistling ...Liberals are all the same - only helping the very very wealthy. Just more posturing from the party that thinks forestry will make us rich - publicly anyway - privately I suspect they know it's a massive sinkhole to swallow taxpayers money.

Miriam..As you rightly pointed out, he is an ex minister.He has a right to an opinion but thats as far as it goes. Please stop your Greenie scaremongering.

Watch this 86 find its fate in an Armco fence.
