
Public servant Martin Bowles was shifted from the Defence Department to oversee the scheme's termination in 2010.

He says the program caused so much anxiety in the Environment Department, some staff left their jobs with stress-related conditions.

"Even if we fast-forward into the work I did, there were some pretty stressful circumstances," he said.

"I would suggest people probably also left during my tenure there because of the stress of the circumstances."

Master Electricians Australia chief executive officer Malcolm Richards told the commission today many insulation installers had "near-misses" before the first death linked to the national roll-out.

He told today's hearing he was receiving "several calls a week" from members concerned about safety switches being tripped by installers stapling foil insulation into wiring.

Mr Richards says he was preparing a warning letter for then-environment minister Peter Garrett when Matthew Fuller was electrocuted in 2009.

"I wanted the foil suspended immediately, until it could be sorted out a safe way to reintroduce it," he said.

"I'm personally disappointed we didn't react faster and raise the issue sooner, because if we had, we may have made some difference.

"Although from the ensuing events, I deem it highly unlikely that we would have been heard or listened to until the events got serious."

Mr Richards has already told the commission that his organisation was not consulted before the program was announced, and if it had been, it would have "red-flagged" a plan to allow the use of foil insulation products because of the safety risks.

He says using foil insulation products to retrofit homes during the Rudd government roll-out was a bad idea.

Senior Western Australian bureaucrat David Smith will also testify later this afternoon.

Mr Smith has already told the commission he raised concerns with the federal government early in the program's roll-out about the enforcement of safety standards.

Over more than seven weeks, the royal commission proceedings in Brisbane have heard evidence of communication failures, missed warnings and public servants working under extraordinary pressure.

Former prime minister Kevin Rudd and three of his ministers were among dozens of witnesses who gave evidence.

Families of three of four workers killed on the job also spoke of their heartbreak and anger at the hearings.

If you have inside knowledge of a topic in the news, contact the ABC .

An aid worker becomes a little girl's sole guardian after Ebola wipes out a family in Sierra Leone.

This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.
