
The gun, a .33-caliber pistol, was removed from the school and so was the student.  Minutes later, the school issued an alert to parents that read, "One student made a poor decision of bringing a loaded handgun in his backpack to school today. The student was taken into custody and removed from campus. Law enforcement advised us that the campus is safe."

The incident at Colonial High School is part of the data used by the Department of Education and the school district to examine trends and determine where potential problems exist.

The numbers from the DOE include reported incidents, reports to police, drugs, firearms, bullying, alcohol and incidents resulting in an injury.  By looking at reported incidents weighted against student population, the list of the Top 25 most dangerous schools includes nine schools in Volusia County, four in Seminole and one, Leesburg High School, in Lake County.

Potter notes that while the numbers may provide a guide the data-set is far from a perfect guide.

“The distinction between what’s known and what’s actually reported is always there,” said Potter.

Seminole Public Schools said since the data was released it has seen a 25 percent decrease district wide in suspensions and 50 percent decrease at Seminole High School.

“We also look at where those offenses occurred on campus,” said Blasewitz.

The school said by reporting exactly what each incident is, the district is better able to address issues and identify patterns.

Thank you for registering!

We have sent you a confirmation email. Please check your email and click on the link to activate your account.

Thank you for registering!

We look forward to seeing you frequently. Visit us and sign in to update your profile, receive the latest news and keep up to date with mobile alerts.

Don't worry, it happens. We'll send you a link to create a new password.

We have sent you an email with a link to change your password.

We've sent an email with instructions to create a new password. Your existing password has not been changed.

To sign in you must verify your email address. Fill out the form below and we'll send you an email to verify.

Check your email for a link to verify your email address.
