
A LEADING conservation organisation has backed the reintroduction of wolves to Scotland.

The John Muir Trust has claimed there is “no ecological reason” why the species should not return to the Highlands.

Wolves were hunted to extinction in the 1700s and their reintroduction has sparked a controversial debate in recent years.

In particular, landowner Paul Lister has proposed introducing up to a dozen wolves on his Alladale Estate in Sutherland.

Mike Daniels, the trust’s head of land and science, gave the conservation body’s support to the idea in the latest edition of the charity’s journal which discusses the wider issue of rewilding in Scotland.

He said: “The most potent symbol of rewilding is undoubtedly the wolf. There’s no ecological reason why wolves couldn’t come back – we have the climate, the habitat and the food.

“The weight of evidence suggests that the absence of the wolf has had a profound effect, impoverishing our ecosystems.

“Culturally, though, we have distanced ourselves from the wolf, demonising it beyond rational or logical argument. Many are afraid of the ‘big bad wolf’ even though they are far more likely to be harmed by their pet dogs (or indeed their horses) than by any wolf, if it were present.

He added that in most of the rest of Europe, where the wolf is returning, the majority of people seem pleased or proud to have it back.

He said: “From Poland to Portugal, wolf ecotourism is growing as rural communities cash in on the appeal that this wildest of carnivores has for many people.

“Of course, not everyone is enamoured. In Sweden, when the courts recently overturned a proposal to cull 30 wolves, farmers and hunters claimed that their way of life was threatened to such an extent that civil unrest was possible.

Wolves were driven to extinction by persecution and hunting. Chieftains and royalty led some of the hunting parties.

One attended by Queen Mary in 1563 employed 2,000 Highlanders and ended in the deaths of five wolves and 360 deer.

The remains of a wolf trap have also been found at Moy, near Inverness, dating from between the 16th and 18th centuries.

Animals killed near Brora, in Sutherland, in 1700 and another at Findhorn, in Moray, in 1743 were among Scotland’s last.

JMT said that over the next few months it hoped to stimulate debate on returning areas to more natural states.

Chief executive Stuart Brooks said the charity wanted to help develop a practical vision on rewilding.

© 2014 Johnston Publishing Ltd.

This website and its associated newspaper adheres to the Press Complaints Commission’s Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion, then contact the Editor by clicking here .

If you remain dissatisfied with the response provided then you can contact the PCC by clicking here .

The Scotsman provides news, events and sport features from the Edinburgh area. For the best up to date information relating to Edinburgh and the surrounding areas visit us at The Scotsman regularly or bookmark this page.

For you to enjoy all the features of this website The Scotsman requires permission to use cookies.

Cookies are small data files which are sent to your browser (Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome etc) from a website you visit. They are stored on your electronic device.

This is a type of cookie which is collected by Adobe Flash media player (it is also called a Local Shared Object) - a piece of software you may already have on your electronic device to help you watch online videos and listen to podcasts.

Yes there are a number of options available, you can set your browser either to reject all cookies, to allow only "trusted" sites to set them, or to only accept them from the site you are currently on.

However, please note - if you block/delete all cookies, some features of our websites, such as remembering your login details, or the site branding for your local newspaper may not function as a result.

A tool used by some of our advertisers to target adverts to you based on pages you have visited in the past. To opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

Our sites contain advertising from Google; these use cookies to ensure you get adverts relevant to you. You can tailor the type of ads you receive by visiting here or to opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

This is used to help us identify unique visitors to our websites. This data is anonymous and we cannot use this to uniquely identify individuals and their usage of the sites.

This comes from our ad serving technology and is used to track how many times you have seen a particular ad on our sites, so that you don't just see one advert but an even spread. This information is not used by us for any other type of audience recording or monitoring.

ComScore monitor and externally verify our site traffic data for use within the advertising industry. Any data collected is anonymous statistical data and cannot be traced back to an individual.

Our Classified websites (Photos, Motors, Jobs and Property Today) use cookies to ensure you get the correct local newspaper branding and content when you visit them. These cookies store no personally identifiable information.

We use Grapeshot as a contextual targeting technology, allowing us to create custom groups of stories outside out of our usual site navigation. Grapeshot stores the categories of story you have been exposed to. Their privacy policy and opt out option can be accessed here.

Our partner for Newspaper subscriptions online stores data from the forms you complete in these to increase the usability of the site and enhance user experience.

Add This provides the social networking widget found in many of our pages. This widget gives you the tools to bookmark our websites, blog, share, tweet and email our content to a friend.

We use Advertising agencies to provide us with some of the advertising on our websites. These include (but are not limited to) Specific Media, The Rubicon Project, AdJug, AdConion, Context Web. Please click on the provider name to visit their opt-out page.
