
KUWAIT CITY, May 19: A Kuwaiti woman and her three daughters were swept out to the sea when waves hit them as they were enjoying the seaside opposite Kuwait Complex in Abu Halifa. Luckily, two male compatriots rescued the woman and her daughters prior to the arrival of the firefighters and Marina Rescue Team dispatched by the Operations Room at the Ministry of Interior after receiving information on the incident. The rescuers disclosed the woman and her daughters were already saved when they arrived at the scene. Preliminary investigations revealed the two Kuwaiti men were walking along the seaside when they heard the woman and her daughters shouting for help. The men did not think twice as they quickly jumped into the sea to rescue the victims, who were provided on-thespot treatment.

Tragic end: A young Egyptian, believed to be 25 years old, died on the spot and his wife and one-yearold daughter escaped with injuries when a Kuwaiti knocked them down while crossing the Arabian Gulf Street, reports Al-Rai daily. It has been reported the victim had gone to the Egyptian Embassy and after casting his vote was on his way home. The corpse of the man has been referred to Forensics. His wife and daughter who sustained fractures have been admitted to a hospital. The motorist has been detained at a police station for interrogation. The Egyptian Ambassador to Kuwait Abdulkarim Suleiman has expressed his deep sorrow and sent condolences to his family.

Election blues: An Egyptian pregnant woman who was waiting for her turn to cast her ballot in the Egyptian presidential elections felt labor pain and had to be rushed to a hospital, reports Al-Seyassah daily. In another incident one Egyptian almost reached a point of divorce at the embassy. They were involved in an argument over the choice of candidate.

Baby abandoned: Police are looking for an unidentified ‘mother’ for abandoning her 2-month-old baby inside the Adan Hospital, reports Al-Shahed daily. A Bangladeshi cleaning worker said he saw the woman leaving the boy alone and thought she had gone to bring something. The baby has been referred to the Pediatric Ward. Acase has been registered at the Hadiya Police Station.
