
Mobile phone footage shows Ms Mirabella being pushed around at Melbourne University on Monday morning.

It is understood about 20 students were protesting against the Abbott government’s recent changes to higher education fees where universities will be able to set their own tuition fees from 2016.

The student protesters used megaphones to yell at the former MP during her lecture and some even confronted her at the front of the room.

Ms Mirabella was ushered from the lecture hall after 10am as police removed the student protesters.

A student named Alex told 3AW ‘it was getting really out of hand’.

'It looked to me like they were trying to physically confront Sophie,' he said.

The protest comes just days after a group of students mobbed Foreign Minister Julie Bishop at the University of Sydney last week.

Ms Mirabella was at the university to address a politics class but students were only notified of her lecture on Sunday night to avoid possible confrontation.

The university appointed Ms Mirabella as a public policy fellow in March to deliver lectures and organise public policy seminars, the The Age reports.

The students behind the protest were members of the Socialist Alternative group and the Melbourne University Education Action Collective.

The groups have been campaigning against the former politician's appointment at the university, according to the Herald Sun .

Protester Jade Eckhaus rejected claims the students were violent and said there needed to be more protests.

'I think it’s really disgraceful that someone like Sophie Mirabella has been not just invited on to our campus but is now a paid guest lecturer,' she said.

Ms Mirabella returned to finish her lecture on politics and the media about 25 minutes after the protesters were removed.

'She came back in and everybody was applauding,' Kate Lawrence, a first-year arts student, said.

The comments below have not been moderated.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
