
VENTIMIGLIA, Italy (Reuters) - Convicted rogue trader Jerome Kerviel said on Sunday he would return to France, where he faces a jail sentence, after first saying he would stay in Italy.

Kerviel, 37, had appealed to France's president to intervene in his case. The trader has spent over three years fighting charges stemming from massive market bets that brought French bank Societe Generale close to collapse in 2008.

He was convicted of breach of trust, forgery and fraudulent data manipulation. Earlier this year, he began walking from Rome to Paris after meeting the pope. He has portrayed his case as one individual's struggle against high finance.

French judges required him to report to a French police station by Sunday evening to start serving his sentence, which was confirmed by France's highest appeals court in March. If he stayed in Italy, he would be considered a fugitive and France would issue a European warrant for his arrest.

"I'm going to have dinner with my friends ... and then return to France," Kerviel told reporters in the Italian town of Ventimiglia, close to the French border. "The fight will go on. Whatever happens, Societe Generale and finance in general will continue to hear from me."

Kerviel did not say what he planned do after crossing the Italian border. He may decide to report to the southern French police station of Menton by midnight. Or he may keep walking towards Paris until he is arrested.

Speaking to a crowd of TV reporters following him throughout the weekend, Kerviel had earlier appealed to French President Francois Hollande to give immunity to unnamed witnesses he said would be willing to testify in his favor. He claimed he was not guilty and that his criminal conviction was unfair.

The French president's office has only replied that if Kerviel asked for presidential grace, his request would be examined according to usual procedures. Kerviel rejected that offer, saying it would imply an admission of guilt on his part.

Kerviel has never denied masking his 50 billion-euro ($68.52 billion) positions, but he says his bosses knew what he was doing. The courts, however, have each time backed SocGen's insistence that the trader acted alone.

France's highest appeal court upheld his three-year jail term in March. But it quashed 4.9 billion euros in civil damages to compensate SocGen for its losses when it unwound the trader's positions in the midst of the financial crisis.

In an emailed statement on Saturday, a spokesman for Societe Generale criticized the media hype around Kerviel. He said Kerviel had been the subject of a meticulous investigation, judged three times and found guilty each time.

Welcome, !

* Copyright © 2014 Business Insider Inc. All rights reserved. Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy .
