
(Peter Hvizdak - New Haven Register) A graduate waves to his family and friends during the Albertus Magnus College Ninety-First Commencement Exercises Sunday, May 18, 2014 at Albertus Magnus College in New Haven.

NEW HAVEN >> For Furaha Mimi Mitima and hundreds of other students, the walk across the stage in front of Rosary Hall at Albertus Magnus College on Sunday represented the final steps in a very long journey.

For Mitima, that journey began in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and took her to Zambia and then to Shelton and Ansonia High School. As a teenager, she worked hard in the classroom and also in a part-time job cleaning the Shelton Community Center while taking care of five younger siblings.

On Sunday, an important part of Mitima’s journey finished as she received her Bachelor of Arts in Sociology.

The oldest of seven, Mitima said that she was happy to be able to set an example for her younger siblings. She said she would like to work with children or refugees and pursue a master’s degree in the future.

In total, Albertus Magnus awarded 528 degrees on Sunday, including 64 associate degrees, 328 bachelor’s degrees and 136 master’s degrees. And that number could soon be larger; the college is adding Bachelor of Science and Master of Science programs in accounting this fall.

Among the recipients of degrees Sunday were veterans, twins, parents and students whose families have attended the school for generations.

During the ceremony honorary Doctorates of Humane Letters were also conferred upon Rabbi Herbert N. Brockman, who has led Congregation Mishkan Israel in Hamden for more than 30 years; Yale Professor Emeritus Drew S. Days III; Sister Janice McLaughlin, who is president of the Maryknoll Sisters of St. Dominic and who has worked extensively in Africa for decades; and Yale Professor Denys A. Turner.

And though the turning of the tassels marked the end of one part of the journey for the graduates, Bishop Theodore L. Brooks encouraged them to look forward to find their place in the next part of their lives.

“The challenge that lies before is how do you move from here into the next dimension of your life and the next step that will allow you to continue, mature and develop and be the person that God has created you to be,” he said.

Brooks, who is the Pastor at Beulah Heights First Pentecostal Church in New Haven, also urged the graduates to look for ways to help others as they work to achieve their goals.

“You have now a job to do. And that is to reach behind you and pull out younger people into a greater destiny, a greater purpose,” he said to a chorus of loud cheers and applause.
