
Welcome Back!

Thanks for being a frequent visitor to thetandd.com . You have now viewed of your FREE premium pages this 30-day period. After you have viewed FREE pages, we will ask you to purchase a subscription.

SPRING LAKE, N.J. − A pair of ospreys has quieted a fire alarm in one New Jersey shore town.

The raptors have built a nest inside the fire siren at Spring Lake. By law, the nest can’t be disturbed. Ospreys are listed as a threatened species in New Jersey during their breeding season.

So the siren has been turned off for the spring and summer, while firefighters and paramedics rely on pagers and cellphones to alert them of emergencies.

Borough Administrator Bryan Dempsey said a police officer notified him in March that an osprey appeared to be building a nest on the siren, which is mounted on a pole about 100 feet off the ground behind the police, fire and first aid squad headquarters.

LONDON − A London skyscraper that drew ire for having a glare so strong it melted nearby cars and shops will get a permanent fix.

The offending tower − known as the Walkie-Talkie for its curved, bulging shape − is to have a sunshade attached to its south-facing facade to stop the concave surface from reflecting sunlight and beaming concentrated rays to a nearby street, developers said Thursday.

The 37-story building made headlines in September when a Jaguar owner who parked his car at its foot complained that the solar glare melted part of the vehicle. Local shopkeepers also said the beams − dubbed “death rays” by the British press − blistered paintwork and burnt a hole in a floor mat during the hottest parts of the day.

The decision to move clocks ahead one hour, putting the country seven hours ahead of New York, saw computers and mobile phones showing the wrong time. Worried employees at Cairo International Airport made sure to make announcements and scurried to help passengers, though the flights appeared calm during the day.

Worshippers also showed up early or late at mosques across the country for Friday prayers. However, Muslim prayer times depend on the sun − not clocks − and the call to prayer echoed across Cairo just like normal.

Egypt’s military-backed interim government announced its decision in May to move clocks ahead as a power-saving measure. Though Egypt first implemented daylight saving time in 1988, it too got ousted following the 2011 revolt that toppled autocrat Hosni Mubarak.

The decision also had an effect on faith. The holy Muslim month of Ramadan, which sees the faithful fast during the day and eat after sunset, has cycled into the long daylight hours of the summer months for the coming years.

BATON ROUGE, La. − Police say a 31-year-old man was arrested after he drove to a Louisiana state police headquarters while drunk to file an accident report.

Online booking records indicate Patrick Ruffner of Gonzales was incarcerated in the East Baton Rouge Parish jail with bond set at $1,000.

Trooper Jared Sandifer says Ruffner called state police, saying his vehicle was struck by a hit-and-run driver on Interstate 10 in Baton Rouge. He was told to come to Troop A’s offices to fill out a crash report.

Sandifer says that when Ruffner got out of his SUV, a trooper smelled alcohol and gave him field sobriety and breath tests.

Sandifer says Ruffner was booked with driving on a suspended license and with first-offense driving while intoxicated.

Copyright 2014 The Times and Democrat. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Login here with a previously connected Facebook account.

Username & Password Required!
