
A view of Old Capitol from the College of Public Health Building. More than a thousand donors have made gifts to the college since the start of the "For Iowa. Forever More." campaign. Photo courtesy of the UI Foundation.

The University of Iowa College of Public Health has reached a major milestone in For Iowa. Forever More: The Campaign for the University of Iowa.

It has raised more than $20 million in private support, with gifts made through the UI Foundation , since the campaign began in 2008. The college has a current goal of $25.8 million as part of the university’s $1.7 billion comprehensive campaign, which concludes in 2016.

More than 1,000 alumni and friends have made gifts in support of the UI College of Public Health’s students, faculty, staff, programs, and facilities during the campaign. These gifts help the college sustain its work of protecting and improving the health and well-being of families and communities and help advance the college’s campaign goals for ensuring student success; advancing faculty teaching and research; supporting academic centers and programs; partnering with the state and university on facilities construction and renovation; fostering community outreach; and securing unrestricted funds that can be directed to areas of greatest need.

The College of Public Health, established in 1999, is the youngest college at the UI and the only accredited school of public health in Iowa. The college’s mission is to promote health and to prevent injury and illness through a commitment to education and training, excellence in research, innovation in policy development and devotion to public-health practice. Its faculty, staff and students lead groundbreaking research, practice and policy initiatives that directly benefit each of Iowa’s 99 counties, the Midwest region and the world.

The UI Foundation’s mission is to advance the UI and fulfill the aspirations of those it serves. The university’s dedicated contributors fund a broad array of needs, from student scholarships, breakthrough research, and life-changing health care to innovative facilities, community outreach, and global education.

The UI and UI Foundation are conducting a historic comprehensive $1.7 billion fundraising campaign, For Iowa. Forever More: The Campaign for the University of Iowa, which will secure the UI’s status as a world-class institution for future generations.

The UI Foundation is the preferred channel for private contributions that benefit all areas of the UI. For more information about the foundation and the campaign, visit the foundation website .
