
SCHOOL students will benefit from the state hosting the G20 Leaders' Summit later this year with new teaching and learning resources being rolled out across the state.

But some Gladstone parents think kids already have too much to learn, while teachers don't need resources - they need support.

The new G20-based curriculum resources will be promoted to all schools, principals, teachers, parents, carers, relevant governing bodies as well as the general public.

Education Minister John-Paul Langbroek said all school sectors would have access to G20 teaching and learning resources for implementation in semester two.

He said the age-appropriate resources would enable students to become involved in the G20.

"While use of these classroom resources is not compulsory I encourage all Queensland schools to include the G20 in their programs of study," he said.

"The materials will focus on geography and economics and will include activities linked to other subjects such as English and maths.

"Teachers can use the new materials along with those already available to add a G20 focus to lessons.

"This is about getting every Queenslander involved in one of the most important events our great state has ever hosted."

Gladstone grandmother Cheryl Hopkins believes children are taught too much unnecessary information at school.

"They put so much in kids' heads these days that they don't even use. A lot of kids don't even use maths," she said.

"I came out of school using the limited knowledge I was taught."

Jill Mcleod, who has a grandchild at Tannum Primary School, said it wasn't resources that teachers need more of, it was support.

"I feel that they need to look at our teacher ratios and they need to be paid well for what they do," she said.

Mr Langbroek said the Queensland Studies Authority had been instrumental in developing the G20 curriculum resources.

Help make the news! Share your photos, stories, events or just post a general notice to the community.

Refer to our helpful FAQ section for any problems you might be experiencing.
