
Dr. Sam Romano runs free clinics for underprivileged children.

Posted: Monday, May 19, 2014 7:07 pm | Updated: 9:28 am, Tue May 20, 2014.

   MADISON – The Board of Trustees of the Museum of Early Trades and Crafts will honor Madison dentist Dr. Sam Romano as its 2014 “Craftsman of the Year” at 2 p.m. Sunday, June 8, at the museum at 9 Main St. at Green Village Road in Madison.

   Romano will receive the honor at a late-lunch reception, and present a lecture tracing the evolution of dentistry from its earliest beginnings to the high-tech practice of his office today.

   A Madison native, Romano is a graduate of Fairleigh Dickinson University and the New Jersey Dental School of the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey, Newark, and established his practice on Park Avenue in Madison in 1986.

   The museum’s trustees noted that Romano practices an ancient profession that has grown and evolved with advances in medical science and technology, and such links from the past to the present are at the heart of the museum’s mission to enhance the understanding and appreciation of America’s past. The trustees concluded that Dr. Romano combines his professional knowledge with his skills as a craftsman to serve his patients.

   Romano advances his passion for dentistry with continuing education and training with leading practitioners in his field. He received the prestigious honor of Clinical Instructor at the Kois Center for Dental Excellence in Seattle, the premier post-doctoral dental teaching center in the world. He was recognized as one of “New Jersey’s Top Docs” and New Jersey Family Magazine’s favorite children’s doctors for three consecutive years.

   Not content with just serving his own patients, Romano has conducted free clinics to provide preventive and restorative dental care to underserved children in New Jersey, and has traveled to Guatemala “to give children free smiles.” Many of the children he has served had never before received dental care or owned a toothbrush.

   The “Craftsman of the Year” award was established in 2002 as a means to honor New Jersey residents who have, in their own unique ways, significantly advanced the museum’s mission.

   Past honorees include the late historian and author John Cunningham of Florham Park; Richard Bagger, then a state senator and a longtime museum supporter; past museum trustee and Collections Manager Malcolm Dick; former Madison High School Music Director John Bunnell; historical restoration specialist Carmine Toto Jr. of Madison; tool expert Herbert Kean; Astragal Press founder Martyl Pollak; Gary Fisch, owner of Gary’s Wine and Marketplace in Madison; music advocate and pianist Jerry Vezza of Madison; Madison High School teacher and administrator Mark De Biasse, who has led high school students in “digs” at the site of the colonial-era Luke Miller Homestead on Ridgedale Avenue, and historic preservationist Janet Foster.

   Proceeds from the “Craftsman of the Year” event benefit the museum’s education programs, which serve more than 7,000 participants a year.

   Single tickets are $35, and Benefactor tickets are $50. Reservations are requested by Sunday, June 1. Tickets can be purchased at the museum; by phone at (973) 377-2982, ext. 14, or online at www.metc.org .

   Housed in a 1900 Richardsonian-Romanesque Revival building listed on the National Register of Historic Places, the museum explores 18th and 19th century American history, with a focus on New Jersey. Drawing on its collection of more than 8,000 hand tools and their products, the museum uses material culture to interpret the lives and technologies of people who lived and worked before the rise of large-scale industrialization in America. The museum offers visitors of all ages a broad range of changing exhibits, and related programs that address many facets of early American history, craftsmanship, and the diversity of trades performed by men and women.

   The Museum of Early Trades and Crafts has been supported by grants from the Borough of Madison, the Charles Read Foundation, the F.M. Kirby Foundation and the Morris County Board of Freeholders, as well as an operating grant from the N.J. Historical Commission, a division of the Department of State. For information about the museum, call (973) 377-2982, ext. 10, or visit www.metc.org .
