
It is 100 days since David Cameron visited the submerged Somerset levels at the peak of the winter floods that devastated swathes of England and hundreds of broken flood defences have now been repaired thanks to £270m of emergency funding from government. But in the Netherlands, also battered by the record deluge but relatively unscathed, an ongoing multibillion-euro programme continues to reshape the watery nation, with none of the political storm whipped up in the UK .

Hard-won reclaimed land – polders – are being given back to rivers and meanders are being cut back into flood plains, all as part of a back-to-nature approach that is reversing centuries of battling against water, in favour of finding ways to live with it.

The Netherlands is a land of waterways and a quarter is below sea level, with 60% of its people in flood-risk areas. There is deep experience of what it takes to deal with flooding, in both financial and human terms.

Jan Kant is the fourth generation of his family to farm the Noordwaard polder in the heart of the giant four-river delta than dominates the south of the Netherlands. “I am attached to this area,” he says simply. But, with his sons who now run the business, he is about to move away. The dykes protecting Kant's low-lying fields are about to be broken and the area flooded, to take 30cm off the river level that threatens the nearby town of Gorinchem.

Another 10 farmers and 24 other families are having to make way as the river takes possession of its flood plain once more. The project is the biggest of 34 “ Room for the River ” (RR) projects across the Netherlands, costing €2.3bn (£1.9bn) and set to finish in 2015.

But discussions with the locals began more than a decade ago, led by Raalf Gaastra, the stakeholder manager for the Noordwaard polder RR project.

“People have made their own choices: they can stay in an area that could now be flooded tomorrow, because they like the area, or they can leave,” he says. Those who stay are helped to build new homes, raised on high mounds, those who don't are bought out at market rates. “The first discussion is not easy, but once one house has decided to go people start to follow,” says Gaastra.

The disruption is enormous: new bridges, roads, pipes and repositioned dykes are all in construction, leaving great muddy tracks across the flat green and blue landscape.

The Noordwaard polder is strikingly similar to the Somerset Levels in the south-west of England, down to the locals initial insistence that river dredging was the key. But Kant, Gremmer and the rest were eventually persuaded that annual dredging was not a sustainable solution.

"But then there was a change of government and a change of policy," says Rooke. After the coalition cut annual flood defence spending by 25% on taking office in 2010.

In the Hague, at the Rijkswaterstaat, the national water management agency which runs the Room for the River programme, director of safety Roeland Allewijn, says over €16bn has already committed for flood defences up to 2028. “We call this relatively short term.

“There is huge political and public awareness that we need to spend a lot of money on this,” he says. “It is reasonably easy for us to get government spending on this.” This stems back to the national disaster in February 1953, when a North Sea storm overwhelmed the coast and killed 1,850 Dutch people.

The sea remains as major flood threat to the Netherlands and on the windy coast, not far from the major cities of Rotterdam and the Hague, a €75m government-backed experiment is taking place. A new crescent-shaped peninsula, 4 miles long, has been created just in front of the sandy beach. The idea is that rather than having to replenish the beach every year to protect the coast, the waves and currents will wash the 20m cubic metres of sand used to create the peninsula into place: the project is called the “ sand motor ”.

The new peninsula has already been stretched to 5.5 miles in its first two years, and has provided a new site for recreation including hunting for the fossil mammoth teeth hidden in the ice-age sand dredged from offshore.

“There was not a big need to show a cost-benefit,” says Jaap Flikweert, an engineer at Royal Haskoning DHV. “There was a lot of vision: it's very Dutch.” Flikweert is now examining how the sand motor might be used in the UK, and has identified coastal locations off the low-lying counties of Lincolnshire and Suffolk, both places hammered by the winter's storms.

Water Boards president Glas is also chairman of the local De Dommel water board in another part of the delta region. Here long, sinuous meanders have just been dug through fields to recreate the natural winding form of the Esse Stroom, slowing the rush of water towards populated areas downstream and creating more room for water. The Esse was part of the huge 1995 floods and closed the A2 motorway which runs from Amsterdam to Milan, causing over €6bn of economic damage.

The new meanders, and fields newly opened to floodwaters, account for about 6% of the total 150,000 hectare area of the De Dommel water board and will be able to store 20m tonnes of water. The EA in England has also restored meanders at Stockton-on-Tees and in Oxfordshire, but on a much smaller scale. Such back-to-nature projects, like another pilot scheme in north Somerset , challenge centuries of accepted wisdom that rivers must be straightened and water flow speeded up. “It can be a leap of faith for local communities,” said Rooke, noting that the early results in Somerset look promising.

Our editors' picks for the day's top news and commentary delivered to your inbox each morning.
