
A Liverpool -based discount retail chain is this week expected to confirm details of its long awaited move to list on the London Stock Exchange.

The flotation is expected to value B&M Retail, owner of the rapidly expanding chain of B&M Bargains stores, at close to £2.5bn, according to weekend reports.

Along with private equity firm Clayton Dubilier & Rice, brothers Simon, Bobby and Robin Arora own a chain of 370 high street shops that employs 17,000 staff.

The company’s chairman is former Tesco boss, Liverpool-born Sir Terry Leahy.

An Evertonian, Sir Terry was chief executive of Tesco during a period when it became the biggest supermarket chain in the UK.

The Arora brothers are reported to have earned £1bn when they sold a 60% stake in the business in 2012.

Seen as a modern-day Woolworths, B&M has boosted its fortunes in recent years by branching out into clothes, pet food and toiletries at rock-bottom prices, as well as through the opening of more stores away from its northern heartland.

The company was originally formed in 1978 by entrepreneur Malcolm Billington with just £750, but it wasn’t until it was acquired by the Aroras that its fortunes soared.

Its expansion plans could see it operate up to 600 stores in the UK, with more overseas.

Earlier this year the company hired Lazard, the investment bank, to advise on the stockmarket listing.

B&M Retail relocated its head office from Blackpool to Liverpool’s Estuary Commerce Park in 2010.

In its latest annual accounts, filed earlier in September, B&M revealed a 31% surge in sales to £935m in the 12 months to December 2012.

Profit after tax almost doubled to more than £63m.

recent years.

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

Join us on social media.

For the latest local news straight to your Twitter, Facebook feed or e-mail inbox.

Want to get in touch? Our full contacts can be found on this page and here are some of our key contacts.

For newsroom contact details click here , alternatively send your story via this form.

Trinity Mirror Merseyside, the Echo's parent company, is one of the North West’s largest multimedia providers reaching more than 900,000 adults every month.

The Liverpool Echo, Trinity Mirror Merseyside’s flagship brand, is the area’s best-read newspaper including national newspapers.

The Liverpool Echo reaches 1 in 3 people in the area with a daily readership of more than 256,000* people.The Liverpool Echo website reaches 1.5 million unique users each month who look at around 8.5 million pages**.

To advertise with us please click here for full details.

Alastair Machray was appointed editor of The Liverpool Echo in 2005 and is also editor-in-chief of Trinity Mirror Merseyside, Cheshire and North Wales. He is a former editor of The Daily Post (Wales and England) and editor-in-chief of the company's Welsh operations. Married dad-of-two and keen golfer Alastair is one of the longest-serving newspaper editors in the country. His titles have won numerous awards and spearheaded numerous successful campaigns.
