
A pregnant woman was told to ‘hurry up’ and have her baby by a midwife who was desperate to get home after ordering a takeaway curry, a tribunal heard.

Jeanette Matthews allegedly threatened the expectant mother at Airedale General Hospital in Keighley, West Yorkshire, by saying: ‘If you don’t hurry up and have the baby I’m going to cut you’.

The midwife also told the patient that the labour ward was short staffed and that she did not want to be there, the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) heard.

The details have emerged after the expectant mother, known only as ‘Patient A’, made a complaint against Matthews, who was the midwife assigned to her on the hospital’s labour ward in February 2011.

Matthews faces a series of charges relating to alleged misconduct and lack of competence at the NMC tribunal in central London which she has chosen not to attend.

Greg Unwin, for the NMC, said Matthews, who qualified as a nurse in 1987 and as a midwife in 2002, was first investigated after ‘Patient A’ complained about her conduct.

He said:  ‘Patient A was admitted to Airedale General Hospital on the 19 February and delivered her baby during the night shift of the early hours of the 20 February.

‘The registrant was her allocated midwife.

As a result of the complaint, the matter was investigated by Ms Sarah Bennett - an investigating supervisor of midwives.

Mr Unwin added: ‘Ms Bennett interviewed the registrant about the incident and the registrant denied that she had told the patient to stop using her pain relief.

Jeanette Matthews allegedly threatened the expectant mother at Airedale General Hospital in Keighley, West Yorkshire (pictured) in February 2011, by saying: 'If you don't hurry up and have the baby I'm going to cut you'

Matthews also claimed she had obtained proper consent before putting the patient into the lithotomy position, the panel heard.

Following the complaint, she was placed on a supervised programme of practise at St James’ Hospital, Leeds, when it is said she failed to demonstrate competence as a midwife.

On June 6 2012, she failed to react when a patient who had recently given birth started haemorrhaging, the panel heard.

‘When that occurs it requires immediate response to minimise the blood loss to the mother,’ said Mr Unwin.

On a second supervised shift on 27 June of the same year, Matthews failed to make proper records for a young, first time mother for two hours, it is said.

She was suspended from the hospital and practise as a midwife following an interview on 3 July 2012.

If the panel find the allegations against her to be true, she could face a period of suspension or being struck off the register.

The hearing continues.

Sorry we are not currently accepting comments on this article.
