
A Kentucky high school has approved a new non-discrimination policy which will give male students access to girls' restrooms, and vice versa, as long as students identify themselves as "transgender."

This new rule came into effect following a request from a freshman 'transgender' student. The student who allegedly has a girlfriend, asked the principle if he could use the girls' restroom and locker room in Atherton High School, Louisville, Kentucky.

The high school's principal, Thomas Aberli, has reportedly granted the student's request. Upon approval of the request concerned parents have filed several complaints in regards to a male student using the girls' facilities.

Principal Aberli defended his decision by stating to The Courier-Journal that, "everyone deserves to be treated with respect."

"I have a responsibility to ensure that all of our students and staff are treated fairly and justly," Aberli said. "At the same time, I also have a responsibility to educate our community on an issue that many are not familiar with and inform them about the rights of transgender individuals."

Many others in the Louisville area condemned the principal's decision. According to the The Courier-Journal, Clint Elliott a Louisville attorney, said parents are very concerned about the situation.

"Imagine this scenario-a transgender student, a biological boy who decides that he wants to identify with the female gender, and yet he acknowledges that he has a girlfriend and is sexually attracted to girls," Elliott said. "Are parents supposed to be okay with allowing such boys to use the girls' restroom and locker room facilities?"

"[This is] a violation of parents' rights regarding the oversight of their children and educational environment of their children and it is certainly a violation of a student's rights to privacy," Elliot added. "What about those girls and their rights to privacy and safety? What about the First Amendment rights of all students?"

The Atherton High School council held a public meeting on Thursday, and approved a district wide policy, which bars any discrimination on the basis of "gender identity." The policy reportedly does not specifically address the principal's decision and will most likely allow transgender students to use the facilities of the opposite sex.
