
A COUNCIL has committed to spending more than £200,000 on preparations for the Tour de France Grand Depart this summer – despite also having to make significant savings due to Government funding cuts.

Richmondshire District Council is paying out thousands of pounds to cover stewards, waste management, toilets, safety barriers and signage.

Council leader John Blackie said when he first suggested the event could cost the council in the region of £100,000 some thought it a gross exaggeration.

But he said so far it has cost around double that figure and he believes it could be even more.

“This is a once in a lifetime event and we all have to accept that,” he said.

Cllr Blackie said the authority, which has increased its council tax by 1.97 per cent, did not have much choice in the sums it had to pay out for the event – but he said good financial management meant the council was in a strong position to meet the costs.

“We were imposed from on high which meant we had to do it, but I’m pleased it happened that way.

Included in the spending is nearly £37,000 on stewards, barriers and toilets; £5,500 on insurance; £30,000 on waste management; £10,000 on operational delivery, including information leaflets for residents, bin tags and signage for the council; and an initial £77,000 payment to pay for staging costs.

Cllr Blackie said: “The event has generated great community imagination, particularly in rural areas in the Dales.

“With regard to charges we had to make recently, such as for the green waste bins, that was a change we had to make because it was an annual cost we had to save.

So, if funding was not wasted on such 'frippery' and was instead put towards funding the mandatory responsibilities of the council - the net services needing to be cut due to the efficencies demanded by central government would be??? i suspect the answer tobe 'nil'.

We want you to enjoy your visit to our website. That's why we use cookies to enhance your experience.  By staying on our website you agree to our use of cookies. Find out more about the cookies we use .
