
ROLF Harris told an 11-year-old girl he wanted to be the first person to give her "a tongue kiss", a jury has heard.

The woman told Southwark Crown Court that she met the artist at a family friend's home in Australia in 1969 while she was off sick from school.

She came downstairs in her pyjamas and saw Harris, who had been polishing a piece of wood, the court heard.

The woman said: "When I came down the stairs he asked me how old I was, and he said 'good, I want to be the first one to introduce you to a tongue kiss'.

"I just stood there, I didn't think anything. I just stood there, I froze."

It is claimed that Harris, 84, then walked up to the girl and kissed her.

She said: "He put his tongue in my mouth and gave me a tongue kiss.

"It seemed like it lasted forever but it must have been very quick."

She continued: "I was quite repulsed by it. Absolutely repulsed."

After the alleged incident, Harris showed her the wood he had been polishing, the court heard.

The woman said: "He just stopped and then he just went and said 'have a look at what I've been doing'."

She said that she had told each of her three husbands about the allegation, because it made her uncomfortable about being kissed in that way.

The woman told the court: "It makes me feel very frazzled and scared and I almost have a panic attack.

The witness is not one of the alleged victims Harris has been charged with indecently assaulting but was called as a supporting prosecution witness.

The court heard that the woman was assaulted by her cousin when she was 17, but was forbidden from reporting it by her parents.

But the woman rejected claims by the defence that she had confused the two alleged encounters.

She said: "There's no possibility I can mix them up. The incidents are very separate incidents. The feelings that come from them are similar feelings, but the incidents that happened are separate incidents."

The court heard from another woman who broke down as she described how Harris allegedly put his hand up her skirt when she was aged 16 or 17.

The witness said that she met the entertainer at an event in New Zealand in 1970, where he gave her his autograph and posed for photos.

Harris then asked her to dance, slid his hand onto her bottom and put it between her legs, the court heard.

"I was in a public place, he slid his hand down my back against my bottom and then in a moment put his hand up my skirt and tried to put his hand in between my legs."

She did not consider going to the police because she did not think she would be believed, the court heard.

But she said that when reports surfaced about the allegations against Harris last year she felt "unbelievable" relief.

She told the court: "I thought 'they've finally got the b*****d'.

"It was all those years later but it was unbelievable the relief I felt."

Harris, from Bray in Berkshire, is accused of 12 counts of indecent assault on four alleged victims between 1968 and 1986.

He denies the charges.

Sorry, we are unable to accept comments about this article                      at the moment. However, you will find some great articles                      which you can comment on right now in our Comment section .

See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper,    order back issues and use the historic Daily Express    newspaper archive.
