
Sylvester Stallone and Arnold Schwarzenegger relive the action hero glory days and Tommy Lee Jones defends the portrayal of Native Americans in "The Homesman."

The Cannes Film Festival runs May 14-25. Check back daily for THR's comprehensive coverage.

China Sends Large Delegation, Has Few Titles in Fest Lineup After plenty of hype about the largest delegation ever from the mainland, a lack of Asian titles in the lineup and little dealmaking have dampened enthusiasm... Read the story.

Cannes: Amy Adams' 'Story of Your Life' Sells to Sony Worldwide Paramount has already snapped up rights for North America and China, making Denis Villeneuve's sci-fi epic the hottest project at this year's Cannes Film Market.... Read the story .

Cannes: Brie Larson Drama 'Room' Goes to A24 Films Lenny Abrahamson is directing the project based on Emma Donoghue’s novel... Read the story .

Cannes Q&A: Ron Perlman's Producing Plans Include His Own Directorial Debut The "Sons of Anarchy" star is carving out the slate for his newly launched company, Wing and a Prayer Productions... Read the story .

Stallone, Schwarzenegger Take Cannes Back to Action Hero Glory Days Harrison Ford, Mel Gibson, Jason Statham, Antonio Banderas and Wesley Snipes were also on hand, as the "Expendables 3" cast crashed Cannes for the most raucous press conference of the festival... Read the story .

Cannes: Tommy Lee Jones' 'The Homesman,' Mike Leigh's 'Mr. Turner' Establish Early Awards Cred Harvey Weinstein plays his cards close to the vest, as the Oscar potential of this year's Cannes lineup is slow to emerge ...  Read the story .

Tommy Lee Jones Defends Portraying Native Americans as Bad Guys in 'The Homesman' The actor-director, who stars opposite Hilary Swank in the Western drama, talked gender politics and “American imperialism” in a charged press conference... Read the story .

Director Defends Plan to Make Thriller About Missing Malaysian Plane Rupesh Paul says about his "Vanishing Act": "The controversy will help indirectly, but we are not cashing in on the flight."  Read the story.
