
(Ruby)   Today we went to Maison Magie which is French for Magic house.  It has mirror`s that change our shape and size.  It had pictures that were pirates and then you turned them around and they turned into a person.  We bought a magic wand and two magic tricks.  We also went to a troglodyte village which was caves and people that lived in chateaus took all the money so some poor people had to live in caves.  The caves were very cold and the beds weren't very comfy.  We saw a pig, 3 goats, a donkey, a turkey, a hen, a duck, a cockerel and some rabbits.  We went through a special tunnel in the cave because if there were robbers they had to hide in the tunnels.  It wasn’t very nice for the people because in one farm 8 people had to sleep in one bed.  After that we went to a new campsite and we went to explore it and it was very good and had a very small park.  We went out for dinner and Lily and I had Orangina to drink which we called joke and laugh gina because we did lots of laughing. We had Le Scone and it was very yummy and we had a biscuit for pudding.  Then we went back to the campsite and went to bed.

(Lily)  Today we went to a magic house we were going to see a magic show but we didn’t.  In the magic house there was lots of magic stuff.  There was one where there was a picture of a horse and when you moved it looked like it was still watching you.  There was a picture of a diamond and when you tried to grab it you couldn’t because it was a hologram.  When we were in the shop at the magic house I bought a magic wand that can do 36 tricks and i can only do 3 of them.  After we went to the magic house we went to a place called a troglodyte village that is a cave village.  In France there were 90% poor people and 10% rich people.  The rich people lived in castles and the poor people lived in caves and wooden houses.  That is why there isn’t any more Kings and Queens in France.  In the cave village some of the caves smelt stinky and they had to cook bread and they had to pay tax to the rich people because they had an oven.  There was one house cave with one bed that 8 people had to sleep in and there was one cave where all the animal stuff was.  We went up a big hill and there was a witch’s house with no witch in it and a fort which had a sign saying go down the hill and look to your left and see a dead tree with 4 woodpecker holes in it.  Afterwards we went to a new campsite that we didn’t know anything about.
