
You must be registered to comment and vote on comments.

City and Park Board officials in Minneapolis are considering giving control of the proposed “Yard” in Downtown East to a third-party entity.

Council Member Jacob Frey, who represents the area, said the two groups met Friday to discuss who will take control of operations and maintenance of the park, which will adjoin Wells Fargo ’s new corporate campus near the Vikings stadium.

Although an agreement has not yet been signed, Frey said the city and Park Board are coming to a consensus that giving control to an outside entity, like a nonprofit or conservancy, is the best option. Frey said the Yard project is too big for the city or the Park Board to handle on its own.

The third-party group would consist of city, Park Board and community representatives. Frey said there may be representatives from other groups as well, such as the Vikings or Ryan Companies, which is building the stadium.

Council President Barb Johnson and Park Board Superintendent Jayne Miller both disputed the assertion that they were nearing any agreement.

“I think at this point it’s premature to say there’s any kind of consensus developing,” said Johnson, who supports having an outside entity manage the park. She said a final decision would most likely need approval by the council and Park Board.

Johnson said downtown parks are “a different kind of animal” that can require a different model from most parks to succeed.

Park Board members grumbled in January about the prospect of taking over the Yard. Park Board President Liz Wielinski said at the time it could cost $300,000 a year just to mow, shovel and light a basic park — not counting additional amenities.

Council Member Cam Gordon said he would like the Yard to be a full-service, publicly run park with community programming and possibly a playground.

Frey said the agreement could come in the next few weeks because the park is on a “tight timeline. “It’s important that we have an end decision so that we have an entity that is able to fundraise,” Frey said.

He said the group has discussed giving ownership of the Yard to the Park Board, which then would lease operation and maintenance to the conservancy. Once the conservancy is formed, its first task will be fundraising.

Most of the city bonds of $18.8 million have been used to buy the site and pay for demolition of the Star Tribune building. Another $1.1 million is expected to be left over for a basic park. The Minnesota Vikings will pay another $1 million for improvements. The bonds, which also will help fund a nearby parking ramp, will be repaid with parking revenues.

You are now subscribed.
