
Playing fields at an Enniskillen school have been renamed in honour of the US general who led the D-Day landings during World War 2.

Several events have been held to mark General Dwight Eisenhower's visit to County Fermanagh 70 years ago.

Eisenhower, the Supreme Commander of the Allied Forces in Europe during WW2, went to Enniskillen on 18 May 1944.

He inspected 2,000 soldiers who were in Fermanagh preparing for the invasion of Normandy.

On Monday, US consul for Northern Ireland, Gregory Burton, attended ceremonies at two schools where Eisenhower inspected troops.

The main inspection took place in Portora Royal School's playing fields, which have been renamed Eisenhower playing fields.

Some troops were also based at Celtic Park, which is now adjacent to Model Primary School. On Monday the US Consul helped children plant an oak tree and unveil a commemorative plinth.

Roger Edmondson, whose father was a GI in the 28th regiment based in Fermanagh, was present at a ceremony commemorating a US military air crash near St Angelo airfield.

Of the 124 draftees from his father's home town in North Carolina, only his father and two others survived.

He said of the 2,000 soldiers inspected at Portora, 65% were either killed or wounded.

Roger's father met his mother in Enniskillen but they divorced after the war.

It was 39 years before Roger made contact with him and brought him back to see Enniskillen.

"He wanted to see Castlecoole Lake, which the soldiers were put in to see if they could swim, and various pubs in the town," he said.

Earlier, former RAF pilot Bill Eames was among those watching the commemorative events.

He towed a glider full of paratroopers to targets in  Normandy just ahead of the D Day landings.

He said he was back in bed by the time the landings took place.

"It had to be a success, no doubt about that, there was no going back," he said.

Asked how he felt on a day like this, he said: "My thoughts are that I'm very glad to be alive here at Portora, here in Enniskillen."

He said the anniversary of D Day would be like any other day.

"I just enjoy life as it comes and am very glad to have been a part of it (D Day)," he said.

The tree was planted to mark the events of 70 years ago, when a quarter of Fermanagh's population was made up of American military personnel.

The US consul was joined by men in American army uniforms from a historical re-enactment group.

Rachel Coulson, acting principal of the Model School, said the event brought history to life for the children.

"The consul visited last year for another commemoration, so they do know a bit about it," she said.

"The P4 pupils are doing World War 2 as their project so they were super excited."

Another guest at the event was Teddy Dixon, a veteran of the US Army's 42 Rainbow Division.

Mr Dixon was born in the US, but his parents took him back to Northern Ireland when he was young and he joined the US Army in Belfast.

He fought in the second Battle of the Bulge and was part of the first unit at Dachau concentration camp during its liberation.

He also helped retrieve priceless art looted by the Nazi's , echoing the plot of recently released Hollywood film Monuments Men.

He said seeing the military uniforms 70 years later "brings back a lot of memories".

The US Consul also attended an event for 130 schoolchildren outlining what it was like to live in Fermanagh during WW2, the background to US forces stationed in Fermanagh and the significance of General Eisenhower's visit.

The consul then attended the official renaming ceremony of playing fields at Portora Royal School.

Leading the ceremony, Mr Burton said it was "incredibly crucial to remember such events".

"I'm very honoured to be here with local dignitaries, but most importantly with two veterans of WW2, Bill Eames and Teddy Dixon," he said.

Neill Morton, Portora school principal, said that 70 years ago the then headmaster had been refused entry to the playing fields to meet Eisenhower.

He joked that he hoped his hospitality and largesse in allowing the consul access would be appreciated.

Later, a ceremony was held at the Graan Monastery to remember seven American airman killed when their B17 Flying Fortress crashed in an adjacent field in December 1943.

The pilot had been trying to reach St Angelo airfield, which was built by the US military.

The pilot's last words on the radio were: "I can see you, I don't think I can make it."

Robin Houston attended the ceremony. His farm was close to the crash scene and he remembers that tragic day.

"I remember the noise of the engine weakened. It wasn't normal," he said. "I heard the crash. It was like timber being broken.

"My mother had been shopping. She arrived home and said there's been an air crash and there must be a lot killed or injured because she'd never seen the like of the number of ambulances."

While seven crew members died, five were saved mainly due to the actions of the Passionist monks who pulled them from the wreckage.

The US military paid for a shrine to the victims at the monastery.

He said it was important not just to remember those killed in the crash, but also all the other soldiers who died in the war.

As well as the US flag, the flag of the EU was also at the shrine.

Fr D'Arcy said this was to remember that without the American contribution to the war there would be no EU.

Eisenhower led the massive invasion of Nazi-occupied Europe that began on D-Day,  6 June 1944.

More than 80,000 British and Canadian troops took part in the invasion and about 3,000 Allied troops lost their lives.

Eisenhower was the 34th president of the United States from 1953 until 1961.
