
As we came out of the more built up area of Burgos, through the park land surrounding the Burgos University, I recognised the scenery from the movie "The Way" (see pictures). Where the group is leaving the city with the gypsy man and his son who had tried to steal Boomers backpack.  It was kind of neat to recognise it.

I stopped for a short time in the town of Torjados to buy a Bocadillo (the equivalent of a half baguette with meat and cheese) and an orange juice at 11 a.m. And to rest my feet.  The small toe on my left foot is sore from a large blister at the end of the toe.  I have popped the blister, dressed it with Compeed and wound some Hikers Wool around it before putting on my Injinji socks. Despite all of that TLC, it persists in being sore. I must say I am. Bit worried about how I will go tomorrow. BUT...you never know, it might be OK.

Going through the small village of Rabe de las Calzadas, there is a man sitting outside an Albergue and he comes over to talk, he hands me a Marian medal which he wants me to take. He isn't selling, he is giving them to all the pilgrims who walk by.  I thank him and he smiles and wishes me "Buon Camino" as I head off.

There wasn't a lot to see along the way today and as the two photos attest, it is a long path that continues for a long way.

I had barely finished my food when along came the rest of the gang.  We walked into Hornillos, went into a bar and had coffee while Tony rang the B&B (or Casa Rurale) who had arranged to pick us up and take us to our accommodation.

Dinner is at 7 (which is incredibly early by Spanish standards) which is fantastic for us as it allows an early night.  Today I have been awake since 2:30 this morning. Just couldnt get back to sleep, so an early night will hopefully allow me a better sleep and a more refreshed day tomorrow.

Todays Inspirational piece is a second one from Carole P.

intelligent,

Holy,

Unique,

Subtle,

Agile,

Penetrating,

Pure,

Lucid,

In my experience, a truly wise person never needs to "blow their own trumpet" so to speak.  They don't need to do they?  :-) and they dont need to "out do" others in order to appear knowledgable or good or better, they are balanced within themselves and don't need the reinforcement of others.

Thanks Carole, good food for thought.
