
Deputy First Minister, Martin McGuinness.

Deputy First Minister, Martin McGuinness, has hit back at comments made by First Minister, Peter Robinson, during Assembly Question Time today.

Mr. McGuinness, described the comments made by Mr. Robinson as “retreating into the past” and suggested that the First Minister was guilty of electioneering.

Mr. Robinson’s comments come weeks after Mr. McGuinness alleged the DUP leader and other unionist politicians had been reluctant to link the UVF to attacks against both foreign nationals and the offices of the Alliance party in his East Belfast constituency.

“During my time as deputy First Minister, I have tried to avoid recriminating about the past. In response to Peter Robinson’s comments today I could raise many issues around unionist politicians’ involvement in the Ulster Workers strike, collusion with loyalist paramilitaries and the setting up and import of arms by Ulster Resistance.

“But in retreating into the past, Peter Robinson misses entirely the point. When I talk about a failure of leadership and political cowardice, I am talking about the here and now. I am talking about the failure of unionist leaders to stand shoulder to shoulder with the rest of us in denouncing the squalid sectarian and racist violence of the UVF. The failure to name and condemn the UVF. The attempts to divert attention and implicitly excuse the UVF in a quest for extreme loyalist votes,” said Mr. McGuinness.

Mr. McGuinness went on to accuse the First Minister of failing to condemn the attacks in East Belfast in the same way he condemned attacks by dissident republicans right across the North of Ireland.

Keep up to date with all the latest local news on your iPhone or Android phone with our mobile site.

Create your own advertisement or send someone a special message.

© 2014 Johnston Publishing Ltd.

This website and its associated newspaper adheres to the Press Complaints Commission’s Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion, then contact the Editor by clicking here .

If you remain dissatisfied with the response provided then you can contact the PCC by clicking here .

Derry Journal provides news, events and sport features from the Derry area. For the best up to date information relating to Derry and the surrounding areas visit us at Derry Journal regularly or bookmark this page.

For you to enjoy all the features of this website Derry Journal requires permission to use cookies.

Cookies are small data files which are sent to your browser (Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome etc) from a website you visit. They are stored on your electronic device.

This is a type of cookie which is collected by Adobe Flash media player (it is also called a Local Shared Object) - a piece of software you may already have on your electronic device to help you watch online videos and listen to podcasts.

Yes there are a number of options available, you can set your browser either to reject all cookies, to allow only "trusted" sites to set them, or to only accept them from the site you are currently on.

However, please note - if you block/delete all cookies, some features of our websites, such as remembering your login details, or the site branding for your local newspaper may not function as a result.

A tool used by some of our advertisers to target adverts to you based on pages you have visited in the past. To opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

Our sites contain advertising from Google; these use cookies to ensure you get adverts relevant to you. You can tailor the type of ads you receive by visiting here or to opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

This is used to help us identify unique visitors to our websites. This data is anonymous and we cannot use this to uniquely identify individuals and their usage of the sites.

This comes from our ad serving technology and is used to track how many times you have seen a particular ad on our sites, so that you don't just see one advert but an even spread. This information is not used by us for any other type of audience recording or monitoring.

ComScore monitor and externally verify our site traffic data for use within the advertising industry. Any data collected is anonymous statistical data and cannot be traced back to an individual.

Our Classified websites (Photos, Motors, Jobs and Property Today) use cookies to ensure you get the correct local newspaper branding and content when you visit them. These cookies store no personally identifiable information.

We use Grapeshot as a contextual targeting technology, allowing us to create custom groups of stories outside out of our usual site navigation. Grapeshot stores the categories of story you have been exposed to. Their privacy policy and opt out option can be accessed here.

Our partner for Newspaper subscriptions online stores data from the forms you complete in these to increase the usability of the site and enhance user experience.

Add This provides the social networking widget found in many of our pages. This widget gives you the tools to bookmark our websites, blog, share, tweet and email our content to a friend.
