
MARIETTA, Ga., May 19, 2014 /3BL Media/ - While spring is in full bloom in Georgia, local CITGO Marketer S.A. White Oil Company and CITGO Petroleum Corporation have not forgotten the tough winter the area recently experienced. That is why they rewarded nearly 500 employees in the Marietta City School District for their care of stranded students during the unexpected January snowstorm, which stopped buses, closed roads and forced thousands of area students to spend the night in schools. Luckily, dedicated teachers along with cafeteria, administrative and custodial employees fed and cared for the students. S.A. White and CITGO, along with Adam and Diego of the CITGO Fueling Good Road Trip, donated a $25 CITGO Gift Card to each employee as part of a special ceremony honoring their bravery through the storm.

"I was so struck by the commitment of school staff members across the city in the face of such a difficult situation. I wanted to make sure they got the recognition and the thanks they deserve," saidKim Gresh, third-generation president of S.A. White. "Their actions speak volumes about the quality of education professionals in Marietta. It was really a privilege to recognize the selfless actions of these individuals."

On March 26, the CITGO Fueling Good team presented the CITGO Gift Cards to school representatives gathered at the Jamerson CITGO in Marietta. Associate Superintendent Dayton Hibbs and teacher Jessica Beatty accepted the gifts on behalf of Marietta City Schools staff. The sunny day was only days before the beginning of spring break for the school employees and was a sharp contrast to the snowy day in January when they put the safety of their students first in the face of extreme conditions.

"These professionals sacrificed their own time and comfort and that of their own families to make sure every student had food and shelter. They took care of our kids, so we are taking care of them," continued Gresh. "We regularly support the education community of Marietta, but such selfless acts under such extraordinary circumstances deserve special recognition."

Founded in 1926, family owned S. A. White Oil Company has built a reputation for excellence in products, service and customer satisfaction in the Marietta community. The company supplies fuel to some of the Southeast's largest commercial and industrial companies, as well as many small, privately-owned companies and individuals. Among its chain of branded gas stations are 35 CITGO locations. For more information, visit  www.sawhite.com .

CITGO is committed to giving back to the local communities it serves through its network of locally owned CITGO locations. Independent CITGO Marketers, such as S.A. White Oil, own and operate nearly 500 CITGO locations in Georgia and are proud to support their neighborhoods.

CITGO, based in Houston, is a refiner, transporter and marketer of transportation fuels, lubricants, petrochemicals and other industrial products. The company is owned by PDV America, Inc., an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Petroleos de Venezuela, S.A., the national oil company of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela. For more information visit  CITGO.com .
