
Srinagar, May 19: A minor girl was killed while her brother, also a minor, received critical injuries after an unexploded shell went off in a village near Tosamaidan firing range in district Budgam Monday.

The sprawling meadow is being used by the army as a firing range since 1965.

"The kids were returning from the school when the explosion took place at around 1.40 pm,” a senior police officer said. "The boy is undergoing treatment at B&J hospital at Barzulla,” he added.

Police said though the area doesn’t fall in Tosamaidan firing range, the shell had drifted via Suresh Nallah passing through the area.

Police said they have apprehensions that more shells could have drifted via the Nallah, threatening peoples’ lives. "Presence of more shells in the area can’t be ruled out," police said.

The tragic incident triggered massive protests in the area demanding immediate issuance of notification for cancellation of the firing range.

According to officials, unexploded shells in and around Tosamaidan firing range have killed and maimed around 63 people. However locals put the number at around 170.

The government has already constituted a committee under chairmanship of Chief Secretary to identify alternate site for relocation of the Tosamaidan firing range.

Meanwhile, TosamaidanBachao Front (TBF), a civil society group, spearheading the agitation for vacation of the meadow by the Army, Monday threatened to launch an agitation if the notification regarding cancellation of lease was not issued by May 25.

In a statement issued here, the TBF also urged the government to appoint special team to dispose of military waste and unexploded shells in and around Tosamaidan.

Two scrap dealers killed when an explosive device went off in Budgam district. Abdul Salam Tantray and Muhammad Yousuf Malik killed on spot when they touched the device at village Shinglipora.

A shepherd loses his left leg in a powerful mine blast after he accidentally stepped over it while grazing his cattle at Dalhan area near Line of Control (LoC) in Poonch district.

Tufail Ahmad, 12, son of Muhammad Iqbal of MohallaChadyal dies on spot when an explosive device bursts at MohallaChandyal in Sangoit area of Mendhar. Police said some children while playing in field spotted a ball-like device and started fiddling with it. It exploded in hands of the boy resulting in his spot death.

Two children injured when an explosive device blasts in fields at village DharDachnan in Doda. Police identified them as RehanLatief, 3, and BurhanLatief, 9.

Two minors injured in Pattan in north Kashmir’s Baramulla district while fiddling with an explosive object in their orchard. They were identified as Muhammad SaleemPandith, 10, and Adil Ahmad Pandith, 8.

16-year-old girl ZahidaKousar injured in a landmine explosion along the Line of Control in Mendhar Tehsil of Poonch district of Jammu.

A shepherd injured in explosion in Mendhar tehsil of Poonch. SadakatHussain, 23, of MohallaSar in Surthoti village of Gursai tehsil Mendhar critically injured when his cattle inadvertently stepped over a Chinese grenade while grazing cattle.

A minor dies and another sustains injuries while fiddling with a live grenade at a firing range in Berda village in Mendhar tehsil of Poonch. Reports said brothers Iftikar Ahmed and ShaukatHussain had gone to the firing range to collect scrap. While Iftikar died on the spot, Hussain was injured when the grenade went off.

JCRB flyover!

© 1998 - 2014  GreaterKashmir.com GK Communications Pvt. Ltd. All Rights Reserved.
