
The Siddaramaiah-led State government stepped into its second year with a promise to mitigate power shortage and accord priority to drinking water projects, besides making the State “hunger- free” during its remaining tenure.

A low-key event to mark the completion of the first  anniversary of the government was held at the Conference Hall in the Vidhana Soudha on Monday wherein the chief minister released a 108-page booklet listing out department-wise achievements of the government. The Congress securing just nine seats in the Lok Sabha polls compared to the BJP’s 17 had taken away the fizz from the celebrations.

At a press conference that followed the booklet launch, Siddaramaiah took only four questions and refused to answer any political queries.

He said the State government’s ambitious Anna Bhagya scheme would help in making the State “hunger-free” within the next four years. The government also had an action plan to make the State “slum-free” and complete all ongoing irrigation projects on time.

Siddaramaiah said that Anna Bhagya scheme was costing the State exchequer Rs 4,300 crore per year and benefited 1.02 crore BPL families in the State. The government planned to construct 15 lakh houses for the poor.

The chief minister said he would also strive to make Karnataka one of the top five states in the country.

He said the government had  succeeded in fulfilling 90 promises out of the 160 made in the party’s poll manifesto. The State’s economy was on the right track despite an estimated revenue shortfall of Rs 1,800 crore during the last fiscal.

He said the entire 42-km first phase of the Bangalore Metro Rail project will be completed by September 2015.

Siddaramaiah wished BJP’s prime minister-elect Narendra Modi “all the best” in leading the NDA government at the Centre. He hoped the NDA government would extend full cooperation to the State as done by the UPA government.

The Election Commission had pulled up Siddaramaiah for calling Modi a “nara hanthaka” (mass murderer) at political rallies during the election campaign to the Lok Sabha polls.
