
Tuesday 20 May 2014 10:31 a.m.

Russia says it has ordered troops near the border with Ukraine to return to their bases, just days ahead of a crucial presidential vote aimed at bringing the country out of deep crisis.

In a move that could ease tensions, President Vladimir Putin's office said on Monday (local time) he had ordered thousands of troops deployed in border regions to return to barracks after the end of spring exercises.

However, NATO said it saw no proof Russia had begun withdrawing, and noted this was the third time Putin had made such a claim.

The Kremlin said Putin had also demanded that Ukraine's pro-Western government halt its military operation against insurgents in the east and pull out its troops.

His remarks came amid continued fighting in eastern Ukraine, with at least one soldier reported killed in a pre-dawn attack near the flashpoint rebel town of Slavyansk.

"Due to the end of the planned spring training of troops that included their movement to Rostov, Belgorod, and Bryansk regions, the Russian president ordered ... troops participating in the drills to return to their permanent bases," the Kremlin said in a statement after a meeting of the country's Security Council.

Putin also called for an immediate end to the offensive by Ukrainian troops in the east - describing it as a "punitive operation" against the separatists - and their withdrawal.

Preparations were continuing Monday for the vote, seen in the West as the only way to end a crisis that began with pro-EU protests in Kiev but spiralled into a wider confrontation.

Prime Minister Arseniy Yatsenyuk acknowledged it could be difficult to organise the election in some districts in the east.

But he added: "It affects very few areas and will not have any influence on voting. The election will take place and we will have a legitimate president."

Still, it remains unclear how much credibility the vote will have as fighting continues between Ukrainian troops and rebels who have grabbed over a dozen towns and declared sovereignty in the industrial hubs of Donetsk and Lugansk.

A top UN rights official has warned of a risk of a major exodus from rebel-held areas of east Ukraine because of the near collapse of basic services there.

Ivan Simonovic also cautioned in an interview with AFP on Monday against expecting that Sunday's election would provide a "miracle" that would resolve a crisis that threatens Ukraine's very existence, saying the window of opportunity was closing fast.

The visiting UN assistant secretary-general for human rights said the international community should heed the lessons of the war in the former Yugoslavia to ensure that such a heavy price is not paid in Ukraine.

He said the rebel-held region of Donetsk in the country's eastern coal and steel heartland was running short of crucial supplies such as medicines including insulin.

"I have an impression that Donetsk is on the verge of collapse of social services ... the overall system is, I think, on the verge of collapse."

He said that during his discussions with local people in the Donetsk region it was "frightening" how many people were contemplating leaving.

"And if things do not improve, we could have a major wave of displaced persons coming from that area."

Simonovic, a diplomat from Croatia, said he did not believe the situation in Ukraine had yet reached the "point of no return" but warned that could happen if there was an escalation of violence.

"That window of opportunity (to end the crisis) may be closing and the opportunity, while is still open, should be used both nationally and internationally."

"Elections will be the beginning of a new phase," he said, just days before the presidential poll being held in the face of Russia's annexation of crimea last month and the uprising in the east.

"But to expect a miracle out of elections is, I think, unrealistic," he added.

"We are facing a country that is increasingly being divided. We are facing a country that may be heading to a very dramatic future scenario. However, we are dealing with a country that can be saved."
