
NEW DELHI: A new bench of the Supreme Court on Monday raised hope for early release of  Sahara group chief  Subrata Roy, detained in Tihar jail for the last 75 days for the failure of two Sahara companies to refund with interest Rs 24,000 crore as directed nearly two years back.

Roy's counsel, senior advocates A M Singhvi and Rajeev Dhavan, told a bench of Justices T S Thakur and A K Sikri that nearly Rs 2,500 crore could be paid upfront if personal and group bank accounts were de-frozen.

In addition, Roy was willing to consider selling off the high-value hotels the Sahara group had acquired in London and New York to arrange for the rest of the money, Rs 5,000 crore to be deposited in the apex court and Rs 5,000 crore in bank guarantee, needed for him to walk out of jail on interim bail.

After hearing the counsel for two hours, the bench said it was prepared to dictate the order for bail if a substantial and concrete offer to meet the interim bail condition was placed before it. The bench had agreed to lift the restriction on operating bank accounts to allow deposition of Rs 2,500 crore in court and permit sale of some properties to generate the rest of the money.

The bench asked the counsel to prepare a firm proposal by next week and submit it to the court before the scheduled hearing. The hearing before the bench of Justices Thakur and Sikri was quite in contrast to that witnessed before the earlier bench of Justices K S Radhakrishnan and J S Khehar.

The bench of Justices Radhakrishnan and Khehar, which had passed the August 31, 2012 judgment asking Sahara Real Estate and Sahara Housing to refund the money illegally collected from three crore investors, had on May 6 passed another 207-page judgment narrating their frustration in dealing with Roy and the Sahara firms, who it said behaved as if they were not amenable to law.

It had rejected numerous offers by Roy and the Sahara firms for staggered payment of the outstanding amount. However, on March 26, it had granted interim bail to Roy and two other directors on the condition that they deposit Rs 5,000 crore with the court and give bank guarantee worth another Rs 5,000 crore.

Immediately after pronouncing the judgment on May 6, Justice Khehar had written to Chief Justice R M Lodha not to make him part of the bench that would be constituted to hear the Sahara matter after retirement of Justice Radhakrishnan on May 14.
