
Share This Story!

13WMAZ's Tom George spoke with veteran GBI investigator Gary Rothwell about the investigation into the murders of Russell and Shirley Dermond in Putnam County.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

13WMAZ's Tom George spoke with veteran GBI investigator Gary Rothwell about the investigation into the murders of Russell and Shirley Dermond in Putnam County.

From the beginning, the case of Russell and Shirley Dermond's murders has been a puzzle for investigators.

The circumstances were unusual - 88-year-old Russell found dead and beheaded in the garage of the Dermonds' million dollar lakefront home at Reynolds Plantation in Putnam County.  His wife, 87-year-old Shirley Dermond missing for nearly two weeks.

13WMAZ's Tom George spoke with Gary Rothwell, a retired agent in charge of the GBI's Perry office. He says the fact that there was no forced entry into the Dermond's house and little evidence found at scene could make solving the case a challenge.

Throughout the investigation, rumors and theories have swirled around the community about why the crime happened, such as organized crime involvement, or past business dealing the Dermonds may have had.

Rothwell says investigations don't work that way. They don't float theories and find evidence to support them.  They work with what they have to create a timetable of events, and look into the background of the victim to find leads or a possible motive.

"Where you start is with what you have. And what you have are the victims and the crime scene. And with the victims, you develop their timeline and you develop the relationships that they may have had that might lead you identify someone that had a motive to kill them. And then you see in the timeline intersects with that," Rothwell explains.

As for the beheading, Rothwell says if a killer is trying to make statement, the severed head would likely be at the crime scene.  Since the head was missing, Rothewell says that could mean they were trying to get rid of evidence.

Rothwell also says the initial stages of the investigation were made more complicated by the fact that investigators had to simultaneously handle a murder investigation for Russell Dermond and a missing persons' investigation for Shirley Dermond.  The search for Dermond took priority because of the possibility she might have been found alive.

After multiple searches on Lake Oconee for clues, fishermen found a body investigators believe to be Shirley Dermond's on Friday.

Rothwell says now that she has been found, although investigations had hoped she would be found alive, having a focus on just the murder investigation could make it easier.
