
Will Julian’s attempt to leave the mob be successful?  This week Julian invites his family to the gallery for dinner. In the process, he gives Lucas (Ryan Carnes) his blessing to bring a date.  All of this will be part of a surprise announcement Julian makes that coincides with the PCPD making a move against the mob.  Julian also has a surprise for Scott (Kin Shriner).  How will Julian’s surprise shake things up in Port Charles?  Sam ( Kelly Monaco ) is definitely one person perplexed by the news.

Speaking of surprises, Jordan’s (Vinessa Antoine) past and present activities are exposed.  This results in T.J. (Tequan Richmond) being both shocked and hurt by his mother’s dealings.  Shawn (Sean Blakesmore) and Molly are left to pick up the pieces after a shattered T.J. confronts his mother. Jordan also has a surprise for Anna (Finola Hughes).

Silas (Michael Easton) receives a gift, but from whom?  The sender of the gift will lead to more mystery and perhaps a revelation that will rock Silas’ world and become an obstacle in his new romance with Sam.

Maxie (Kirsten Storms) is ordered to appear in court.  Her reaction surprises Nathan (Ryan Paevey).  Does the court order have something to do with the person Carly (Laura Wright) goes to visit? Carly and Franco (Roger Howarth) turns to this person for help to find out what is on A.J.’s recording.  They later debate on what to do with what they find out.   Morgan (Bryan Craig) is out for some answers from Sonny (Maurice Benard).  This may draw them even further apart.

Luke’s actions this week will force Tracy (Jane Elliot) to make a decision between her husband and her son.  A disgruntled Luke will turn into a very dangerous Luke as he seeks revenge against some residents of Port Charles.

Down the Road: As Liz (Rebecca Herbst) and Ric (Rick Hearst) grow closer this week, Ric plans a romantic date that may lead to some passion.  Patrick (Jason Thompson) and Sabrina (Teresa Castillo) decide on a name for their son.  Luke meets with a mystery person.  Who is he working for?  Sonny has questions for Ava (Maura West) after she makes a shocking revelation.  Nina Clay (Michelle Stafford) arrives in Port Charles and Silas’ life is turned upside down.
