
worker’s car, Suffolk County prosecutors said.

Paul Fest, 43, pleaded not guilty to one count of possession of child pornography during his arraignment in Boston Municipal Court Friday, said Suffolk District Attorney Daniel F. Conley’s office.

Fest was arrested Thursday, following a monthlong investigation by Boston police officers and prosecutors.

A museum employee approached police April 9, after she found a thumb drive in her car. When she plugged it into her computer, she found sexually explicit images of children, prosecutors said.

The employee told investigators that she had allowed some co-workers, including Fest, to use her car to run errands, but was not sure who owned the drive, Conley’s office said. Police obtained a warrant and searched Fest’s home. They found additional explicit images, prosecutors said.

During an interview with police, Fest allegedly admitted to possessing the pornography.

At his arraignment, prosecutors requested that Fest be held on $25,000 cash bail, but Judge Annette Forde released Fest on his own recognizance.

He was ordered to wear a GPS monitor and have no unsupervised contact with children under 16, prosecutors said.

Fest was terminated Friday from the museum, where he worked as the facilities coordinator, according to a statement from Charlayne Murrell-Smith, vice president of external relations and corporate development at the Children’s Museum.

Fest is scheduled to return to court Aug. 1.

You can now read 10 free articles.

Read it all, now.

Don't miss any of your favorite stories again. Read the stories that matter to you as much as you want, whenever you want when you subscribe to BostonGlobe.com.

The login information you entered does not match an account in our records.

To activate FREE access as a home delivery subscriber start here.

If you don't have a subscription, you can view our digital offers here.

Please check your e-mail for a message from BostonGlobe.com with the subject line "BostonGlobe.com password request." Click the link in the e-mail to choose a new password for BostonGlobe.com, and note that your new password will also be used for your Boston.com membership.

Enter your e-mail address below. We’ll send you an e-mail with a link to reset your password.

Continue reading by subscribing to BostonGlobe.com for just 99¢ .

Continue reading by subscribing to BostonGlobe.com for just 99¢ .

Stay informed with unlimited access to Boston’s trusted news source.
