
Russia's President Vladimir Putin has stated on the eve of his visit to China that the two countries jointly oppose any attempts to "revise the results" of World War II, the Kremlin said Monday.

"We share an idea that it is unacceptable to revise the results of the war, as the consequences will be extremely grave," Putin told Chinese reporters before traveling to Shanghai to attend a summit of the Conference on Interaction and Confidence-Building Measures in Asia, slated to be held Tuesday and Wednesday.

He was responding to a question about joint Russian-Chinese efforts to oppose the attempts aimed at challenging the results of the war, something that China has repeatedly accused Japanese government of doing amid a heated territorial dispute over the Senkaku Islands in the East China Sea.

In a transcript of his remarks posted online by the Kremlin, Putin made no direct mention of Japan in his response to the question.

Instead, the Russian leader cited the "tragic events" unfolding in neighboring Ukraine "where violent neo-Nazis are waging a real campaign of terror against civilians."

"We will certainly continue to oppose attempts to falsify history, heroize Nazis and their accomplices, blacken the memory and reputation of heroic liberators," he said.

Putin noted that in 2015, Russia and China will jointly celebrate the 70th anniversary of the war's end by organizing a series of events.

Regarding the Pacific phase of the war involving Japan, Putin recalled how Russia helped liberate northeastern China from Japanese control.

"I would like to express my gratitude to our Chinese friends for cherishing the memory of thousands of our compatriots, who sacrificed their lives to liberate Northeast China from invaders," he said.

Putin similarly avoided reference to Japan when asked a similar question by Chinese media in January, at which time he said, "The outcome of World War II is unchangeable and it has been fixed by a number of international legal documents. We will work continuously to implement these agreements."

For decades now, Japanese and Russian officials have engaged in off-and-on talks to resolve a dispute over four islands known as the Southern Kurils in Russia and the Northern Territories in Japan. Soviet forces seized control of them after Japan's surrender in the war.

The territorial dispute has prevented Tokyo and Moscow from concluding a postwar peace treaty.

Copyright 2014 Kyodo News International.

All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.
