
For years he was the ruler of county data and was spurred by the County Board to move more quickly to fulfill data requests and draft transparency policies. Now, former Winona County Administrator Duane Hebert is joining the ranks of those waiting for the county to respond to requests for information. According to county officials, Hebert filed a data request after being fired earlier this month for reportedly failing to disclose his wife's business ties to a county solar project, but his request will be on hold until the County Board and its legal advisors can further deliberate on whether to fulfill it and requests by others, including the media and the solar company.

Hebert and former County Board member Mena Kaehler's family's solar company, Novel Energy Solutions (NES), have both threatened legal action against the county and filed data requests for information on the failed county solar deal. The Kaehlers' threats and requests are several weeks old now; Hebert's is more recent. Various local media outlets also filed data requests at the beginning of the solar project controversy, over a month ago.

Interim County Administrator Maureen Holte, who is charged with fulfilling pubic information requests, said that her office is halfway through preparing numerous data requests that had previously been made, but, since Hebert's request, she asked the board last week, "Do I continue to move forward or is the board saying, 'Stop?'"

Holte said she has been working to fulfill those requests, "but I certainly want to make sure that is the direction of the board." She added, "I certainly don't want to stop working on them unless it's the direction of the board." She added that she wanted clarification on whether she should work with the County Attorney's Office — the normal source of legal advice on what is public and what it is private information — or seek outside legal counsel.

Appealing to the County Board for direction on whether or not to process a data request is unusual. After all, fulfilling data requests is typically not a question of local policy, but a matter of following state law. In this case, however, requests for information on the solar issue are a little more complicated. It is up to the County Attorney to determine whether the Hebert and the Kaehler family's threats of lawsuits qualify as pending litigation, which would give the county authority to withhold information in preparation for defending taxpayers in court, according to Minnesota Statutes 13.39. However, statutes also allow the County Board to release such information in order "to dispel widespread rumor or unrest."

At last week's meeting, Commissioner Steve Jacob noted that since Hebert was placed on administrative leave and Holte received the board's approval to fill in for him as Data Practices Officer, she apparently mislabeled the position "Data Privacy Officer." Jacob commented, "I don't think there is such a thing. It's not 'Data Privacy;' it's 'Data Practices.'" He added, "This is about providing information to the public, not keeping it away from the public."

"My thought is that the lines are so fuzzy on what's new and what's an existing [request]; they overlap and interrelate," commented Jacob. "I'd like to see us discuss it before it moves forward and then I'd like to see it move forward quickly," he said, referring to all of the solar project-related data requests.

"I would hate to see people's data requests simply be put on a credenza for a couple of weeks. It seems so bureaucratic to do that," said commissioner Jim Pomeroy. He advocated for continuing to process all of the requests aside from Hebert's.

"Can we draw a difference between" the requests from others and the request from Hebert, who has indicated he may sue the county? asked commissioner Marcia Ward.

Maybe the county's response to Hebert's request should be the subject of a closed session on potential litigation strategy, suggested commissioner Wayne Valentine. County Attorney Karin Sonneman agreed, advising, "If there is anything that might be related to a threatened lawsuit by anyone, it should be considered for discussion in a closed session."

Sonneman has recommended that the county "lock down all information" regarding the potential lawsuits, noting that such a "litigation hold" is the standard practice of the county's insurer, the Minnesota Counties Intergovernmental Trust (MCIT), and that Hebert and the Kaehlers could obtain data through court processes if they file a suit.

Sonneman was named in disgruntled letters from NES, accusing her of misleading the company by snubbing NES in favor of another company while in the middle of discussions about NES' proposed contract. In emails to NES at the time, Sonneman was clear with NES representatives that their one-and-a-half-page contract was "barebones" and "not acceptable."

Sonneman replied to Jacob, "Well, my position is to protect the interest of my client and as civil counsel to this board, this board is my client." She added, "In general, in that type of situation, when anyone makes even a veiled threat to sue the county, it would behoove the police makers" to heed MCIT's advice and put information under litigation hold.

"I've looked through all of the emails and there is nothing in there that I don't want the public to see," Jacob said.

"I think there just has to be a thoughtful discussion by the board as a body to decide that," Sonneman responded. "And yes, I agree, I do not want to be involved in anything that would have to do with NES or Mr. Hebert; that's why I appointed [Assistant County Attorney] Susan Cooper [to handle data requests related to the solar project] and that's why I asked for the independent investigation, and I stayed out of that."

MCIT's advice to put this information under litigation hold should be part of the discussion, Ward said. "We want to be open and transparent absolutely, but we also have to protect those taxpayer dollars from potential litigation," she said.

Commissioner Wayne Valentine agreed, "I'm all for transparency, too, but as commissioner Ward has pointed out, we have a responsibility to taxpayers."

"I don't want to sit here and be part of decision-making as to whether we are going to withhold information from anybody," said Pomeroy. There are practices in place at a staff level for handling data requests and "we have an abundance of appropriate legal advice available," he said. "I'm comfortable right now. The thing I'm not comfortable [with] right now is having this discussion today."

"I think we're running afoul of the law and I don't want to do that," Pomeroy said.

The board directed Holte to get legal advice from Cooper and MCIT — "which would be standard operating procedure anyway," Pomeroy interjected — and planned to discuss how to handle solar project data requests at a future meeting, possibly in closed session.

Initially, the board had planned to discuss the matter next Tuesday, but Sonneman, who will be gone that day, advised moving the discussion to the following meeting in June and placing it on the agenda for discussion only, saying, "I'm not sure it's ready for a vote."

"You know this board is very open and wants to share everything," Ward said in an interview. "But if they are going to use it against us in a lawsuit," she continued, "it really kind of ties our hands and makes us very cautious."
