
The Georgia supreme court on Monday upheld a state law granting anonymity to pharmacists who supply drugs for lethal injections. The news was a setback for Warren Hill , an intellectually disabled man on death row in the state.

Hill’s case has been marked by controversies over his disability and changes the state has made to the drug cocktail it uses to execute prisoners.

Hill’s execution was last put on hold in July 2013 , when a lower Georgia court ruled that the state’s drug secrecy law was unconstitutional. The Fulton County superior court said that by withholding from Hill crucial details about the source and nature of the drugs that were to be used to execute him, the state was causing him "irreparable harm”.

On Monday the state supreme court, in a 5-2 ruling , dismissed that argument. The court ruling rejected the argument of Hill’s lawyers that anonymous sourcing of execution drugs increased the risk of drug contamination and, thereby, of cruel and unusual punishment.

For the majority, justice Harris Hines wrote: “Particularly unpersuasive is Hill’s expert’s testimony that certain contaminants also could have the following effect: ‘Their blood pressure would drop precipitously, and ultimately it’s possible that they could die.'

Last month in Oklahoma a prisoner, Clayton Lockett, appeared to suffer during a botched execution in which an experimental cocktail of drugs was used. A dissenting Georgia justice brought up the Oklahoma case in the first line of his opinion.

“Unknown to Lockett and his attorneys, despite their calls for transparency, was the source of any of the three drugs,” justice Robert Benham wrote. “Unknown to us all, at least at the time of this writing, is why the execution did not go as planned.

Georgia has sought to execute Hill despite a US supreme court ban on executions for "mentally retarded" criminals, on the grounds that such executions constitute cruel and unusual punishment. The state argues that Hill has not been proven “beyond a reasonable doubt” to be mentally disabled, notwithstanding the fact that all nine medical experts who have examined Hill are in agreement that he is intellectually disabled.

In 1990, Hill was already serving a life sentence for murdering his girlfriend when he killed fellow inmate John Handspike in a Georgia prison, beating him to death with a nail-studded board.

Georgia has repeatedly postponed Hill’s execution. In 2012 his execution was stopped 90 minutes before he was to die, so judges could review the state's move from a three-drug lethal injection procedure to a single fatal dose of the sedative pentobarbital.

The timeline established by Monday’s ruling for Hill’s execution was unclear. The court noted that the order for the drugs initially approved by the state for the execution, and the drugs themselves, had expired.

US states have increasingly moved to keep the source of lethal injection drugs a secret, amid a European-led boycott by pharmaceutical firms.

Last week, the Guardian, the Associated Press and three Missouri newspapers challenged the state's lethal injection secrecy law .

Our editors' picks for the day's top news and commentary delivered to your inbox each morning.
