
A federal judge’s ruling  on Monday that the District of Columbia does not have the power to grant itself budget autonomy quickly became new ammunition in Del. Eleanor Holmes Norton’s fight for greater autonomy from Capitol Hill.

When U.S. District Judge Emmet G. Sullivan — a native Washingtonian who said he was “deeply moved” by arguments that D.C. residents are entitled to spend their own locally raised revenues — ruled that the court was “powerless to provide a legal remedy and cannot implement budget autonomy for the District,” Norton took it in stride.

After decades of fighting for budget autonomy from Congress, Norton is is hoping the ruling adds new urgency to congressional effort to win District budget autonomy.

She was initially skeptical of the local attempt to amend the Home Rule Charter, but has vowed to redouble efforts to prevent any move by Congress to block or overturn the budget autonomy referendum, while fighting off new social policy riders on fiscal 2015 appropriations measures.

During a Monday news conference with representatives of abortion-rights groups, the American Civil Liberties Union, the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence and others, Norton was cautious.

Regardless of how the D.C. Council’s appeal of Sullivan’s ruling is decided, she believes the ruling should help garner national attention for efforts to get Congress to allow the District to control its locally raised revenue.

“I caution you though, that even if the District gets budget autonomy … there could be attachments to our appropriation and we will need our allies then as well,” she said.

Rep. Phil Gingrey, R-Ga., has already taken up the challenge, filing a gun policy amendment in the House Rules Committee to the fiscal 2015 National Defense Authorization Act. Gingrey’s amendment would express the sense of the Congress that active-duty military personnel in their private capacity should be exempt from the gun control laws of D.C., which are some of the strictest in the nation.

Norton is vowing to fight the amendment, saying it throws the Republican principle of local control of local affairs under the proverbial D.C. bus.

D.C. should not be the “petri dish for undermining gun laws,” said Brian Malte, a spokesman for the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence.

The campaign is closely monitoring Gingrey’s amendment and prepared to alert constituents in key district’s nationwide if necessary, Malty said. They will also be working to make sure Senate allies are aware of the amendment.

If Republicans wield appropriations riders to stop D.C. from decriminalizing marijuana, defund needle exchanges or limit access to abortion services, they might face the wrath of angry constituents who are members of the national organizations, according to a letter sent to members of Congress by DC Vote on behalf of the coalition.

There was no immediate reaction to the ruling from Speaker John A. Boehner, R-Ohio, or House Majority Leader Eric Cantor, R-Va.; Cantor has previously indicated a willingness to work with the District on its goal of budget autonomy.

Under the direction of Republican leaders, the Office of the House General Counsel weighed in on the side of Mayor Vincent Gray in the case legal dispute with the D.C. Council over the voter-approved changes to the city’s budgeting procedure.

A spokesman for House Oversight and Government Reform Chairman Darrell Issa, R-Calif., who is sponsoring a local budget autonomy bill, said Issa continues to gather support for the measure.

Meanwhile, the D.C. Council’s legal team indicated another judge might have the final word on the matter.

General Counsel V. David Zvenyach said that despite the ruling, the legal team for the D.C. Council remains confident in the merits of its legal position. They plan to appeal the case to the D.C. Circuit Court.

Gray said he was not surprised by Sullivan’s ruling and vowed, in a statement, to continue fighting for budget autonomy on Capitol Hill.

“The 647,000 residents of our nation’s capital deserve the freedom to spend our own money as we see fit without first getting a permission slip from Congress,” Gray said.

If service in the military justifies the right to bear arms in DC, then service in the civilian Federal government ought to justify the right to VOTE!

DC Democrats are going to need to learn how to work better with the GOP. Three of the states that have decriminalizes marijuana are solidly republican (one, Alabama, is southern and has a strong conservative christian lobby). See: https://twitter.com/ShawingtonTimes/status/468845621022310400 . The best way to humanely deal with drug abuse, drug crime and abortions is through better education. (DC has a long way to go before it improves schools for its lower income black and latino families.). No one is for abortion, it’s a worse case scenario for a woman or girl in crisis (rape, unplanned pregnancy, to juvenile unsafe sex practices), No rational person wants to throw women in prison for making such a decision, especially since a boy or man was equally responsible for the pregnancy and should be equally responsible for the “outcomes.” But we can and must do much more, through education, to build the self esteem of young girls and women, so they can better protect themselves, make better choices, can consider better options for their futures, and so they don’t need to feel they must to do what some jerk tells them when he entices them into unprotected sex. If DC Democrats backed off draconian legal gun owner regulations and focussed on ending the drug war, responsible for the proliferation of legal and illegal guns (in a hyper militarized police force and on the streets) and a significant number of drug related violence, they could dramatically reduce gun violence in ways they have been incompetent at doing through other means.

Fact: More debt was run up in Hussein Obama’s first four years of office than under the first 42 Presidents combined.

Reporter Hannah Hess ( @ha_nah_nah ) gives you frequent updates from around the Capitol Hill campus.

She covers Capitol Police, Architect of the Capitol and other supporting agencies, plus administration of the House and Senate, while keeping an eye on D.C.'s political scene.

Receive daily coverage of the people, politics and personality of Capitol Hill.
