
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

GRAND RAPIDS, MI –There are likely 12 jurors who wish they had not seen the nightmarish pictures of Aiyana Cisneros, the toddler who suffered numerous broken bones and internal injuries at the hands of Pedro Navarro nine years ago.

But the Michigan Court of Appeals has ruled that the prosecution was justified in showing those photos and the 2012 first-degree murder conviction will stand, leaving the 29-year-old to spend the rest of his life in a state prison.

“It was important for the jury to know the nature and extent of Aiyana’s injuries and the record does not suggest that the prosecution introduced the photographs solely to shock or inflame the jury,” the written opinion states.

The three-judge appeals panel rejected Navarro’s argument that a diagram could have been substituted for the photos of the child.

During the trial, Kent County Forensic Pathologist David Start said the injuries that led to the child’s death were “ridiculous” and among the most extreme he has seen in a case of alleged abuse.

According to testimony in the week-long trial, Navarro took the little girl into an upstairs bedroom and then mother Samantha Winkler heard the child screaming.

Instead of coming to the aid of the little girl or calling for help, Winkler testified she listened to her boyfriend’s demands that she not notify police or emergency services.

The child was sick and vomiting for two days before she died of internal injuries suffered to her liver and other organs.

Winkler pleaded guilty to second-degree murder for her failure to protect the child and was sentenced to 16 to 60 years in prison.

The Kent County Circuit Court jury deliberated for about four hours before delivering its verdict in August of 2012 and Navarro was sentenced a month later to life in prison without the possibility of parole by Judge James Robert Redford.

In his appeal, Navarro argued that because the mother pleaded guilty to second-degree murder, her testimony was not credible and should not have been allowed. The appeals court also rejected that argument.

Finally Navarro said his attorney, Paul McDonagh, did not give him effective representation because the attorney refused to argue that a Child Protective Services caseworker was falsifying evidence.

Navarro is currently housed in the Alger Correctional Facility in the Upper Peninsula.

© 2014 MLive Media Group All rights reserved ( About Us ).

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
