
EARLIER this year, the Post reported that some politicians expected 'fireworks' at the European elections this week.

But while fireworks are firmly within the Nottingham tradition when it comes to political elections, they are unlikely to be as dramatic and extensive as they used to be in 17th to 19th-century Nottingham.

Then, Nottingham's inhabitants were notorious for the scale of their passionate interest in political questions – national and local.

While few actually had a vote until the process for widening the franchise began in 1832, having a chance to demonstrate your opinion publicly on political issues via the electoral system still mattered to ordinary people – in a way that it apparently doesn't now, on the basis of turn-out at local, European and national elections.

Currently, we prefer to grumble at home or on social media, it seems – but historically, Nottingham dwellers have turned out in large numbers to urge their opinions on those entitled to vote, and the politicians standing for office.

Up to the 19th century, riots were very much a part of urban life, but from quite early on, Nottingham did have a particularly riotous reputation.

Election riots, however, are a more modern phenomenon. What characterised them was that as well as the riotous normalities of property being smashed and noses bloodied or eyes blackened, in election riots the key targets were political candidates and political factions or parties – and also those who supported them.

And in the days before secret ballots, it was easy to identify who was voting which way.

Elections gave the opportunity to draw unflattering cartoons, write rude songs, write personal exposés in pamphlets which were often downright (in modern terms) libellous in terms of the personal practices and beliefs that they suggested particular candidates.

One early Nottingham election riot took place in the context of heated disputes between the two key political factions (Whigs and Tories) in the late 1670s and early 1680s.

Some contemporaries suspected plots to restore the Roman Catholic religion. William Sacheverell, MP for Derbyshire but with large estates in Nottinghamshire, led the Whig opposition to the election of Tory Gervase Wild as mayor.

Records noted that there were many 'scurrilous songs and pamphlets', and that people as well as property were attacked.

It amounted to a riot which Chief Justice Jeffreys described as 'next door to rebellion', which gives an indication of how threatening it was.

When Sacheverell was tried in 1684 before this notoriously nasty judge, he was fined 500 marks – about £500,000 in today's value – for his part in leading such disgraceful rioting.

The town continued to be the scene for what can only be described as 'lively' elections (and, up to 1715, when the Sacheverell estates in Nottinghamshire were sold to the Cliftons, the Sacheverells continued to be involved in ensuring their liveliness).

In June 1790, the windows of Smith's Bank, bordering the market place, were smashed because of opposition to the return of one sitting MP, Robert Smith.

Troops were called out and a man shot dead. Another notorious Nottingham election riot occurred in 1802. It actually resulted in a Parliamentary debate, partly at least because the town's magistrates were held to have permitted, if not actually encouraged, these 'shameful' riots which had led to the 'personal injury of many individuals' at the hands of the 'Nottingham mob'.

Worse, it was claimed the need to rely on the militia to protect voters in the election booths at all recent elections meant that there was no such thing as a 'free and fair' election possible in the town. Despite this, election riots continued until the introduction of secret voting in 1872.

In 1861, one observer wrote that 'the town seemed given up to ruffianism', with violent mobs roaming through the towns, creating a scenario that was a 'disgrace to the town'.

And the rioting in the market place during the 1865 elections was even worse than four years' previously. The riots broke out between Charles Paget's and Samuel Morley's supporters in the competition for election as MP for Nottingham.

Mr Morley brought in groups of his workers  to Nottingham from Mansfield by train on June 26. They disembarked on to the platform to be bombarded with stones hurled by a crowd of angry rival supporters. The incident developed into a riot as a running battle between the two groups rampaged through Nottingham. The 83rd Infantry Regiment were called in to restore order; Samuel Morley won the election.

After that, elections in Nottingham became more peaceful, though there was still an election riot in 1885. This time, however, the main accusations were against the police for their 'brutality' – rather than against the rioters.

In 1831, it’s estimated that 5% of the population had a vote; rising to 7% after the Great Reform Act, and rising to 29% after Disraeli’s Reform Act 1867.

Having a vote in elections generally depended on owning property, or paying a rent for it, of a minimum value (which changed over time, and started decreasing after the Great Reform Act 1832).

The Chartist movement of the 1830s and 1840s argued for removal of the property qualification for voting.

In 1918, men were finally given the vote on the basis of universal suffrage, but women still needed a property qualification (and/or to be a university graduate).

In 1927, the property qualification was removed for women, and equal participation in the franchise was established.

Before 1832, the Nottingham electorate consisted of the town’s burgesses, which included not only 40 shilling freeholders but also people who had passed out of an apprenticeship, so a number of framework knitters. In total, it’s estimated it amounted to about 9% of the population, unusually high for the pre-1832 period.

The market place was the key location for election hustings, and so for riots, up to the 20th century.

Agitation for parliamentary reform and an extension of the franchise was popular in Nottingham from the 1780s.

The riots of 1831, when the Castle was burned to punish the Duke of Newcastle for his opposition to franchise reform, were the worst in all England.

The Chartists were well-supported in Nottingham, because local disappointment with the Great Reform Act 1832 was so strong. One leading Chartist, Feargus O’Connor was elected MP for Nottingham in 1847.
