
Three months after word surfaced that D.C. law firm and lobbying powerhouse Patton Boggs LLP was exploring a possible merger with larger global firm Squire Sanders, it is time to take things to the next level.

Votes on a proposed merger between Patton Boggs and Squire Sanders could come as early as this week, The Wall Street Journal reported . If approved by partners at both firms, the merger would create a roughly 1,700-lawyer firm with international reach and a substantial presence in Washington, D.C. The deal also would reverse the declining fortunes of Patton Boggs . Revenues shrank 12 percent last year to $279 million and in February the firm announced the closure of its New Jersey office.

The merged firm would be called Squire Patton Boggs , and leave Dentons on the outside looking in. Last month, Dentons, a 2,600-lawyer international firm formed a year ago through the combination of Salans LLP, Fraser Milner Casgrain LLP and SNR Denton, made an overture to Patton Boggs about combining.

The executive committee at Patton Boggs approved the proposal Thursday, partners at the firm were briefed on the matter Friday and a vote was expected this week, according to The Journal. Over the weekend, the executive board at Squire Sanders, which has about 1,300 lawyers, approved the proposal, and a partner vote on the matter is expected this week.

Paving the way for the vote was Patton Boggs ' recent decision to end a long-running dispute with Chevron Corp., which had accused the law firm of fraud in connection with a $9.5 billion environmental verdict in Ecuador against the oil company. Patton Boggs expressed regret for its involvement in the case and agreed to pay Chevron (NYSE: CVX) $15 million to settle the case.

Tucker Echols covers general assignment and provides business coverage for WTOP.

If you are commenting using a Facebook account, your profile information may be displayed with your comment depending on your privacy settings. By leaving the 'Post to Facebook' box selected, your comment will be published to your Facebook profile in addition to the space below.

A look at the day's business stories from media outlets around Washington, D.C.
