
More states ban same-sex marriage than allow it. But that doesn't tell the whole story.

Latest update, August 21: On Wednesday, a federal judge struck down Florida's ban on gay marriage . "When observers look back 50 years from now, the arguments supporting Florida's ban on same-sex marriage, though just as sincerely held, will again seem an obvious pretext for discrimination," US District Judge Robert L. Hinkle wrote. However, Hinkle stayed his ruling pending appeal which means same-sex couples can't get married in Florida just yet.

Just a few years ago, the fight for marriage equality looked incredibly bleak. More than half of all states had banned same-sex marriage through ballot initiatives or legislation, with some states going so far as to inscribe same-sex marriage bans into their constitutions.

Supporters of marriage equality today are reversing the situation at an astonishing pace. A massive 2012 campaign by marriage equality activists to reverse the pattern of defeat they'd suffered at the ballot box, as well as the Supreme Court's 2013 decision to strike down the federal Defense of Marriage Act have proven to be major catalysts for change.

But progress has been uneven. Depending on the state, the right to same-sex marriage relies on voters approving a new constitutional amendment, legislators repealing a law, or judges striking down the ban (and the judge's decision surviving the appeals process). States with domestic partnerships or civil unions don't offer nearly the same protections for couples as states that recognize same-sex marriage. For instance, Wisconsin law allows domestic partnerships but makes it illegal for same-sex couples to travel out of state to marry. Couples who do so, and continue living in Wisconsin, risk a $10,000 fine and nine months in prison .

Below are two maps that will help you keep it all straight. The maps, which are continually updated, tell you everything you need to know about how marriage equality is spreading across the country.

The current status of gay marriage across the US. Latest state to legalize highlighted below. Click any state for details.

As the above map shows, more states ban same-sex marriage today than allow it. But that's only part of the story.

The tipping point came in 2012, when voters in Washington, Maine, and Minnesota recognized the rights of same-sex couples to marry. Of the nearly two-dozen states that recognize some form of same-sex unions, more than half joined the pack in just the past two years.

"Which one of these motherfuckers talked to God, and God said that same-sex marriage was a no-can-do?"

Surprise! It was kind of a mess.

The St. Louis Rams drafted Sam with the 249th pick in the 2014 NFL Draft.

Get Mother Jones by Email - Free. Like what you're reading? Get the best of MoJo three times a week.

MoJo Troll Patrol encourages readers to sign in with Facebook, Twitter, Google, Yahoo, Disqus, or OpenID to comment. Please read our comment policy before posting.
