
While Markus Kaarma gets death threats and awaits his formal arraignment in the shooting death of a foreign exchange student last month in a Missoula, Mont., garage, a representative of the German government has floated the option of pursuing its own case.

In a letter sent to Montana Gov. Steve Bullock days after the death of 17-year-old Diren Dede, Consul General of the Federal Republic of Germany, Peter Rothen wrote, "...you might find it useful to know that German penal law also applies for crimes committed against German nationals abroad, enabling German state prosecutors to open investigations in such cases."

Elected officials and government investigative agencies are responding to Germany's threat of its own investigation by passing the buck. The governor's office is referring questions to the U.S. Justice Department.  The Justice Department suggested to Fox News that state Justice Department officials are in play. The Montana attorney general referred us back to the local district attorney.

When asked if Germany could also pursue a prosecution, Missoula County Deputy County Attorney Andrew Paul, who is prosecuting the case locally, said he is not familiar with German penal law and "German authorities would not have jurisdiction to prosecute a separate criminal case in the state of Montana."  The U.S. State Department said it would typically only be involved if the U.S. citizen is overseas, not located in the U.S.

She added they are all looking to Montana and what legal authorities will do. They have full confidence it will be handled in a "speedy and fair way."

Kaarma's partner and mother of his infant son, Janelle Pflager, was home with Kaarma at the time of the shooting.  She told police in an interview the family's home had been burglarized two times within three weeks.  Unauthorized charges had showed up on credit cards after the burglaries.

Pflager purchased motion sensors for the garage and an extra video monitor was set up to stream a live picture, with a slight delay.  Pflager told police a purse with personal belongings was left in the garage, "so that they would take it."

Shortly after midnight on April 27, the motion sensors sent alerts to Pflager's phone.  The couple pulled up a live feed of the garage.  Pflfager used a phone to take a screenshot of the feed, showing Dede in the garage. The overhead door had been left partially open by approximately 5 ½  feet.

The affidavit says "he was experiencing a rush of adrenaline by the fact there was a subject again inside his garage."  After hearing a noise, he "panicked" and thought he had trapped the subject.  After deactivating the safety, he fired four times into the darkened garage, hitting Dede with two shots, which proved fatal.

According to the Affidavit for Probable Cause, an employee of Great Clips hair salon called investigators. Felene Sherbondy told a detective Kaarma was in the hair salon days before the shooting.  She asked him how he was doing and he said, "I'm just waiting to shoot some f------ kid."  The affidavit states he told salon stylists he had been waiting up for three nights with his shotgun.  According to the charging documents, as he was about to leave the salon, he said, "And I'm not f------ kidding, you'll see this on the f------ news.  I'm going to f------ kill 'em."

"Markus denies that he lured anyone into his garage,” a statement released from Kaarma's attorney, Paul Ryan of Paul Ryan & Associates, said. “The family's garage door was open for ventilation because Markus and Janelle smoke cigarettes in the garage and had done so minutes before the tragedy.  The purse alleged to be 'bait', was actually located in a dark corner of the unlit garage and not visible from the driveway."

A jar of marijuana was discovered during a search of the home afterward. Investigators obtained a warrant to draw Kaarma's blood while he was in custody to try to determine whether he may have been impaired by "alcohol, dangerous drugs, other drugs, intoxicating substances or a combination of the above..."  Paperwork indicated it would be sent to the Montana State crime lab for analysis.

Around the corner, a German flag was also flying prominently, front and center at the house which once hosted Dede.  Efforts to reach the host family by phone, email and in person were unsuccessful -- they are now listed as potential witnesses in the case.

An arraignment in district court for Kaarma is expected in the coming weeks, once a judge is selected.  Kaarma's attorney has indicated he plans to plead "not guilty."  Deliberate homicide is a felony in Montana and carries punishment ranging from 10 years to life imprisonment without parole.  He has posted $30,000 bail.
