
A legal battle over royalties from the classic Robert DeNiro film Raging    Bull will continue following a US high court ruling.

A legal battle over the copyright of the Robert De Niro film Raging Bull is heading to another round after an intervention by the US Supreme Court.

The high court ruled that the daughter of a long-dead Hollywood screenwriter    could sue the Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer (MGM) studio over the rights to the    Oscar-winning film.

The ruling could open the door for future litigants to claim a right to    classic Hollywood films.

Frank Petrella penned a screenplay in 1963 based on the life of Jake LaMotta,    an Italian-American boxer who rose from fighting in the schoolyard in the    Bronx to become a world champion.

Mr Petrella died in 1981 but his daughter, Paula, claims that his screenplay    was the inspiration of the 1980 film directed by Martin Scorsese.

In 2009, she filed a lawsuit against MGM, alleging that the studio was    infringing on her copyright and demanding a share of Raging Bull's    royalties.

Her lawsuit was rejected by a lower court judge, who said that too much time    had passed since the film's release for her to be able to make a claim to    royalties.

That decision was backed by the 9th US Circuit Court of Appeals. But on Monday    the Supreme Court overturned that ruling and gave Ms Petrella clearance to    pursue her court.

The Supreme Court did not rule on whether she was actually owed royalties, it    merely gave her permission to continue the legal battle.

Federal copyright law allows people to bring copyright claims within three    years of an infringing act. However, her lawyers argued that the case    remained within the statute of limitations because MGM continued to release    the film on DVD.

The studio denies that the screenplay by Mr Petrella was used in the film and    accuses his daughter of deliberately waiting to file her lawsuit so that she    could get more money in the wake of the film's 25th anniversary in 2005.
