
The alma mater of Convent of Mercy Academy (Alpha) celebrates more than a century of dedicated service to Jamaica, making this year's annual Alpha Academy Alumnae Association Woman of Excellence Award even more exceptional.

This year, the Flair features the two 2014 Woman of Excellence Award recipients, Hermine Metcalfe, and Patricia Lee.

Metcalfe is being honoured by her alma mater for her outstanding contribution to the pharmaceutical industry.

Prior to pursuing pharmaceutical studies, Metcalfe weighed her options between medicine, nursing, medical technology and computer programming. At one time, she even considered joining the Sisters of Mercy.

She took a walk down memory lane with Flair: "I joined with religious affiliated groups like Sodality and McCauley Circle. I also joined the Glee Club, I was vice-captain of my house and deputy head girl. I was a quiet, well-behaved student and did not get into trouble with staff or students. I made and developed some good and lasting friendships as well."

It got even better at university, which was where she gained a world of experience. "University overseas was a good experience. I went on a government scholarship to Brighton Polytechnic, in Sussex, England. I got very good grades in spite of my involvement in the Sussex African Students' Association. This was during the apartheid era, and the group was very militant. I was the publicity secretary. However, I did not allow this to interfere with my studies. It took planning."

Metcalfe learnt from an early age how to deal with challenges, so when she encountered the obstacles within various areas of the pharmaceutical industry, she tackled them head-on. "For example, while we are aware of the need for strong regulations to curb illegal importation of medication, systems need to be improved and implemented by Government to facilitate smoother and more efficient processes for acquisition of critical and emergency items to save lives. I recall that during the last polio epidemic in Jamaica, I procured a ventilator machine for use at the Mona Rehabilitation Centre. However, through lack of experience and in the rush, I omitted certain processes, and the equipment was delayed for a few days at the airport."

She said, too, that there are unscrupulous persons who have attempted to obtain drugs illegally using forged prescriptions. "Pharmacists have to be particularly vigilant so as not to fill these." There has also been the challenge of illegible handwriting of some doctors, which causes delays for patients as time has to be spent in trying to locate the doctor. She notes that the stakeholders are currently in diaglogue to remedy the latter.

When she found out she was awarded the Alpha Academy Women of Excellence award, she was, to say the least, elated. "I was surprised, delighted and felt humbled at the same time. I had never at any time thought that what I was doing was anything other than what I ought to be doing. The award means a lot to me. To be honoured for doing what I consider my duty is a great privilege and I am truly grateful for the guidance I had from parents and teachers," she told Flair.

In her journey to success, she shows sincere appreciation to her parents, who instilled the importance of expressing gratitude, good manners, honesty, integrity, caring for others and humility. There were also the priests and nuns with whom she interacted and who influenced her positively, namely Sister Mary Bernadette, who inspired her to broaden her horizon and achieve her maximum potential.

Behind her excellent pharmaceutical career, too, is an encouraging and motivating family. Balancing work with family life, she declared, takes planning and at times certain leisure activities have to be sacrificed. But she told Flair she has managed, through the grace of God and the support and understanding of her husband and children.

And through it all she is always trying to give back by volunteering and learning new skills which can be passed on to others, "I was recently certified in HIV counseling and testing." She is also learning to effectively use social media, with plans to enrol in a course in website design in the near future.

The nature of her job requires a lot of travelling and it is during these times that she gets to relax. Her sweet escapes from the demands of her job are travelling with her family, going to the cinema, watching horse racing and getting in some quality time with her husband outside of Kingston.

She ensures she wakes up early each morning to engage in quiet meditation to relax and prepare her for the busy day ahead.

But despite all the demands and challenges of her profession it's one that she finds very fulfilling and would encourage others to enter. "Apart from academic qualifications, a pharmacist must have good people skills and lots of patience. One should want to be a pharmacist must be prepared to dedicate much time to learn. You have to take the time to understand what the profession entails in order to decide which area may prove to be more satisfying. To remain proficient requires lifelong learning as the profession is continually advancing with new discoveries and therapies, but being a pharmacist is a very satisfying and rewarding profession."

The comments on this page do not necessarily reflect the views of The Gleaner.

The Gleaner reserves the right not to publish comments that may be deemed libelous, derogatory or indecent.           Please keep comments short and precise. A maximum of 8 sentences should be the target.           Longer responses/comments should be sent to "Letters of the Editor" using the feedback form provided.
