
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

EDITOR'S NOTE: An update to this article with comments from Callan's mother is available here .

SAGINAW, MI — Nearly four years after the homicide of a Midland woman, Saginaw County prosecutors have charged a man in connection with her death.

Prosecutors on the morning of Monday, May 19, charged Birl L. Hill with murder in the July 2010 shooting death of 23-year-old Jessica Callan.

Hill, 37, is scheduled to appear before Saginaw County District Judge M.T. Thompson on Monday afternoon for arraignment on 12 felony charges, including first-degree premeditated murder and first-degree felony murder.

Police found Callan's body on the morning of July 11, 2010, at Mount Olivet Cemetery, 3440 S. Washington in Spaulding Township. Her family and friends have organized vigils in her honor at the cemetery and created a website and Facebook page seeking justice for her.

Callan's mother, Michelle Berk, declined immediate comment.

Saginaw County Prosecutor John McColgan Jr. said he was "extremely satisfied" that he finally was able to authorize charges in the case.

"This case is extremely important to us, as all are," he said. "We're never going to give on these things. We're going to do our best to put them together and see that justice is done."

Michigan State Police Detective Hilary House on Monday secured the warrant charging Hill, and Thompson signed the warrant about 10:30 a.m. McColgan said the homicide was "drug-related" but did not elaborate.

In addition to the murder charges, which carry mandatory penalties of life in prison without the possibility of parole, Hill is charged with possessing with intent to deliver Oxycontin, extortion, unlawful imprisonment, carrying a dangerous weapon with unlawful intent, possessing a firearm as a felon, and five counts of possessing a firearm during the commission of a felony.

Hill's arrest warrant alleges he committed the offenses on July 10 and July 11 in "various locations" in Saginaw and Midland counties.

Prosecutors also have charged Jerry W. Simms, 32, with lying to a peace officer. His arrest warrant alleges he lied to state police Detective Sgts. Gary Thomas and Dennis Proulx on July 26, 2012, by telling them he was not in a vehicle with Hill and another male "when Jessica Callan was brought to Saginaw where she was murdered" and that he did not know Callan and had never seen her.

Simms, who last lived at 4135 Randolph in Saginaw, is in custody, with arraignment pending. The charge he faces carries a maximum penalty of four years in prison.

The felony murder charge that Hill faces means someone was killed during the commission of a specified felony. Hill's warrant lists that felony as extortion.

Hill remains jailed on a charge of failing to register as a sex offender. He pleaded no contest in 1996 to second-degree criminal sexual conduct and served prison time for the offense.

At the time of her death, Callan had an open case in Midland County in which she was charged with possessing marijuana.

"It's a reminder that no good comes from being involved with drugs," McColgan said. "It takes a toll on our community, and people need to know that they need to stay away from that sort of activity because it can end tragically."

© 2014 MLive Media Group All rights reserved ( About Us ).

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
