
Nathan Albert died alone on the side of an Auckland road during the early hours of New Year's Day 2013, bleeding to death from a stab wound to his upper body.

The 27-year-old father of young children was fatally wounded by south Auckland Maori warden Peter Shaun Jonathon Job, 40, who was today jailed for life for the murder.

In the High Court at Auckland today, Justice Mark Cooper decided Job must serve at least 10-1/2 years.

The stabbing happened about 4am in Pilkington Rd, Panmure.

Job and Mr Albert, who had earlier been to a bar in the city together, had been arguing and fighting that night.

After Job went home Mr Albert turned up there and after a discussion, he ran off.

Job chased him. When he caught up he stabbed Mr Albert twice with a knife he had concealed, one blow under the left armpit and one in the thigh.

The wound under the armpit was fatal.

Job was found guilty at a trial earlier this year. His defence was that he used the knife as a last resort, acting in self-defence.

Job had said the pair fought and Mr Albert had the upper hand before he impaled himself on the knife.

Justice Cooper rejected that and noted that Job didn't immediately try to help Mr Albert as he lay dying.

At today's sentencing, members of Mr Albert's family read victim impact statements speaking of their loss.

Mr Albert's father James Albert was angry Job never admitted the murder.

"You had 14 months to change your plea but you chose to fabricate your lies to save yourself and make us sit through all the gut wrenching details of what happened to my son," he told Job.

"Peter Job, you are such a coward of a man."

James Albert said he had memories of watching rugby league with his son, who loved the ocean and outdoors. Nathan Albert was trying to make a go of life and get things back on track, his father said.

Defence lawyer Maria Pecotic said Job had written a letter of apology for Mr Albert's family and had asked if he could apologise in court.

Mr Albert's family didn't want that, and decided instead to read his letter later.

Ms Pecotic said Job had always accepted responsibility and offered to plead guilty to manslaughter.

Many character references were provided for Job, who Ms Pecotic said fostered children from less privileged backgrounds as well as doing Maori warden work.

Outside court, Mr Albert's mother Jenny Albert said of the sentence: "it's never enough is it. I'll never get to see my son again."
