
Thanks for contacting us. We've received your submission.

Former Senate Majority Leader Joseph Bruno, swiftly acquitted Friday on bribe-related corruption charges, says he will ask state taxpayers to reimburse his legal fees of as much as $4 million.

“After what I’ve been through, with nine years of being investigated, nine years of the feds turning my life upside down, with one trial and another, with all the pain and suffering, I’m entitled under the law to recover my legal cost and I intend to do so,” Bruno, a Rensselaer County Republican — and once one of the most powerful men in the state — told The Post.

Bruno, 85, said former federal prosecutors and others have told him that the Northern District US Attorney’s Office spent more than $30 million “on as many as 80 FBI agents, federal prosecutors, support staff and related expenses” during a decade-long investigation into his alleged denial of “honest services” to state taxpayers.

“It is really so unfair that the federal government has unlimited resources to go after individuals who often just can’t raise the monies to defend themselves. Fortunately, I was able to do so,” he said.

Bruno, a successful businessman, resigned in 2008 during a federal probe into whether he took official actions for clients of his consulting firm in exchange for bribes and kickbacks disguised as fees and other payments.

He insisted from the start that his official actions were never influenced by the payments, which he compared to fees regularly earned by state lawmakers who are also lawyers in private practice.

Albany lawyer Stephen Coffey — who unsuccessfully sought to get the state to pay Bruno’s legal costs after the US Supreme Court threw out the law that Bruno was initially convicted under in 2009 — said he was now prepared to sue Attorney General Eric Schneider to recover Bruno’s costs.

“Joe is entitled to be reimbursed for defending himself in a case that involved him acting in an official capacity as majority leader but which the federal prosecutors claimed was selling his office,” Coffey said.

A little-known section of the state Public Officers Law provides for the reimbursement of “reasonable attorneys’ fees” incurred by public officials found innocent in state and federal prosecutions.

Bruno could sue the state if he’s denied the fees or if he concludes that the state is unreasonably refusing to cover enough of them.

The Center for Emotional Marketing and its founder, Leslie Zane, have spent months conducting focus groups around the state and developing Senate Republican strategies, said a GOP source familiar with the project.

“Senate Republicans have basically turned their entire political operation over to Leslie Zane, somebody basically in the breakfast cereal-packaging and -marketing business,’’ the source said.

The Yankees are leading the Angels 6-5 in the ninth, but Mariano Rivera blows the save. Leave it to Jeter, who hits a walk-off single in the ninth inning for a 7-6 Yankees win.

Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.

Welcome back!

{* #socialRegistrationForm *}             {* socialRegistration_emailAddress *}             {* socialRegistration_displayName *}             {* socialRegistration_ageVerification *}             By clicking "Create Account", you confirm that you accept our terms of service and have read and understand privacy policy .

Don't worry, it happens. We'll send you a link to create a new password.

Create a new password Sent!

We've sent an email with instructions to create a new password. Your existing password has not been changed.
