
The mayor of North Miami has been charged with using a radio show as a recruitment tool in an $8 million mortgage fraud scheme.

An indictment unsealed Monday charges Mayor Lucie Tondreau and three others with wire fraud conspiracy. A city spokeswoman says Tondreau is at a Las Vegas convention on city business.

The alleged crimes took place before Tondreau was elected in June as North Miami’s first female Haitian-American mayor. Prosecutors say Tondreau and another defendant used the radio show to recruit straw buyers, who were used to defraud lenders in buying 20 properties.

The Florida Legislature is defending a year-old state law that allows elected officials to place their assets in a blind trust instead of reporting each investment publicly. Attorneys for the Legislature on Monday filed a brief with the state Supreme Court that says the law is constitutional.

A lawsuit filed last week contends that using a blind trust goes against the “Sunshine Amendment” that was adopted by the state’s voters in 1976.

Gov. Rick Scott is the only state official who has chosen to place his finances in a blind trust in an effort to avoid potential conflicts.

Michael Hill, president of the Alabama-based league, said the billboard advocating Southern secession from the United States cost about $2,000. He also said he preferred the response in Florida to one his group got this weekend in Alabama, where complaints led Lamar Advertising Co. to take down a similar billboard within days of it going up along Interstate 85 in Montgomery.

A University of Florida veterinarian has issued an alert about the compounded drug produced by a Kentucky pharmacy after the deaths of two thoroughbred horses and neurological problems in six others at an Ocala training facility.

The Ocala Star-Banner reports the horses apparently died from complications after being given the drugs to treat or prevent equine protozoal myeloencephalitis, or EPM. EPM affects the central nervous system in horses and is transmitted through opossum waste, which horses ingest while eating tainted food.

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration issued an alert May 15 that documented the deaths of two horses in Lexington, Kentucky. The agency noted that high doses of the drug can cause fever, seizure and death. One of the Ocala horses died during a seizure.

Administrative Law Judge Claude Arrington said Monday that Florida should revoke the participation of two Miami-Dade County private schools in the state’s tax credit and McKay voucher programs because the schools falsely claimed two students were enrolled.

Arrington said the two related schools, Barrington Academy and Barrington Academy II, should be able to re-apply to the voucher programs if they meet conditions, including reimbursing the state for improper voucher payments and establishing procedures to ensure compliance.

The state Department of Education showed the schools received McKay program payments for two students who were not enrolled during a period that began in August 2011 with one student and lasted until February 2014 with the other student. Barrington Academy has reimbursed the state for $12,230 in payments for the first student, and Barrington Academy II has set aside $8,316 with its attorney to reimburse the state for the other student.

Post wire reports.

Thank you for registering!

We have sent you a confirmation email. Please check your email and click on the link to activate your account.

Thank you for registering!

We look forward to seeing you frequently. Visit us and sign in to update your profile, receive the latest news and keep up to date with mobile alerts.

Don't worry, it happens. We'll send you a link to create a new password.

We have sent you an email with a link to change your password.

We've sent an email with instructions to create a new password. Your existing password has not been changed.

To sign in you must verify your email address. Fill out the form below and we'll send you an email to verify.

Check your email for a link to verify your email address.
