
ORLANDO, Fla. & AGOURA HILLS, Calif., May 19, 2014 (BUSINESS WIRE) -- TouchCommerce, the innovative leader in custom online engagement solutions for market leading brands, today announced that its customer, T-Mobile, has been recognized in the Gartner & 1to1 Media CRM Excellence Awards for its analytics initiatives, which the company developed together with TouchCommerce. T-Mobile is accepting the Bronze Winner award in the Customer Analytics category at the Gartner Customer 360 Summit, held in Orlando, Florida, May 19-21, 2014. Winners were selected by a panel of judges, including Gartner analysts, 1to1 Media editorial staff, and business experts. This is the tenth year of the Gartner & 1to1 Media CRM Excellence Awards.

The judging criteria in the Customer Analytics category focused on the use of customer data analysis to increase customer engagement and improve business performance. The entry was evaluated against the 8 Gartner CRM Building Blocks – CRM Vision, CRM Strategy, Valued Customer Experience, Organizational Collaboration, CRM Processes, CRM Information, CRM Technology, and CRM Metrics – as well as 1to1’s approach to building profitable customer relationships based on understanding customer needs, behavior and value. Nominees provided examples of how they used customer analytics on an ongoing, strategic basis to optimize the customer experience.

In addition to accepting the award at the Gartner Customer 360 Summit on May 19, T-Mobile will also cover key results and successes from the award-winning customer analytics case study in the event’s speaking program on May 20, 2014. The customer analytics component of the presentation will touch on how T-Mobile, with the guidance of TouchCommerce, identified new metrics and processes to improve the customer experience, as well as how new analytics capabilities provided T-Mobile with access to data previously unavailable to adapt policy, procedures, and customer service responses. The customer analytics portion of the presentation will also address how this initiative resulted in dramatic improvements in internal customer satisfaction metrics, as well as decreases in wait time and chat abandonment. Furthermore, the added organizational flexibility enabled T-Mobile to run a successful pilot where a single team of representatives were used to manage both chat and social support at the same time, leading to 25 percent lower average handle times, as well as higher resolution rates all while being able to multitask in the social channels when volume allows.

Founded in 1999, TouchCommerce delivers results for market-leading brands with innovative online engagement solutions that enhance customer experience, increase revenue and reduce support costs while using real time customer data analytics. For more information, please visit www.touchcommerce.com .

Connect with TouchCommerce on Twitter (@touchcommerce) and LinkedIn .

Copyright ©2014 MarketWatch, Inc.  All rights reserved.

Intraday Data provided by SIX Financial Information and subject to terms of use .                 Historical and current end-of-day data provided by SIX Financial Information. Intraday data                 delayed per exchange requirements. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones & Company, Inc.                 All quotes are in local exchange time. Real time last sale data provided by NASDAQ. More                 information on NASDAQ traded symbols and their current financial status. Intraday                 data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, and 20 minutes for other exchanges. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM)                 from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. SEHK intraday data is provided by SIX Financial Information and is                 at least 60-minutes delayed. All quotes are in local exchange time.
