
HARRISBURG &GT;&GT; Attorneys will make arguments to Pennsylvania Commonwealth Court on June 16 on appeals Chambersburg Area School District filed against orders to release information about the Chambersburg HYPE dance organization.

The two separate cases involve Chambersburg HYPE founder Jason Reed and parent Maria Dorsey, each of whom filed Right to Know requests in 2011 for financial records of the after-school dance organization, which had served about 250 CASD students since 2007. According to a statement from Powell Law, PC attorneys Mary Powell and Byron Walker, who are representing Reed and Dorsey, CASD denied Reed's request in a written response and Dorsey's request was "deemed denied" because she received no response from the district.

The Pennsylvania Office of Open Records ruled, however, that CASD must release the records. CASD is appealing those two rulings. According to the Powell Law statement, this will be the second time it has been to Commonwealth Court in the appeal process.

Although they are separate cases, they will be heard together in the upcoming arguments.

Reed, Dorsey and others filed Right to Know requests for financial records related to Chambersburg HYPE after CASD fired Reed from the program in March 2011, according to Reed. Reed claimed he was let go after he questioned how nearly $200,000 in donations and Summit Health grant money was used. A teacher who was responsible for program finances claimed the program was struggling for money, and Reed as well as donors did not understand how that was so, he said.

Reed also complained that a teacher's aide in the program made sexual comments to students on her Facebook page, and that a teacher made derogatory remarks on gender about three parents.

Dorsey was one of the parents to whom the derogatory comments were allegedly directed. In response to her Right to Know request for financial records, CASD reportedly provided little. Not knowing it was the incorrect way, Dorsey sent an appeal to CASD; by the time someone responded,the 15-day limit to file an appeal had passed, according to Reed.

Dorsey submitted a second Right to Know request for the same information to CASD. Reed submitted a request around the same time.

"I wanted to clear my name and public image from allegations of both inappropriate conduct and financial mismanagement," Reed said in a statement. "Records responsive to the requests include grant proposals, financial requests, financial statements, the results of audits, status and achievement reports, communications, financial records, payroll records, records of payments to outside counsel and other consultants, and all records referencing or involving me and/or REACH, Inc., a 501(c)(3) nonprofit that I am president of."

On Jan. 9, 2012, CASD gave Reed one grant award letter and copies of correspondence his attorney sent to CASD, but otherwise denied the request. A response reportedly never came to Dorsey.

The Office of Open Records granted Reed and Dorsey's appeals about a month later.

Just shy of two months after Reed filed a federal case in March 2013 for trademark infringement, breach of contract, racial discrimination and First Amendment retaliation against CASD, the CASD Foundation, teacher Jill McCollum, a former director of the program, and Superintendent Joe Padasak (only CASD Foundation remains a defendant), CASD provided Reed and Dorsey with a combined 3,591 additional pages to their separate requests. For Reed, it was cause for questions of the district's good faith.

According to Reed, the issues part of the ongoing appeal are: requiring a requester to submit a written request, and failing to inform denied requesters of the appellate process, both of which stem from Dorsey's first attempt to file a Right to Know request; publicly disclosing Reed's Social Security number; circulating a false report about Reed; having Franklin County Court of Common Pleas seal public records instead of redacting them; failing to follow instructions from Commonwealth Court; improperly keeping evidence out of the records of both cases; and "publicly scolding (Reed) for exercising my right under the (Right to Know Law)."

The outcome of these cases could have implications on Right to Know law and interpretation, according to the Powell Law statement. The decisions "could affect (Right to Know Law) risk management and cost efficiencies which agencies consider in a response to a records request," it states.

Amber South can be reached at 262-4771.
