
Abu Hamza al-Masri, 56, whose fiery sermons before and after 9/11 attracted extremists to his London mosque, was found guilty in federal court in Manhattan Monday and faces up to life in prison. He was accused of aiding a kidnapping of tourists in Yemen in 1998 and plotting to establish a jihad training camp in Oregon in 1999.

IAN WALDIE/REUTERS Hook-handed preacher Abu Hamza al-Masri received a guilty verdict in his federal terror trial Monday in Manhattan.

This time, he wasn’t preaching to the choir.

A jury hit handless hate cleric Abu Hamza al-Masri with a guilty verdict in his Manhattan federal terror trial Monday, convicting him on all counts after hearing him testify for days in his own defense.

He faces a sentence of up to life in prison.

The Egyptian-born imam — whose angry, anti-Western sermons before and after the 9/11 attacks made his London mosque a breeding ground for radical jihadists — stared straight ahead as the jury of eight men and four women delivered its hammer blow.

Radical preacher Abu Hamza al-Masri was found guilty Monday of providing material support to terrorist organizations.

Abu Hamza says he lost his hands and an eye in a bomb accident in Pakistan in 1993.

Abu Hamza, 56, convicted just weeks after a separate New York jury returned a guilty verdict for a son-in-law of Osama Bin Laden, was accused of aiding a deadly kidnapping of tourists in Yemen in 1998 and plotting to establish a violent jihad training camp on an Oregon ranch in 1999. He was also charged with supporting terrorist organizations such as the Taliban and Al Qaeda, in part by sending at least one man to train for holy war in Afghanistan.

Born Mustafa Kamel Mustafa to a nonreligious family, Abu Hamza worked as a nightclub bouncer and strip club manager before becoming a fiery preacher, he testified.

Jane Rosenberg/EPA Abu Hamza was accused of aiding a deadly kidnapping of tourists in Yemen in 1998 and plotting to establish a violent jihad training camp on an Oregon ranch in 1999.

His lawyers portrayed the bearded cleric, who says he lost his hands and an eye in a bomb accident in Pakistan in 1993, as a man of violent words rather than violent deeds.

His dastardly reputation was enhanced by the hooked prosthetic pincers he wore in place of his hands.

“Everybody was happy when the planes hit the World Trade Center,” Abu Hamza told a TV reporter in a clip shown in the monthlong trial.

Jane Rosenberg/Reuters He was also charged with supporting terrorist organizations such as the Taliban and Al Qaeda.

His lawyers urged jurors to look past the rhetoric and remember the case wasn’t about 9/11. They asked whether Abu Hamza could receive a fair shake blocks from Ground Zero.

Defense lawyer Joshua Dratel said the verdict was “not about the evidence but about a visceral reaction to the defendant,” and he planned to appeal.

© Copyright 2014 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.
