
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

He will serve as the 105-year-old organization's 18th leader.

Brooks, a 53-year-old African Methodist Episcopal pastor who lives in Annandale, Hunterdon County, said he has spent the entire arc of his life preparing for his new role as the leader of the nation's oldest and largest civil rights organization.

"As a graduate of both Head Start and Yale Law School, I am a beneficiary, an heir and a grandson, if you will, of Brown v. Board of Education," Brooks said. "My life is the direct product, if you will, of the legacy of the blood, sweat and tears of the NAACP."

Civil rights, Brooks said, is in his DNA. His maternal grandfather, the Rev. James Prioleau, ran for U.S. Congress in the 1940s, although he knew he couldn't win. Brooks said he did it to encourage African Americans to register to vote and to get them involved in the political system.

The job of fighting for civil rights, he said, is who he is as a person.

Brooks grew up in Georgetown, S.C., received his bachelor's degree from Jackson State University, a Master of Divinity degree from Boston University School of Theology, and a law degree from Yale Law School. He is a fourth-generation ordained minister.

At the Federal Communications Commission, he helped small minority- and women-owned companies get financing. He also served as executive director of the Fair Housing Council of Greater Washington and as a trial attorney with the Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights Under Law. He has been anadvocate for public education, affordable healthcare, and fiscal responsibility, according to the NAACP.

Brooks came to New Jersey 6½ years ago to head New Jersey Institute for Social Justice, a research group that advocates for minorities and the poor. Most recently he advocated for legislation that would ban employers from asking about an applicant’s criminal history until the end of the interview process.

Brooks will officially become president at the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People's annual convention in Las Vegas in July.

He replaces interim CEO Lorraine C. Miller, who took over for Benjamin Jealous. Jealous led the NAACP for five years before stepped down late last year.

The nationwide search for a new NAACP president was conducted by Hollins Group of Chicago. The agency reviewed more than 450 applications.

© 2014 New Jersey On-Line LLC. All rights reserved ( About Us ).

The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of New Jersey On-Line LLC.

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
