
Maseko and Makhubu, through their Advocate Lucas Maziya and lawyer Mandla Mkhwanazi, had applied for acquittal in accordance with Section 174 (4) of the Criminal Procedure and Evidence Act.

The act stipulates that at the close of the case for the prosecution, if the court considers that there is no evidence that the accused person committed the offence charged with or any other offence of which he might be convicted thereon, it may acquit and discharge him.

About 100 people crammed the High Court gallery yesterday to hear the fate of the two, who had spent 62 days behind bars.

This means the two have a case to answer and were ordered to enter into their defence. “On these premises I make the following orders that the applications in terms of Section 174(4) of the Criminal Procedure and Evidence Act 67/1938 as amended, be and are hereby dismissed,” said Judge Simelane.

The ruling by Judge Simelane brought to an end hopes that the two could walk free from the contempt of court case, which has not only caught attention in local circles but hogged international headlines as well.

Judge Simelane in his ruling highlighted that even though Deputy Supreme Court Registrar Banele Ngcamphalala was criticised and her credibility questioned the plausibility of her evidence is not of such quality that no reasonable person would not believe at least some of it.

He further made it clear that during Banele Ngcamphalala’s evidence in chief that the articles in dispute were written by the two.

“The gravamen of the accused contention is that the articles are not contemptuous but critical of the Chief Justice in the manner he dealt with Bhantshana Gwebu,” Judge Simelane noted.

The Judge also made it clear that this is because the Constitution itself makes it clear that the right to freedom of expression is not absolute.

IT’S back to court for The Nation Magazine Editor Bheki Makhubu and Human Rights Lawyer Thulani Maseko next week Wednesday.

After their application for acquittal was dismissed yesterday, Judge Mpendulo Simelane ordered that the case will continue next week Wednesday where the duo will have to give their side of the story in the matter.

JUDGE Mpendulo Simelane highlighted that the manner at which the recusal application was raised in his court was embarrassing.

Simelane says Makhubu and Maseko’s attorneys were clearly playing to the gallery when raising the application. “Before I end this task, it is paramount for me to state at this juncture that the manner in which the recusal application was first raised before this court was highly irregular, unethical, embarrassing and discourteous,” he said.

AFTER approximately a month, Judge Mpendulo Simelane has stated reasons for his refusal to recuse himself in the Makhubu and Maseko contempt of court case.

Before the commencement of the contempt of court trial against Makhubu and Maseko, the duo applied that Judge Mpendulo Simelane recuse himself in the matter. They felt the Judge will not give them a fair trial as he was cited in some of the disputed articles.

A judge has a duty not to recuse himself where unsustainable applications for his recusal have been made. A party should not be allowed to abuse the recusal process in an effort to “judge shop”, delay his case, vent his frustration at an unfavourable ruling, or otherwise attempt to gain some perceived strategy,” Judge Simelane stated.

PARLIAMENT Principal Hansard Editor Zanele Gamedze and three Businessmen have been arrested for allegedly defrauding government close to E2 million.

Zanele Gamedze, Sibusiso Hlatshwayo, Sidumo Zwane and Ralph Nkhambule were rounded up by officials from the Anti Corruption Commission together with police officers from the Fraud and Commercial Crimes Unit yesterday morning.

Hlatshayo, Zwane and Nkhambule are Directors of a company called African Access. They all appeared before Principal Magistrate Nondumiso Simelane at the Mbabane Magistrate’s court yesterday. It is alleged that on July 4, 2008 to December 2010, they four acted jointly and in furtherance of a common purpose and pretended to the Government Treasury Department and Central Bank that an invoice of E1 860 539, in collision with the office of the Clerk of Parliament, was for a conference system for House of Parliament which they alleged was provided by the company African Access. After getting the alleged funds, the four allegedly wrote to government that the funds were sourced from the Commonwealth Headquarters thus eligible to Tax Exemption. By the said misrepresentation they induced government to accept and process the invoice as and when they were presented. Government was also allegedly made to make payment of the said amount. According to the charge sheet, they generated the invoices for the sole purpose of inducing the government to believe that the CPA Swaziland genuinely deserved and or entitled to receive such payments from government for the procurement of the conference system. The invoice and the Memorandum were used to create a false impression that CPA Swaziland had advances payments to service provider on behalf of the Parliament of Swaziland who in turn supplied and delivered a conference system in parliament when in fact the CPA Swaziland had not done so.

All material © Swazi Observer. Material may not be published or reproduced in any form without prior written permission.
