
Tokyo, May 15, 2014 - (JCN Newswire) -   Hitachi, Ltd. (TSE:6501) and Tokyo Institute of Technology (TIT) started 2 days the 2nd Nuclear Engineering Intensive Course with Kaunas University of Technology (KTU) at assisting with human resource development for the nuclear industry in the Republic of Lithuania.

In the 2nd Nuclear Engineering Intensive Course have been registered more than 260 participants. Majority of participants are students of Physics Department and Department of Thermal and Nuclear Energy of KTU. However the course has also attracted not only students of energy and physics sciences from other Lithuania universities but also students and professors from the Faculty of Natural Sciences and Mathematics of Daugavpils University of Latvia as well as specialists of Visaginas Nuclear Power Plant, Ignalina Nuclear Power Plant, State Research Institute Centre of Physics and Technology, Radio waste treatment agency RATA and others.

Organization of 2nd Nuclear Engineering Intensive Course is the result of continuing cooperation of Lithuania and Japan universities and Hitachi company. The 1st part of the course which was held in October 14th-18th, 2013 attracted more than 200 of participants and has far exceeded initial expectations of the organizers.

Main aim of the course is to provide active assistance for the development of skilled engineers which will be needed for Baltic States in the future.

The three partners have also discussed another form of cooperation. This year, KTU students will visit Japan to take consultations by the TIT professors, join filed works in Fukushima Prefecture, and visit nuclear power station.

TIT had started its education and research on peaceful uses of nuclear energy in 1956. Since then, for more than a half centry, TIT has been educated a large number of Japanese and international students who are now playing key roles in various nuclear energy fields in academia, industries, and government sectors in their home countries.

9.

2.

6.

10.
