
High rising penalties Gaggar & Associates won in the Competition Appellate Tribunal (COMPAT) for the owners’ associations of luxury housing projects Belaire, Park Palace and Magnolia where the Competition Commission of India’s (CCI) Rs 630 crore penalty on real estate giant DLF was upheld.

Gaggar partner Vaibhav Gaggar and advocates Garima Malhotra and Abhimanyu Chopra acted for the Belaire Owners’ Association and for Park Palace in the COMPAT as well as the CCI.

Balbir Singh, a partner at DSK Legal, was acting in a personal capacity as CCI’s counsel assisted by advocates Monica Benjamin and Abhishek Baghel.

In August 2011 the Belaire association had won in the CCI against DLF which, according to the CCI’s order , had abused its dominant market position in Gurgaon to get the association’s members to sign a “highly abusive” apartment buyers agreement, while last month the CCI fined DLF Rs 2.41 crore for not complying with its earlier order.

After hearing DLF's March 2012 appeal COMPAT, however, asked the CCI to pass another stating the terms on which the Apartment Buyer's Agreement needed to be modified. Consequently, the CCI passed a supplementary order on January 3 to modify DLF and Belaire’s members’ buyer agreement.

10 days after that order the CCI said that modifications suggested by it to the agreement between DLF and Belaire’s members would also be applicable to the case of Park Palace and Magnolia, as reported then by the PTI .

Advocate RK Khanna acted for Magnolia.

Ravinder Narain & Co senior partner Ravinder Narain with advocates Kanika Gombher, S Banthia and Namita Kaul acted for DLF, having instructed Harish Salve. DLF has said it would approach the Supreme Court against the CCI’s penalty.

NB: By reading the comments you agree that they are the personal views and opinions of readers, for which Legally India has no liability whatsoever. Because anonymous comments may be biased or unreliable, you agree that you will not allow any comment(s) to affect your estimation of any person(s) or organisation(s). If you believe a comment is inappropriate, please click 'Report to administrator' below the comment with your objection and we will review it as soon as practicable.

Seriously good job by Gaggar and it's lawyers. It's a typical David vs Goliath story.

Congratulations to Gaggar and also to Mr. M.L. Lahoty, who successfully argued on behalf of RWAs before CCI and set the ball rolling.

Luthra & Luthra was also advising DLF on this mammoth litigation. So even Harish Salve with the assistance of top tier law firm could not save DLF! Btw, the amount has gone upto 800 crore (630 crore + 9% interest p.a., since August 2011). Also the flat buyers will now be filling compensation applications before the COMPAT, so the amount is likely to go upto Rs. 1,000 crore.

be nice to other readers and humans who likely have feelings,

abide by Legally India's full terms and conditions in using the site.
