
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .

If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .

The head of YMCA NSW has resigned just weeks before the royal commission into child sexual abuse hands down its report into the organisation.

The YMCA NSW board of directors announced the resignation of CEO Phillip Hare on Monday.

Mr Hare had been with the "Y" for 25 years and had spent eight years in the NSW top job.

His resignation comes just weeks before the Royal Commission into Institutional Responses to Child Sexual Abuse is expected to hand down its findings into how the country's largest child-care organisation let a pedophile operate unchecked at a centre in south Sydney.

Jonathan Lord was sentenced in January 2013 to 10 years in jail with a six-year non-parole period for offences against 12 boys at the child-care centre in Caringbah over a two-year period.

In December, counsel advising the commission Gail Furness was fiercely critical of YMCA NSW and said it was not a child-safe organisation - and was unlikely to be under current senior management.

Ms Furness said evidence given by Mr Hare and the general manager of children's services Liam Whitely during a two-week hearing raised serious questions about whether they were "fit and proper" people to oversee an organisation responsible for looking after children.

She also said the evidence given by senior and middle management as to the extent to which they accepted responsibility did not "permit confidence in their capacity to carry out the significant reforms necessary to make YMCA NSW a child-safe institution".

At the December hearing, the YMCA disputed Ms Furness's proposed finding but agreed to accept a recommendation the YMCA consider whether Mr Hare and Mr Whitely should hold positions overseeing the care and protection of children.

In his resignation letter published by the ABC on Monday, Mr Hare said it was time for a change of leadership and he was resigning after consultation with the board.

David Mayes, president of the YMCA NSW board, said in a statement they were "thankful for Phil's leadership over the past eight years as the organisation has grown and evolved".

He also announced that director Sarah Hawthorn has taken a leave of absence from the board and had been named as the acting CEO while the board conducts a search for a new CEO.

The YMCA response to the Lord case was the second public hearing of the child abuse royal commission.

The commission has already released its findings on its first case study and is expected to publish final findings on the YMCA NSW in the coming weeks.

Daredevil wingsuiters take on 'epic challenge'

Onlookers cheer as two Dutch wingsuiters jump from a helicopter and soar around the Euromast building in Rotterdam.
