
Share This Story!

A former Fort Campbell soldier and an Oregon mother began their jury trial Monday morning in a murder case.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Keegan Andrew Metz, 23-months-old, died on Feb. 7, 2009, from multiple blunt force injuries. He sustained severe head injuries, tearing of the anus and bruises on various parts of his body.

Joshua Starner consults with his attorney Sherri Phillips during jury selection Monday.

CLARKSVILLE, TENN. — A former Fort Campbell soldier and an Oregon mother began their jury trial Monday morning in a murder case that has taken more than five years to come before a jury.

Joshua Ryan Starner, 26, and Caitlyn Leanore Metz, 27, are both charged with two counts of felony first-degree murder, two counts of aggravated child abuse/neglect and aggravated rape of a child.

g in Judge Mike R. Jones' court and will continue at 12:45 p.m. following a lunch break.

Keegan Andrew Metz, 23-months-old, died on Feb. 7, 2009, from multiple blunt force injuries. He sustained severe head injuries, tearing of the anus and bruises on various parts of his body. Prosecutors believe Starner, Keegan's step-father, sexually assaulted and beat Keegan to death.

It was originally believed Caitlyn Metz left Keegan with Starner at their apartment at 100D Ballygar St. for two hours while going to the store. Keegan was in good health and doing well when his mother left, the warrant said. When she returned, Keegan was unresponsive in his bed.

Metz was later arrested in February 2012, when medical proof came to light and produced new theories in the case.

Robert Nash, assistant district attorney, was ready to go to trial in January 2013, but various issues involving defense attorneys delayed the case another year.

A pregnant Caitlyn Metz, talks to her attorney Edward Dewerff in court Monday. Caitlyn is charged with the homicide of her 23-month-old son Keegan.

The first set of 14 jurors were asked questions by Nash, Dewerff and Sherri Phillips, Starner's attorney during the jury selection process.

Many questions were about employment and if they were married with children.

Dewerff asked the jurors bluntly if any of them looked at Metz and immediately would find her guilty for not protecting her child. About 12 of the potential jurors said she was innocent until proven guilty adn two said they had to hear all the facts before saying she was innocent or guilty.

Phillips asked the potential jurors personal questions about abuse in the family, being a victim of a crime and having a young child die in the family.

Several jurors were dismissed before the lunch break and the process will continue.

Judge Jones said he expected a jury to be selected by late afternoon and the trial could last between three to four days depending on several factors.

Edward Dewerff, Metz's attorney, filed an oral motion Monday morning asking that statements Starner made about Metz be redacted before the jury hears the statements.

In the statement, Starner tells police that he had spanked Keegan and Metz had also spanked him several times the morning of the toddler's death.

Starner also said Keegan had constipation issues and had been 'penetrated' with a medical tube to help him use the bathroom.

Judge Jones ruled statements Starner made about Metz would be redacted and not heard by the jury.

Nash said both made statements indicating themselves and each other in certain behavior the day of Keegan's death.

This is a developing story and will be updated.
