
Clyde Snow, who has died aged 86, was among the world’s foremost forensic    anthropologists, known as “the Sherlock Holmes of bones” for his role in    solving some of the darkest mysteries of the last century; among his    successes was identifying Josef Mengele, the Nazi doctor at Auschwitz    nicknamed “The Angel of Death”.

Armed with a measuring tape for determining skull circumference, anthropometer    for sizing up leg bones and Boley gauge for recording the dimensions of    teeth, Snow set out to identify victims of crime, aeroplane crashes and    natural disasters; he was also equipped to settle long-standing historical    debates and to bring criminals to justice.

Many of those stories were of enormous significance. Following the    assassination of President Kennedy, Snow appeared before Congress to testify    that hospital X-rays taken after the shooting were indeed those of the    president. He worked with forensic artist Betty Gatliff on a plaster facial    reconstruction of Tutankhamen; scrutinised the remains of the young men    murdered by “Killer Clown” John Wayne Gacy; and joined the hunt for the    grave of Butch Cassidy that ended amid frustration in Bolivia – the    suspected burial site turned out to contain a German prospector.

Among Snow’s most widely publicised expeditions was a trip to Brazil in 1985    at the behest of the Simon Wiesenthal Center, the Nazi-hunting organisation.    In a cemetery near Sao Paulo, police had uncovered the remains of a man    formally interred as “Wolfgang Gerhard”. By comparing measurements of the    leg bones to official records, Snow helped to confirm that “Wolfgang    Gerhard” was in fact Josef Mengele, the Nazi physician who performed grisly    experiments on prisoners at Auschwitz.

The most striking piece of forensic evidence to arise from the dig came from    Snow’s West German colleague Richard Helmer, employing a technique that Snow    himself had helped devise. Known as skull-face super-imposition, the process    used clay to secure 30 pins to various points of comparison around the    skull. The team then identified the same points on photographs of Mengele    and superimposed the two images, which proved a perfect match. Snow had    first employed a simpler version of skull-face super-imposition a decade    previously, to help him identify the long-mummified corpse of a train robber    shot dead in 1911. The cadaver in question had spent several years as a    fairground attraction, where its owner assumed it was a wax dummy – until an    arm fell off in 1977, revealing human bone.

An only child, Clyde Collins Snow was born on January 7 1928 in Fort Worth,    Texas, and grew up in the panhandle town of Ralls. His father, Wister, a    doctor to a largely poor rural community, was unafraid to introduce his son    to the realities of sickness, injury and death . On a father-and-son hunting    trip when he was 12, Clyde had his first encounter with human remains,    stumbling across the bones of a local hunter . The sheriff identified the    dead man by a set of keys at the scene.

An indifferent student, Clyde was expelled from high school after a prank    involving firecrackers, eventually graduating from the New Mexico Military    Institute in Roswell. After dropping out of various colleges he settled on a    degree from the Eastern New Mexico University in Portales, followed by a    brief spell in medical school at Baylor University in Houston and a Master’s    degree in Zoology from Texas Tech University. After three years in the Air    Force he enrolled at the University of Arizona to study Archaeology, where    he learned many of the careful excavation techniques that would serve him    well in his chosen field. He eventually earned his PhD in anthropology in    1967.

As a physical anthropologist with the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)    during the 1960s and 1970s, Snow helped the industry overhaul escape routes    and safety procedures by examining the ways in which crash victims died. He    also investigated plane crashes on site, and in 1979 worked 18-hour days to    help identify victims of an American Airlines crash – the deadliest ever to    occur on US soil. Most of the bodies were so badly charred that they could    scarcely be distinguished from each other . Using X-rays, photographs and    statements from survivors, however, Snow was able to make a dozen positive    identifications; but the experience was among the most unpleasant of his    career, and he retired from the FAA that same year.

By this time Snow’s reputation in the wider forensic community had been    established, and he was much in demand as a consultant to the Oklahoma City    police and to medical examiners further afield. Increasingly he applied his    knowledge to the field of mass murder and human rights abuses, travelling to    Argentina in 1985 to investigate the fate of the country’s “disappeared” – the 20,000 or so civilians who vanished during the military government’s    crackdown on political dissidents. Training a group of university students    to assist him as he went along, Snow assembled sufficient evidence to allow    the convictions of five generals for their roles in mass abduction, torture    and murder. “Bones make great witnesses, they speak softly but they never    forget and they never lie,” he said.

Back in the United States, he went on to lead several teams working to    identify the bodies of civilians killed in terrorist attacks, such as the    1995 Oklahoma City bombing and the attack on the World Trade Centre in    September 2001. In 2006 he testified as an expert witness in the tribunal    trial of Saddam Hussein, describing his discovery in 1991 of mass graves    containing the bodies of Iraqi Kurds.

Clyde Snow married, in 1970, Jerry Whistler. She survives him, as do five    children from previous marriages.
