
The proposed installations will help protect the Nansei Islands and the Senkakus, an area where China has increased its naval maneuvers.

TOKYO , May 19 (UPI) -- The Japanese government is considering military encampments on the country's southernmost island to reinforce its defense amid a dispute over territory with China.

The camps will be established on Amami Oshima, Miyakogima and Ishigakijima islands, each near Nansei Islands and the Senkakus, where China recently increased the number of government ships in Japanese territorial waters, the Tokyo newspaper Yomiyuri Shinbun reported Monday.

The Defense Ministry referred to the islands as "a core of defense of the Nansei Islands." Other than Okinawa island, no Japanese Ground Self-defense Forces are stationed in the area.

The encampments are mentioned in a five-year defense plan that includes doubling the number of F-15 fighter planes, and a coastal monitoring team of 150, in the area.

The Nansei Islands are part of what China calls a "first island chain." Its military strategy includes stopping enemy planes at a "second island chain" of Chinese islands closer to the Chinese mainland. The proposed buildup near the first island chain, an unidentified senior U.S. Defense Department official said, is "also aimed at strengthening the Japan-U.S. security system."

© 2014 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Any reproduction, republication, redistribution and/or modification of any UPI content is expressly prohibited without UPI's prior written consent.

UPI licenses content directly to print outlets, online media and institutions of all types. In addition, UPI's distribution partners provide our content to thousands of businesses, policy groups and academic institutions worldwide. Our audience consists of millions of decision-makers who depend on UPI's insightful and analytical stories to make better business or policy decisions.

In the year of our 107th anniversary, our company strives to continue being a leading and trusted source for news, analysis and insight for readers around the world.

© 2014 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

UPI.com is your trusted source for world news, top news, science news, health news and current events.

We thank you for visiting us and we hope that we will be your daily stop for news updates.
