
Clerks convene at a long table in Courtroom 11 at Rhode Island Superior Court on Thursday to put barcodes on documents that will be put online. Trials were suspended for two weeks to accommodate the project.

PROVIDENCE, R.I. — Gone are the days of bulging briefcases and aching elbows, at least in Workers’ Compensation Court. Lawyers can now access their case files via the Internet as the Rhode Island judiciary takes its first steps toward going paperless.

Workers’ Compensation Court launched its online case-management system in March. The state’s other courts are soon to follow.

It is an odyssey of sorts that the courts are undergoing. For centuries, courts have relied upon paper files that are filling Rhode Island’s courthouses to the brim. The new system allows lawyers to carry their caseloads via iPads and other electronic devices. The public eventually is expected to be able to call up court documents using an app on cellphones.

Healy admitted feeling trepidation about the migration away from paper. He marveled last week at the ease with which he can navigate the new system, complete with touch-screen technology and the ability to type in private e-notes on a case through a Judge’s Edition of the program.

“It was easy to give up on the paper because it’s easier to work without the paper,” he said.

Healy was not alone in his initial apprehension.

While Workers’ Compensation Court has had the electronic case-management system up for more than two months, state lawmakers recently approved legislation mapping out a fee structure that will allow lawyers to file their cases online. Lawyers have been able to view case documents, but to date have not been able to file cases remotely, absent a payment system.

Under the legislation, lawyers or people representing themselves must pay a technology surcharge of up to $25, in addition to the filing fee, when initiating a court case. Of that, as it now stands, $17.50 will be paid to Tyler for managing the system, with $3.25 to be dedicated to state court technology services, according to courts spokesman Craig N. Berke.

The bill mandates that the judiciary file an annual report with the governor, House speaker, and Senate president detailing the money collected and how it is spent.

“We didn’t want to see the fees get out of hand,” Senate Judiciary Chairman Michael McCaffrey said of the $25 cap.

The legislation was transferred to Governor Chafee’s office, where it remains under review, Chafee spokeswoman Faye Zuckerman said.

Rhode Island joins court systems nationwide in the push to upgrade technology. New Hampshire, Indiana, New Mexico and North and South Dakota have installed similar statewide case-management systems through Tyler. The courts in Clark County, N.M., were the first to go online in 2010.

Federal courts have had electronic case-management since the late 1990s through the Public Access to Court Electronic Records (PACER) system, an easy-to-use program that charges a 10-cent per page fee for public access.

Bruce Graham, president of Tyler’s courts and justice division, praised Rhode Island court leadership for project management that has hit deadlines. He expects the system to serve as a model for other states.

“What Rhode Island’s been able to do is make it electronic from end to end,” Graham said.

The undertaking has long been in the works. The General Assembly in 2006 appropriated $13 million to the judiciary to advance its technology. Of that fund, $2.4 million remained that is being dedicated to the paperless conversion, Berke said. The courts allotted another $1.2 million in receipts coming into the courts to the project and is seeking the remaining $2.3 million in this coming year’s budget.

Much preparation and training of court staff and lawyers are going into the endeavor. Trials in Providence County Superior Court were suspended over the past two weeks so clerks could prepare 1,300 civil case files to be scanned into the electronic system. It’s a painstaking task that requires every staple and tab be removed, and documents sorted with barcodes to indicate what type of action they were.

A spacious courtroom served as a stationing area.

“It’s kind of like a buffet table,” Claudia M. Porrazzo said, gesturing to a table lined with stacks of paper.

Porrazzo, who serves as Superior Court Judge William E. Carnes Jr.’s clerk, and six to eight other court staff had a productive day last Tuesday.

“We’ve done quite a bit actually,” said Porrazzo, of Johnston, named Superior Court Employee of the Year. The number of cases prepared daily ranged from 60 to 180 and above.

The Superior Court cases entered into the Odyssey system are those that are scheduled for trial, in the trial pool or set for arbitration, said Henry S. Kinch Jr., clerk of the court.

Twelve thousand cases dating from 2012 on were entered in Workers’ Compensation Court, Chief Judge Healy said.

When fully operational, it is expected to make the transfer of information between the courts and the attorney general’s office more efficient and more accurate, spokeswoman Amy Kempe said.

Civil cases in Superior and District courts are expected to go online Nov. 5. The live date for the Rhode Island Traffic Tribunal is May 2015, with Family Court and criminal matters expected to go up in June 2016. Training sessions accompany each launch date.

The state Supreme Court has established rules to govern public access to the system and electronic filing by lawyers and others. Those rules specify that parties may not submit information designated confidential by state or federal law or court order. The courts will not review each document to ensure compliance and will not be responsible or liable for the posting of confidential information, under the rules.

Sanctions may be imposed on any attorney or party who fails to comply with the rules.

At this point, the public will be granted free access to case files entered into the system from terminals in the various courts clerk’s offices, once that particular court goes online.

A visitor to Worker’s Compensation Court could look up a case digitally this week at the public terminal. The courtrooms, too, were equipped with computers for the clerks and judges as well as screens at the plaintiffs’ and defendants’ tables for viewing court exhibits.
