
I have been trying trying to understand what makes historic places special to so many of us.  Part of it is that they are relatively rare in the United States, I guess.  For several decades our newer everyday architecture – our subdivisions, strip malls, office buildings – has been simultaneously bland and deadening in its consistency.  Every place looks like every other place, or so it seems.  While that isn’t literally true – some exciting buildings are being designed and built, some nourishing new places are being fashioned – the best of our older buildings and neighborhoods have a distinctiveness to them, almost by default.

"[T]he idea of continuity is that, in a world that is constantly changing, old places provide people with a sense of being part of a continuum that is necessary for them to be psychologically and emotionally healthy.  This is an idea that people have long recognized as an underlying value of historic preservation, though not often explained.  In With Heritage So Rich , the idea of continuity is captured in the phrase ‘sense of orientation,’ the idea that preservation gives & 'a sense of orientation to our society, using structures, and objects of the past to establish values of time and place.'"

Another aspect of our shared architectural legacy that may be important is that it is, in fact, shared.  We experience and are comforted by the continuity of older places not just as individuals but as community members.  The town square and the court house, perhaps also the old church and the old school – even the Victorian mansions lining a nearby street – bind us together in a way that would be diminished if they were rapidly changing.  Their legacy is not just mine but ours.

Closely related to continuity of place but also a little different, I think, is something I’ll call cultural engagement.  Older places that are unfamiliar, with which we have had no continuity, can also elucidate powerful positive experiences.  Think of someone encountering the great pyramids of Giza, or a Native American pueblo for the first time.  These places are magical precisely because we have had little or no previous experience, no continuity, with them.

Instead of comforting us with their familiarity, such places challenge our imagination to conjure other times and connect with past cultures in ways that we ordinarily do not.  They educate us and equip us with a broader and deeper world view – a view that taps into past wisdom – that we can then bring to more contemporary experience.

Instead, today it exists as a place of respite for adults and of play for kids, and as an evocation of an amusement facility rather than a fully-functioning real one.  It challenges visitors to bring our imaginations with us and meet it halfway, as a partial expression of the past and of a culture that no longer exists in the same way.  I go to Glen Echo Park often, because it is alongside one of my regular bike training routes, and I love it in a way that I wouldn’t if it were new, even if it were physically the same.  It taps into deep cultural connections that wouldn’t be there if I knew the place didn’t have an embodied history to share with its visitors.

While one of things I like best about Glen Echo Park is that it is relatively quiet (but for the playful chatter of children) and not particularly urban, new research from the National Trust confirms that older, smaller properties in cities make also major contributions to urban vitality.

Older districts have more population density and more businesses per commercial square foot.

Older, smaller buildings support the local economy with more non-chain, locally owned businesses.

Older business districts offer greater opportunities for entrepreneurship, including women and minority-owned businesses.

Cultural outlets thrive in older, mixed-use neighborhoods.

Older, mixed-use neighborhoods have higher Walk Score and Transit Score ratings.

Older buildings attract more young people and a more diverse age group.

There is more nightlife on streets with a diverse range of building ages.

Indeed, one might say from these findings that older districts with a diversity of building ages and types are more urban, at least in the traditional sense, than newer, larger building and block types.  The methodology appears to have been rigorous and I would encourage interested readers to dive in to the full, 100-page study and its appendices for a more critical review.

When it comes to sustainability – at least in the literal sense – we don’t need data to demonstrate the performance of older buildings:  their continued existence already proves that they have, in fact, been sustained over time.  That said, we do have data, at least with respect to environmental sustainability.

Benefits are maximized when building reuse is practiced at scale.  For example, retrofitting, rather than demolishing and replacing, just one percent of Portland’s office buildings and single family homes over the next decade would help to meet 15 percent of Multnomah County’s total CO2 reduction targets over the next decade.

The greatest environmental benefits of reuse are achieved by minimizing the input of new construction materials.

I would add that older buildings, designed and constructed before what my friend and architectural thought leader Steve Mouzon calls “the thermostat age” were often designed with much more attention to climatic conditions than newer buildings tend to be.  Through such measures as thick walls, high ceilings, proper ventilation, sensitive shading and site orientation, such older buildings have what Steve calls “original green” properties that help save energy, greenhouse gas emissions, and other resource inputs.

In closing, I must add emphatically, though, that all this is not to say that places shouldn’t evolve and change.  It would be hypocritical for me as an advocate of revitalization to suggest otherwise.  Indeed, we should embrace change that is for the better – change that, as Professor Ujang suggests, does not blur the distinction of place but adds to it. What’s important is that we be thoughtful about it:  I’ll admit that it can be tricky to discern in advance which changes to place will be positive and respectful, and which will be negative and disruptive with respect to our experience of place, but good placemakers must always ask the question.   And we must always try our best to ensure that change nourishes rather than diminishes the human experience.

Move your cursor over the images for credit information.

F. Kaid Benfield writes about community, development, and the environment on Huffington Post and in other national media.  Kaid’s latest book is People Habitat: 25 Ways to Think About Greener, Healthier Cities .

Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day..

Use this form to alert a HuffPost editor about a factual or typographical error in this story.

Thank you!
