
Share This Story!

A Willamette University law professor picks out her highlights from the decision.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

1) Judge cites Oregon's domestic partnership law in ruling.

U.S. District Court Judge Michael McShane cited the Oregon Family Fairness Act in his decision to overturn the state constitutional amendment banning same-sex unions.

The act gave same-sex couples domestic partner benefits in 2007. Lawmakers explained their decision at the time by saying committed, same-sex relationships provided stability for families and children.

That's important because McShane used that language to explain why the state lacked a rational basis for denying marriage licenses to gay couples, said Gwynne Skinner, a Willamette University law professor.

"In some ways it makes this case different than those in other states," Skinner said. "Any sort of state interest to defend the law is contradicted by what the Legislature already said when they passed domestic partnerships."

That could protect Oregon's ruling even if the U.S. Supreme Court overturned a ruling from another state on the constitutionally of state laws barring same-sex unions, Skinner said.

2) Judge rejects gender discrimination argument.

McShane didn't agree with the plaintiffs that Oregon's marriage law discriminated based on gender.

"The state's marriage laws discriminate based on sexual orientation, no gender," McShane wrote. "In fact, the ban does not treat genders differently at all."

Questions of gender discrimination are reviewed by courts using a higher burden of proof than accusations of discrimination based on sexual orientation.

McShane ruled that the state law still failed using the lower burden of proof known as rational basis.

3) No one left to appeal.

Oregon's Attorney General Ellen Rosenblum didn't defend the state's ban on same-sex unions, which means no party in the case has "standing" or the legal right to appeal McShane's ruling.

"In some ways, I think this case is done," Skinner said.

The National Organization for Marriage tried to intervene and defend the state law, but McShane denied the national advocacy group standing May 14.

The group is appealing McShane's decision to the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals, but Skinner thinks it's unlikely NOM will prevail.

McShane, who is openly gay but says he has no plans to marry, included a more personal account of the history of same-sex marriage at the end of his ruling.

"It's unusual but not unheard of," Skinner said. "It was more common in cases from a century ago."

She thinks McShane's conclusion will "get a double look because of his sexual orientation," but she thinks it's inline with "who he is as a person."

I am aware that a large number of Oregonians, perhaps even a majority, have religious or moral objections to expanding the definition of civil marriage (and thereby expanding the benefits and rights that accompany marriage) to gay and lesbian families. It was' these same objections that led to the passage of Measure 36 in 2004. Generations of Americans, my own included, were raised in a world in which homosexuality was believed to be a moral perversion, a mental disorder, or a mortal sin.

I remember that one of the more popular playground games of my childhood was called "smear the queer" and it was played with great zeal and without a moment's thought to today' s political correctness. On a darker level, that same worldview led to an environment of cruelty, violence, and self-loathing.

It was but 1986 when the United States Supreme Court justified, on the basis of a "millennia of moral teaching," the imprisonment of gay men and lesbian women who engaged in consensual sexual acts. Bowers, 478 U.S. at 197 (Burger, C.J., concurring), overruled by Lawrence, 539 U.S. at 578. Even today I am reminded of the legacy that we have bequeathed today' s generation when my son looks dismissively at the sweater I bought him for Christmas and, with a roll of his eyes, says "dad ... that is so gay."

It is not surprising then that many of us raised with such a world view would wish to protect our beliefs and our families by turning to the ballot box to enshrine in law those traditions we have come to value. But just as the Constitution protects the expression of these moral viewpoints, it equally protects the minority from being diminished by them.

It is at times difficult to see past the shrillness of the debate. Accusations of religious bigotry and banners reading "God Hates Fags" make for a messy democracy and, at times, test the First Amendment resolve of both sides. At the core of the Equal Protection Clause, however there exists a foundational belief that certain rights should be shielded from the barking crowds; that certain rights are subject to ownership by all and not the stake hold of popular trend or shifting majorities.

My decision will not be the final word on this subject, but on this issue of marriage I am struck more by our similarities than our differences. I believe that if we can look for a moment past gender and sexuality, we can see in these plaintiffs nothing more or less than our own families. Families who we would expect our Constitution to protect, if not exalt, in equal measure. With discernment we see not shadows lurking in closets or the stereotypes of what was once believed; rather, we see families committed to the common purpose of love, devotion, and service to the greater community.

Where will this all lead? I know that many suggest we are going down a slippery slope that will have no moral boundaries. To those who truly harbor such fears, I can only say this: Let us look less to the sky to see what might fall; rather, let us look to each other ... and rise.
