
A recent interview reminded us that attitude and drive win the game.

By Amber South, Public Opinion, Chambersburg, Pa.

filed against orders to release information about the Chambersburg HYPE dance organization.

, who are representing Reed and Dorsey, CASD denied Reed's request in a written response and Dorsey's request was "deemed denied" because she received no response from the district.

ruled, however, that CASD must release the records. CASD is appealing those two rulings. According to the Powell Law statement, this will be the second time it has been to Commonwealth Court in the appeal process.

Although they are separate cases, they will be heard together in the upcoming arguments.

grant money was used. A teacher who was responsible for program finances claimed the program was struggling for money, and Reed as well as donors did not understand how that was so, he said.

Reed also complained that a teacher's aide in the program made sexual comments to students on her Facebook page, and that a teacher made derogatory remarks on gender about three parents.

Dorsey was one of the parents to whom the derogatory comments were allegedly directed. In response to her Right to Know request for financial records, CASD reportedly provided little. Not knowing it was the incorrect way, Dorsey sent an appeal to CASD; by the time someone responded,the 15-day limit to file an appeal had passed, according to Reed.

Dorsey submitted a second Right to Know request for the same information to CASD. Reed submitted a request around the same time.

REACH, Inc.

, CASD gave Reed one grant award letter and copies of correspondence his attorney sent to CASD, but otherwise denied the request. A response reportedly never came to Dorsey.

granted Reed and Dorsey's appeals about a month later.

remains a defendant), CASD provided Reed and Dorsey with a combined 3,591 additional pages to their separate requests. For Reed, it was cause for questions of the district's good faith.

seal public records instead of redacting them; failing to follow instructions from Commonwealth Court; improperly keeping evidence out of the records of both cases; and "publicly scolding (Reed) for exercising my right under the (Right to Know Law)."

The outcome of these cases could have implications on Right to Know law and interpretation, according to the Powell Law statement. The decisions "could affect (Right to Know Law) risk management and cost efficiencies which agencies consider in a response to a records request," it states.
