
Donald Carcieri was governor when the 38 Studios loan guarantee was approved.

PROVIDENCE — What then-Gov. Donald L. Carcieri knew about the true financial condition of the 38 Studios video-game studio and when he knew that information are two of the key questions in the lawsuit spurred by the company’s failure.

A lawyer for Wells Fargo Securities, a defendant in the Rhode Island Economic Development Corporation’s lawsuit against 38 Studios executives and others, raised the specter of the Watergate scandal that ensnared President Richard M. Nixon during a hearing Monday in Superior Court.

Carcieri’s knowledge of details regarding a $75-million loan guarantee that drew the video-game company led by Curt Schilling from Massachusetts to Providence is a “compelling” issue, said Thomas Holt, the Wells Fargo lawyer.

“What did Governor Carcieri know … and when did he know it?” Holt asked in a hearing before Superior Court Judge Michael A. Silverstein.

Carcieri was not in court Monday to answer that question, nor is he likely to be called to testify any time soon as, nearly 18 months after the lawsuit was filed, the case remains in its preliminary stages.

Among the documents included with the Carcieri affidavit is an email a 38 Studios executive — Thomas Zaccagnino — sent July 1, 2010, to fellow company executives Richard Wester and Jennifer Maclean, as well as to Michael Corso, a paid company consultant and associate of former House Speaker Gordon Fox.

Silverstein concluded Monday’s hearing without ruling on the latest in a string of procedural matters to arise in the state’s case against people affiliated with the failed video-game company.

Lawyers for the Economic Development Corporation (now known as the Rhode Island Commerce Corporation) and defense lawyers argued Monday morning over whether the state has provided enough in “privilege” logs it must keep in the long-running case. The logs are lists of documents both the state and the defendants must maintain of material each party claims it can keep from disclosing to others. The lists afford the various parties an avenue to challenge those claims of “privilege” — such as attorney-client communications normally considered confidential.

Silverstein said he would rule on the matter next week. He also put off ruling on whether the 14 defendants in the case have to provide the EDC’s lawyers with regular updates on how much money remains in insurance policies being used to cover the defendants’ legal bills.

The judge chided the lawyers for disclosing in court case details, which he said are intended solely to sway public opinion about the closely watched case.
