
Share This Story!

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Jermaine M. Wright was ordered to have a new trial by the state Supreme Court on Monday. Wright had been convicted and sentenced to death in the 1991 slaying of Phillip Seifert at a liquor store on Gov. Printz Boulevard just outside of Wilmington.

The Delaware Supreme Court reversed the death sentence and conviction Monday for Jermaine M. Wright, sending the 23-year-old case back to Superior Court for a new trial.

"Wright is not entitled to a perfect trial, but he is entitled to a fair one," wrote Justice Henry duPont Ridgely for the full court, noting that the state improperly withheld evidence. While each item withheld was comparatively minor, the cumulative effect "creates the reasonable probability that the verdict would have been different … [had] the evidence been disclosed."

Wright, of Wilmington, who is the longest-serving inmate on death row, had been  sentenced to death in  the 1991 slaying of liquor store clerk Phillip G. Seifert, 66, of Holly Oak at the Hi-Way Inn on Gov. Printz Boulevard just outside Wilmington.

Wright attorney Herbert Mondros said  that the legal team was "very pleased with the outcome" adding the ruling was "well-reasoned and just" and a long time coming.

Royce Seifert, the 67-year-old son of Phillip Seifert, said he was very disappointed.

"There is no justice being served here for my father. The truth of the matter is my father is not on the Earth any longer and someone needs to be held accountable for that," he said. "This is not right. I hope this isn't over yet."

The Wright case has been a roller-coaster ride for all involved. In January 2012, Superior Court Judge John A. Parkins Jr. overturned Wright's conviction and death sentence, ruling that Wright was not properly read his rights and was high on heroin when he confessed to killing Seifert. Parkins also found that key evidence had been kept from Seifert's defense before trial.

This confession video was key evidence in convicting Jermaine Wright of murder.

Parkins wrote he had "no confidence" in the evidence against Wright, saying beyond the contested videotaped confession the state's evidence was "weak to non-existent."

The Delaware Supreme Court, however, disagreed with Parkins on appeal and reinstated the conviction and death sentence in May 2013. In a 4-1 decision, with Ridgely dissenting, the court found that Parkins was incorrect when he threw out the videotaped confession. The majority also ruled that the other concerns cited by Parkins would not have changed the outcome of the trial because Wright had confessed and the evidence withheld would not have supported Wright's alibi defense.

When the case was sent back to Parkins, and the judge reimposed the death sentence as required in July 2013, Wright's attorneys filed a new appeal seeking a clarificatoin from the Supreme Court on several other findings by Parkins that went against the defense.

And that clarification appeal is what the justices ruled on Monday. Ironically the justices again ruled against Parkins but this time, by overturning Parkins, the decision had the effect of achieving what Parkins had attempted to do in his 2012 ruling – toss out Wright's conviction.

The full court found that the cumulative effect of three pieces of information being withheld from Wright back in 1992 raised enough concerns, that when considered together, meant Wright should get a new trial.

Specifically the justices were concerned that the prosecution did not turn over evidence that on the night Seifert was killed there was a nearly identical liquor store robbery – involving two different defendants – a short distance away from twhere Seifert was killed. Other evidence that was not turned over related to a prison informant who claimed Wright had confessed to the crime and a trial witness who Wright's defense suggested may have committed the crime.

The justices wrote that prosecutors failed to inform the defense that the prison informant had cooperated with prosecutors before – something that could have been used at trial to question his credibility. Similarly for the trial witness, the justices ruled that prosecutors knew or should have known that the man misstated his relationship with another man that Wright's attorneys suggested was involved in the Seifert murder.

The witness said he only saw the man "now and then," but  the witness was a co-defendant with the man in a separate robbery trial. Had that information been given to the defense, they could have shown that the man was lying on the stand, according to the ruling.

The case now goes back to the Superior Court where Mondros said they will  seek to have Wright released on bail.

It is unclear if prosecutors will seek to re-try Wright given the rulings by the Delaware Supreme Court.

"The Department of Justice respects the court's ruling. We will evaluate in short order the feasibility of re-trying a case that is 20 years old," said Joe Rogalsky, spokesman for the state Attorney General's Office.

Mondros argued that given the many flaws in the case and the amount of time Wright has already spent in prison, the state should drop the matter.
