
Obviously, the recent manifestation of the problem was the controversial vote on J Street’s participation in the organization. Some people – good people – believe that the failure to accept J Street as a member of the group is a testament to the Conference’s unrepresentative character. But as Ami Eden, in his level-headed review of the vote’s fallout, wrote : “with or without J Street, J Street’s views are represented in the Conference of Presidents and the Conference of Presidents continues to serve as the most diverse and reflective platform in the Jewish organizational world”.

If the Conference is representative or not is a question that I will soon address, but not accepting J Street doesn’t prove much one way or the other. J Street was not accepted to the group not because of its views but rather because – again, referencing Eden, but also my own piece from before the vote – it has a way of getting under other people’s skin. J Street is proudly contrarian, and it has been quite blunt in attacking not just policies it dislikes, but also the Jewish American “establishment”. Apparently, the establishment has feelings. Views similar to the ones of J Street are well represented within the Conference, by organizations that did not build their reputations on attacking other Jewish organizations.

One of the main complaints against the Conference refers to the fact, as rabbi Rick Jacobs of the Union for Reform Judaism argued , that it “is captive of a large number of small organizations that do not represent the diversity of views in our community”. For the URJ, a large organization, such a situation is understandably annoying. That larger organizations want more influence is natural, and that smaller organizations resist the attempt of larger ones to take over is also natural. Of course, this goes back to the question of representation and the criteria defining the community that is, or should be, represented by the Conference. Larger organizations claim that the numbers matter; smaller organizations might want to use different criteria. For example: the intensity of engagement, or the amount of dues paid, or the level of caring about the issues.

To conclude this part of the article: the problem doesn’t directly concern specific views. The problem is that the Conference is currently structured in a way that gives smaller groups more power than the share they actually have in the Jewish American community – a balance of power that is no longer acceptable to some of the main groups of the organization.

As we’ve already mentioned, prior to any discussion of proper representation, there is a need to define the community that the Conference might want to represent.

A. It wants to represent all American Jews.

B. It wants to represent all organized Jews.

C. It wants to represent all Jews that have interest in being represented.

All three options have advantages and disadvantages.

Representing “all Jews” gives equal voice to the people with a low level of engagement and little interest – and that is both unfair and discouraging for those who are highly engaged.

Representing those who have interest in being represented sounds good but raises many questions: What do we count as having “interest”? You can set a very low bar – if a Jew didn’t say “no” this means he wants to be represented – or a slightly higher bar – all a Jew needs to do it say yes (maybe by signing a document) – or an even higher one – a Jew has to do something, pay or act, to prove his “interest”.

I will attempt not to be too cynical about this, just sober enough to acknowledge a simple fact: the battle over the nature of the Conference is an organizational power struggle, not much more. Larger organizations want more power to the people, because the people are on their side, smaller organizations want more power to the highly engaged because that is their strength. This isn’t a debate about values or morality - this is Jewish politics.

A. If smaller organizations and highly engaged segments of the community still have reason enough to stay.

B. If the “tent” is still coherent enough for the organization to remain functional.

1. Cancel the ‘one organization, one vote policy’, and replace it with a policy of proportional representation. This means that the Conference would move from being a Senate-like organization to being a House-like organization.

Advantages: The Conference will more accurately represent more Jews, and will more accurately reflect the strength of Jewish organizations.

Problems: It still doesn’t solve the “representation” problem since it doesn’t give voice to the unorganized Jews; it gives more voice to Jews based on organizational affiliation rather than by the level of engagement; the playing-field wouldn’t be leveled as membership in different organizations has different meaning.

2. Have a “United Nations” model, in which all organizations retain their one vote but an executive committee of the larger organization will have more power to make decisions (General Assembly vs. Security Council).

Advantages: It could be a way of maintaining a balance that would make it still worthy enough for small organizations to participate while giving more voice to those who have more members.

3. Have a Senate-House model, with some decisions that require a majority of both the organizations and the “Jews” they represent.

Advantages: American Jews are familiar with the concept and may accept it; the compromise gives extra power based on numbers, but doesn’t disenfranchise the smaller members.

Problems: Look at Congress – this could be a recipe for deadlock and inaction.

4.  Have some kind of “elections” for the Conference, by holding a vote, by signing documents, or by charging a small fee.

Advantages: This would make the organization truly “representative” of those who want to be represented; it would test the desire of different segments to actually participate and engage in the process.

1. Make communal unity a priority.

2. Make the organization more representative of more Jews.

3. Make sure to have a structure that still gives extra influence to the highly engaged Jews.

4. Make the organization more representative of those who want to be represented by it.

5. Have a big tent that is still small and cohesive enough to be functional.

6. Don’t let any one organization dictate anything to other members of the organization by threatening to leave.

7. Reestablish the fact that not all organizations are going to be satisfied with every detail of the structure or every decision of the Conference.

8. Strive to keep “Israel” as a unifying purpose, rather than making it a point of intentional contention.

Your information will not be shared or sold without your consent. Get all the details.

JewishJournal.com reserves the right to use your comment in our weekly print publication.

Don’t miss any of the latest news and events!

Get the Jewish Journal in your inbox.

Don’t miss any of the latest news and events!

Get the Jewish Journal in your inbox.

weekly in the West – and the monthly glossy Tribe magazine ( TribeJournal.com ). Please support us by clicking here .

© Copyright 2014 Tribe Media Corp.
