
A German police officer has won the right to be rewarded for the time he spends getting in and out of his uniform after claiming that it should be considered part of his working day.

Martin Schauder, 44, has earned an extra week of holiday – or pay – every year, after taking his case to an administrative court in Münster, north-west Germany , the Münstersche Zeitung reported.

Schauder, who joined the police at 16, calculated that it took him 15 minutes each day to don the correct uniform and accompanying equipment including his pistol, handcuffs and gas canister. He argued that if he was not paid for the time, he was effectively giving his employer, the state, 45 to 50 hours a year, for free.

He told the court: "If my shift starts at 1pm, say, I'm expected to be completely fitted out by then, including my pistol, handcuffs and reserve weapon, otherwise I face being cautioned."

The court ruled in his favour.

While Schauder's bosses had agreed to recognise the time the officer needed to arm himself, they refused to accept his argument that putting on his uniform, including vest, trousers, belt, shirt, tank top and boots, should be considered a chore related to his duties. They argued it was part of the daily requirement of every employee to get dressed for work.

Erich Rettinhaus, head of the police union in North Rhine-Westphalia that helped bring the case, called the ruling "long overdue", adding: "Until this decision, every police officer was effectively expected to sacrifice an extra 15 minutes of their own time at both ends of their shift."

Schauder's case is a test complaint for 120 officers in Münster and a further 1,000 in the rest North Rhine-Westphalia. If the cases are successful they could cost the state millions of euros. The police force has two weeks to appeal.

What is unclear is whether Schauder faces back payment for the full 28 years he has been with the force, or more than six months' holiday.

Employment lawyers have suggested his victory could open the floodgates to similar claims by millions of other German workers required to wear a uniform.

Our editors' picks for the day's top news and commentary delivered to your inbox each morning.
