
Researchers in Japan have announced they have developed a longer-lasting, safer, faster charging battery that also costs less than a regular lithium-ion battery. The new battery, created by a start-up company in Japan, employs carbon for both the anode and the cathode poles.

Lithium-ion batteries are widely used in smartphones, flashlights and electric cars. But this new battery, says the Power Japan Plus company, can be discharged thousands of times without diminishing its capacity, can generate more power and can be recharged about 20 times as fast as standard lithium-ion versions. The company said its battery is rated for more than 3,000 recharge cycles, and promoted the idea that its product could operate over years in harsh environments, such as inside medical devices or in space.

Dou Kani, CEO of Power Japan Plus, said in a statement that his company "is a materials engineer for a new class of carbon material that balances economics, performance and sustainability." He added that the product, called the Ryden dual carbon battery, "is the energy storage breakthrough needed to bring green technology like electric vehicles to mass market."

'Unique Properties'

Such a battery could dramatically change the charging calculations of, say, a Tesla car, which has a large lithium-ion battery pack. On its Web site, Power Japan Plus said its battery could enable a 300-mile range electric vehicle on one charge. Additionally,  the company said that regenerative braking, which recaptures energy, would be more efficient in cars using its technology.

In a battery, the electrolyte between the anode and the cathode conducts ions that generate electrons, and thus electricity. The new version could be safer because it doesn't use lithium oxide, which is flammable. Punctured lithium-ion batteries can readily catch fire.

Power Japan Plus has altered the structure of carbon fiber in cotton to create what the company described as "unique properties." In addition, its Ryden dual carbon battery uses an organic electrolyte.

model.

The new battery is the latest in a series of announcements relating to new technologies in this field. A year ago, for instance, a team from the University of Illinois/Champaign said they had conceived of a micro-battery that could charge a thousand times faster than current batteries, in a blink of an eye, and which, if used in a smartphone, could jump-start a car's dead battery.

Late last year, researchers from Stanford University and the U.S. Department of Energy published a paper describing the use of a silicon electrode in a lithium-ion battery, along with a synthetic polymer. The resulting product, they said, was a self-healing battery that could last 10 times longer than normal.

Appears to be a mile stone achievement in the quest for smart electric storage devices, lets see where it leads to! thumbs up.

1. If this (ORGANIC BATTERY) from JAPAN is True and does EVEVERYTHING it says it does,

2. Then THIS (BATTERY from JAPAN) = would be a HISTORIC breakthrough!

Culturally  Japanese understate their achievements. I strongly feel it is a energy storage breakthrough, especially for RENERGY sector.  GRID STORAGE applications can see a new avenue.

Carbon-carbon.  OK, but what else is in there?  I haven't seen anything on line describing exactly how this new battery works.  Until that information is available this should be treated like vaporware.

That is great news and a breakthrough in battery technology and energy storage!

Congratulate, Japanese Elite!

Your innovative and enterprising spirit are always inspiring and leading the entire world!
