
May 19, 2014, 11 p.m.

FOR Singleton contract company Pit Patrol, the impending closure of  Integra's Camberwell open-cut and Glennies Creek underground mines has a symbolic significance.

FOR Singleton contract company Pit Patrol, the impending closure of Integra's Camberwell open-cut and Glennies Creek underground mines has a symbolic significance.

As general manager Aaron Goadsby recalled yesterday, Pit Patrol began in 1993 with a single utility servicing the Camberwell mine.

Now, the company did courier work for most of the region's mines, and had two dozen utes and a dozen trucks, with subcontractors' vehicles taking the fleet to 50.

Like a huge range of Singleton and Muswellbrook businesses, Pit Patrol is feeling the pinch from the mining downturn.

"When things were booming the majority of the work was special delivery - they needed something picked up from somewhere and driven straight to the mine that day," Mr Goadsby said.

"Nowadays, there's much less of the special work, but there's still non-urgent and general freight and we are proud that we haven't had to put anyone off because of a lack of work."

As someone who is active in the Singleton Chamber of Commerce, Mr Goadsby said you could look at the downturn "glass half full, or glass half empty".

"You've got to go out and chase business," Mr Goadsby said.

LOOKING AHEAD: Pit Patrol’s Aaron Goadsby is upbeat. Despite fewer special deliveries he has enough general freight work to stay afloat.

"A bloke around the corner has just set up his business and I said to him if you are doing all right now during the quiet times, just wait until it gets busy."

Construction, Forestry, Mining and Energy Union district president Peter Jordan said the union would meet Integra tomorrow, and demanded the company "come clean" with its intentions for the two mines.

Workers are due to hear from the company on Friday.

Integra has blamed the closures on unacceptable losses driven by market conditions, and rumours abound that other Hunter mines are set to close or scale back.

Mr Jordan confirmed a small number of job losses at Idemitsu's Muswellbrook coalmine, but said he was confident there were "no more issues there".

FRAGILE TIMES:  Hunter Valley Glass and Windscreens has not had to lay off any staff  despite the downturn in the coalmining industry.

At Hunter Valley Glass and Windscreens, David Flynn said he supplied to "everyone in the community from a mirror in a house to multinational coal companies".

With 14 employees on the books, he, too, had avoided the need to reduce his staff, but he acknowledged that mining companies had "asked for efficiencies" from suppliers like him.

At Singleton's Coal Rock Coffee and Cafe, Donna Valentine said things were very quiet early in the week.

"It's very hard to make it balance on Mondays, Tuesdays and Wednesdays," Ms Valentine says.

"No one knows if they are going to have a job the next day, so they tend to stop spending, they put off buying that takeaway coffee or that sandwich."

Ms Valentine said she had asked one of her first customers yesterday why he was looking "a bit down" and it turned out he was one of the 500 or so Integra workers facing the axe.

"You don't know who's next, do you, but as far as the Singleton shop owners go, things are woefully quiet."
