
SALT LAKE CITY – A federal judge ordered Monday that Utah honor the same-sex marriages performed during the 17 days following the initial strike-down of the state’s same-sex marriage ban.

The marriages were performed following District Court Judge Robert Shelby’s striking down Amendment 3 , Utah’s same-marriage ban, as unconstitutional.

A stay on Judge Robert’s ruling was issued by the U.S. Supreme Court on Jan. 6, which put a halt to same-sex marriages pending the outcome of Utah’s appeal to the original ruling. The stay allowed Amendment 3 to be reinstated as state law, which doesn’t allow the state to recognize any form of marriage outside of one man and one woman.

Because of the state law, Utah Attorney General Sean Reyes said the state could not recognize the over 1,200 same-sex marriages already conducted across the state. This left those married same-sex couples in a state of “legal limbo,” Reyes said.

That limbo has caused benefits afforded heterosexual married couples to be denied to married same-sex couples, as the state has yet to recognize their unions. With the exception of joint-tax filings, other services, including adoptions , have been out of reach for same-sex couples married in the state. Pending the outcome of an appeal of Kimball’s ruling, these benefits will be made available.

While over 1,200 same-sex marriages have been report by media, Equality Utah estimates those numbers to be over 1,300 within the state.

The Attorney General’s Office has not made an immediate determination about whether it will appeal Judge Kimball’s ruling. According to the Court, this decision directly relates to the same-sex marriages that took place within the 17-day window and not the ultimate legal questions in Kitchen vs. Herbert. We are currently assessing the legal impact of today’s decision and will respond within the 21-day allotted time period.

Congratulations to all of the loving, married couples in Utah. Today is truly a day of celebration! Today a federal judge ruled on the side of love by recognizing the 1,300 committed couples who were married in the 17 day window.

Today’s decision is disappointing because it rewards judicial overreaching. There’s nothing in the United States Constitution that allows courts to mandate same-sex marriage on the states, but one judge was able to do just that by issuing a novel ruling and then forcing the state to put it into effect before the court of appeals could correct any legal errors in that decision. Our system is weaker when judicial gamesmanship is not kept in check. We trust the 10th Circuit will do that quickly.

Kimball’s ruling has a 21-day stay attached to it, allowing the state time to appeal the ruling to the 10th Circuit Court of Appeals.

The 10th Circuit Court of Appeals heard arguments for and against Amendment 3 on April 10. A ruling on the appeal could be produced within two-to-six months after hearing the arguments and reviewing a horde of papers filed in association with the case. Whatever the outcome of the appeal, Reyes has said he will take the case to the U.S. Supreme Court if necessary.

Ed. note: This story has been updated with statements from the Utah Governor’s Office and the Utah Attorney General’s Office.

Would you like to have the day's news stories delivered right to your inbox every evening? Enter you email below to start!

Mori Kessler serves as Assistant Editor of St. George News, having previously contributed as a writer and Interim Editor in 2010-11. He began writing news in 2009 for Today in Dixie, and joined the writing staff of St. George News in 2010. When not writing, he can be found loitering around local bookstores and libraries looking for something good to read.

tell the judge to take a flying leap.

Tell all the bigoted Utah Dixieters to take a flying leap.

Welcome to America.  Land of minority rule.

Welcome to America. Land where people  are finally starting to care more about other people then how much money they have.

Strange questions from children, indeed.  How old are you, “MOM R DAD”?  I’ve heard more mature things from 8 year olds.

Bring on the “Love and Acceptance”. We all just need to be more sensitive and understand guys. Besides, all these so called educated liberal federal judges seem to know what is best for us. Who cares that the people put it to a vote and continuously vote it down. They are just stupid conservative bigots anyways.

A country that based its belief system on Christianity, that used the word of God to set the guidelines.(or at least that’s the way our forefathers meant it to be) Sorry. Try again!

As defined in the bible, a marriage is between one man and one women. I did not write the guidelines. I just do my best to try to follow them. You see, just because a federal judge doesn’t have a problem with it, doesn’t mean God is alright with it.

…and if one doesn’t believe in your religion or your church or your Bible, why do you impose your church laws upon him?  Perhaps church and civil laws should be separate.

Well in my opinion, if someone chooses to not recognize God in their life or society then the last thing they should be worried about is some other guys post to a controversial article. Christianity IS a part of the U.S.A like it or not, just like being Muslim IS a part of living in the middle east. If all these American citizens want us to be like Europe so bad why don’t you all just move there? Instead of trying to change the way that we have been doing things in this country since it was founded. Our forefathers broke away from them and were willing to die for these values.

You make excellent points, Burton.  Consider Europe and the Christian countries there that have become refuges for Muslims and now feel the threat of shariah law.  We would clamor for complete separation of church and state if the voting majority happened to be radical Muslims.
