
Japan is reportedly set to establish new military outposts on remote islands, as it looks to bolster its defence amid a territorial dispute with China.

Up to 350 troops could be stationed on each of three islands in  the far southwest, close to the Senkakus, which Beijing claims as  its own under the name Diaoyus, the mass-selling Yomiuri Shimbun reported on Monday.

With the exception of the main Okinawa island, Japan's Ground  Self-Defense Forces - its army - have no bases on the chain of  islands that runs from the bottom of Kyushu to Taiwan. There are  limited air force facilities in the area.

The lack of substantial military presence is a source of worry  for some in Japan, who caution that it leaves them vulnerable to  China's increasingly assertive stance.

Chinese ships have repeatedly moved into the Senkakus'  territorial waters, since Tokyo nationalised some of them in  September 2012, to confront Japanese vessels.

The islands lie around 2000km southwest of Tokyo and around  200km from the north of Taiwan.

While most of the bickering has been between coastguards,  observers say military ships are loitering over the horizon, with  some warning of a confrontation.

Beijing has spent heavily on its military in recent years in a  bid to develop a 'blue water' navy that can project force far out  into the Pacific.

This means getting through what it calls the 'first island  chain' including Japan's southwestern islands and the northern  Philippines.

Tokyo is now planning to set up outposts on three islands,  including Amamioshima, 150km south of the Senkakus, the Yomiuri  said, citing unnamed senior defence ministry officials.

Deputy defence minister Ryota Takeda will visit Amamioshima this  week to look at establishing a joint research project with the  island, it said.

Two other candidate sites for the new posts include Miyako  island and Ishigaki island, some 210 kilometres southwest and 170  kilometres south, respectively, of the disputed islets.

These units are to be in addition to a radar surveillance unit  on Yonaguni, where a groundbreaking ceremony was held last month.

Bolstering the defence of Japan's southwestern islands 'has an  aspect of strengthening the Japan-US security alliance,' a senior  defence official told the Yomiuri.

Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga said under a new defence  program, Japan had already decided to enhance the military presence  in the southwest and had been conducting research.
