
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

Hometown: Newberry Township.

Parents: Michael and Carol Brame.

In his words: "Nine years ago, I almost died due to septic shock. ... My parents were told there is no medical reason I survived. Some people call me a miracle, I call myself lucky. ... Although my amputations have left me with life altering challenges, I see them more as inconveniences than handicaps. I live every day as if it is a gift. I try to show the people who treated me that I value the life they saved. I visit the hospital frequently, sharing my story with other children and their families. I show them that there is hope in a time of darkness."

In their words: "Sean had the determination to overcome these physical challenges with an inner strength I have rarely witnessed. ... The accomplishments of this young man would be astounding for any able-bodied person. Has life dealt Sean a bad hand? Maybe, but Sean has taken this life-altering event and has made it a royal flush. ... Sean is my hero." Dr. Lee S. Segal, professor of orthopaedics and pediatrics, University of Arizona College of Medicine.

Honors: Miracle child for Children's Miracle Network, Champion Across America for Children's Miracle Network, named Role Model of the Year in 2007 by the Amputee Coalition of America, Eagle Scout.

Activities: Boy Scouts, swimming, debate team, Spanish National Honor Society, peer visitor for the Amputee Coalition of America, spokesman for the Children's Miracle Network, visits patients, advocate for the Prosthetic Parity Bill and the Prosthetic Licensing Bill, spokesman for Ronald McDonald House Charities.

Mentor: Lawrence Hemler, English as a second language teacher, Allen Middle School.

Plans: Penn State University, majoring in bioengineering and design prosthetic limbs.

Check here if you do not want to receive additional email offers and information.

Thank you for signing up for 'Today's Front Page'

To view and subscribe to any of our other newsletters, please click here .

© 2014 PA Media Group All rights reserved ( About Us ).

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
