
California Youth Crisis Line's logo.

“I’m really sorry to hear that, can you explain a little bit more about what’s going on,” asked Mary McCormack, the lead counselor at the California Youth Crisis Line .

As a counselor at the , a statewide, 24-hour, free and confidential hotline, McCormack frequently asks this question.

The hotline supports teens and adults ages 12-24 as well as any adults supporting youth. The line receives 20-25,000 calls per year.

“We are here to offer support to people regardless of the issue. When they feel like they don’t have anyone else to reach out to or they feel like other people might judge them, we’re here to listen and support them,” said program coordinator Teryn Heckers.

The hotline is run by the California Coalition for Youth (CCY), a nonprofit organization that advocates for public policies, programs and services that help the youth.

The California Youth Crisis Line is different from other hotlines in many ways, but perhaps the biggest difference is that the California Youth Crisis Line aims to empower youths, not give them advice.

“To empower somebody is to build up their self esteem and their courage. A lot of teens and young adults are constantly told what to do. Our goal is to empower them and show them that they have the tools to make the correct decision,” McCormack said.

In order to do this, counselors routinely ask callers to elaborate on how they are feeling. Counselors and callers then discuss the various possible solutions and the pros and cons of each possibility.

The line has been in operation for 25 years. At its inception, it catered to issues related to homelessness and runaway youths. While the line still handles these issues, it also handles bullying, eating disorders, depression and more.

According to McCormack, the issues most commonly dealt with are family and relationship conflict, runaway and homeless youth issues and mental health issues.

Johnston said that many middle and high school students who call in do so to discuss bullying or cutting.

Some of the older people who call in discuss financial stresses or unsafe living conditions.

Johnston also said that a decent number of parents call to ask questions about how to talk to their children. These parents are concerned about what they find in a child’s bedroom or recent behavior changes. The counselors give the parents advice on how to start a conversation with their child.

Over the years, she said she has noticed that until age 17, many more girls call than guys. At ages 18-22, more guys start to call in, even though the number of girls calling does not change.

“Younger boys, they don’t really get the message that it’s okay to talk about their problems, about their feelings, or about anything, so I guess my hope is that as they’re getting older they’re finding that it is okay to talk a little bit more about what’s going on and that we’re really not going to judge them and that it is okay to reach out to get help,” Heckers said.

The more than 50 volunteers are required to put in 40 hours of training over two weeks. The training lasts three and half hours Monday-Thursday nights and 4-5 hours on Saturday.

After all this training, the new volunteer finally starts answering calls on his or her own.

Anyone over the age of 16 is allowed to volunteer, but McCormack said 75-80 percent of volunteers are college students. Many of these students are studying psychology, sociology, education, nursing or another related profession.

“This is a way they can try their field out and see if this is what they want to do,” Heckers said.

Wanting experience in a field relevant to their major is how Johnston, McCormack and volunteer Alice Thomas became involved.

“I volunteered because I really wanted experience with people going through a crisis and was studying psychology,” Thomas said. She has been a volunteer for the past two years.

Heckers added that volunteering at the line is not an easy job, so those who do are very committed.

“To be able to do the work that we do, you have to have a fun part and have some humor in your personality—not humor about the calls, but the ability to put the phone down and have happiness and humor in your life and not take everything home,” Heckers said.

“With the kind of topics that come up you get into some kind of deep discussions. Yeah, we’re fun and we’re goofy sometimes, but we have to deal with some really tough stuff and you get in really deep conversations sometimes with your partners and you really get to know these people and really personal things can come up,” Heckers said.

Johnston voices a similar view.

Heckers also said that volunteers are often people who have faced their own hardships and have learned to deal with them.

Volunteer Rebecca Mackay was a teenage runaway who now acts as a counselor at the line.

Heckers said that she and the other staffers “take pride in getting to know each of the volunteers.” Heckers’ favorite moment at the line, though, is a specific call she took.

This call was from a young girl calling back for the second time to thank a male counselor she had previously spoken to. The man was not at the call center, so Heckers talked to the girl instead.

“The girl was still a minor, she was 17 I believe, and in real life I just don’t see a 17-year-old girl opening up to talk to a 16-year-old guy about how she’d been sexually assaulted, but over the phone our guy had a chance to listen and be that support and it’s amazing what you can do when the anonymity is there,” Heckers said.

Johnston’s favorite moments are also the ones where she knows she helped someone.

Those who work at the line said it has had a positive impact on them as well as the callers.
