
You will be redirected to the page you want to view in  seconds.

A federal judge says the Livingston County jail must deliver mail to inmates from the American Civil Liberties Union.

The ACLU filed a complaint in U.S. District Court in March challenging the constitutionality of the jail’s policy of restricting most incoming and outgoing mail to postcards.

WHMI-FM says Judge Denise Page Hood last week granted an injunction filed by the ACLU, ordering that mail sent by the group to inmates must be delivered. It follows a temporary injunction she granted last month.

The ACLU complained it got no response to two-dozen letters sent in February.

According to the Livingston County Daily Press & Argus , the county’s attorney filed an emergency motion to stay Hood’s injunction pending appeal. No court date to hear that motion had been set as of Friday.

The ACLU sent 25 letters to inmates in February indicating it was investigating the jail’s “troubling postcard only policy” for inmate mail as being unconstitutional, according to court documents. The letter, which was marked legal mail and included an attorney’s name and legal bar identification number, asked inmates to complete a form if they were interested in speaking to someone from the ACLU regarding the postcard only policy.

However, the ACLU learned the letters had not been delivered. Instead, the ACLU said, jail officials opened a letter addressed to a former inmate, read the letter and then sent a scanned copy of it via email to attorneys representing the former inmate in a case involving Prison Legal News.

Prison Legal News filed suit in August 2011 alleging Livingston County Sheriff Bob Bezotte’s department has “adopted and implemented written-mail policies and practices that unconstitutionally” restrict correspondence with prisoners to postcards only, which would ban delivery of the journal.

The ACLU also argues the jail’s “postcard only” policy is severe.

The county argued Prison Legal News does not have a First Amendment right to force it to distribute sample copies of the magazine because the Supreme Court has not declared that publishers have a “freestanding right to unsolicited communication with inmates,” and that the courts have upheld “outright prohibitions against bulk mail and free advertising,” according to court documents.

The ACLU filed a brief in the Prison Legal News case to help the court decide the issue between the two parties, but when the county successfully got the court to rule Prison Legal News’ correspondence was not “legal mail,” the ACLU changed from a friend of the court to litigator and advocate by sending a “whole host of materials to the jail” in an effort to further Prison Legal News’ fight, the county’s attorney said in a previous interview.

As a result, the county sought sanctions against the ACLU because “it was going around the back door of the court’s earlier ruling,” the county attorney said.

Livingston County Daily Press & Argus reporter Lisa Roose-Church contributed to this report.

The ACLU filed a complaint in U.S. District Court in March challenging the constitutionality of the jail's policy of restricting most incoming and outgoing mail to postcards.

A link to this page will be included in your message.

Copyright © 2014 www.freep.com. All rights reserved.
