
Ronda Bucholz has announced her candidacy as a Republican candidate for the Bent County Commissioner seat, District #2, in the June 24 primary election.

Ronda Bucholz has announced her candidacy as a Republican candidate for the Bent County Commissioner seat, District #2, in the June 24 primary election. Bucholz resides in Las Animas, District #2 of Bent County; she petitioned supporters to be placed on the ballot. Bucholz stated, "I couldn't be more thankful for the support of Bent County residents for helping me with the petition and getting on the ballot for this race."

Bucholz was raised on a small farm and cattle ranch on the Western Slope in Hotchkiss, Colorado, making her familiar with hard work and aware of the issues that come along with this type of small agriculture based business.

Bucholz served in the U. S. Army upon graduation from high school with three years of active service where she saw many places around the world and three years of inactive service. The positions she held in the military were in Upper Brass Communications and Battalion Motor Pool Parts Warehousing and Budget. While in the military she met her husband, Robert, and they have been married for 25 years. They had two children and now have four grandchildren in which they take great pride.

Bucholz, along with her husband, started an HVAC business in 1990 in Durango, Colorado. This soon turned into a Log Home Construction Custom Design Build and HVAC business based in Buena Vista, Colorado. Bucholz managed all day-to-day operations of advertising, sales, customer satisfaction, design, blueprinting, project estimating, purchasing, hands-on construction, personnel management, project management, office, tax management, budget management, as well as installation and repairs of residential and commercial HVAC systems. Bucholz was recognized as "Who's Who among American Business Women" 11 years in a row for this business.

Bucholz moved to Las Animas with her husband, Robert, who was at the time taking a promotional transfer with the State of Colorado in the Department of Corrections and being placed at the Fort Lyon Correctional Facility. After living in the community for two years Bucholz knew that her career goals needed to be focused on improving the quality of life, homes and jobs in Bent County and set out to achieve this goal. Bucholz was appointed to the Land Use office of Bent County in July of 2010 by the current Bent County Commissioners, which she found fulfilling of this goal to a limited point. Bucholz was involved with LiveWell Bent County and other organizations attempting to create a feasible open air market in Las Animas, which allowed Bent County residents to have a place to sell and promote small cottage industry. She also volunteers occasionally at the Bent County Community Center, and has continued a project with the help of many others known as the Christmas Angel Tree. This project makes sure all children in Bent County will receive gifts at Christmas. Bucholz is now ready to expand on this goal with the support and directives of Bent County residents.

Page 2 of 2 - Bucholz states, "There have been many employment and life experiences, all of which have prepared me for most any type of opportunity or obstacle that presents itself and I have never been afraid of hard work or to take on new challenges or an opportunity for learning something new."

?"I will be the citizens of Bent County's voice and advocate on their issues and concerns without party bias, and contribute to this role of enhancing the quality of life for all residents with concern on the county budget," said Bucholz. "As Bent County Commissioner I will make sound decisions and contribute in ways to protect our community and serve its best interests, while being public minded with concern for the full spectrum of public issues."

?"I will give 110 percent effort to all Bent County to see our community become a viable place now and in the future for current and future residents to work, live and play; by working with the Development Foundation, Chamber of Commerce, Small Business, and the Agriculture Industry as well as involved citizens, anything is possible," she continued. "I want to work hard for the people of Bent County and their voices will be my guide to the decisions made for Bent County."

In closing, Bucholz said, "I find my life to be most rewarding and fulfilling with purpose, when I am serving others and I can't think of a better way than to serve all of Bent County for the improvement of all. Thank you with much appreciation to all that have been involved in helping me arrive at this place in my life."

Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.
