
Live coverage of the upcoming sentencing retrial of Jodi Arias has been banned.On Friday the local TV stations, including FOX 10 proposed a compromise.Millions watched the Jodi Arias trial last year. But when Arias acts as her own attorney and fights to avoid the death penalty in her sentencing trial no one will be able to see it live.

Live coverage of the upcoming sentencing retrial of Jodi Arias has been banned.On Friday the local TV stations, including FOX 10 proposed a compromise.Millions watched the Jodi Arias trial last year. But when Arias acts as her own attorney and fights to avoid the death penalty in her sentencing trial no one will be able to see it live.

ASU is responding to a federal investigation into how the college handled sexual abuse complaints.The state's largest public university is one of 55 colleges around the country involved in the investigation.

ASU is responding to a federal investigation into how the college handled sexual abuse complaints.The state's largest public university is one of 55 colleges around the country involved in the investigation.

PHOENIX (KSAZ) - Police say this woman has a long criminal record and just refused to stop, speeding going the wrong way in the traffic.

This all happened Saturday afternoon at 1 p.m., her friend and that friend's 4 year-old son was in the car with her.

It was a wild and dangerous run from the law. Police say a woman tried to evade officers by speeding through Central Phoenix with a 4 year-old child in the car.

Regina Latrice Harris is accused of shoplifting from a WalMart store in the Christown Shopping Center.

Police say that when workers at the store tried to stop her on the way out she bit one of them, ran into her car, and took off from the parking lot going so fast Police decided not to chase her fearing it would put other drivers at risk.

Phoenix Police caught up with her at I-10 & 7th Street; she pulled over but when officers got out of their car she took off again. As she fled down 7th Street, she veered into the wrong lanes of traffic near 7th St & McKinkley striking another car.

Harris then went East from the crash and tried to hide her car in a parking lot near I-10 & 16th Street. As they tried to arrest her, she put the car into reverse and backed into an officer knocking him to the ground. That officer was able to get out of the way as Harris backed her car into a police SUV that had two officers inside.

She faced a judge Monday, and when she made her first appearance in court she denied the charges.

Harris: "I have to have a bond to get out?"

Judge: "You certainly do"

You know what, this is untrue, I did not, I did not assault a police officer"

Judge: "You'll have an opportunity to talk to your attorney about what did or did not happen"

Harris: "Your honor I do work, I have a child at home"

Judge: "Step to the clerk, step to the clerk... step to the clerk"

Regina Harris is being held on a $15,000 secured appearance bond.

All content © Copyright 2000 - 2014 Fox Television Stations, Inc. and Worldnow. All Rights   Reserved.
