
We are now down to the Top 7 as one contestants left last week, which is Anele Gazide. Anele is the girl who seemed to be a favourite of many people which I think made her relax and gave a her a bit of an ego. She blocked me on Facebook last week because my friends criticised her performance. Hope she finds strength and grows a thick skin if she still wants to be in this industry.

On to the good news, last week’s episode was my best so far. Great performances all round. I guess they took notes from the comments and the judges’ feedback. The theme was grace and mercy and the first duet was Kahludi and Sithembiso performing Mohau. Oh did they give a killer perfomance! Makhabane said they were excellent. Ntokozo said they were absolutely wonderful even Nzimande said they did what he wants and he said they took the song and owned it. I agree!

Next up was Sibusisiwe and Karabo singing Great is Your Mercy. They were also great especially Sibusisiwe who has been the weakest link the past few weeks. She has really grown and her performance showed that she has a teachable spirit. Karabo tried to outshine her as usual. Makhabane said they were still shaky while Ntokozo disagreed and said they were great and she said Sibusisiwe was awesome. Nzimande also complimented Sibu on her beautiful tone and said it shows she has been taking notes.

Nelisiwe and Anele were up next singing Bengilahlekile. I didn’t like their song choice it just didn’t do them justice but they tried. Nelisiwe can sing period while Anele continued to sink. The judges all complimented Nelisiwe on her great singing while they complained about Anele’s key and tone problems. Hayike uNzimande took it to another level and told her she is not improving and that she has always been the weakest link. How he said it was just brutal. LOL ayi lobhuti!

The last duet was Lynnzay and Andile V singing Mercy Said No, one of my favourite songs. Yho this was the best perfomance of the night. The judges even gave a standing ovation. Makhabane even cried.

I feel I can now look forward to the next episode. It seems the contestants are now realising that this is a competition afterall. That is what we want.

Thanks for the write-up Siya. I watched for a couple of minutes and i think for starters, production of the show leaves a lot to be desired. Sound is not as crisp as it should be. And then Salamina speaking realtively too slow…okare re di special cases…lol.

I saw those ladies sing Mercy said NO, the coloured lady had a beautiful tone and while the other lady wasn’t too convincing for me. I guess i need to watch a full episode again for them to rub me the right way.

and oh, if you want a pic to show with your comment, go get a gravatar !

Notify me of followup comments via e-mail. You can also subscribe without commenting.
