
State Rep. Barry Moore, R-Enterprise, will seek a dismissal of his perjury and false statements charges Tuesday at a hearing in Lee County Circuit Court.

State prosecutors claim Moore perjured himself during grand jury testimony on Jan. 24, by claiming he did not tell his election opponent, Josh Pipkin, that Speaker of the House Mike Hubbard would pull financial incentives for Enterprise if Pipkin did not stay out of the House District 85 race.

Moore is charged with two counts of perjury and two counts of making false statements. The hearing is set for 2:30 p.m. in front of Circuit Judge Jacob A. Walker III.

A recording of an alleged phone conversation between Moore and Pipkin appears to indicate Moore tells Pipkin that Hubbard will “bring holy hell down on” Pipkin if he challenged Moore in the Republican primary.

Moore told the Enterprise Ledger in April that a long-running conversation had been taken out of context.

Moore’s attorney, Bill Baxley, filed a motion to dismiss on April 30, claiming the state’s charges were unconstitutional, overly vague and failed to state a valid violation of the law. The motion further claims the state failed to establish a foundation for the appearance of Acting Attorney General Van Davis and his staff, who are prosecuting the case in place of Attorney General Luther Strange.

“ For aught appearing, W. Van Davis could be acting attorney general of Timbuktu, having no authority to sign the instant indictment or to appear before the Grand Jury of Lee County,” states the motion to dismiss from Baxley.

The state’s response to the motion to dismiss, filed by Deputy Attorney General Michael Duffy, claims Moore is reaching in his claims.

Baxley has subpoenaed the Attorney General’s office, asking representatives to produce documents that authenticate Davis serving as an acting attorney general.

The State of Alabama has filed a motion to quash the subpoenas. Walker has not ruled.

Posted in Lee county , Political , State on Monday, May 19, 2014 6:07 pm. Updated: 6:07 pm.
