
As the train chugs along the tracks of the rickety looking bridge below us, I think of the people that died to build it. The death railway, as it's commonly known, was built by Prisoners held by the Japanese Army in the Second World War and Asian laborers. The Japanese wanted to build a railway line between Bangkok and Burma so that they could transport supplies faster and more efficiently. It took 12 weeks to build and 240,000 workers, of which roughly half lost their lives, mainly due to malnutrition and disease.

This forced feat of engineering is astonishing, even more because of the conditions that both POW’s and laborers had to endure. It makes me marvel at both the cruelty of the Japanese guards and the strength and tenacity of the people they were supposed to be guarding.

As the train slows to take a particularly sharp bend I stick my head out the window. On one side of the train is a sheer wall of earth and on the other a drop into a ravine. As I look back I see other people are doing the same thing as me. I shudder as the train hugs the side of the wall and winds its way round the tracks like a snake. As we come to the infamous 'Bridge over the River Kwai’ the train slows right down, as if to honor the structure and the people who built it.

The actual bridge was bombed repeatedly by the allies and wasn’t rebuilt until ….. However crossing it still feels monumental.

Kanchanburi is a beautiful little town with lots of hidden gems and is well worth exploring in its own right, although a visit here would seem incomplete without taking a ride on the train and visiting Hellfire Pass.

The pass is actually called Konyu Cutting But received its nickname from the prisoners who said that it resembled hell in the light of the lamps they used to work by night.  The museum is well built, informative and factual, but it’s the walk that you take after which blows your mind. The track takes you through some of the mountainside that the prisoners had to work through and it’s impossible to comprehend what it must have been like. As you meander through the vast V shapes cut through the rock, the surrounding forest is serene in contrast to the earth that has been ripped apart around it. We walked, each lost in our own thoughts, each trying to imagine what it must have been like but failing miserably.

I would recommend visiting the museum first before taking the railway as I feel it gives you a better perspective on what it would have been like and just how much of a feat the railway actually is.

We stayed at the VN Guesthouse which is a lovely little place right on the banks of the river Kwai. You can either have the option of staying in a floating raft house on the river or in one of the rooms on dry land. I opted for the floating house as the movement of water has always helped lull me to sleep.

For as little as $10 a night this place is well worth a stay, especially for the amazing food that is has on offer. Due to the close proximity to Burma there is quite a lot of Burmese influence in the cooking. My favorite dish which I had a couple of nights in a row was the Burmese Curry. I can still taste its rich flavors and heady spices combined with the thick chunky sauce. The hosts are exceptionally friendly and very helpful. They will gladly organize you taxis and give you ideas on places to visit and things to do.

One trip that they arranged for us was a visit to a local orphanage about 30 minutes outside the town. Initially I was very anxious about going to visit as I didn’t know how I’d feel about it. All my fears however, were allayed when we pulled up to children laughing, playing and shouting like any normal child.

The orphanage relies solely on donations from people like us and NGO’s that assist them. They care for anywhere up to 60 children at a time and they do it extremely well. They have volunteers that teach English to the children and a shop where they sell paintings and crafts that they have made.

I remember one little girl who was so shy.  She wouldn’t look at me, wouldn’t smile and you could just tell that something terrible had happened to her. After a while of me pulling funny faces and drawing a flower for her I got the faintest of grins, after another 15 minutes of me showing her pictures on my phone I got the biggest gap tooth smile I’ve ever seen. Her face lit up when I gave her one of the bracelets that I was wearing and my heart broke a little when I had to leave her. The orphanage not only cares for these children but gives them important skills that they will eventually be able to take out into the real world to ensure their survival. Education is imperative for these children but so is a childhood, and that is what these amazing places and the staff that run them are able to provide.

After our day spent with the children we decided to go out for a couple of drinks in the local town. When I say town, I mean strip of road…..which consisted of about 5 bars, 2 pizza places, 1 seven Eleven and about 20 hookers. And that’s all I have to say about that!

As punishment for deciding to go out for a drink we decided to go to Erawan Waterfalls the next morning. We woke at the crack of dawn, a little bit worse for wear and sat down whilst our hosts arranged a taxi for us. When I say punishment I really mean it. Parts of the walk are very steep and you find yourself having to climb over roots, up rocks and climbing numerous steps. The views though are well worth it. The leafy canopy of the trees shades you from the oppressive sun and you can stop at certain waterfalls and go for a swim in the cool water. If you can make it all the way to the top the views are stunning.

Kanchanaburi, as I suspected, did not disappoint. The people were lovely, the history was fascinating and the countryside was breathtaking. I also felt that I came away a slightly different person. When you see people’s lives that are so far removed from your own, all your preconceived ideas of what travelling is are blown out of the water. Seeing those children who were given an amazing chance at life reaffirmed the fact that we should never take life or our lot for granted.
