
In 2010, Vice President Joe Biden introduced the president  in the East Room of the White House just before the health care reform bill was signed into law. As Obama took his position behind the lectern, Biden leaned into his ear. “This is a big fucking deal,” the vice president whispered, without realizing his mic would broadcast the unpleasantry out to the free world. He grinned furtively and stepped aside.

Though the raffish utterance seems more suitable for the mouth of a rabble-rousing sailor than the esteemed tongue of the man second-in-line to the presidency, recent research indicates that it won’t hurt his prospects in 2016.

A new study in the  Journal of Language and Social Psychology  suggests this kind of crass commentary shouldn’t be constrained to whispers in the halls of power. If delivered with some degree of grace, vulgarity can actually work well as a rhetorical device on the campaign trail. The linguistic quirks seem to heighten the perception of a candidate as a more informal “everyman,” who the voter evaluates more positively and is even more likely to vote for.

“[T]he positive effect of cursing seems to apply to the whole electorate, as this effect did not vary as a function of participants’ gender, education, involvement in politics, and self-reported position on the left–right political spectrum,” the authors write.

But, as Cavazza advises, politicians shouldn’t go overboard just yet.

Probably there is a “saturation point”, that is an amount of vulgarity that backfires. We are currently carrying out another experiment in which we manipulate both the amount of swear words in the discourse (2 or 4 or 6 or none as control) and the repetition (one or more different discourses). In this way we will be able to see if the persuasive effect of swearing is linear (more swearing more appealing) or curvilinear (some swear words work but are too much detrimental?).

A weekly roundup of the best of Pacific Standard and PSmag.com, delivered straight to your inbox.

Our human minds are incapable of truly answering that question.

Christopher Beha’s Arts & Entertainments comes in at less than 300 pages long, which—along with a plot centered on a sex-tape scandal—makes it a uniquely efficient pleasure.
