
Yahoo Japan is pulling back from a plan to buy a Japanese mobile provider for $3.2 billion.

Yahoo Japan, the most-visited site in that country, is reportedly pulling out of a plan to buy eAccess , a Japanese mobile Internet provider majority owned by Softbank , for $3.2 billion, a deal that may signal investor confidence in the upcoming Alibaba IPO.

The connection? Japan's Softbank has a big stake in Alibaba and if that IPO pays off richly, the company might not need the funds an eAccess sale would have brought.

The deal had been expected as a part of a plan to create a new mobile Internet service in Japan using eAccess' tech, and seemed likely because the mobile provider and Yahoo Japan share a majority owner — Softbank — which has been trying to shed or consolidate its tech holdings recently.

Rather than merge with Yahoo Japan, eAccess is going to merge with another Softbank wireless provider, Willcom. Yahoo Japan plans to go forward with its mobile offering, just without buying the entity behind the tech outright.

So what does that mean for Yahoo? It's substantive, but probably not the way that you think. For one thing, Yahoo and Yahoo Japan are not the same thing. Although they share a name, Yahoo Japan is actually a separate entity in which Yahoo has about a 34 percent stake. That being said, with 2013 revenue of about $3.2 billion, Yahoo Japan is one of its Silicon Valley parent's biggest holdings. When analysts speak of the "Asian assets" that account for much of Yahoo's valuation, they aren't just talking about Chinese Internet giant Alibaba, they also mean Yahoo Japan.

And speaking of Alibaba, perhaps the most interesting reading of the decision not to go ahead with the sale is what it says about the health of the upcoming IPO, which tech watchers think might be the largest U.S. Internet IPO ever. Softbank, you see, is also expected to be a major beneficiary of Alibaba's public offering. It owns about 34.4 percent of Alibaba, meaning it could make about $57 billion if the deal goes through.

If you are commenting using a Facebook account, your profile information may be displayed with your comment depending on your privacy settings. By leaving the 'Post to Facebook' box selected, your comment will be published to your Facebook profile in addition to the space below.
