
Street vending cannot take the form of permanent or semi-permanent structures erected on municipal land or land belonging to a statutory public body under any circumstances. It can be of two kinds – an open Tehbazari at a fixed spot or mobile hawking using handcarts – and should not affect people’s right of way.

With this ruling, the Delhi High Court has dismissed a contempt petition and terminated the proceedings in a writ petition moved by Delhi Shramik Sangathan, which had raised the issue of 130 hawkers and vendors engaged in business at Harkesh Nagar in Okhla Industrial Area Phase II being removed from their site in front of a temple.

Another grievance of the petitioner was that the National Policy on Urban Street Vendors, 2009 was not being given effect to as the Street Vending Committees were not constituted and the street vendors had no forum where they could make a representation. Until the committees were constituted, the vendors had a right to carry on their trade.

A Division Bench, comprising Justice Pradeep Nandrajog and Justice Jayant Nath, on Friday said the beneficiaries whose cause was being espoused had misused the judicial process after the Court, through an interim order, directed the Delhi Police to abstain from interfering in their business. The Municipal Corporation was also directed to ensure that no garbage was dumped at the place.

The judgment carried some photographs taken from a video submitted by the Delhi Police, which showed a temporary market erected using bamboo, tarpaulin and tin sheets and even refrigerating machines brought to the site. Vendors had also brought ‘malba’ consisting of retrieved bricks to surreptitiously raise temporary structures.

The Judges said the action taken by the police at the asking of the municipal authorities was justified, as nobody was entitled to violate the law under the garb of court orders. The Court also said a trespasser, who was not in legal possession of a site, could not get the right to hearing before an action was taken against him.
