
Not only is it important to teach your kids proper safety precautions, but it's also crucial that you take your own actions into account.

A health issue caused Aaron Cook to have part of his leg amputated, and he and his daughter learned one of its drawbacks the hard way.

Rhode Island police officers have been involved in 14 shootings since 2009, but a third of those cases happened this year.

Target 12 fact check on latest campaign ad claiming state wastes millions on paper timesheets.

Glenn Michael’s line is inspired by family, hope, and a promise of a better tomorrow.

Designs from BlueMoonStone Creations will be on display at the Accessory Showcase all week long.

PROVIDENCE, R.I. (WPRI) – A Rhode Island judge on Monday lightly reprimanded lawyers on both sides of the state’s 38 Studios lawsuit for making small disclosures in court in an apparent effort to sway public opinion about the case.

“This case obviously has drawn a great deal of attention from the public, from the press, from the General Assembly,” Superior Court Judge Michael Silverstein said at the end of a nearly two-hour hearing Monday.

Silverstein made his comments at the end of a hearing where lawyers from the R.I. Economic Development Corporation and the various parties it sued over the 38 Studios deal debated which documents the former EDC – now known as the R.I. Commerce Corp. – should be required to hand over to the other side as they prepare for a trial, which is still months away.

The EDC guaranteed a $75-million loan to Curt Schilling’s 38 Studios in 2010 to bring it to Providence, only to see the company collapse into bankruptcy in June 2012. The Chafee administration sued 14 individuals and firms involved in crafting the deal the following November, in a bid to recoup some of the money taxpayers owe the 38 Studios bondholders .

Mitchell Edwards, a lawyer for defendant First Southwest, argued Monday the EDC should not be allowed to withhold affidavits sworn by some of those involved in the 38 Studios deal, and said the EDC’s lawyers should also be forced to provide more information about the various documents they are withholding based on attorney-client and other privileges.

Edwards’ argument was reinforced by Thomas Holt, a lawyer for defendant Wells Fargo & Co., who repeatedly cited the Watergate scandal of the 1970s and President Nixon’s fight to conceal his Oval Office recordings to argue that documents should not be withheld if they go to the core facts of the case.

Holt specifically cited a July 2010 memo to former Gov. Don Carcieri from R.I. Department of Revenue Director Rosemary Booth Gallogly in which she expressed concerns about the 38 Studios deal. “That memorandum was rebuffed by the governor and not brought to the attention of the [EDC] board,” Holt said.

But Stephen Sheehan, a lawyer for the EDC, said the agency had provided all the necessary documents and amply disclosed what was in those it is not handing over. Silverstein asked the two sides to file further motions on the issue, and said he would likely render a decision next week.

The document disclosure question isn’t the only piece of the 38 Studios lawsuit that’s on tap for this week.

Silverstein has ordered lawyers on both sides to advance their arguments about whether former House Speaker Gordon Fox should be forced to comply with a subpoena in the suit, and he is also weighing whether to grant a request from the General Assembly to release sealed depositions taken in the case for lawmakers to review.

Meet some of the figures involved in the controversial deal and subsequent investigation and bankruptcy.

Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
