
WASHINGTON — A shortage of federal judges in Florida has been called a "judicial emergency" by the U.S. court system, but relief could come soon because of the likely addition of four new judges — and the hardball tactics of U.S. Senate Democrats.

Filling the seats could mean a slight decrease in wait times for Floridians involved in federal cases ranging from sex trafficking to civil-rights violations, although court officials said they'll still face a heavy workload.

In play are four empty seats on the federal bench: two in Central Florida and two in South Florida. The positions have been unfilled as long as two years, and because of the busy caseload in the two districts, the federal judiciary has described the vacancies as emergencies — a sentiment echoed by one top judge.

"I am up to my eyeballs in trials right now," said Anne Conway, chief judge for Florida's Middle District, which includes Orlando.

More than 9,600 cases were filed in her court last year — most of them civil — and Conway said the absence of even two judges is significant because the Middle District is allowed a maximum of 15 judges.

"We desperately need" those slots filled, Conway said.

Up for nomination in the Middle District are two legal veterans: attorney Paul Byron and Judge Carlos Eduardo Mendoza of the 7th Judicial Circuit of Florida.

Byron, a partner at Overchuck & Byron in Orlando, served as an assistant U.S. attorney in the Middle District. Mendoza has been with the 7th Circuit, which includes Volusia County, since 2011 and "participated in combat operations during Operation Desert Shield and Operation Desert Storm," according to the White House.

"Both are highly qualified and not controversial," Conway said.

But before they can take their seats, the Senate has to approve their nominations, a hurdle also facing the two South Florida candidates: Judges Beth Bloom and Darrin Gayles, both of the 11th Judicial Circuit of Florida, which serves Miami-Dade County. If he's confirmed, Gayles' selection would carry a bit of history: He would become the first openly gay black man to serve as a federal judge.

But nominees for federal judgeships rarely are shoo-ins for Senate support — a fact hammered home in recent years.

Senate Republicans repeatedly have torpedoed or delayed nominations by the Obama administration, including that of Judge Brian Davis, who waited nearly two years before the Senate agreed to let him join Florida's Middle District.

Optimism runs high, however, for the current slate of four nominees. This month, the Senate Judiciary Committee voted to support the candidacies, and all four Floridians also have earned the support of the state's two senators, Democrat Bill Nelson and Republican Marco Rubio.

"At this point, there are no issues that would prevent Sen. Rubio from supporting all four of these judges, and he personally appeared to introduce them to the [Judiciary] Committee," wrote Rubio spokeswoman Brooke Sammon in a response to questions.

But a bigger factor in their likely approval dates backs to last fall, when Senate Democrats, led by Majority Leader Harry Reid, changed the rules on how the Senate votes on most presidential nominations.

For decades, a judicial nominee needed a filibuster-proof 60 votes to get through the Senate. But frustrated by what they called Republican obstructionism, Senate Democrats in November unleashed what was called the "nuclear option" and changed the vote threshold so that nominees needed a simple majority of the 100-member chamber, rather than 60 votes. The move got its nickname because it's considered a particularly ruthless parliamentary maneuver.

The switch was a boon to the Democratic Party, which controls both the Senate and White House, and it has helped Reid shepherd a string of nominees through the upper chamber, said one legal expert.

"The nuclear option seems to have worked, and [Senate Democrats] are really moving," said Carl Tobias of the University of Richmond.

An aide to Nelson said a vote on the Florida nominees was expected before Congress adjourns for its annual August break.

"It's about time we're able to fill these judicial vacancies," Nelson said in a statement.
