
Geoff Egan Journalist Geoff has been working for the QT since August 2011 covering Ipswich’s rural areas. He started working for APN in January 2010 with the Chinchilla News in western Queensland after growing up on a grain farm. Geoff spends his time out of work watching far too much sport following the Reds, the Broncos and various American teams.

A MAN has escaped spending time behind bars after a "completely unprovoked" attack in the Ipswich CBD.

Benjamin Anthony Olt, 20, pleaded guilty at the Ipswich District Court to causing grievous bodily harm.

The court heard on October 5, 2012 Olt was with a group of friends in central Ipswich.

He noticed a man who he recognised as having been in a fight with his brother some months before.

Olt walked up to the man and punched him in the back of the head. He continued the assault, repeatedly punching the man who was unable to escape.

Olt was eventually pulled away from the man by his friends and left the scene.

The man suffered damage to his jaw, which needed surgery, and a broken tooth.

The court heard he has undergone a lot of dental work because of the damage. The victim told the court in a statement he was now reluctant to go out in Ipswich,

The attack was captured on SafeCity CCTV cameras and the footage was tendered to the court.

Judge Deborah Richards said while Olt had a very limited criminal history, he was at risk of spending time behind bars.

She said she was convinced the attack was out of character for Olt, who was only 18 at the time of the offence and noted he had offered to pay compensation to his victim. Olt was sentenced to 18 months jail and released on immediate parole. He was ordered to pay $6000 compensation.

Help make the news! Share your photos, stories, events or just post a general notice to the community.

© Gympie Times Pty Ltd 2014. Unauthorised reproduction is prohibited under the laws of Australia and by international treaty.

Refer to our helpful FAQ section for any problems you might be experiencing.
