
Cable & Wireless Communications (CWC) [the parent company of LIME Jamaica] today announces the appointment of Grace Silvera as director of communications and culture.

Silvera will join CWC in June and will be based in the company's Miami office. She will report to CWC Chief Executive Phil Bentley.

She will be responsible for all group communications, both internal and external, as well as digital communications. She will also take responsibility for leading the group's new culture prorgramme, which is charged with empowering CWC's colleague base to better serve its customers.

Silvera was previously the regional vice-president, marketing and corporate communications for CWC's LIME business, based in Jamaica. She has also worked for Diageo (Red Stripe) and for the Jamaican Government as the executive director of the Jamaican Cultural Development Commission.

She will replace Lachlan Johnston, the group's director of brand and communications for the past five years. Johnston is stepping down from his role after deciding not to relocate to Miami, where the communications function will now be based.

"I'm delighted that Grace is joining us and will be a part of taking this business forward. Grace will be our key external spokesperson and her experience and knowledge of the Caribbean and Latin America marketplace will be invaluable. She will also be responsible for developing a new culture within our business - a culture that is focused on delivering for the customer. I would also like to extend my thanks to Lachlan and wish him every success in his next role."

The comments on this page do not necessarily reflect the views of The Gleaner.

The Gleaner reserves the right not to publish comments that may be deemed libelous, derogatory or indecent.           Please keep comments short and precise. A maximum of 8 sentences should be the target.           Longer responses/comments should be sent to "Letters of the Editor" using the feedback form provided.
