
Contrary to public opinion that the coming of US,UK troops  and others will end the Boko Haram insurgency,the director of policy strategy in the Office of the National Security Adviser,  Ambassador Layiwola Lasehinde, has stated  that the insurgency in Nigeria may not end anytime soon.

This is just as human rights lawyer and a delegate at the ongoing National Conference Mike Ozekhome  ( SAN)has described  corruption in Nigeria as the 37 State in Nigeria as it had become institutionalised in the country.

Other prominent Nigerians like  Mike Ozekhome, former presidential spokesman,  Mr Segun Adeniyi, Mr Umar Farouk, Dr Inusa Tanko, Hajia Ramatu Bala-Usman, Hajia Aisha Bako, Dr Kunle Fagbemi, and Mr Bankole Afilaka, among others, also spoke on the occasion.

According to Lasehinde, it took America close to 10 years to find Osama Bin Ladin and the killing of Osama did not really end the insurgency in Afghanistan.

He said, “It took America 10 years to locate Bin Laden and when you are talking of resources, American government spent huge amount of money in search of Bin Laden who was sitting in a house close to a military station.

“America cannot solve the terrorism problem in Afghanistan and they were there for years, spending $1m everyday. They were also in Iraq, spending $1m everyday also. In fact, what they have achieved there now was worse than when they got there.

“We are not saying that we will not get to the end of terrorism in Nigeria,  but don’t expect a quick resolution.  It is a virus that had entered the body politics of the country and it will be extremely difficult to remove it.

He said the European Union and the Department for International Development were already involved in a comprehensive strategy  to ensure transparency in the development of a blue print for the area in line with the International best practices.

, “The prime program will be jointly funded by the federal government,  states and the development partners, which had pledged several billions of naira for the execution of the programme.
