
Gov. Maggie Hassan said this is always a solemn and somber day, when the state honors the sacrifices of its law enforcement officers. She said it's especially true this year because of the events that unfolded one week ago in Brentwood.

"We come together with a heavy pall of sorrow hanging over the state of New Hampshire as we mourn the loss of Brentwood police Officer Steve Arkell," Hassan said.

The governor said the past week has been tough on everyone.

"When we lose an officer, we lose a piece of ourselves," she said.

The mother of Manchester police Officer Michael Briggs, who was shot and killed in the line of duty in 2006, said she knows what the Arkell family is going through.

"I'm still in their shoes every day," Maryann Briggs said. "We live for Mike. I would just have to say keep close. Keep strong."

Debra Noyes, whose state trooper husband was killed during a SWAT raid 20 years ago, said the pain gets easier but never goes away.

"You don't look too far ahead because that would be overwhelming and would be expecting too much of yourself," she said. "Be kind to yourself and take it one step at a time."

There wasn't enough time to add Arkell's name to the monument this year, but two other names were inscribed. Manchester Sgt. Henry McAllister was gunned down in 1895, and Dover Officer George Pray was killed in the line of duty in 1888.

"I find it extremely humbling for George to be recognized in this fashion," said Kirk Purington, Pray's great-great-grandson.

Purington said the family never talked much about Pray's death, just referring to it as tragedy. The law enforcement community wasn't aware of that tragedy until a college student doing some research brought it to authorities' attention.

Even though it has been more than 100 years since the death, Purington said it still means a lot to have his ancestor's name with his comrades.

"It's emotional," he said. "It was."

Organizers said no members of McAllister's family could be found to attend Monday's event.

There were also no members of the Arkell family there. Ceremonies beginning Tuesday are planned to honor him.

People across the state mourn the loss of Brentwood Police Officer Stephen Arkell following a fatal shooting and home explosion.

The views expressed are not those of this site, this station or its affiliated companies. By posting your comments you agree to accept our terms of use.

Linda and Walter Misco hit the jackpot in Las Vegas by beating the odds on the most famous slot machine at the MGM Grand.
