
Marion County sheriff's Deputy Lauren Miley is shown in this image from dash-cam video on July 6, 2012, immediately before she shot and killed Joshua Salvato, who was fighting with deputies on Sunset Harbor Road.

Last Modified: Monday, May 19, 2014 at 2:22 p.m.

Opening arguments began Monday afternoon in a federal civil case where the estate of Joshua Salvato is seeking up to $39 million from the Marion County Sheriff’s Office and two of its deputies for alleged wrongful death and civil rights violations.

“Ladies and gentleman, on July 6, 2012, a young man had just visited his grandmother’s house,” plaintiff’s attorney Antonio Romanucci told the six-member jury in his opening statement.

Salvato, 21, had no criminal record. The only things he had on his person were the clothes he was wearing and two pieces of bread.

“On that night he was killed needlessly, unnecessarily, and unwarranted,” Romanucci said.

The plaintiff is arguing the deputies used excessive force that night on Salvato, who was not charged with a crime.

The physical altercation involving Salvato and sheriff’s deputies Lauren Miley and Norman Brown happened on Sunset Harbor Road in Summerfield. Brown fell to the ground when Salvato hit him. Miley, who herself sustained two blows from Salvato, shot Salvato once in the belly button, slicing an artery.

Brown then used a stun gun on Salvato 12 times, sending 50,000 volts of electricity through his body with each pull of the trigger, according to Romanucci.

In legal documents, both law officers have stated that they acted reasonably under the circumstances and pointed to Salvato’s impaired state as being in part responsible for his death.

The medical examiner found cannabis in Salvato’s system, but no other drugs or alcohol.

The Sheriff’s Office has maintained that none of its policies, procedures or customs led, caused or contributed to any violation of Salvato’s constitutional rights.

In late 2012 a grand jury reviewed the case and declined to indict the two deputies. The panel issued a report pointing out lessons and recommendations for the Sheriff’s Office, including increased training hours.

At the time, then-Sheriff Ed Dean agreed with increasing the training hours and reinstating another type of training exercise.

After being cleared by a psychologist, the deputies returned to work in late July 2012 in limited capacity. They still work for the Sheriff’s Office, but in the corrections division.

On the night of the shooting, 911 operators received calls concerning a man walking along Sunset Harbor Road. He was stepping into oncoming traffic and yelling and throwing things at cars.

Miley arrived first and made contact with Salvato, who soon after put his hands on her patrol car, which is a red flag to a law enforcement officer, according to her attorney, Walter Ketcham Jr.

The plaintiff and defense disagree on whether Salvato matched the description of the man reported to 911.

Salvato then started flirting with Miley and said, “I’m not going to jail,” which is another red flag, according to Ketcham.

Miley told Brown, who was on the way to the scene, to expedite his response time.

The video camera on Miley’s car was not activated, but once Brown arrived on the scene, his car recorded the resulting altercation. No audio was recorded.

“What you will see in the video is an extremely violent confrontation that comes on very quickly and ended very quickly,” said John Green Jr., attorney for the Sheriff’s Office. The jury is expected to see the video soon.

Ketchum told the jury it’s easy in hindsight to criticize. But Miley, then 22, was in a situation where her colleague, then 40, was on the ground and Salvato had managed to avoid being handcuffed.

In legal documents the defense has maintained Salvato’s own actions of resisting arrest contributed to his death.

He described Salvato as a member of a local Christian church. An avid baseball player and youngest of three brothers, he was a good student before deciding, with his father’s consent, to leave school before graduation. The day he died he had decided to earn his GED and join the military.

The defense painted a different picture of the deceased. It said Salvato had no choice but to drop out of school after he skipped so many days he couldn’t make up the work. It also pointed out a troubling home life, a contrast to statements given by the plaintiff.

During the morning session, presiding Senior Judge William Terrell Hodges informed the jury that the case is likely to take the entire week and could conclude as late as the early part of next week.

The final panel, two of whom are alternate jurors, features three men and five women. One panelist is black; all the others are white. The group varies in professional background and hails from different areas, including Williston, Ocala, Citrus Springs, Clermont and Eustis.

In court on Monday, both deputies sat quietly next to their attorneys, dressed in their hunter green sheriff’s uniforms.

Court will resume at 9 a.m. today when Deputy Brown’s attorney will give his opening statement. The plaintiff will then begin presenting evidence.
