
An error has occured and your email has not been sent.

• Seperate multiple addresses with Commas.

• Must enter an email address.

• You must enter the verification code below to send.

• Invalid entry: Please type the verification code again.

WASHINGTON -- Credit Suisse Group AG will plead guilty to a single charge of conspiring to aid tax evasion as part of a settlement with the Justice Department.

The guilty plea will mark the first time the parent company of a major financial institution has admitted a crime in more than a decade and comes amid a more aggressive approach by the Justice Department to police Wall Street. Prosecutors filed a criminal charge against the company on Monday.

Prosecutors took steps to limit the potential ripple effects from a guilty plea by winning assurances from state and federal regulators not to take punitive steps that would cripple the bank, such as stripping Credit Suisse of its ability to operate in the U.S. The bank's chief executive and chairman are not expected to lose their jobs over the case, despite calls by some in Switzerland for them to leave the firm.

WASHINGTON -- Credit Suisse Group AG is expected plead guilty to a single charge of conspiring to aid tax evasion and pay about $2.6 billion to settle allegations the bank helped wealthy Americans evade taxes.

The Justice Department filed a charge Monday evening of conspiring to aid tax evasion in a court document called a criminal information, which can only be filed with the defendant's consent and generally signals a guilty plea.

Lawyers for the bank and prosecutors were expected to present the deal for a judge's approval in federal court in Northern Virginia on Monday evening, according to people familiar with the settlement.

The guilty plea will mark the first time the parent company of a major financial institution has admitted a crime in more than a decade and comes amid a more aggressive approach by the Justice Department to police Wall Street. Prosecutors filed a criminal charge against the company on Monday.

Prosecutors took steps to limit the potential ripple effects from a guilty plea by winning assurances from state and federal regulators not to take punitive steps that would cripple the bank, such as stripping Credit Suisse of its ability to operate in the U.S. The bank's chief executive and chairman are not expected to lose their jobs over the case, despite calls by some in Switzerland for them to leave the firm.

The financial terms of the settlement include a $100 million payment to the Federal Reserve, more than $715 million to the New York Department of Financial Services, and about $1.7 billion to the Justice Department, according to people familiar with the settlement.

The size of the agreement dwarfs a 2009 settlement with rival UBS AG over similar allegations, in which UBS paid a $780 million penalty and received a deferred prosecution agreement. UBS didn't have to admit guilt.

Credit Suisse executives initially expected a settlement of less than $500 million, according to a person familiar with the bank's thinking, a sum they thought would reflect the smaller size of the bank's business with Americans compared to UBS's.

But the larger settlement is unlikely to disrupt the bank's financial footing or affect its capital position, according to analysts who follow the bank. Credit Suisse has already set aside more than $800 million, or about a third of the total settlement, to deal with the issue.

Tim Dawson, an analyst at Helvea, said the multi-billion dollar settlement was unlikely to significantly weaken the bank's capital ratio, a key measure of the bank's ability to absorb losses.

At the end of the first quarter, Credit Suisse's key capital ratio stood at 10%, up two percentage points from 2012.

A spokesman for Finma, Switzerland's financial markets regulator, declined to comment on the possible impact of the settlement on Credit Suisse's stability.

Still, Credit Suisse's relationships with its clients and partners may take a hit. Many pension and mutual funds have guidelines that prevent them from dealing with institutions that have pled guilty to criminal charges. Other clients may simply choose to steer clear of a bank perceived to have trouble, experts say.

"If you're a customer and you have a choice between a bank that has a reputational hit versus one that doesn't, you might decide to go with the one that doesn't," said Andrea Bonime-Blanc, who runs GEC Risk Advisory, a consultancy.

Credit Suisse shares, which slid 0.5% on Monday, have fallen 4.4% since the beginning of the year, when speculation a settlement was at hand began picking up. UBS, by contrast, has risen 4.1%.

The end of the criminal case won't mean the end of the bank's legal troubles over an alleged pattern of helping Americans hide funds from the Internal Revenue Service.

The U.S. government still is seeking the names of account holders who may have dodged taxes through the Swiss bank, according to people with knowledge of the case.

Those efforts are complicated by Switzerland's own bank secrecy laws, as well as the possibility of lawsuits in that country if the bank tries to turn over that information to U.S. investigators.

The bank has been negotiating with American authorities for months over details of the settlement, including what specific conduct the bank would admit, the size of the financial penalties, and the possible after-effects of such a guilty plea.

In March, a former Credit Suisse banker pleaded guilty in federal court in Virginia to helping U.S. clients hide money in Switzerland and agreed to cooperate with the investigation.

Earlier this year, Credit Suisse Chief Executive Brady Dougan appeared before a Senate subcommittee and said he "regrets very deeply" having aided American tax evasion but said the conduct was limited to a small group of employees.

In response to a government crackdown on Americans hiding money overseas, more than 43,000 taxpayers joined a voluntary Internal Revenue Service disclosure program to acknowledge previously unknown accounts and collectively paid more than $6 billion in back taxes, interest, and penalties, according to a Senate report released earlier this year.

The report estimated that in 2006, Credit Suisse had more than 22,000 U.S. customers with Swiss accounts, though it wasn't clear how many of those were hidden from the IRS. The Senate panel concluded Credit Suisse actively recruited wealthy Americans to open secret Swiss accounts.

Credit Suisse's expected plea deal is one of several big bank cases that the Justice Department is seeking to resolve in coming months.

Federal prosecutors also are negotiating a multibillion-dollar settlement with French bank BNP Paribas to end an investigation into alleged evasion of sanctions, according to people familiar with the discussions. As in the Credit Suisse case, prosecutors are seeking a guilty plea from BNP Paribas as part of any settlement. BNP has declined to comment on the case.

An error has occured and your email has not been sent.

• Seperate multiple addresses with Commas.

• Must enter an email address.

• You must enter the verification code below to send.

• Invalid entry: Please type the verification code again.
