
Welcome Back!

Thanks for being a frequent visitor to globegazette.com . You have now viewed of your FREE premium pages this 30-day period. After you have viewed FREE pages, we will ask you to purchase a subscription.

MASON CITY | A Clear Lake man has received a suspended 25-year prison sentence and five years of probation in connection with the theft of more than $14,000 from a 68-year-old disabled Clear Lake man.

Steven Dirk Epsteen, 56, was sentenced in Cerro Gordo County District Court on Monday on a charge of ongoing criminal conduct, a Class B felony.

He is to reside to Beje Clark Residential Center until maximum benefits are achieved, according to court records. Epsteen is to remain at the Cerro Gordo County Jail until bed space is available at Beje Clark.

Charges of first-degree theft, third-degree theft, unauthorized use of credit cards and a second count of ongoing criminal conduct were dismissed under a plea bargain.

That second count of ongoing criminal conduct, as well as the charges of third-degree theft and unauthorized use of credit cards, were filed in connection with the unauthorized use of a woman's credit card.

Epsteen was ordered to pay $506.90 in restitution to the woman. He also is to pay a $125 law enforcement initiative surcharge.

A hearing to determine the amount of restitution he is to pay to the male victim is to be set within 90 days.

Co-defendant Victoria Ellen Baumann, 52, was charged with second-degree theft and ongoing criminal conduct, according to Cerro Gordo County District Court records.

She pleaded guilty to third-degree theft. The other count was dismissed. Baumann was sentenced last month to two years in prison, which was suspended, and two years probation.

Epsteen and Baumann lived with the male victim in Clear Lake and Epsteen acted as the man's caregiver, according to the Clear Lake Police Department.

On Dec. 9, 2013, the victim reported that someone had been forging his signature and cashing checks belonging to him.

An investigation by Clear Lake police revealed that between June 17, 2013, and Dec. 9, 2013, Epsteen and Baumann had allegedly cashed more than $14,000 in forged checks on his account for merchandise at various businesses.

Copyright 2014 Mason City Globe Gazette. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Keep it clean. Avoid language that is obscene, vulgar, lewd or sexually-oriented. If you can't control yourself, don't post it.

Don't threaten to hurt or kill anyone.

Be truthful.Don't lie about anyone or anything.

Be nice. No racism, sexism or any other sort of -ism that degrades another person. PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK, and forgive people their spelling errors.

Let us know if it's getting out of hand. If you see offensive comments, don't quote or respond to them. Please use the "Report Abuse" button to bring it to our attention.

Stay focused, and ask questions. Keep on the story's topic.

Login here with a previously connected Facebook account.

Username & Password Required!
