
Purdue shooting suspect Cody Cousins will undergo a psychological evaluation by local professionals as in accordance with the insanity defense filed by his attorney.

Cousins’ court appointed public defender, Kirk Freeman, filed a motion last week asking the court to finance a mental evaluation for Cousins. That was interpreted by Judge Thomas Busch of Tippecanoe County Superior Court 2 as the first steps to an insanity defense. Cousins has been taking Depakote, a medicine used to treat acute manic episodes associated with bipolar disorder and seizures, to balance his mood after arriving at Tippecanoe County Jail.

In response, Busch ordered Wabash Valley Alliance to provide one psychiatrist and one other expert to evaluate Cousins. Because of the high-profile nature of this case, Busch will ask for a third expert to evaluate Cousins.

Should Cousins not cooperate during the assessment of his mental health, the insanity plea put in by the Judge will be seen as moot. Cousins’ motive for the gruesome murder of senior Andrew Boldt in January has still not been discovered at this time.

Boldt was awarded a posthumous Bachelor of Science degree in electrical engineering on Sunday.

Cousins gets rid of attorney.

Busch granted Cousins second request for a change in representation on May 9. upon initially rejecting the 23-year-old’s first request to dismiss Robert W. Gevers II of Ft. Wayne, Ind. as his attorney. The judge said the motion filed by Cousins’ attorney didn’t meet the criteria required.

Gevers then filed a second motion a few days later telling Busch that Cousins no longer desired the counselor’s representation and the attorney-client relationship had been damaged beyond repair as a result of that.

At that time, Cousins orally moved for appointment of pauper counsel after trying to represent himself. After questioning the defendant under oath, the Court found Cousins to be eligible for court appointed counsel and appointed the Tippecanoe County Public Defender to represent cousins in this case.

On May 12, Kirk Freeman filed an appearance on behalf of Cousins. Freeman further requested the use of public funds for a computer consultant to assist with reviewing video and audio evidence as well as a court reporter for depositions and transcripts. The first two motions were granted by Busch. However, Busch denied Freeman’s request to fund a private investigator. Freeman may use investigators from the public defender’s office.

Cousins’ trial is set for Oct. 6. A hearing is scheduled for 8:30 a.m. on May 23 to review the motions for documents.

Posted in Campus , City on Monday, May 19, 2014 10:00 am. Updated: 12:30 pm.
