
TALLAHASSEE _ More than five hours of testimony from a longtime GOP political consultant marked the first day of a widely anticipated trial that could lead to Florida's congressional maps being redrawn.

A coalition of plaintiffs, including the League of Women Voters of Florida, is challenging the state's congressional maps in a Leon County courtroom. The plaintiffs argue the maps are unconstitutional because politics helped shape the districts to an unconstitutional level. In 2010, voters approved the "Fair Districts" amendment, which aimed to remove politics from redistricting.

The political lines were drawn in 2012 as part of the state's once-a-decade redistricting process.

If Leon Circuit Judge Terry Lewis agrees with the plaintiffs, it could force Florida lawmakers to redraw each of the state's 27 congressional districts.

Collier and Lee counties are carved into parts of three congressional districts.

During the trial's opening day, longtime GOP consultant and lobbyist Marc Reichelderfer testified. He is considered a key witness after admitting in his deposition that he was receiving proposed maps secretly from Kirk Pepper, a top aide for then-House Speaker Dean Cannon, prior to them becoming public.

"I remember getting them before they were public," Reichelderfer, a longtime Cannon friend, said during testimony.

George Meros, an attorney for the Legislature, used a handful or Republican losses in 2012 as evidence the maps weren't drawn to favor the GOP.

One of those was U.S. Rep. Allen West, a Republican who ran for the 18th Congressional District, which includes Martin and St. Lucie counties. He lost to Democrat Patrick Murphy after moving from his original South Florida-based district because it was drawn to lean more Democratic.

"What happened to Allen West?" Meros asked.

"He got put into a district he could not run in and I believe he had to move," Reichelderfer responded.

Attorney David King, who represents the plaintiffs, spent a lot of time focusing on a December 2010 meeting at the Republican Party of Florida headquarters. The meeting featured a host of GOP consultants and attorneys along with staff from state redistricting committees.

At issue was whether outside political consultants, like Reichelderfer, could get "privilege," or the ability to communicate confidentially with staff working on redistricting.

Just because GOP consultants saw nonpublic maps doesn't mean they had influence over the process, defendants argue in response. It is a key point because plaintiffs need to prove "intent," or that it was the specific purpose of consultants and map-drawers to favor Republicans.

"I did not tell them how to draw the maps. I did not tell them where to draw the lines," Reichelderfer said.

Meros, an attorney for the Legislature, asked if Reichelderfer ever gave input to several House staff members and lawmakers. Each time, Reichelderfer quickly responded "no, sir."

King also tried to establish that maps created by Reichelderfer placed minority voters, which lean Democratic, in a handful of Central Florida districts. He argued that putting minorities into Democratic-leaning districts has the political result of strengthening surrounding Republican seats.

"It had been your approach for years to build up strong minority districts around them (Republican districts)?" King asked.

Reichelderfer maintained the only goal was to make sure the seats complied with the Voting Rights Act of 1965 because it would be "politically disastrous" if the map was overturned for any race-based reason.

Ready to subscribe to the Naples Daily News? Choose between a Premium or Digital subscription below.

Need Help? Call us at 1-888-878-6842.
