
Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own.

 Amazon.com’s founder, Jeff Bezos, keeps saying he wants to revolutionize package delivery by using drones. Skeptics snicker, but Bezos won’t back down . So how does he plan to move forward? Some fascinating clues emerge from a peek at Amazon’s latest job listings.

Having covered Amazon since 1998, I’ve learned that when it’s hard to pin down executives about big new projects (Kindle, mobile, cloud, etc.), a fine place to look for insights is the Careers tab of Amazon’s website. After all, outsiders can be kept in the dark, but job candidates need to know what skills are needed and how they might be used.

This time, as usual, the job listings don’t disappoint. There are interesting details to glean from the  engineering postings, such as the fact that some of  the drone development engineers will be based in San Francisco, or that Seattle-based Amazon right now is more concerned about building out its expertise in software, rather than hardware.

For the fullest glimpses of what project leaders Gur Kimchi and Daniel Buchmueller have in mind, though, turn to the non-technical listings. What caught my eye are notices for  full-time communications manager and a full-time  patent lawyer to help get this project off the ground. The jaunty tone of those listings underscore Bezos’s willingness to charge ahead, no matter what everyone else is saying.

Now for the tricky stuff. Amazon also wants candidates who are “comfortable dealing with ambiguity and able to form a cohesive and effective outcome from potentially incongruous facts.” Take a closer look at those last three words. You don’t see those in many job notices, do you? Amazon isn’t tipping its hand any further at this point, but it’s safe to assume that “incongruous facts” might include drones that crash, drop the shipment prematurely or otherwise malfunction.

Right now, no one knows for sure how well or poorly drones will perform. It’s natural for reporters to speculate on possible problems.  But the next section of Amazon’s job description makes clear that when the facts aren’t in yet, it wants a media chief who can focus attention on what can go right, rather than what can go wrong.

Meanwhile, Amazon’s hunt for a drone-patent lawyer is instructive, too. Bear in mind that Amazon already is famous for its gung-h0 approach to patenting the intellectual property (IP) associated with more than 1,000 of its online retailing ideas. Now it looks as if Amazon wants to build up either an unshakeable edge over other retailers and shipping companies — or a set of proprietary technologies that it can profitably license to anyone else wanting to use drones.

Finally, if you’re eager to start your career in drones, Amazon is hiring at least one research scientist intern . But that’s going to be a hotly contested spot: by LinkedIn’s tally, at least 48 people already are vying for that job.

George, I don’t think I would be more than knee deep in the cynicism pool if I were to simply ask the question as to whether the job postings and even hires in this area are simply viewed as cost effective stock price protection. For a million dollars they could buy a lot of attention with absolutely no credible plan or intention of actually utilizing a drone based delivery program.

I will bet you a beer and a bag of chips that UPS J/V’s with Google to automate the driving of all those brown trucks before the Bezos Bombers start strafing us with best sellers and nick knacks.

They have patents pending on the technology and are using APlus Mobile hardware. ( www.aplusmobile.com ).
