
Like most of the rest of the United States, Massachusetts is fast becoming a banana republic -- minus the bananas.

Tomorrow, we'll find out just how far gone the state is, when Judge David Ricciardone in Worcester hands down his sentence on an illegal alien drunken driver from Ecuador charged with murder in the death of a taxpaying American citizen in Milford in 2011.

The fact that it took almost three years to get this illegal -- I mean, undocumented Democrat -- to trial just goes to show the double standard of "justice" in the People's Republic.

As you probably know, the illegal's first judge didn't even want to try him, period, because she said that as someone of "Mongoloid" descent from South America he likely lacked the enzyme to metabolize alcohol and was therefore not responsible for his actions while driving drunk.

Try out that enzyme defense if your name is Sully or Fitz and see how long it takes you to get laughed into the House of Correction.

Then his court-appointed lawyer demanded a jury-waived trial. The reasons are obvious. For one thing, judges tend to be a lot dumber than juries, or they would have been able to support themselves and not end up collecting what amounts to welfare as judges.

If this Judge David Ricciardone lets the illegal go with a suspended sentence, Deval Patrick will undoubtedly promote him to the appeals court, if not the SJC.

The judge wouldn't even let the prosecution introduce into evidence the fact that the drunken illegal was on welfare, as shown by the MassHealth card he had in his possession.

The illegal's lawyer, who we of course are also paying for, along with his translator, objected to introducing the welfare card. He said it would be "inflammatory" and "highly prejudicial."

As if the taxpayers don't know that every illegal alien in Massachusetts is on welfare.

This unprecedented crime wave by illegal aliens is the great unreported story, mainly because Barack Obama wants to bring millions upon millions more into the country to finish off our "transformation" into a Third World hellhole.

Did you hear him last week praising the hordes of career-criminal illegals that he so affectionately calls "folks." Taxpayers, on the other hand -- we're "bitter clingers."

Not only is the care and feeding of this vast lawless underclass monstrously expensive, it's also produced a new breed of killers, who are extracting a fearful toll on law-abiding American citizens. Last month I interviewed U.S. Rep. Steve King (R-Iowa) about the death toll from these invaders. He said the illegals are killing on average at least 25 American citizens a day.

Forget al-Qaeda: The greater danger to the U.S. population is posed by La Raza and the Democrat party.

The state-run media says "nothing to see here, move along." Here was a headline in the Arizona Republic Friday: "Wrong-way driver who killed Mesa officer was drunk."

You knew instantly the immigration status of the driver, who also died, whose name was Raul Silva-Corona. He had a blood-alcohol level three times the legal limit.

The story had 13 paragraphs. Corona's "undocumented" status was not mentioned until the 12th graf.

Here's a headline from last Monday's Attleboro paper: "Man charged with motor vehicle homicide, leaving scene of pedestrian fatal in Mansfield."

Name: Hung Manh Ho, age 57. Standing next to him in court was a Vietnamese interpreter. Hey, he's only lived here 12 years. Despite the language barrier, like the Ecuadoran in Milford he was somehow able to negotiate the purchase of enough beer to blow a .125 on the Breathalyzer.

I know, as George Bush would say, he was running over the Americans the Americans couldn't be bothered running over themselves.

Do the right thing tomorrow, Judge Ricciardone. If you give this poor illegal alien a "continued without a finding," Barack Obama may even appoint you to the Supreme Court.

This content is published through a licensing agreement with Acquire Media using its NewsEdge technology.

While i don’t wish death or injury on anyone its times like this i would LOVE for one of these illegals to ram their car into this judge or his own loved ones to see if his ‘care for his fellow man’ applies when its his own who suffered cause of their actions.

This “undocumented Democrat” should be sentenced to the max sentence and then deported when his prison sentence is over. The judge who skipped out on the case should be fired.

This surely is not the America I grew up in. Exactly what the hell is wrong with people today. No one I talk to wants the illegals here taking American jobs, living on welfare, collecting huge tax refunds by claiming 27 dependents, and refusing to learn English. I have not met one single person that approves of this behavior (including liberals who I am surrounded by). Who is doing this? As for this judge, he should be sentenced to 30 years of hard time.

This mysterious traveler will probably get an instant green card, a pension for life, an apology from Obama and a consultant job at the VA.

I guess assimilation is out of the question at this point.

How do you feel about public funds being spent to support this group?  Well, it’s true.

Other then adding to the liberal voting blocks, almost ever other aspect of allowing millions of illegals roam through the country without constraint, and living off of the taxpayers, is a negative. These are not highly educated potential legal immigrants that bring something of real value added to the party.

This is not a good situation but just is a part of the overall Democrat backed illogical socialist agenda that is taking down our country. It is a suicidal agenda for everyone but the liberal elitists who are in control and getting rich at the expense of the taxpayers of our country.

Whoever wrote that article should get a Pulitzer for journalistic style and hard-hitting facts.  Too bad what he or she said is true- america will, most definitely and inevitably be a third world hell-hole within one generation with curent rates of immigration, legal and illegal, reproduction (white womens’ is less than in China, where they have a one-child only policy and enforced abortion!), the education and intelligence level, and the unsustainable and doomed for failure economy and currency.  Might as well get used to the idea because it is totally inevitable at this point.

This is all part of the Obama master plan to truncate the history of this great nation. Howie does not say but we can be certain these judges are liberals hoping to get a higher judicial appointment in the Peoples Republic of Massachusetts where nearly all judges are unsuccessful lawyers.

I know some people who would have loved to use that defense after getting nabbed for DUI..

Gotta love my man Howie telling it like it is. Mass. is so *&%#! up with all the demonrats running it. Alice in Wonderland ain’t got nuthin’ on this insane asylum.
