
Melanie Turner, 33, appeared before a judge in January at the Sarasota County Jail.

Last Modified: Monday, May 19, 2014 at 2:45 p.m.

SARASOTA - Prosecutors will not file criminal charges against the former North Port Police officer accused of a sexual assault at a raucous party attended by several North Port officers in March.

In the memo, prosecutors noted that there was insufficient proof of the victim's lack of consent.

During the party, Turner and the victim “flashed their breasts” to other partygoers and consumed large amounts of alcohol, the memo says.

During the party, Turner and fellow North Port police officer Ricky Urbina handcuffed the victim and took her to a bedroom saying they planned to conduct a “cavity search or body search,” according to court documents and witnesses interviewed by prosecutors.

The two officers removed the victim's clothing and began kissing and fondling her.

At that, Turner and Urbina allegedly stopped their sexual activity and removed the handcuffs.

There were more problems with the case, other than issues of consent, which precluded filing of criminal charges.

There were significant differences between what witnesses described to investigators and what the victim was able to recall about her interactions with the defendants.

Prosecutors also noted that the victim had retained an attorney, who would not disclose whether they were hired to represent the victim for the purpose of a civil suit against the police department.

“I can't discuss the case per se, but we hope to have it done by Friday,” Vespia said.

What happened at the party is not indicative of the culture at his agency, the police chief added.

“It doesn't say anything about the culture here,” Vespia said. “It talks about the actions of a few officers. We have great officers here.

Turner, 33, who resigned last week, had faced false imprisonment and sexual battery charges for her role in the alleged assault of the hostess of the March 1 birthday party.

The Sarasota County Sheriff's Office conducted the criminal investigation, and on March 20 a judge signed arrest warrants for Urbina and Turner.

Urbina, 44, shot and killed himself March 20 as Sarasota County sheriff's deputies were en route to arrest him at a prearranged location.

Turner was arrested that same day and released after posting $200,000 in surety bonds.

Her personnel file showed previous disciplinary action.

In 2006, she and her former supervisor were reprimanded after an internal investigation found that they had begun their relationship while on the same shift.

Turner also was reprimanded for handcuffing her then-roommate and putting her in the back of her patrol car. That inquiry was started after Turner's ex-roommate told police that Turner had threatened to hang herself under the tree where she and a patrol sergeant first kissed, records showed.

Investigators said she needed a psychological evaluation and substance abuse counseling, according to her personnel report. She completed those requirements before returning to work.

Turner was paid $61,327 per year.

She was written up in 2011 after reportedly walking away cursing from Taser training.
