
They’re still catching fish on Lake Dardanelle as the Bassmaster Elite Series wraps up today, but there’s one northern Ohio teenager who has one fishing tale he’ll never forget.

North Royalton resident Jake Sawyer, 16, is reeling in attention for a big catch after he spotted a 3-foot carp swimming in receding floodwaters on his street and scooped it into his arms as his mother caught the scene on video.

He waded through more than ankle-deep water as he stalked the big fish in the dark Monday night and eventually trapped it.

First he tried to throw a towel over it to stun it. He said when that didn’t work, he tried to push it toward a curb.

“I just slowly put my hand on it, and then once it got comfortable with me, I just kind of bear-hugged it and lifted it up,” he told The Associated Press on Wednesday.

Sawyer said heavy rains that day had caused flash-flooding as high as his mailbox, and he suspects the large grass carp slipped out of a nearby pond as the water rose.

He said he wanted to ensure the fish didn’t become trapped and die in the street, so he carried it back to the pond. He estimates it weighed 40 pounds.

• A southeastern Pennsylvania man charged with breaking into a neighbor’s house said he was only borrowing eggs to make breakfast.

The Bucks County Courier Times reported that Middletown police contend Christopher King didn’t have an omelette on his mind when he climbed through the window Tuesday morning.

Police who responded to the report of a burglary in progress said they arrived to find him walking out the front door. They said they found dresser and cabinet drawers and doors open throughout the house.

Detective Patrick Nicastro said King claimed he climbed through his neighbor’s window because he wanted some eggs for breakfast.

The homeowner told police nothing appeared to be missing.

• Police said a 31-year-old man was arrested after he drove to a Louisiana state police headquarters while drunk to file an accident report.

Online booking records indicate Patrick Ruffner of Gonzales was in the East Baton Rouge Parish jail Monday with bond set at $1,000.

Trooper Jared Sandifer said Ruffner called state police Saturday, saying his vehicle was struck by a hit-and-run driver on Interstate 10 in Baton Rouge. He was told to come to Troop A’s offices to fill out a crash report.

Sandifer said when Ruffner got out of his SUV, a trooper smelled alcohol and gave him field sobriety and breath tests.

Sandifer said Ruffner was booked with driving on a suspended license and with first-offense driving while intoxicated.

• A state appellate court ruled a mother’s rights were not violated by a judge’s decision that barred her from ranting about her children and ex-husband on Facebook.

The judge’s 2011 order was a special condition of the woman’s probation stemming from an attempt to kidnap her two children and take them to Canada, the Courier News (N.J.) reported.

The restriction came after the woman’s ex-husband’s family and Hunterdon County prosecutors argued her Facebook postings were frightening, saying they referenced the Book of Revelation, serial killer Jeffrey Dahmer, Satan and Adolf Hitler.

But in 2012, the mother, who has been diagnosed with bipolar disorder, returned to Facebook and began using a code word, “Camelot,” to refer to her family. The judge found that the posting violated her probation.

She appealed, claiming the order violated her rights of free speech and due process because it was too vague.

The appellate panel disagreed, finding the order was specific and didn’t prevent her from making posts about other issues. The court said the special condition was imposed with the purpose of advancing her rehabilitation.

The Courier - Your Messenger for the River Valley in Russellville, AR.
