
A group of 26 Italian women who claim to be having affairs with Catholic    priests have written a joint letter to Pope Francis begging him to end the    Catholic Church's ban on priests having sex and getting married.

The women, who met through a Facebook campaign, wrote to the Pope requesting a    meeting to put forward their case, claiming they were just "a small    sample" of the many partners of priests "living in silence".

"We love these men, they love us, and in most cases, despite all efforts    to renounce it, one cannot manage to give up such a solid and beautiful bond,"    they wrote.

"We humbly place our suffering at your feet in the hope that something    may change, not just for us, but for the good of the entire Church,"    added the unnamed women in the letter that was first reported by the website    Vatican Insider.

Debate is growing on the merits of ordering priests to abstain from sex and    marriage, which is designed to allow nothing interfere with their close    relationship with God.

Some 6,000 parish priests who have left the priesthood to wed now live in    Italy, compared to a total of 33,000 parish priests currently in service.

Pope Francis has previously supported the tradition of celibacy, but has    suggested his position might waiver..

"For now, I am in favour of maintaining celibacy, with all the pros and    cons that come with it, because in ten centuries there have been more    positive experiences than errors," he was quoted saying in 2010, before    he became Pope, in the book, On Heaven and Earth.

Pope Francis has revealed he had a girlfriend in Argentina as a young man    before choosing to become a priest.

He has argued that celibacy is more Church tradition than hard and fast dogma,    pointing out that up until 1100, some priests choose it while others did not.

And he suggested exceptions might be made, writing: "If, for the sake of    argument, western Catholicism reviewed the celibacy question I think it    would do so for cultural reasons (as in the East), not so much as a    universal option." "It is a question of discipline, not faith. It    can be changed." But he added: "Personally I never considered    marrying."

In their letter, the women said they wished to come out in the open and    support their partners "in their calling, which is strengthened by the    vital force of love they discovered with us".

Turning to their own plight, the women wrote that "very little is known    about the devastating suffering of a woman who is deeply in love with a    priest".

The options priests in love faced were ending the relationship – often leaving    both partners "scarred for life", leaving the Church, or carrying    on in secret, the women wrote.

That, they said "involves living one's life in a constant state of    hiding, frustrated by an incomplete love, with no hope of childbearing; a    love that cannot see the light of day".

In one example supporting the anti-celibacy campaigners a prior at a    Cistercian abbey near Milan has told how he was advised by his fellow monks    to keep an affair he was having under wraps when he revealed he was in love    with a woman.

"Do what you want, but keep it hidden," Father Alberto Stucchi said    he was advised, according to the Italian newspaper La Stampa.
