
By using this website, you consent to our use of cookies. For more information on cookies see our Cookie Policy .

Veronica Lario , former wife of media tycoon and Italian prime minister Silvio Berlusconi , has reacted angrily to less than flattering photographs of her published by weekly gossip magazine Chi which just happens to belong to her famous ex-husband.

In a two page spread entitled “Veronica’s Current Shape - She Has Put On Weight”, the 58-year-old former actress, who separated from Mr Berlusconi in 2009, is portrayed in jodhpurs and boots, with her long graying hair tied up and seemingly without make-up. In short, she looks like a lot of normal 58-year-olds.

“This is a classic, or better still a déjà vu… Signora Veronica Lario’s indignation is perfectly timed… coming just seven days before the election”.

In defense of his magazine, Mr Signorini said as a gossip review, Chi deals with people in the public eye, adding that the fact Ms Lario had put on weight represented “news”.

So far, Mr Berlusconi has issued no comment on the matter. It is worth underlining that while the couple are now legally divorced, the financial aspects of their divorce settlement have yet to be definitively resolved. In December 2012, a Milan court awarded Ms Lario alimony worth €3 million per month. Last October, that sum was reduced to €1.4 million on appeal but Ms Lario has appealed that decision.

Media reports suggest the unflattering photos of Veronica Lario represented a “reply” to her recent request of €500 million to arrive at a definitive settlement. Mr Berlusconi apparently is willing to pay approximately €200 million. While in theory both parties could still reach an out of court agreement, it seems likely the final alimony figure will be decided in court.

In the meantime, Mr Berlusconi continues to deny media speculation that he intends to marry his “official” girlfriend, 28-year-old Francesca Pascale . Recently asked about this speculation, Mr Berlusconi said that he was “too old” to marry again.
