
Japan's core private-sector machinery orders surged by a record 19.1 percent in March, the government said Monday, indicating the first consumption tax increase in 17 years from April 1 prompted many companies to bring forward investment outlays ahead of the hike.

The orders, excluding those for ships as well as from utilities because of their volatility, rose following a 4.6 percent fall in February, showing the strongest seasonally adjusted increase from the previous month since comparable data became available in April 2005, the Cabinet Office said.

The value of the orders, widely regarded as a leading indicator of capital spending, was 936.7 billion yen, the biggest since June 2008 before the country's economy waned following the global financial crisis triggered by the collapse of U.S. investment bank Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September that year.

With Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's government implementing steps to bolster domestic demand to end nearly two decades of deflation, the orders soared 11.5 percent from the previous year to 9.70 trillion yen in fiscal 2013, also a record pace of growth.

The government upgraded its basic assessment of the orders, saying they are "on a growth trend." Last month, it said they are at a "standstill in their growth trend."

Mitsumaru Kumagai, chief economist at the Daiwa Institute of Research, said machinery orders may continue to rise, given that the performance of both manufacturers and nonmanufacturers has been "clearly improving."

But other analysts said business investment, which Abe sees as a pillar of economic growth, is unlikely to rapidly expand down the road amid concern that the 3-percentage-point consumption tax hike to 8 percent will choke personal spending and in turn weigh on the nascent economic recovery.

"Companies are set to cautiously watch how much (the tax hike) will cool demand and when demand will fully bounce back," said Takeshi Minami, chief economist at the Norinchukin Research Institute.

"Data related to capital spending are expected to become lackluster during the April-June period," he added.

The Cabinet Office estimated core orders will edge up only 0.4 percent in the three months through June, compared with 4.2 percent growth in the previous quarter.

In March, orders from the manufacturing sector skyrocketed 23.7 percent from a month earlier to 384.6 billion yen, while those from nonmanufacturers increased 8.5 percent to 515.1 billion yen.

By industry, orders from the transport machinery sector including aircraft were robust, the office said.

Overseas demand for overall Japanese machinery, an indicator of future exports, climbed 3.2 percent to 942.9 billion yen.

The world's third-largest economy recovered for the sixth straight quarter through the January-March period of 2014 on the back of the premier's policies dubbed "Abenomics" including drastic monetary easing by the Bank of Japan and massive fiscal spending.

The government-affiliated Japan Center for Economic Research, however, said last week that Japan's gross domestic product is forecast to contract by an annualized 3.8 percent in real terms in the April-June quarter, citing the average projection of 42 private-sector economists.

If the economy stalls, Abe's government may fail to achieve its goal of augmenting the total amount of capital spending by 10 percent during the next three years to bring it up to around 70 trillion yen, equivalent to the level seen before the 2008 financial crisis.

Copyright 2014 Kyodo News International.

All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.
