
FORT BLISS, Texas - A Fort Bliss spouse traveled across the country to save a life. April Scott, the wife of Chief Warrant Officer 2 Jeffery Scott, unit movement officer for 4th Armored Brigade Combat Team, 1st Armored Division, traveled to Piedmont Hospital in Atlanta to donate a kidney to her son’s former fifth grade teacher, Stephanie Barnes. The transplant will give Barnes a second chance at life.

The surgeries were conducted May 9. The donated kidney started working immediately and the doctors were pleased with the results. Chief Warrant Officer 2 Scott said the surgery was a success. He said the donated kidney started working immediately and April was released on May 11. The post surgery recovery will keep April out of work and her Army Reserve commitment for about six months.

Chief Warrant Officer 2 Scott said he was shocked when April told him that she wanted to volunteer as a donor. After some deliberation and some counsel from the brigade chaplain, he changed his tune and applied for leave to accompany his wife.

The brigade was very quick to approve the leave request and lend their support.

“When Chief Scott told me his wife was donating a kidney, I knew we needed to support him and his wife,” said Col. Terry Cook, 4th ABCT commander.

April, a native of Luverne, Ala., and a staff sergeant in the Army Reserves as part of the 104th Division, based in Salt Lake City, stayed close to Barnes after moving from Alabama to Texas.

While visiting friends and family in Alabama, April heard that Barnes was having health issue and was in need of a kidney transplant. After test results showed she was a valid donor match, April jumped at the chance to help a friend.

April said she hopes that her willingness to help will inspire other Soldiers and civilians to perform unconditional acts of selfless service.

“We as human beings, if we see someone with a need, you need to meet that need. If it’s not going to put you in danger and you do your research, you should help out,” April said.

This work, Fort Bliss spouse donates kidney, by SGT Michael Grimm , identified by DVIDS , is free of known copyright restrictions under U.S. copyright law.
