
Tata Motors owned JLR roped in British adventurer Bear Grylls as Brand Ambassador of Land Rover.

SummaryFrom the detailed global steel trade data that have just been made available for 2013, a few interesting facts can engage our attention.

From the detailed global steel trade data that have just been made available for 2013, a few interesting facts can engage our attention. Total steel trade reached nearly 390 mt, comprising of 188 mt of flats, 64 mt of long, 42 mt of tubes and the balance in semis. The export coverage ratio was 24.3% of crude steel production. This is around 7-9% lower than the average of the last few years.

Though for China exports constituted only 7.4% of domestic production, there are countries like Japan, South Korea, Ukraine, Russia and Turkey where the share ranged from 34-75%. This indicates demand stagnation and surplus capacity in these countries and the consequent urge to export to keep the mills running in their own countries, leading to declining trend in steel prices in the global market.

Further, the surplus steel in Japan is making the issue of technology transfer relating to high value-added flat products comparatively easy for Indian steel producers to set up these facilities in the country in collaboration with Japan.

It is well known that currently, regional blocks primarily based on geographical proximity indulge in a good deal of free steel trade within the bou-ndaries of the region. The total steel trade therefore includes internal trade of EU-27 of as high as 94 mt, 101 mt in Asia and around 30 mt in CIS, South America and NAFTA, and this total volume is generally not subject to anti-dumping investigations for lack of evidence on injury parameters.

While Chinese steel exports peaked at 57.8 mt followed by Japan at 42.1 mt, Indian exports have been shown as 9.3 mt, possibly by including exports of miscellaneous steel items.

It is interesting to note that around 64% of the total exports of 157 mt by Asia comprised of internal trade, including the tonnages under CEPA to India from Japan and South Korea that the Indian steel producers are cribbing about.
