
The Supreme Court’s permitting decision will come at an interesting time – just before or just after EPA exercises the standard-setting authority the Court recognized in its two prior decisions:  On June 2nd, EPA is expected to propose carbon pollution standards under President Obama’s Climate Action Plan to curb the two billion tons of dangerous carbon pollution coming each year from the nation’s electric power plants.

One thing can be predicted with certainty, however.  If the Court curtails EPA’s permitting rules in any way, there’ll be a flurry of press releases claiming the decision casts doubt on EPA’s power plant standards.

And those press releases will be wrong.  Here’s why.

So on EPA’s authority to set carbon pollution standards, it’s three strikes and you’re out.

These terms work smoothly together for nearly all pollutants.  But a practical problem arises when the 100/250 ton thresholds are applied to sources of CO2, because this pollutant is emitted in far larger amounts than any other.  Skipping some of the detail, EPA concluded it had three choices:  First, it could enforce all of the statutory terms literally.  That would respect Congress’s intention to require permits and BACT for all large industrial sources, but given the high volume of CO2, it would also sweep in large numbers of small sources, which Congress did not want.

Second, it could entirely exclude CO2 sources from permitting.  That would avoid small source burdens and avoid permit gridlock, but it would also ignore the statute’s clear direction to require permits and BACT for all large industrial sources of all pollutants.

Third, it could include CO2 and implement permitting in phases starting with big emitters only.  That would preserve permitting and BACT for all large pollution sources, while avoiding burdens on small sources and the permitting system.

EPA chose the third option because it most fully respected all of Congress’s objectives with the least violence to the statute’s literal terms.

The Court’s strongly-worded decision in EPA v. EME Homer City Generation , in April, suggests Kagan’s view may well prevail.  Writing for a six-member majority in Homer City,Justice Ginsburg emphasized EPA’s authority to solve “a thorny causation problem” that the words of the statute do not precisely resolve – there, how to allocate the burden of reducing downwind pollution among multiple contributing upwind states.

Second, the Court could hold against EPA, deciding that CO2 – even though still subject to emission standards under Section 111 and other parts of the law – is entirely exempt from the permit provisions.  This is hard to square with inclusive terms like “any air pollutant,” but it is a possible outcome.  The Court would have to find that in the permit provisions Congress intended the terms “any air pollutant” to mean some narrower set of pollutants than they mean when the same words are used elsewhere in the Act.  The dissenting judge below suggested the terms include only the six pollutants subject to national ambient air quality standards (NAAQS).  This is a challenging conclusion to support, however, since Congress in 1977 specifically rejected language that would have narrowed permitting to only the NAAQS pollutants.

Third, the Court could “split the difference,” holding that BACT is required for CO2 whenever a source needs a permit because of its other pollutants (because BACT applies to “each pollutant subject to regulation”), but that permits (and BACT) are not required when CO2 is the only pollutant emitted in “major” amounts.  This also would be hard to square with the inclusive term “any air pollutant.”  Justice Roberts nonetheless seemed intrigued with this compromise.

But none of these potential outcomes casts any doubt on EPA’s upcoming proposal to issue standards for carbon pollution from the nation’s fleet of power plants under Section 111(d).

President Obama deserves enormous credit for the steps in his Climate Action Plan to protect our children and grandchildren from a world turned upside down by climate change.   Those actions are not at issue in UARG v. EPA, and they will not be hampered no matter how the Court decides that case.

Please note: Your first comment as a registered user will be held for moderation up to 24 hours (usually less). For more information about comments on our site, please read our FAQ and terms of use .
