
សូមស្តាប់វិទ្យុសង្គ្រោះជាតិ Please read more Khmer news and listen to CNRP Radio at National Rescue Party . សូមស្តាប់ វីទ្យុខ្មែរប៉ុស្តិ៍/Khmer Post Radio .

Following a request from Cambodian government, Japan has dispatched a study team to Cambodia for assisting election reforms in this country.

In a statement released Monday by Japanese Embassy in Phnom Penh, it said during the mission in Cambodia, the team will conduct intensive consultations with the members of the ruling Cambodian People's Party of Prime Minister Hun Sen and the opposition Cambodia National Rescue Party, as well as other stakeholders including election-related authorities, international organizations and civil society in order to study the current situation and to identify the needs for reforms.

The team, consisted of 10 members including government officials and academics, is headed by Senya Mori, deputy director general of the Industrial Development and Public Policy Department of Japan International Cooperation Agency.

The team is set to work in Cambodia from Monday through Friday.

Following the general election in July last year, the opposition CNRP has cried foul over the alleged election irregularities and has boycotted all parliamentary sessions since the first meeting in September, and has repeatedly called for serious reforms before its 55 elected lawmakers sit in the parliament.

The CPP got 68 seats out of the 123-seat National Assembly.

With the aim to help meet the CNRP's demand, Hun Sen made a request to Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe during his visit to Cambodia last November, asking for assistance in this election reform.

Welcome! You have come to the right place. Khmerization is a home to the Cambodian daily news, which is updated twice daily. Please take a tour and enjoy yourself. Thank you.

Dear Readers,

Due to an increase in offensive and profane comments, Khmerization has decided to moderate all comments. Comments containing offensive language, profanities and racist connotations will not be published.
