
We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. By continuing to browse our site, you are giving your consent for us to set cookies.

However, if you would like to, you can change your cookie settings at any time. Read our cookie policy .

Any views expressed in this article are those of the author and not of Thomson Reuters Foundation.

AMMAN &ndash; The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) started today distributing locally produced date bars enriched with vitamins and minerals as part of Jordan&rsquo;s national school feeding programme.

WFP is to provide support to the national school feeding project in Jordan for three years until May 2017 in a project worth US$17 million. The governments of the Russian Federation and Canada provided the funds that will benefit 320,000 school children - half of them girls.

"WFP puts a lot of effort into managing and implementing its school feeding programmes around the world," said WFP Jordan Representative and Country Director Maha Ahmed. "School feeding is a crucial safety-net especially for the poorest households, where children sometimes miss breakfast and the school snack is the first bite to eat they get on any given day."

The Ministry of Education will distribute WFP's locally-produced date bars along with fresh fruit in schools in the most vulnerable and food insecure areas. It will also distribute high-energy biscuits produced in bakeries run by Jordan's armed forces.

WFP is the world's largest humanitarian agency fighting hunger worldwide. On average, WFP reaches more than 90 million people with food assistance in 80 countries each year.

We welcome comments that advance the story through relevant opinion, anecdotes, links and data. If you see a comment that you believe is irrelevant or inappropriate, you can flag it to our editors by using the report abuse links. Views expressed in the comments do not represent those of the Thomson Reuters Foundation. For more information see our Acceptable Use Policy .
