
An American Muslim group is up in arms over advertisements calling Islam  inherently anti-Semitic, which are slated to go up on 20 public buses in  Washington, DC.

The posters, paid for by right-wing blogger and activist  Pamela Geller, call for an end to all American aid to Muslim countries as a  means of stopping racism.

“Islamic Jew-Hatred: it’s in the Koran,” the  advertisements state in large letters next to a picture of Grand Mufti Haj Amin  Al Husseini, one of the fathers of Palestinian nationalism, with Adolf Hitler in  Berlin during World War II.

Husseini was an active Nazi collaborator who  was supportive of Hitler’s genocidal policies.

“My intent is [to]  leapfrog over a media that is not even-handed, that is advancing the propaganda  against the Jewish state,” Geller told the Washington-area TV station WJLA in  explanation of the ads.

The Council on American–Islamic Relations (CAIR)  has announced that it will distribute free Korans “to counter” Geller’s  advertisements.

This is a propaganda campaign designed to incite hatred  against American Muslims, and this campaign has been based on false information,  taking things out of context from the Koran,” CAIR national executive director  Nihad Awad told WJLA.

Geller said that she decided to run her ads after  an American Muslim organization ran its own bus banners calling for an end to  American aid to Israel.

Her organization, Stop Islamization of America, has “introduced a  growing number of Americans to its conspiratorial anti-Muslim agenda,” according  to the anti-racism group, which termed her an anti-Muslim bigot.

Geller  is currently crowd-funding the money needed to pay for the ads.

Her  Indigogo page shows that she has only raised 29 percent of the $20,000 she  needs.

Your comment must be approved by a moderator before being published on JPost.com. Disqus users can post comments automatically.

Comments must adhere to our Talkback policy . If you believe that a comment has breached the Talkback policy, please press the flag icon to bring it to the attention of our moderation team.
