
Herman Van Rompuy, the European Council President, has reiterated his personal reservations about the pan-European 'Spitzenkandidaten' for the EU elections, stressing the next EU Commission president “needs a large majority in the Council too”.

“We have to respect the Treaty when appointing the next European Commission president,” Van Rompuy told the Belgian public broadcaster VRT on Sunday morning (18 May).

“There must be a simple majority in Parliament, 376 votes. And there must be a large majority in the European Council of heads of states,” Van Rompuy said, underlining the necessity for the next Commission President to win the backing of both institutions.

Van Rompuy has penciled in an meeting of EU heads of states just two days after the elections, on Tuesday 27 May. In the morning, European parties will gather in the EU Parliament to discuss their position. “I will consult the Parliament; first the president and then the factions. And we will try to come up with a balanced solution that prevents a clash,” he said.

“We will respect the Treaty and try to prevent a clash of the institutions. And we’ll try to settle this as soon as possible,” said Van Rompuy.

This could put Van Rompuy on a collision course with the candidates representing the five main parties at the European Parliament elections.

In a debate in Brussels last Thursday (15 May), the five candidates stressed they would block all progress if the Council nominated someone who did not participate in the pan-European race for the EU’s lead position.

EurActiv reported earlier that German chancellor Angela Merkel allegedly told the centre-right candidate Jean-Claude Juncker that she would support his candidacy if he wins the elections.

“That is said between Ms Merkel and Mr Juncker. I wasn’t present so I can’t judge this,” the Council president reacted when pressed about those reports.

'You shouldn’t pay too much attention to Farage'

In the past few weeks, the five official single candidates (or ‘Spitzenkandidates’) that were nominated by the European political parties discussed their vision for Europe in a series of presidential debates aired on television .

In doing so, the parties hoped to better connect citizens to European politics and boost voter turnout which has consistently dropped since the first EU elections were held in 1979.

“I expect to have a large, strong minority of people who doubt the European project or European politics […] but I expect a large majority of members that show an allegiance to the institutions,” the Belgian diplomat responded to the predicted rise of eurosceptic MEPs in several member states.

In related comments, Van Rompuy referred to the moment in 2010 that the eurosceptic member of the UK Independence Party (UKIP) Nigel Farage said he had “the charisma of a damp rag and the appearance of a bank clerk”.

26-27 June: Nomination of Commission president at the European Council summit.

1-3 July: Plenary session of the newly constituted European Parliament. Informal negotiations with EU Council and possible bilateral or multilateral negotiations with heads of state.

14-17 July: Parliament votes on European Council’s nomination of Commission president in its plenary session.

1 Nov.: Target date for new Commission to take office.

Nov.: End of mandate of Herman Van Rompuy, president of the European Council.

“We will respect the Treaty and try to prevent a clash of the institutions. And we’ll try to settle this as soon as possible,” said Van Rompuy.

the very fact that he said it suggests that Rompers is NOT going to respect the treaty or will attempt to find wiggle room - I would no more trust Rompers than any other politico (& I notice a large number of his family are running in various elections in Belgium - nothing like keeping it in the family eh! - & you wonder why people distrust politicos).

Van Rompuypfui ...m*erda...down with him..!

Rushing to make a last little intrigue on behalf of Merkel before the new parliament can quietly discuss a new candidate. What a pitiful intrigant this man makes. This is what the gap between Europe's advanced state-like structures  and its lack of democracy leads to: no great statesmen, no fine diplomats, only petty intrigants. And "IM" Merkel to lead their despicable pack!

Europe 's project is calling a never-ending project! Van Rompfui and masters of puppet states council like to Tacklin' , tacklin' and again ..7..years on sh*t !

I wish (surely i'm not alone willing to say this ) but actually 500 MIO citizens should get a referendum  if they want to elect their own  real E.U. President themselves  instead of that Van Rompfui Cuntcil !

What Europe needs barely is Senators , one of us people elected President  and the Parliament !

The Lisbon Treaty is a built sh*t!  We need a kind of  Philadelphia act in interests of the people stability and democracy!

Van Rompuy is the Council President and it would appear he has been told by the heads of state that the two main candidates are even grayer than himself.  The EU (Euro area) is clearly deeply in the brown stuff.  Even with a good man or women at the helm, it will still be an uphill struggle.

The EU is struggling to attract political 'big hitters' from the most populous member states.  I wonder why.

Parr and I are from opposite ends of the political spectrum, but I have to agree with his summary on politicians.  A pox on all their houses!

" The EU (Euro area) is clearly deeply in the brown stuff"

Of course !

At least As long there will be no real federal governance for the macroeconomic fnancial structure despite the EZB and Bankin Union then the european  economic further struggles.

I have read that the UK is not happy with the three gray men who are on offer and that Cameron is prepared to veto all three.

Lagarde anyone?  All the so called diplomats are suggesting it is a done deal.  At least she has a personality.

First !The Council doesn't alone  consists of Mr Cameron  !

Secondly! Of course Mr. Cameron's brain desesperated synapses in conjunction with  Ukip's painful rassisted  behavior  has been altered  too and has now to undemocratizise the democracy of the European parliament by bypassing the commissioner-candidates in which  the E.U. parliament have a vote for !

Third!  By doing this the European Council has lost all credibility of the E.U. citizens & parliament !

If  that's (your) "Lagarde " or any promoted " Lenslay uncandidates" pussy lick interest's then  i think this course "of done deal" is hardly to conceive.
