
"We make every effort to see that our actions live up to our words and be vigilant with regards to our behavior."

The Burkina Faso government has granted license to Pan African Minerals Tambao ( PAT- SA) for the industrial exploration of the manganese mine Tambao, located in the Sahel region.

This decision was approved by the Burkinabe Council of Ministers on April 30. The official ceremony to hand over the license to the Chairman of Pan African Minerals Tambao ( PAT- SA) was done this week in the capital city Ouagadougou, many ministers converged for the ceremony.

The license issued to Pan African Minerals covers an area of ​​26 km2 and a projected annual output of 3 million tons .

After a long process to find an operator, the development of the manganese deposit of 19 million tons of reserves with content between 52 and 54%, was assigned in 2012 to the international group Pan African Minerals Ltd.

Frank Timis is the chairman of Pan African Minerals Limited, a subsidiary of the Timiș Corporation, which has various operations in Africa, including African Minerals and African Petroluem.

Tambao mining project for will see and investment of 350 billion CFA Franc, and it has three essential components: the rehabilitation of the railway section Ouagadougou- Kaya and construction of the section of railway from Kaya to Dori to Gorom right on to Tambao which is 210 km in length.

The third component is asphalting of the road from Dori right on to Tambao, a length of 165km and the exploration of the deposit Tambao .

The period of implementation of infrastructure given to Pan African Minerals is three years from the date of acquisition of the mine operations permit.

This decision comes when a large mining company accused the Burkinabe government of not meeting its commitments on this mine after several negotiations with other mining companies. It was Pan African Minerals that was succeeded in convincing the Burkinabe government of meeting all their conditions to operate the mine as well as meet the Corporate Social Responsibility.

While this mining is long overdue, “the adoption of the decree will allow the implementation of the project’s operating manganese deposit Tambao ” according to the report from the Council of Ministers.

At the ceremony, was Frank Timis who is the Executive Chairman of African Minerals International, Moseray Fadika Executive Chairman AML SL and other advisers from the company.

Mr Timis said it was great that they were able to succeed in getting the Tambao mines as it has been a long process. He said they will definitely do all in their power to meet all the conditions and help in the development process of Burkan Faso.

Awoko Newspaper Copyright © 2010-2011. All rights reserved.
