
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .

If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .

Employers urgently needed to treat the mental health of their staff as seriously as their physical health and safety, according to Australia's first campaign on mental health in the workplace.

One in five Australian workers experienced mental-health illnesses such as depression and anxiety, and the cost to businesses was at least $10.9 billion a year, said mental-health group beyondblue.

But if Australian businesses were willing to invest in effective mental-health strategies, they stood to gain an average return of $2.30 for every $1 spent, according to a report from PricewaterhouseCoopers, which was commissioned by beyondblue.

These benefits would include better productivity, reduced sick leave and absenteeism and lower numbers of compensation claims, it found.

Beyondblue's  national campaign would remind employers that good mental health was as important as good physical health and safety, said chief executive officer Georgie Harman.

''Many business leaders don't know how to help those who are struggling with a mental-health condition,'' Ms Harman said. ''These people continue to face discrimination and do not get the same support that people with physical conditions receive.''

Allan Sparkes was a 38-year-old NSW police officer when, following two traumatic events on duty, he was diagnosed with post-traumatic stress disorder and a major depressive disorder. Mr Sparkes was called to a scene on the mid-north coast where a gunman had shot dead two of his colleagues. Within the year, he had rescued a boy stuck in a flooded stormwater drain. Despite receiving a Cross of Valour for the rescue, Mr Sparkes had little support from his employer.

''I then did have a complete mental breakdown, then 18 months later I was discharged from the NSW police force, without even applying to be discharged,'' he said.

''We have to stop this mindset that, because someone has developed a mental illness, it does not mean they can no longer be functional and productive in the workplace.''

Mr Sparkes, now 56, is a beyondblue ambassador working to overcome the lingering effects of mental illness.

Melbourne resident Graeme Holdsworth was a well-regarded project manager on large developments  such as the Macquarie Bank headquarters. He became depressed and was sacked when he became unreliable at work.

''It was always about the job and not about the people,'' Mr Holdsworth said.

The $10.9 billion cost to businesses was calculated from $4.7 billion in absenteeism, $6.1 billion in reduced productivity and $146 million in compensation claims each year.

The $2.30 return on investment figure was found by working out the cost of providing seven mental-health options in workplaces, such as exercise programs and resilience training, and measuring their impact, the report said.

About 45 per cent of Australians between the ages of 16 and 85 experienced a mental-health condition at some point in their lives.

This was highest in the financial and insurance sector, where 33 per cent of people experienced a mental-health condition, the report said.

Daredevil wingsuiters take on 'epic challenge'

Onlookers cheer as two Dutch wingsuiters jump from a helicopter and soar around the Euromast building in Rotterdam.
