
As thousands thronged the Delhi airport and BJP headquarters to get a glimpse of PM-designate Narendra Modi, and policemen remained busy in security arrangements, thieves had a field day on Saturday.

Police stations across the Capital, including the one at IGI Airport, received over two dozen complaints of thefts on Saturday.

Miscreants mostly targeted onlookers; even journalists - from international media - weren't spared. So far, four journalists have registered cases of theft at various police stations.

The Delhi Police have registered a total of eight cases of theft and are expecting more complaints.

"In the last 48 hours, the Delhi Police have received more than a dozen complaints of theft. It was also found that miscreants were also part of the rally as they targeted some people at IGI airport and then targeted many more people at BJP headquarters. Complaints of thefts during BJP celebrations are still coming in," said a senior police officer.

According to Yogesh Malik, he reached the BJP headquarters for the celebrations and parked his Honda City at Ravishankar Shukla Lane around 2pm on Saturday. When he came back in the evening, his car was missing.

Morshed Hassib, a journalist from Bangladesh, complained to the police that someone had stolen his $2,000 (Rs 1.17 lakh) when he was covering the BJP victory celebration. Morshed is in India to cover the general elections.

Anil Hooda, who was party of the BJP's 'Vijay Jaloos', was also among those targeted by miscreants during the rally.

"When I was going back after meeting BJP MP Meenakshi Lekhi, I noticed that my mobile phone had been stolen. I tried calling but it was switched off," Hooda said in his complaint to the police.

Police said thieves were not only active during the rally and celebrations at the BJP headquarters, but also at IGI airport, where Modi's rally began.

A journalist with a prominent news channel filed a complaint at IGI police station after he noticed that someone from the crowd had stolen his mobile phone.

Another victim, Shalesh Kumar Jain, who visited the BJP headquarters to welcome Modi on Saturday, lost his mobile phone when Modi's rally reached BJP headquarters.

The police suspect that various gangs were operating in the city at the time of Modi's rally. All police stations are now coordinating with each other to investigate the theft cases.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
