
Sign up now to get free exclusive access to reports, research and invitation only events.

NBN Co has handed Leighton Contractors subsidiary Visionstream a two-year contract extension for network design and construction in three states. The contract covers Victoria, Tasmania and Queensland and is worth $90 million.

The contract includes the option of two one-year extensions, a statement issued by the company said.

"Collectively  we  are improving  delivery  and  performance  and  look  forward to  setting  the  standard  for  fibre deployment  in  new  developments,  enabling  NBN  Co  to  meet  Australia’s  need  for  high  speed broadband connections."

NBN Co construction partner Service Stream yesterday inked a similar contract renewal with the government-owned company charged with rolling out the National Broadband Network. The contract extension covered design and construction of fibre in greenfield estates and is worth at least $70 million over two years.

Visionstream has also won NBN-related contracts with Telstra and Ericsson.

The company's NBN work in Tasmania has been a source of controversy, with the Communications, Electrical and Plumbing Union accusing the company of unfair work practices.

Communications Minister Malcolm Turnbull last year expressed concerns about Visionstream's ability to complete its NBN work in Tasmania.

"The reality is that right now after six years of a Labor Government, nine out of 10 Tasmanians don’t have any access to the NBN at all," Turnbull said in an ABC Radio interview in November.

"So the bottom line is there is nothing I could do — not one thing I could do to stop the NBN rollout in Tasmania because it has been stopped for several months.  And at this stage, Visionstream is just not building anything.  And there is a serious problem there which we have got to address.

"So I’m not suggesting we would dishonour or breach any contracts but at the moment nothing is being done under the contract by the contractor. "

Copyright 2014 IDG Communications. ABN 14 001 592 650. All rights reserved.

Reproduction in whole or in part in any form or medium without express written permission of IDG Communications is prohibited.
