
May 20, 2014, 10:34 a.m.

Participating businesses supporting the Shop Local campaign on Thursday 22nd May - Busy Needles, Sportspower, Johnstons SHoes, Runway Clothing and Accessories, Singleton Sound Solutions, Redbournberry Clothing Co, Rustic Soles, Elise Hair Artist, Ultimate Underwear, Singleton Photo Centre, Singleton Gourmet and Gifts.

Participating businesses supporting the Shop Local campaign on Thursday 22nd May- Busy Needles, Sportspower, Johnstons SHoes, Runway Clothing and Accessories, Singleton Sound Solutions, Redbournberry Clothing Co, Rustic Soles, Elise Hair Artist, Ultimate Underwear, Singleton Photo Centre, Singleton Gourmet and Gifts.

 Owner Rebecca Marsh (pictured right) knows the importance of the one day sale.

Karen Collins (pictured right) has been at the helm of the business for the last 3 years and has only got bigger better plans for the future. She believes in the product she sells and has included a new range of  hats and fascinators to her range. Rmk and the new Kardashian range have taken off with flair while Tony Bianco lies ahead on the horizon.

THE team at Sportspower in John Street are hoping everyone comes into town on Thursday and enjoys local shopping at its best.

  Describing the shop local day as a chance for retailers to put their best  foot foward and show people just whats on offers and what great service is available in Singleton.

Family friendly from first haircuts to school formals, wedding day do’s to mummy make over’s, we cater for all joyous occasions and ages.

It is a the perfect salon to enjoy your time out, and let our friendly staff pamper you.

High quality retail products at affordable prices to help maintain your style or colour in between salon visits and make you feel like you have salon styled hair every time.

*Special* $100 Colour & Cut, with eyebrow max en and tint.

FOR One day only Johnstons Shoes will be slashing the prices on their range of Hush Puppy Walkers at the Singleton store located in Town Square.

Normally priced at $139.95/pair the Walker shoes will be selling for $99/pair  and not only are shoppers saving on the price of a new pair of shoes they can also go into the draw to win a $50 store voucher.

Johnston Shoes is a family owned business and was established in 1885 by the Jonhston family and they currently have outlets in Singleton, Maitland and Bateau Bay and the company is now owned by Michael Johnston.

Brands offered at the store include Diana Ferrario, Noat, Kids New Balance, Roc school shoes, mens Slatters ,Grosby slippers as well as fashionshoes made in Spain, Portugal and Brazil.

Staff at the Singleton store are qualified shoe fitters which is imperative particularly when it comes to fittings children’s school shoes.

They can also offer personal assistance to fit people who have problems finding comfortable footwear.

For great cameras and accessories look no further.

Come in & have a browse.

Singleton Sound Solutions offers an excellent selection of well known brands like Denon, Rotel, NAD, Paradigm for your home and brands including Alpine, Kenwood, JVC, Rockford Fosgate and Focal for your car or boat.

The difference is that if we don’t know the answer we will make sure we find you one!

This Thursday we are offering 20% off Store wide! So we would love you to come in have a look, a chat, sit down, relax and enjoy our new feature wall full of Plasma and LED panels from Samsung and Panasonic.
