
CANBERRA, May 19 (Xinhua)-- The Australian Coalition government ' s voter support has dropped significantly for last week's federal budget, according to polls published by local media on Monday.

The latest Newspoll, conducted exclusively for The Australian, revealed Monday that the government's first budget is the most unpopular in more than 20 years."With support for the Coalition dropping to the lowest level since the dying days of Malcolm Turnbull's leadership in 2009".

According to the Newspoll, it uncovered Labor leader Bill Shorten's 10-point lead over Tony Abbott as better prime minister-- and 48 percent of voters believe last week's budget was bad for the country.

And a Nielsen poll in the Fairfax newspapers also showed Monday that the Coalition dropped four points and Labor up four points on a two-party preferred basis, with Labor in front 56 to 44 percent - - tripling its lead from last month's poll.

And the Neilson poll showed that Abbott's Coalition government 's primary vote has slumped from 40 percent in early April to 35 percent -- 11 points lower than its vote in the election last September.

Nielsen poll also said on the Prime Minister's performance just 34 percent approve of Tony Abbott's efforts -- a 10-point slump -- while approval of Opposition Leader Bill Shorten's performance is up to 47 percent. In addition, Tony Abbott's disapproval rating climbed to 62 percent -- 12 points higher than at last month's poll.

According to local media, the poor poll numbers were published this morning after state and territory leaders met in Sydney on Sunday for emergency talks on budget cuts which will see them lose 80 billion AU dollars (74.87 billion U.S. dollars) in funding for schools and hospitals over the next decade. The leaders united in condemnation of the cuts and are demanding an urgent meeting with the prime minister to resolve the issue after Sunday's meeting.

Based on this situation, on the budget, 63 percent of people said it was not fair, and 53 percent thought it was bad for Australia, against 42 percent who believed it was good for the country in the Neilson poll.

However, Tony Abbott this morning maintained his budget, which only 39 percent of voters in the Newspoll believe is good for the country. "I don't think anyone really expected you would get a soft option budget from the Coalition and obviously it's not a soft option budget from the Coalition, but it's the budget that Australia needs at this time if we are going to get Labor's debt and deficit disaster under control,"Abbott told ABC Radio.
