
THE South Australian Maritime Museum has raised the alarm over a colonial painting up for auction in Adelaide.

The shop was purchased by the SA colonial government and is now a wreck off the coast of Queensland.

“It was South Australia’s first battleship,” Dr Jones said.

The watercolour by marine painter GF Gregory, dated 1887, was completed three years after Protector’s arrival in Port Adelaide in 1884.

It will be included in an Australian and International Paintings auction at Elder Fine Art, Melbourne St, at 1pm, next Sunday.

Jim Elder, of Elder Fine Art, said the $8000 to $12,000 estimate was conservative.

The painting has recently been on loan to the Adelaide Club but the anonymous owner has decided to sell.

Dr Jones said the painting is superior to two paintings of Protector by different artists in the Maritime Museum’s collection.

“The other two are early 20th century, so this one is significant in that it was completed within three years of Protector arriving in SA,” he said.

Maritime Museum research associate, archaeologist James Hunter, has been leading an important archaeological survey of Protector at Heron Island on the Great Barrier Reef.

A major Protector exhibition is due to open at the Maritime Museum in September, to commemorate the ship’s first engagement in World War I.

The Maritime Museum has more than 60 items relating to Protector in its collection, and SA is home to descendants of its crew.

The ship was purchased by the SA government in response to fears of foreign invasion.

It served with the SA colonial navy, Commonwealth Naval Force and Royal Australian Navy, and participated in two major conflicts, the Boxer Rebellion of 1900 and World War I.

It was decommissioned from naval service in 1924 but requisitioned by the US Army in World War II.

Protector was relocated to Heron Island as a breakwater after colliding with another vessel in 1943.

News.com.au's Privacy Policy includes important information about our collection, use and disclosure of your personal information (including to provide you with targeted content and advertising based on your online activities). It explains that if you do not provide us with information we have requested from you, we may not be able to provide you with the goods and services you require. It also explains how you can access or seek correction of your personal information, how you can complain about a breach of the Australian Privacy Principles and how we will deal with a complaint of that nature.
