
Haidlmair GmbH of Nussbach, Austria, has bought out the 50 percent share in Mould & Matic Solutions GmbH, a maker of injection molds, blow molding machines and tooling and downstream equipment for thermoforming, from partner Greiner Packaging International GmbH.

Haidlmair and Greiner — neighbors in the plastics-intense region in upper Austria — had co-owned Mould & Matic under a 50-50 joint venture. It operated as part of Haidlmair Group.

Willi Eibner, CEO of Greiner Packaging, said the business is a better fit for Haidlmair.

Terms were not disclosed. Mould & Matic is based in Micheldorf, Austria. The company has operated a manufacturing location in Slusovice, Czech Republic, since 1995. Together, the two locations employ about 160.

Haidlmair, a major supplier of molds for bottle crates used to deliver beer, soda and bottled water, focuses operations at Mould & Matic on injection molds for packaging and medical products, and the themoforming tooling and equipment such as stackers and cup packers. For thermoforming, customers use the tooling to make products like fruit cups and single-serve K-Cups for coffee.

Mould & Matic also makes the Blowliner, a one-step injection stretch blow molding machine combining an Engel injection press inline with a PET blow molding machine.

In other news, Haidlmair has purchased gas-assist molding cell from Engel Austria GmbH and Engel’s partner Bauer Kompressoren GmbH. The Engel gas melt process and the individual gas feeds are controlled on the press controller.

U.S. demand for extruded plastics is expected to grow by 3 percent in 2014, with PVC remaining the largest segment.

Plastic pipe will post the strongest gains through 2018, continuing to take market share from competing materials in a range of markets.

Our latest market report provides in-depth analysis of current trends and their financial impact on the pipe, profile and tubing extrusion industry in North America.

In the wake of the economic turbulence earlier in this decade, molders today find themselves in much better shape.  Molders are gaining a competitive advantage by investing in people, equipment and seeking inroads into new markets on a global scale.

Growth in the injection molding industry is going to be driven by low financing costs and a continued move to reshore some business.

All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
