
The bank warned her to return to Australia over fears of a 'revenge attack'

Face screwed up in agony, her broken legs bandaged as she lay in the road, this is the little girl who was knocked over by the wife of an Australian banker in Papua New Guinea.

An ANZ spokesman said the woman and her family - who all flew home from Port Moresby on the bank's money - are still 'in a state of shock' over the incident.

The bank confirmed in a statement the woman and her husband, who worked for ANZ in the Port Moresby Harbour City headquarters, would continue to cooperate with police from Australia following the incident.

They left Papua New Guinea earlier this month after security experts warned they faced a 'significant risk of a targeted revenge attack'.

The bank confirmed the wife of an ANZ banker was involved in a road accident and 'clipped a young girl' on the Poreporena Freeway on May 7.

The girl was subsequently run over by another vehicle traveling in the same direction and suffered two broken legs, ANZ said in a statement on Tuesday.

According to Papua New Guinean publication the Post-Courier, the girl is seven and named Serah Kevin. She is due to undergo a leg operation at the Port Moresby General Hospital.

'She needs steel plates inserted into her right leg which was crushed in the accident, without any delay,' her mother Belsy Kevin told the Post-Courier .

'The (ANZ) staff have been very helpful to us since last Monday and they have told us that (ANZ) will meet all the hospital expenses.

'We have not yet found out who the driver of the vehicle is.'

The Australian woman went to ANZ HQ immediately after the incident and the accident was reported to police the same day.

'The staff member's family sought professional advice which was they should leave the country due to significant risk of a targeted revenge attack,' the bank said.

'Our staff member and his wife are available at any time to provide any further assistance required to the PNG police, and ANZ is providing continued assistance to the girl and to her family.'

The bank said it had been in contact with the injured girl's family to express its deep concern about her welfare and to offer support. There are fears in the PNG media that the girl may remain paralysed.

An ANZ employee who works in Papua New Guinea told MailOnline the community was shocked the Australian woman didn't stop to help the young girl.

'Of course they are angry at what she did,' she said. 'Running away after putting a kid's life in a critical condition. What if it was her kid?'

An ANZ spokesman told MailOnline 'I can confirm that ANZ is continuing to assist the (injured girl's) family, including with any medical bills...The whole family left (Papua New Guinea).

'They're still in a state of shock.'

In a statement dated 15 May, ANZ said: 'Clearly this was a terrible situation and our staff member’s wife reacted in exactly the way she was taught by PNG security experts.

'All companies operating in PNG instruct their staff and dependents not to stop when involved in road accidents due to the significant risk of violence and to report the matter as soon as practical to police.

'This is common practice for both locals and expats living in PNG.'

The Australian government's official advice to travelers to PNG is to 'exercise a high degree of caution.'

Australian Federal Police were among the first to respond to the accident and provided assistance to local detectives.

'It just happened that our guys happened to be with the Papua New Guinean police doing patrols,' said an AFP spokesman.

'We just provide advice, we don't carry guns, we have no powers of investigation.'

ANZ public relations staff who refused to confirm or deny further details of the crash.

The comments below have been moderated in advance.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
