
A Lot Of New Shows Are Trying To Copy The Success Of 'True Detective'

As networks showed off trailers for their big new fall shows this week, one thing was very clear: everyone wants its own "True Detective."

The HBO limited series starring Matthew McConaughey and Woody Harrelson gained a lot of attention during its 8-episode run. Creator Nic  show was influenced by 1895 book "The King in Yellow." So it's no surprise others would want to try and duplicate by finding other works to adapt.

Here are the shows we noticed that felt all too familiar.  ABC "Secrets and Lies"

Fox is investing in two new shows with 10-episode formats.

"Gracepoint"

Adaptation of: British series " Broadchurch "

Page 2 of 3 - "Wayward Pines"

Synopsis: "An intense, mind-bending 10-episode thriller starring Academy Award nominee Matt Dillon ("Crash") as a Secret Service agent on a mission to find two missing federal agents in the bucolic town of Wayward Pines, ID. Every step closer to the truth makes him question if he will ever get out of Wayward Pines alive."

CBS also has a new crime thriller " Stalker " coming to the network with Maggie Q and Dylan McDermott but it's not a limited series. Similarly, ABC will launch a show from "12 Years A Slave" screenwriter John Ridley in 2015 called "American Crime."

The influx of more limited series shows the influence that shows like "True Detective" and even Netflix's 13-episode rollouts of Emmy-winning political drama "House of Cards" and "Orange is the New Black" are having on network TV.

During a recent conference call for "24: Live Another Day," we noted how executive producer Manny Coto said one of the reasons "24" was returning as a limited series as opposed to a full season was in part due to the recent success of limited series shows like "Under the Dome."

ABC Studios chief Patrick Moran commented about the trend recently with The Hollywood Reporter.

Fox Broadcast chairman Kevin Reilly echoed those sentiments during this week's conference call when he said there isn't a standard number of episode orders for a show anymore.

Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.

Your privacy is important, read our privacy policy.

Original content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted.
