
Share This Story!

Pensacola’s talent pool and community support makes Northwest Florida a key component in Navy Federal’s growth and success.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Navy Federal Credit Union plans to add 2,000 jobs at two new buildings in the coming years, with more growth to follow.

Navy Federal begins groundbreaking next month that will bring in 2,000 new jobs by 2016.

At Navy Federal Credit Union’s Virginia headquarters, the world’s largest credit union employs just over 3,000 people. In Pensacola, Navy Federal employs 3,400 people, with 2,000 more expected to join the company’s local payroll by 2016.

Retired Navy Vice. Adm. John A. Lockard, Navy Federal’s longtime board chairman, leaned in close to Dawson and smiled.

“I’m interested in this answer, too,“ the grinning Lockard said.

Both men were in Pensacola for Navy Federal’s monthly board meeting, usually held at the Navy Federal headquarters in Vienna, Va. Eight of the credit union board’s nine members are in Pensacola touring the facility and meeting with area business leaders.

Dawson acknowledged Pensacola’s key role in Navy Federal’s success, but he said the credit union’s headquarters is based in Virginia because of its close proximity to the Pentagon. Navy Federal serves all Department of Defense and Coast Guard, active duty, civilian and contractor personnel and their families. It’s the largest retail credit union in the world, both in assets exceeding $54 billion and membership that recently reached 5 million.

Still, Dawson said Pensacola’s talent pool and community support makes Northwest Florida a key component in its growth and success.

Navy Federal currently occupies 68 acres and employs 2,800 people on its campus off Nine Mile Road. Groundbreaking begins next month on an expansion project that will add two new buildings to the campus in Beulah, with each building to be used by 1,000 new employees. Average annual salary at Navy Federal Credit Union is $45,000.

The expansion is enabled by Navy Federal’s $3.6 million purchase of 240 acres of land adjacent to its current property and formerly owned by the Langley Bell 4-H Center.

The expansion will be the first of three, and maybe even four, new projects to be built at the site. Navy Federal announced earlier this year that it wanted the Pensacola campus to house 10,000 employees by 2020.

In 2003, when Navy Federal opened its first building at Heritage Oaks, the credit union had 11 employees, Now, with 3,400 employees, it is the third largest private employer in the Pensacola area. Navy Federal has 12,000 employees nationwide, with the highest number working out of Pensacola, including 400 working at a temporary satellite site on Pace Boulevard.

There currently are five Navy Federal branch offices in Pensacola, with another to open within the next three years. Navy Federal expects to add 60 branches nationwide through the next three years.
