
Immigration Minister Scott Morrison says the head of his department has briefed the United Nations refugee agency about a proposed asylum seeker deal with Cambodia.

Cambodia's prime minister has used Facebook to confirm that a deal has been reached but that nothing has been signed off.

The arrangement could see up to 1,000 refugees settled in one of the world's poorest nations after being processed on the Pacific island nation of Nauru.

Mr Morrison says "positive discussions" are continuing on the deal, which would expand the number of resettlement places in the region.

He says the Government is keeping the UNHCR updated on the progress of negotiations.

"Those first discussions took place in Geneva just over a week ago with the secretary of my department," he said.

"And so we are now working to inform the UNHCR as we've got to a different stage of these discussions and those discussions with the UNHCR have been positive."

The UNHCR says it has not seen a copy of the proposed agreement, but the Australian Government has promised to consult with the organisation.

The negotiations have attracted criticism from human rights groups and the United Nations Human Rights Commissioner for Refugees because Cambodia is a poor country still recovering from civil war.

However, Mr Morrison says Australia has the resources available to make the plan work.

"Cambodia is a signatory to the refugee convention, as is Australia, as is Nauru. And when you get three countries working together to increase the pool of resettlement places, that's good," he said.

Cambodian prime minister Hun Sen backed the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Australia in his Facebook post last night.

"Cambodia has decided to accept genuine refugees to be resettled in Australia," he said.

"MoU with Australia will be signed soon to take refugees deemed to be genuine."

Mr Hun Sen also says his country has a heart and compassion for refugees. He says those who are resettled will have the same opportunities to study and work like the locals without discrimination.

The Cambodian opposition says it would be a disgrace and not realistic, appropriate or decent because the country is not prepared or equipped to take refugees.

Opposition immigration spokesman Richard Marles has criticised the Government for refusing to release any details about the deal.

"We are only hearing about Cambodia from the Cambodian Government, which is simply not good enough," he said.

"For any of us to make a proper assessment about whether this is a sensible way forward or not, we actually need to hear from our own Government about what they're planning to do. Right now, the silence is deafening."

But Mr Marles has not ruled out supporting the deal.

"When the Government puts forward a proposal, we will make an assessment then about whether it's something we'd support or not," he said.

The Greens say they will try to block the deal in the Senate.

The Foreign Affairs Department's own website warns that Cambodia's legal framework remains weak in some areas  - with inconsistencies in the way the judicial system applies the law.

It says Cambodia remains one of the world's least developed countries and the lack of an effective judicial and legal system and poor corporate governance environment has been a disincentive to foreign direct investment.

Mr Morrison says refugees will not be forced to go to Cambodia - but suggests anyone who refuses should have their asylum claim questioned.

Mr Borith would not be drawn on how much Australia would need to pay Cambodia to take refugees from Nauru, how many it was willing to accept, or where they would live.

He said it was preparing to put a counter proposal to Australian authorities and sign a deal as soon as possible.

If you have inside knowledge of a topic in the news, contact the ABC .

An aid worker becomes a little girl's sole guardian after Ebola wipes out a family in Sierra Leone.

This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.
