
Instant messaging is the new digital battle ground. Daniel Young looks at what impact this battle might have for the traditional social networks.  The social media landscape is changing, again, and the new players are demanding brands shift their mindset - from being human to getting personal.

In this cross-posting from The Conversation science astronomer Michael J. I. Brown  shares his experiences in debating with and challenging online trolls. I often like to discuss science online and I’m also rather partial to topics that promote lively discussion, such as climate change , crime statistics and (perhaps surprisingly) the big bang . This inevitably brings out the trolls .  “Don’t feed the trolls” is sound advice, but I’ve ignored it on occasion – including on The Conversation and Twitter – and I’ve been rewarded. Not that I’ve changed the minds of any trolls, nor have I expected to.

In recent days 'tapegate' has consumed much of the Victorian political news cycle. In this cross posting from The Conversation academic Mark Pearson looks at legalities around journalists recording sources.  It is a sad day when senior political figures steal a journalist’s recording device and destroy its contents, as we have been told happened at this year’s Victorian Labor Party conference. But it is an even sadder day when we hear a major newspaper – The Age – justifying a senior reporter secretly recording their conversations with sources.

Jack Daniel’s is promoting its new Tennessee Honey product with a print and digital campaign which has ignored the popular US strapline of ‘A little bit of honey a whole lot of Jack’ in favour of the punchier ‘Draws a Crowd’.

The US tagline did not resonate as well with consumers in Australia as it had in other markets which led Arnold Furnace, the creative agency behind the campaign, to develop a new one.

Drawing on the unlikely similarity between a crowd of people and a cluster of bees at a particular distance, scale and colour, the campaign features a large shot of the product with a cluster of what appear to be bees over one side of it but upon closer inspection are people.

Tom Spicer, ECD Arnold Furnace said: “Massive product shot, tick. Consumer education on how and where to enjoy the product, tick. Creative idea, tick. Pithy endline, tick.

Nora-Kate O’Connell, brand manager, Jack Daniel’s added: “Jack Daniel’s are thrilled with the new ‘Draws a crowd’ creative campaign. We believe it answers what was a tricky brief with a lot of demands, requiring both educational and emotional messages for our consumers.

F.Y.I.
