
BELGRADE --  The first part of a humanitarian aid shipment sent by the United Nations arrived in Belgrade late last night, the Ministry of the Interior (MUP) said.

It contained generators, water pumps, and rescue boats.

During the day on Monday, another shipment of aid, containing food and water for the flood-stricken population, will also arrive.

The UN have set up a coordinating team working with the Sector for Emergency Situations, it has been announced.

Also last night, a team of 40 specialized French rescuers arrived along with their equipment, two boats, and several water pumps.

Rescue teams from a total of 17 countries have joined their Serbian colleagues in the effort to deal with the worst flooding in a century that has so far claimed 17 lives and forced over 25,000 people to leave their homes.

Slovenia, Croatia, Bulgaria, Austria, Germany, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Belarus, Macedonia, and Montenegro have also sent rescuers to Serbia.

Helicopters from Germany, Switzerland, Macedonia and the EU mission in Kosovo have been deployed to help in the flood-affected areas. A total of seven helicopters from Slovenia and Hungary are working in coordination with the MUP helicopter unit.

Belarus sent a new shipment of aid that was delivered to Belgrade by Deputy Emergency Situations Minister Aleksandr Goncharov, and plans to send more. This country also decided to allocate two helicopters and their crews and four rescue teams to help with the efforts in Serbia.

At the same time, 65 tons of bottled water arrived from Croatia, and 25 tons from Macedonia.

The Serb diaspora worldwide has mobilized to collect food, water, clothes, and other products.

OBRENOVAC -- Prime Minister Aleksandar Vučić told foreign reporters on Monday that 13 dead bodies have been found so far in the town of Obrenovac near Belgrade.

BELGRADE -- Defense Minister Bratislav Gašić has thanked Austria's government for quickly deploying personnel that helped evacuate people from flooded areas in Serbia.

ŠABAC, OBRENOVAC -- Local authorities in the town of Šabac, in western Serbia, on Monday announced that two more people had lost their lives in the floods.

KRUPANJ -- Serbian President Tomislav Nikolić on Monday visited Krupanj, a municipality in western Serbia that has been hard-hit by floods which also killed one resident.

BELGRADE --  Serbia can count on EUR 1 billion worth of aid from the European Union Solidarity Fund in dealing with the long-term consequences of the catastrophic floods.

BELGRADE -- Serbian President Tomislav Nikolić on Monday sent a convoy of humanitarian aid to the places in Serbia most affected by the severe flooding.

MOSCOW, BELGRADE -- Russia has sent a relief cargo to Serbia hit by heavy floods, a spokesperson for the Russian Emergency Situations Ministry has told Itar-Tass.

Belgrade, Moscow -- A helicopter of the EU mission in Kosovo, EULEX, sent to assist in rescue efforts in flood-hit Serbia landed in Belgrade on Sunday.

BELGRADE -- The bodies of 12 flood victims have been recovered in the town of Obrenovac, but it is feared the number of those who perished in higher, says Aleksandar Vučić.

BELGRADE -- Serbia has been affected by "millennial waters" PM Aleksandar Vučić said on Sunday as he chaired an emergency HQ set up to deal with the catastrophic floods.

BELGRADE -- People cannot return to their homes in Obrenovac because there are still no conditions for that, while the rumors about the number of victims are false.

BELGRADE -- The intense fight to save lives continued on Saturday, as the situation is the most critical in the completely flooded Belgrade municipality of Obrenovac.

BELGRADE -- Ivica Dačić has said that Serbia now above all needs assistance in equipment, along with rescue teams to save the affected towns and their residents.

BELGRADE -- The flood-hit areas of Obrenovac and Barič near Belgrade, Sremska Mitrovica in the north and Krupanj and Šabac in western Serbia remain the most critical.

BELGRADE -- Foreign Minister Ivica Dačić on Saturday expressed his gratitude "to all the countries and the EU" for the help they provided to the flood-stricken Serbia.

BELGRADE, ŠABAC -- The bodies of those who perished in the flood in Obrenovac are being recovered on Saturday, MUP Emergency Sector chief Predrag Marić has said.

BELGRADE -- Prime Minister Aleksandar Vučić late on Friday described the situation in Serbia, struck by severe flooding, as "catastrophic."

MOSCOW -- Russian Emergency Situations Minister Vladimir Puchkov has announced that his country had launched a large-scale humanitarian operation to help Serbia.

BELGRADE -- More than 7,618 people have been evacuated in Serbia in the past two days as the country battles severe flooding, the Interior Ministry has announced.

B92 is an environmentally responsible organisation.
