
Rolf Harris told an 11-year-old girl "I'm going to be the first one to introduce you to a tongue kiss" before assaulting her, a jury has heard.

The Australian youngster said she "froze" and was left "repulsed" when the artist forced his tongue into her mouth in 1969.

She told jurors she is still too scared to kiss her husband in the same way because it nearly causes a panic attack.

Giving evidence at Southwark crown court , the woman explained she met Harris when she was staying at a mutual friend's home while off sick from school in Darwin in the Northern Territories.

Fellow Aussie Harris was polishing a piece of wood with linseed oil when the girl came downstairs and saw him.

She described how she was wearing pyjamas when the TV presenter approached her.

She said: "He asked me how old I was. I told him I was 11.

"He said 'good, I want to be the first one to introduce you to a tongue kiss'."

The youngster did not think the children's entertainer was serious, however he then put his hands on her, leaving her frozen with fear.

"His arms went up and around me and then he gave me a kiss," said the woman.

"He put his tongue in my mouth and gave me a tongue kiss. It seemed like it lasted forever but it must have been very quick.

"I was quite repulsed by it, absolutely repulsed."

After the kiss, Harris pointed out the artwork he had been doing and acted as if nothing had happened.

The woman told pals what happened a few years later during a chat about first kisses, but they did not believe her.

She has since married but had to warn her husband not to kiss her in a certain way as it brings back memories of Harris.

"It makes me get really upset and frazzled. It's just this thing I have left over from what happened to me with Mr Harris."

Harris has not been charged over this encounter because it falls outside of British legal jurisdiction, however the prosecution has called the witness to support the accounts of other victims.

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).
