
Cancer Council Queensland (CCQ) says it is not surprised by research showing many doctors are dismissing early signs of melanoma as lesions or pimples.

Research published in the Australasian Journal of Dermatology shows almost half of all melanoma deaths are from lumps that look like pimples rather than the typical type of skin cancer.

Dermatologists from the Victorian Melanoma Service say across Australia doctors are dismissing some early signs of the cancer, which look like round red or brown lumps.

Associate Professor John Kelly says to reduce the death rate doctors and patients need to be more aware of the spots, which grow quickly and can easily dismissed as pimples.

CCQ spokeswoman Katie Clift says the state still has the highest rate of skin cancer in the world, with 316 people dying every year from melanoma.

"We have seen rates of invasive melanoma particularly dropping in young Queenslanders," she said.

"But it is really important for us on the part of people checking their own skin, but also in the area of clinicians, that they are educated as well as possible and we are detecting skin cancer as early as possible."

Ms Clift says the diagnosis rate in the state is fairly high, with about 3,000 new cases detected last year.

"It is very important for Queenslanders to know their own skin immediately," she said.

"If you see anything change, it might even be a small change that you notice and something you might think 'I won't worry about it'.

"But definitely it is very important to book skin checks regularly, to know your own skin and to see a medical professional if you do see something change."

If you have inside knowledge of a topic in the news, contact the ABC .

An aid worker becomes a little girl's sole guardian after Ebola wipes out a family in Sierra Leone.

This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.
