
A TEAM of lawyers and investigators will travel to Australia next month to examine a child migrant scheme that sent children from Ireland and Northern Ireland to the country and what is now the subject of the biggest child abuse inquiry ever held in the UK.

More than 60 Australians have already listed as witnesses to detail their suffering including sexual assaults and naked beatings during the 1940s and 1950s migration program.

The Northern Ireland government-backed Historical Institutional Abuse (HIA) inquiry is looking at systemic failings in duty of care to children in institutional care in Northern Ireland between 1922 and 1995.

Most of the child victims were Irish or Northern Irish and were sent to Australia by religious or state institutions during or after World War II.

The inquiry chairman Sir Anthony Hart said a team of lawyers, support staff and members of the inquiry panel would make a second visit to Australia to hear first hand from those that survived the child migrant scheme.

There were 61 Australians who gave testimony already to the inquiry team during its first visit last year but as the inquiry began it had become evident there were many more now coming forward.

Sir Anthony said since the inquiry proper began hearings in January 70 witnesses had spoken and more than 18,000 documents handed to the inquiry in the first “module” alone.

The retired High Court judge described the volume of evidence coming forward would tie up a lot of time and the inquiry could not recommence now before September with all of June taken by the Australian visit.

The alleged victims were now living from across Australia but at the time a majority had been sent to Western Australia.

One Australian victim has privately detailed in writing about how her abuse at the hands of nuns came on the voyage to Australia under the Catholic Episcopal Migrant Welfare program to be housed at Christian Brothers and Nazareth Sisters led homes.

Others were told they were orphans when they were not and had suffered years of identity loss before in later adult life finding out they did have family. Among the Australian evidence are cases of sexual assault of the then children at the hands of their Australian foster families. The inquiry will hand evidence of criminal cases to relevant police. Many of the Australian victims are aged in their 70s and 80s. Sir Anthony has revealed some of those wanting to given evidence have died since the inquiry was called in 2012.

Watch this 86 find its fate in an Armco fence.
