
Bangladesh yesterday began a crackdown on delinquent law enforcers working in the elite security force Rapid Action Battalion (RAB) and police after reports of their alleged involvement in killings and reckless extortion of money.

The crackdown was launched as per a directive from Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina, who holds the portfolio of the home ministry under which the RAB and police work.

RAB officials yesterday withdrew 18 of RAB-3 men including a company commander over allegations of embezzlement of money seized during arrest of four persons last Friday.

allegation.

Islam declined to specify the allegations.

Major Ali Ahsan, company commander of Crime Protection Company (CPC) of RAB-3, is among the 18 RAB officials.

A team of the CPC led by deputy additional director Md Helal Uddin arrested four people including a yaba dealer and seized yaba tablets on May 14 from Mugdha Bishwaroad in Comilla, said Mustafizur Rahman, officer-in-charge (investigation) of Mugdha police station.

A case has been filed with the police station.

In the first information report (FIR), it was mentioned that 37,881 taka was seized from the possession of the arrested troops, the police official said.

primary interrogations.

“In the preliminary interrogation, one of the arrested persons said they had more money with them than the amount shown in the FIR,” he added.

The RAB, which was formed in 2004 to combat militancy and serious crimes, has recently come under attack from various quarters following allegations of carrying out abductions and killings against the force.

The most gruesome abduction took place late last month in Narayanganj city.

On April 27, Narayanganj panel mayor and ward councillor Nazrul Islam and his four aides, along with lawyer Chandan Sarker and his driver were kidnapped separately but at the same time, after they came out of the court area. Their bodies were found floating in the Shitalakkhiya river six days after the incident.

Subsequently, Nazrul’s father-in-law Shahidul Islam alleged Narayanganj ward-4 councillor Nur Hossain of bribing RAB men to kill Nazrul for 60mn taka.

Following the allegations, three RAB officials - Lt Col Tareque Sayeed Mohammad, Major Arif Hossain and Lt Commander SM Masud Rana - were dismissed.

abductions and killings.

On the other hand, the home ministry is set to sack 74 policemen on recommendation from the Prime Minister’s Office, sources said yesterday.

I agree to receive newsletters from Gulf Times.
