
FCMB Capital Markets Limited targets to close the financial deal of the 450 megawatt-capacity Azura-Edo Independent Power Plant (IPP) by the end of June 2014, with the investment of equity, mezzanine finance, and non-recourse loans, raised from local and international sources.

As part of an international group of investors and banks working on the $750 million Azura-Edo IPP, FCMB Capital Markets was sole arranger for the Naira equivalent of $150 million.

Located near Benin in Edo State, Azura-Edo IPP project is a Greenfield, 450MW Open Cycle Gas Turbine, power station and Nigeria’s first large-scale, privately-funded and project- financed IPP.

It is the first phase of a 1,120MW power plant facility that is targeted to begin producing electricity in early 2017.

The project, which will lead to further economic development, is also forecasted to create over 1,000 jobs.

In the recent past, it was challenging for private investors to raise capital to develop and finance Greenfield power projects in Nigeria owing to the inability to structure a bankable business case due to the absence of a robust tariff framework, gas supply, and suitable off-taker arrangements supported by appropriate financial guarantees and other credit enhancements.

However, over the past three or four years, the Federal Government has invested considerable financial and other resources as part of the government’s power transformation agenda, to encourage private investors to make substantial investments in the Nigerian electricity industry.

This has created the enabling environment in which private investors now have confidence to work in partnership with government to ensure that power projects like the Azura-Edo IPP can be made bankable.

FCMB confirmed in a statement at the weekend that the financial close of the Azura-Edo IPP is anticipated for the end of June 2014.

According to the statement, the Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) for the project was signed with Nigerian Bulk Electricity Trading (NBET) in April 2013, and the project financing structure will benefit from World Bank Group support in the form of a Partial Risk Guarantee and MIGA Political Risk Insurance.

The statement added that the capital structure also includes a BOI Power and Aviation Intervention Fund (BOI-PAIF) tranche, which FCMB Capital Markets arranged.

Speaking on the transaction, FCMB Capital Market’s Executive Director, Mr. Tolu Osinibi, explained that the firm’s involvement in the project was a demonstration of its commitment to the development of Nigeria’s power sector.

‘’We are excited to be part of this landmark transaction which will go a long way to close the power generation gap thereby boosting electricity supply in the country,” he added.

Osinibi commended the promoters of the Azura-Edo IPP for conceiving the project, while reaffirming the commitment of FCMB to continually play a frontal role in the development of Nigeria’s power sector.

Equity investors in the Azura-Edo IPP comprise the lead sponsor, Azura Power Holdings, African Infrastructure Investment Managers, Aldwych International, and Asset & Resource Management (ARM).

In addition to FCMB Capital Markets arranger role on the BOI-PAIF loan tranche, other banks involved in the project include: Standard Chartered Bank as Global Mandated Lead Arranger and Structuring Bank; IFC and FMO as Joint Lead Arrangers for the DFI loan tranche; First City Monument Bank Limited (FCMB) as Disbursement Bank for the BOI-PAIF loan tranche; and First Rand Bank Limited (acting through its Rand Merchant Bank division) as Joint Mandated Lead Arranger for the offshore commercial tranche.

Also involved in group of lenders were Siemens Bank, Swedfund and CDC.

An international power solutions company has been selected as the Engineering, Procurement and Construction contractor (EPC) and a tier one Nigerian contractor as the civil works contractor.

Separately, a Nigerian independent oil and gas exploration and production company is the preferred gas supply contractor.

Please leave your comment below. Your name will appear next to your comment. We'll also keep you updated by email whenever someone else comments on this page. Your comment will appear on this page once it has been approved by a moderator.

Please enter some keywords that you'd like to search for. Your results will be displayed below.

THISDAYLIVE cares about you, help us to report better!
