
Papua New Guinea's Prime Minister Peter O'Neill has welcomed the demise of the Australian government aid agency, AusAid, and praised the Abbott governments' new aid agenda in the region.

The PNG leader was speaking in Cairns, at the opening of the Australia PNG Business Forum -- the peak business event for the two countries.

At the same meeting, Australia's Foreign Minister Julie Bishop announced up to 50 per cent of Australia's aid money in PNG could now be used for agreed infrastructure projects.

Papua New Guinea's Prime Minister Peter O'Neill has welcomed the demise of the Australian government aid agency, AusAid, and praised the Abbot governments new aid agenda in the region.

The PNG Prime Minister was speaking, in Cairns, at the opening of the Australia PNG Business Forum the peak business event of the year.

At the same Meeting Australia's Foreign Minister Julie Bishop announced up to 50 per cent of Australia's aid money in PNG could now be used for agreed infrastructure projects.

GARRETT: The Australian-run asylum seeker detention centre on Manus Island has given Papua New Guinea a direct line to Canberra that it has not had in the past.

Prime Minister O'Neill and his Australian counterpart Tony Abbott have recently agreed on annual leaders meetings and some Australian and PNG Ministers meet monthly.

Prime Minister O'Neill told hundreds of business leaders at the Australia PNG Business Forum the relationship between the two countries has never been stronger and is changing in some fundamental ways.

O'NEILL: One of the most important changes impacting our bi-lateral relationship has also been the abolition of the aid program, AusAID, by the Abbott government. I told Prime Minister Abbott and his Foreign Minister Julie Bishop when they visited Papua New Guinea recently that we welcomed this step with a lot of enthusiasm. One of the first consequences in that is that Australia's generous development assistance program will now be closely aligned with our government and budget development priorities.

GARRETT: The aid industry has reacted with shock to the scale of Australian cuts to aid which have seen $7 billion dollars taken out of the forward estimates.

As Australia's closest neighbours, Papua New Guinea and the Pacific are among the few recipients to see increased funding.

BISHOP: Targeting development assistance in PNG to promote private sector-led growth is essential. IN the coming weeks I will detail a new approach to development assistance to reflect what I call the new paradigm in aid funding based on economic development as the key driver of poverty reduction, of leveraging the private sector, of aid-for-trade initiatives with an emphasis on innovation as a means of lifting living standards.

GARRETT: The shape of the new aid paradigm is starting to become clear, even before the expected announcements.

BISHOP: I am pleased to confirm that productivity-enhancing infrastructure is an agreed priority for the aid program in the years ahead and we will work towards allocating up to 50 per cent of the aid budget to agreed infrastructure projects.

GARRETT: That is something PNG has long pushed for.

Prime Minister O'Neill is also talking up the Abbott government plans to develop northern Australia and is keen to explore the potential of an economic zone that would take in neighbouring regions of the two countries.

Mr O'Neill sees PNG as a supplier of green energy.

O'NEILL: Papua New Guinea is uniquely placed to offer north Australia a key resource I know will be needed to be developed, that is reliable, affordable, energy, electricity and gas.

GARRETT: While both sides talk of more and freer trade the movement of people is a continuing thorn in the side of Australia PNG relations.

In March, Mr O'Neill introduced new measures which will affect 20,000 Australians.

Peter Taylor the President of the Australia PNG Business Council, is not happy.

TAYLOR: It has I must say been very disappointing that the Papua New Guinea government has penalised its Australian business friends and strong advocates for Australian visa reform by withdrawing the facility for Australian visitors to obtain a Papua New Guinea visa on arrival.

GARRETT: The new measures are leading to delays in obtaining visas and forcing businesses to hold meetings in Australia rather than PNG.

But Prime Minister O'Neill is unrepentant and he is blaming Australia.

O'NEILL: I have been singularly unsuccessful in my efforts to try and pursue it, the Gillard, the Rudd and the Abbott governments to simplify the visa entry process to Australia for our citizens, and including people who were formally Australian citizens. It is a sad reality that Papua New Guinean businessmen and women wanting to visit Australia on business has more difficulty than ever before in getting a visa, and if they are seeking residential visa, the processes are significantly more difficult than before. In a mature relationship this should not be the case.

Add the hashtag #raonair to add your tweets to the conversation.

Email us your thoughts on an issue. Messages may be used on air.
