
He told police after the incident that 'the humiliation had to stop'

A man beat and stabbed his step-father to death because of his constant nit-picking, the New South Wales Supreme Court heard today.

Michael Villalon, 29, claims he snapped after 69-year-old Keith Owen Chaney, 69, complained about him not using a knife at the table and leaving towels on the bathroom floor.

Mr Chaney was found with a knife still in place underneath his left eye. He had been stabbed numerous times in the face, neck and torso before being beaten over the head with a hammer.

Villalon admits the killing but says he should be charged with manslaughter rather than murder as he suffers from a mental condition which reduced his understanding of his own actions.

The Filipino-Australian man told the police: 'I just exploded - I take full responsibility ... A couple of weeks ago, he hit me - he punched me in the face... The humiliation had to stop,' according to the Sydney Morning Herald .

On another occasion, the court heard that he whipped his stepson with a towel after telling him off for leaving it on the bathroom floor.

'There was also an argument over a towel not being put back,' Giles Tabuteau, the Crown prosecutor told the jury.

'On another occasion, there was an argument at the dinner table over the accused not using a knife when he ate his meals. Mr Chaney also told Michael Villalon he was lazy and should get a job.'

There were also some concerning allegations including Villalon accusing his stepfather of having punched him twice in the jaw, and on a separate occasion attempting to kiss his sister.

The jury also heard that the accused disapproved of and often argued with Mr Chaney over his habit of watching pornographic movies, including child pornography which he had been jailed for possessing in 2009.

On February 28, 2012, the accused's mother, Maria Villalon, returned home to discover her husband dead on the kitchen floor, his face covered in blood.

She called Triple 0 and said her husband had been killed.

Villalon told police that Mr Chaney had been scolding him for closing the bathroom door and had threatened him with a hammer on the day of the incident.

He openly admitted to then stabbing Mr Chaney in the torso, face and chin with one knife before attacking him with a second blade.

As Mr Chaney lay on the floor struggling to breathe, he then picked up the hammer and used it to hit him two or three times.

The case will now centre around determining whether Villalon was mentally sound when he killed Mr Chaney, with the jury being told he had complained about being depressed and hearing voices before the incident.

Despite this information, and the fact that Villalon also suffered a psychotic episode in jail, the Crown argues that if the accused suffered a substantial impairment, it was not significant enough to reduce the charge from murder to manslaughter.

In the opening day of his trial, crown prosecutor Giles Tabuteau said Villalon's confessions to police after his arrest 'reveals quite a lot about his capacity to understand events, judge whether his acts were right or wrong and control himself'.

'He said he didn't know the reason for killing Keith but just that he thought the humiliation had to stop,' Mr Tabuteau said.

Alternatively, Villalon's barrister Janet Manuel SC said Villalon's attack on Mr Chaney was 'irrational'.

'There were a number of things the accused could have done differently ... would have done different but for his (mental) illness,' she said.

The trial continues.

Sorry we are not currently accepting comments on this article.
