
The Department of Agriculture released four compliance investigation reports into the handling, unauthorised movement and slaughter of Australian livestock exported to overseas markets.

The Department of Agriculture released four compliance investigation reports into the handling, unauthorised movement and slaughter of Australian livestock exported to overseas markets.

The Department of Agriculture released four compliance investigation reports into the handling, unauthorised movement and slaughter of Australian livestock exported to overseas markets.

The Exporter Supply Chain Assurance System (ESCAS) report found cattle exported to a supply chain in Vietnam were moved outside approved facilities and slaughtered in a way that was not compliant with international welfare guidelines.

There have been no further approved dispatches for the export of livestock to that particular supply chain.

The three remaining reports determined animals were found in unauthorised locations, and were subject to poor handling and slaughter, during the Eid-al-Adha Festival in October 2013.

In order to address these problems with various supply chains in Jordan, Kuwait and Mauritius, the department has taken a range of actions.

A Jordan supply chain has been reduced in size, from five to three facilities, located at a single site, in order to reduce the risk of the unauthorised movement of livestock.

Affected supply chains in Jordan and Kuwait are to mark all animals with exporter specific identification at feed-lots and abattoirs.

There will be increased monitoring of supply chain performance, by independent performance audit reports, as well as monthly reconciliation submitted by the exporters.

Finally, a supply chain officer is to monitor stock movements from and between supply chain facilities and will provide reports to the exporters in these markets.

Exporters must submit a monthly declaration stating whether or not the livestock exported form Australia remained in the supply chain up until the point of slaughter.

In the declaration, exporters must also state whether appropriate security is in place at each facility, where sheep are held in the supply chain.

Two reports into mortality events were also released,Report 47 cattle to China by air, and Report 48 cattle to Kazakhstan by air.

In both cases inadequate ventilation was the most likely cause of the mortalities.

If an onboard stockman or Australian Government Accredited Veterinarian accompanies the voyage, and there is a mortality, they must immediately outline a reportable mortality level to the Department of Agriculture.

There the department will undertake an investigation into livestock reportable mortality incidents, where they will try to determine the cause of death and suggest future corrective action.

In 2013 there were 222 cattle exported voyagers, in that year there was 776,583 of cattle exported, with 830 mortalities, with the average mortality rate resulting in 0.11 per cent.

According to Meat and Livestock Australia, in 2013, Australian live sheep exports totalled 1,973,418 head, back 13 per cent on 2012 and were valued at $172 million freight on board (FOB).

The Middle East accounted for 98 per cent of Australian live sheep exports for the year, but Kuwait was the largest market for Australian live sheep in 2013, at 876,004 head, up 24 per cent on 2012, and were valued at $69 million FOB.

The largest export state for live sheep during 2013 was Western Australia, shipping 1,634,363 head, valued at $139 million FOB.

Victoria was the second largest export state exporter at 267,455 head, followed by South Australia, 61,126 head.
