
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .

If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .

The Taxi Council of WA has called on the state government to either relax regulations for existing operators or hold all taxi-style transport providers to the same standard, as global app company Uber looks to set up shop in Perth.

Uber is a Google-backed company that has caused regulatory headaches in New South Wales and Victoria. It has posted several adverts for Perth-based jobs on its website , including a general manager position.

The company employs drivers who use their private cars to pick up registered users at a base rate of $3.20, charging 40 cents a minute or $1.40 a kilometre, with a minimum fare of $6.

Uber is currently in negotiations to raise new financing that may value it at more than $10 billion , and it currently offers its services in 36 countries.

However its expansion into WA has been questioned by the Taxi Council of WA, with boss Steven Gill describing the service as a huge safety risk.

“People have said the taxi industry doesn’t have a good record with safety,” he said.

“To that I say, we have all these regulatory checks and balances, police clearances, aptitude tests and so on, and bad things can still happen.

“That’s not a reason to lower the standards or throw out the standard. We actually think we should be increasing the standards.

In Victoria, the state government has issued 30 infringement notices to Uber drivers and issued $50,000 in fines, essentially for operating an unlicensed taxi service. The New South Wales government has also made it clear the service is not acceptable.

Mr Gill said his industry did not mind competition and would welcome Uber into the market, provided the state government either relaxed standards for existing operators or made Uber adhere to standard industry practices.

“We’re more than happy to compete on a service level as long as it is on a level playing field,” he said.

“The two major dispatch companies, Swan and Black and White, have a whole list of requirements they have to supply to government and police, and there are conditions on their licence which they have to comply with which cost money.

“Our concern is this model comes in, and Uber wouldn’t have to comply with those things, which we say isn’t fair.

Mr Gill also said insurance, or lack thereof, would be a major concern for both Uber and the public.

“The insurance for taking commercial passengers is extensive,” he said.

However, Transport Minister Dean Nalder said a change of regulations could be on the horizon to cater for Uber.

"We welcome organisations like Uber and others who come to us with different solutions, particularly those utilising new technology to provide greater consumer choice in taxi services," he said.

"The regulatory environment does not currently cater for these sorts of innovations and we would like to have a look at that."

He was also critical of the taxi industry as a whole and said that better regulations were needed to protect passengers and "support a more diverse taxi industry".

"I don’t believe consumers are getting the level of service they require from the taxi industry, I don’t believe drivers are sufficiently supported, and the organisations that make the biggest profits from the taxi industry are not sufficiently accountable," he said.

"We are undertaking broader reform within the taxi industry to...support a more diverse taxi industry."

Uber has been contacted for comment.

You will need Cookies enabled to use our Voting Feature.

These polls are not scientific and reflect the opinion only of visitors who have chosen to participate.

Looks like the taxi industry is a bit scared of some viable competition. Perhaps if they offered a decent and reliable service they would have nothing to worry about.

The taxi industry in Perth could sure do with a shakeup but I am deeply concerned about the safety of young women in particular using Uber. I'm concerned about young women catching a taxi at night never mind using an unlicenced service!

Taxi's do not offer good value for money and are not as safe as Uber.

If they want an even playing field, they should speak with CabCharge.

All information entered below may be published.

Error: Your Screen Name must be less than 255 characters.

Error: Please enter your comment.

Error: Your Message must be less than 300 words.

I understand that submission of this content is covered by the Conditions of Use by which I am bound and Commenting Guidelines are available for my reference.

You need to have read and accepted the Conditions of Use.

Your comment has been submitted for approval.

Comments are moderated and are generally published if they are on-topic and not abusive.

Daredevil wingsuiters take on 'epic challenge'

Onlookers cheer as two Dutch wingsuiters jump from a helicopter and soar around the Euromast building in Rotterdam.
