
Your Fairfax Membership account setup is complete. We are redirecting    you now. Please use this email "      " to log in to the Financial Review in the future.

The unprecedented and aggressive decision by the United States to charge five officers in the infamous Unit 61398 of the Third Department of the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) with crimes including hacking, economic espionage, theft of trade secrets, deploying viruses to damage protected computers, and conspiring to commit fraud and abuse is an enormous escalation in the “cyber cold-war” between the US and its two main digital rivals, China and Russia.

Crucially, expect much more to come. This is just an early skirmish in a campaign that is unlikely to end.

Publishing the PLA officers’ names and photographs under a large red “wanted by the FBI” sign, the Department of Justice’s indictment screams “US charges five Chinese military hackers for cyber espionage” and then highlights that this is the “first time criminal charges [have been] filed against known state actors for hacking”.

Of course, China vehemently denied all accusations. They might want to try the more credible line given to this newspaper by the former director of the CIA, General Michael Hayden: “We steal other country’s secrets – and frankly we’re quite good at it.” General Hayden argues, however, that the US does not engage in industrial espionage, which many, including Britain and Australia’s top spies, claim China does.

The indictment unveiled on Monday alleges that members of 3 PLA’s Unit 61398, which been identified by the cyber security firm Mandiant in 2013 as responsible for advanced and persistent penetrations of US companies, successfully hacked into and stole trade secrets from six US victims. This included theft of proprietary technical designs, thousands of sensitive emails and files, and privileged attorney-client communications from Westinghouse Electric, a nuclear power plant manufacturer, SolarWorld, which provides solar energy equipment, US Steel, America’s largest steel company, Allegheny Technologies, a specialty supplier for the aerospace, defence, and medical industries, and Alcoa, the world’s third largest producer of aluminium.

On the same day the FBI announced “the results of a cyber takedown” with charges laid against the co-developers of a “particularly insidious [malicious software] known as Blackshades, which infected “more than half a million computers worldwide”. The FBI said the operation involved 19 countries and more than 90 arrests.

The FBI said the Blackshades Remote Access Tool allowed “criminals to steal passwords and banking credentials; hack into social media accounts; access documents, photos, and other computer files; record all keystrokes; activate webcams; hold a computer for ransom; and use the computer in distributed denial of service attacks”.

Momentum in the simmering global cyber-security contest, in which there are few agreed norms between states, swung savagely against the US in June 2013 following the heist of over 100,000 classified documents by the fugitive former National Security Agency contractor Edward Snowden. Suddenly America, ranked by Freedom House as providing among the strongest civil liberties, privacies and media freedoms in the world, became the biggest global surveillance threat. In contrast, China and Russia, which sit at 176 and 179 in Freedom House’s list of global press freedoms, have been lauded for offering Snowden protection.

Awkwardly, Snowden disclosed that when gathering intelligence on foreign threats, the NSA works actively in co-operation with “strategic” commercial partners including Cisco, Microsoft, Intel, Oracle, AT&T, IBM, Motorola, Google, Facebook and Yahoo!, among others.

While Snowden says he is bravely prepared to take full responsibility for his actions, and stole the largest trove of intelligence secrets in US history simply to allow the public to decide what is in their best interests, he has relentlessly sought to evade the reach of the US judicial system.

As outgoing NSA boss General Keith Alexander explained in an interview with The Australian Financial Review, many crucial questions remain unanswered in the Snowden story. The sensational action by the US government to charge five PLA officers is almost certainly an attempt to hit back at Chinese and Russian collaboration with Snowden.

It was to a Chinese territory, Hong Kong, that Snowden fled. It was China that prevented the US from leveraging off its extradition treaty with Hong Kong while Snowden was there. It was Russia’s consulate in which Snowden hid on his final two nights in Hong Kong, and Russia that has offered him sanctuary ever since.

Snowden’s Russian lawyer, Anatoly Kucherena, a close ally of President Vladimir Putin, sits on the oversight board of the Russian successor security agency to the KGB, which is called the FSB.

He says Snowden is protected by Russian bodyguards, is financed by Russian philanthropists and is considering seeking Russian citizenship. Yes, the final Snowden story has yet to be written.

Christopher Joye is a leading economist, fund manager and policy adviser. He previously worked for Goldman Sachs and the RBA, and was a director of the Menzies Research Centre. He is currently a director of YBR Funds Management Pty Ltd.

Christopher Joye is a leading economist, fund manager and policy adviser. He previously worked for Goldman Sachs and the RBA, and was a director of the Menzies Research Centre. He is currently a director of YBR Funds Management Pty Ltd.
