
An error has occured and your email has not been sent.

• Seperate multiple addresses with Commas.

• Must enter an email address.

• You must enter the verification code below to send.

• Invalid entry: Please type the verification code again.

BUDAPEST--A Hungarian parliamentary committee found there was compelling evidence that a Hungarian member of the European Parliament spied for Russia, senior lawmakers said on Monday.

Separately, the country's top prosecutor said he is preparing to press criminal charges against Hungary's far-right Jobbik party representative Bela Kovacs.

Prosecutor General Peter Polt's office said the prosecutor general sent a request to Martin Schulz, the president of the European Parliament, on May 12, seeking a suspension of immunity from prosecution for Mr. Kovacs, while he serves as a member of the European Union's legislative body.

If the European Parliament votes to lift Mr. Kovacs's immunity, he will face potential criminal charges against him in Hungary. The parliamentary process is a necessary step before charges can be filed.

No details of the allegations brought against Mr. Kovacs were made available. Mr. Kovacs left the parliamentary meeting Monday without commenting on the matter.

The prosecutor's office declined to disclose the reasons for the request sent to the European Parliament on the grounds that the information is classified, but said the government has suspicions of "a serious crime punishable by two to eight years imprisonment."

The national-security committee deliberating on Monday determined "solid" evidence of espionage against Mr. Kovacs, two lawmakers said.

"The long and deep national-security procedure substantiates that the claims are not just something made out of thin air," Zsolt Molnar of the Socialist party, who heads the parliament's national-security committee, told The Wall Street Journal after representatives of the Interior Ministry, the prosecutor's office and the secret services provided information to the panel at a closed-door meeting.

Green-party LMP lawmaker Bernadett Szel, who is also a member of the committee, said the espionage claims are well-founded. "His immunity should be lifted," Ms. Szel said. "The lawyers will decide, but a basis for the investigation is solid."

Should the European Parliament approve the Hungarian request in early July, Hungarian court procedures could start in October, she added.

Mr. Kovacs left the parliamentary meeting Monday, saying he would attend an election rally ahead of Sunday's European Parliament vote in Hungary.

Mr. Kovacs is a member of the Alliance of European National Movements, a group of far-right politicians trying to gain recognition as a full-fledged party group in the European Parliament--a step that would give it more influence over lawmaking.

Opinion polls show that Jobbik, known for its anti-immigrant policies and critical remarks made by some party members about Jews and other ethnic minorities, is likely to gain sufficient seats in the elections to assure Mr. Kovacs's return to parliament.

Jobbik's head, Gabor Vona, played down the matter and defended Mr. Kovacs at Monday's committee meeting, governing Fidesz party member of the Hungarian parliament Szilard Nemeth told reporters, according to the Hungarian state news agency MTI.

"Don't fathom a James Bond-style spy story with microfilms exchanged at midnight," Mr. Molnar added. "The difference may get very small between lobbying and spying, and it's clear that Mr. Kovacs is rather committed to Russian lobby interests. In this case, it seems Mr. Kovacs has from the legal viewpoint swung to spying," said Mr. Molnar.

Far-right parties across Europe such as Jobbik have backed Russia during its monthslong dispute with the EU over Ukraine. The support arises from sympathy with Russian President Vladimir Putin's nationalist drive and antigay policies.

The European Parliament will consider and vote on Hungary's request, a spokesman for Mr. Schulz said, but only after next week's European elections and if Mr. Kovacs retains a seat.

Matthew Dalton in Brussels contributed to this article.

An error has occured and your email has not been sent.

• Seperate multiple addresses with Commas.

• Must enter an email address.

• You must enter the verification code below to send.

• Invalid entry: Please type the verification code again.
