
Human evolution is surging as a result of improvements to healthcare and larger populations.

That's according to Dr Briana Pobiner, an anthropologist at the Smithsonian’s National Museum of Natural History, who believes we are seeing a rapid rate of progress.

But while evolution is moving quickly, Dr Pobiner warned waterborne and airborne illnesses could also spread more easily as a result.

As well as brain development, human evolution persists in other areas too, such as sexual selection.

The changes of men's beard fashions, for instance, may be guided by Darwinian selection, according to a recent study.

The  more beards there are, the less attractive they become - giving men  without beards a competitive advantage, scientists in Sydney found  earlier this year.

When a  ‘peak beard’ situation is reached, evolution favours those with beards -  a trend we may be witnessing now, University of New South Wales researchers claim.

The largest evolutionary changes have occurred in the neocortex, the area responsible for processing abstract thinking, long-term planning, empathy and language, according to Live Science.

But while we may be evolving rapidly and spreading further around the globe, humans are also at risk of deadly parasites.

This, Dr Pobiner claims, is due to rising  sea levels and less land available, along with concerns over frozen  parasites being revived on Earth.

For example, the smallpox virus was eradicated in 1979, according to the World Health Organisation, but some experts claim it has only been eradicated from the Earth’s surface, surviving instead in frozen form.

If viruses such as this survive, they could pose a threat to humanity.

As well as brain development, Dr Pobiner said human evolution persists in other areas too, such as sexual selection.

The changes of men's beard fashions, for instance, may be guided by Darwinian selection, according to a recent study.

The more beards there are, the less attractive they become - giving men without beards a competitive advantage, scientists in Sydney found earlier this year.

When a ‘peak beard’ situation is reached, evolution favours those with beards - a trend we may be witnessing now, University of New South Wales researchers claim.

Dr Pobiner told the audience in Washington that human evolution is definitely not over. ‘As long as there are humans, there will be human evolution,’ she said.

The comments below have not been moderated.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
