
In the next couple of months, almost 1,000 Northern Territory inmates will be moving into their new residence – a super prison on the outskirts of Darwin.

The Darwin Correctional Precinct is the size of a city suburb and will be able to house more than 1,000 prisoners when it opens.

It is the Territory's biggest single-ticket construction project and is set to cost close to $2 billion over the next 30 years.

A succession of Northern Territory governments getting tough on crime has led to ever-increasing numbers entering the prison system, and there are fears that the prison will be full or close to it the day its opens for business.

Aboriginal people make up 30 per cent of the Territory's population, but close to 90 per cent of its prison inmates.

"Per head of population, Northern Territory's jail rate is extraordinary," president of the Northern Territory Bar Council John Lawrence said.

[Northern Territory's jail rate is] four times higher than every other state in Australia as well, so the Northern Territory is literally a gulag and it's just getting worse and worse.

"It's four times higher than every other state in Australia as well, so the Northern Territory is literally a gulag and it's just getting worse and worse."

In the past 25 years, the Indigenous incarceration rate has doubled.

"It's almost become part of the furniture in the Northern Territory that you have cyclones, you have crocodiles and you have Aboriginal men, women and children behind bars," Mr Lawrence said.

Northern Territory Attorney-General John Elferink, a former policeman, sees the prison as central to his government's corrections policy.

"We are enthusiastic about what we can do in the new jail, but we have already been enthusiastically pursuing a number of policy initiatives in spite of being in the old jail here in Darwin," Mr Elpherink said.

A key component of the minister's reform vision is putting prisoners to work.

Mr Elferink has publicly detailed his battle with alcohol and revealed that he was a victim of sexual abuse in his teens.

He is now a firm believer in individuals embracing personal responsibility.

It's almost become part of the furniture in the Northern Territory that you have cyclones, you have crocodiles and you have Aboriginal men, women and children behind bars.

"Up until the change of government we had essentially a rack-and-stack model of maintaining prisoners here," he said.

"So the day you left a prison as a prisoner, you are just as broke, just as unemployed and just as unemployable as the day you went in."

Northern Territory Correctional Services Commissioner Ken Middlebrook gave ABC's Lateline an exclusive tour of the new super prison, to see how the government hopes to cut high re-offending rates.

Every prisoner will be expected to work.

"We're making cattle yards, we're making mobile sheep areas, we make those big bins for the garbage contractors. There's a whole range of things we can do," Mr Middlebrook said.

He says the facility is at the cutting edge of rehabilitation and its effectiveness will be easily judged.

"I think the success will be measured by the number of people that come back to jail, the recidivism rate and our target is to reduce recidivism," he said.

While Territorians weigh the cost of justice, the concept of work as part of the rehabilitation process has spread well beyond prison walls.

At a remote prison work camp in East Arnhem land, it is the vastness of the wilderness that locks people in.

All prisoners work, but 16 of the camp's inmates now have fully paid jobs within the community. Finding real employment, combined with the isolation of a prison without walls, appears to be working.

[Having a job] makes me feel a lot better. It makes me feel manly.

By day, Gerald is employed in a bakery in Nhulunbuy, near the camp.

"I get up at 3:30am, have brekky, a cup of coffee and get ready for work. And then I am out of here at four o'clock," Gerald said.

He has now earned more money than he has ever had and says having a job makes him feel good.

"Most of the time I'd have to steal it. But that was just to support my habits. And besides that, it makes me feel a lot better. It makes me feel manly," Gerald said.

At Datjala camp, which has the support of the local Aboriginal community, there is also something unexpected - praise for jailers.

Dion is another inmate who has found work in Nhulunbuy. He works full-time in pest control.

He could apply for parole now, but he says he is holding off until he has saved enough money to pay outstanding fines. He wants to leave a free man.

He has high praise for his jailers - in particular, corrections veteran Ray Petrie.

I get a sense of wellbeing of what I am achieving and what I see. But it costs time, effort and it's a lot of wear and tear on officers and prisoners to get to the standards that we are doing it.

"I respect him. And he puts respect to us," Dion said.

"It's important to us, because we love him you see. He's a good officer, he's organised everything - jobs - and for people coming from Nhulunbuy prison, from Darwin prison, he organised jobs for them too."

Mr Petrie believes the combination of work and a jail without walls is the key to real and permanent reform.

"I've seen results here, yes," Mr Petrie said. "Makes me proud."

"I get a sense of wellbeing of what I am achieving and what I see. But it costs time, effort and it's a lot of wear and tear on officers and prisoners to get to the standards that we are doing it."

Despite strong community support and the inroads made at this camp, the Territory government has just announced it will close.

Prisoners will soon be moving into Nhulunbuy to a centre capable of housing more inmates.

It may not be called a jail, but for inmates who have thrived in the wilderness, there will be walls once more.

If you have inside knowledge of a topic in the news, contact the ABC .

An aid worker becomes a little girl's sole guardian after Ebola wipes out a family in Sierra Leone.

This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.
