
TERRORIST sympathisers are recruiting young Bahraini men to take up arms in war-torn countries through an underground network of gangs, according to a senior legislator.

MP Abdulhaleem Murad has warned of a surge of Bahrainis travelling to conflict zones, including Syria, if authorities do not crack down on the groups.

He was speaking after a YouTube video, showing a Bahraini among a group of Islamic State of Iraq and the Sham (ISIS) fighters, went viral.

The young armed man, holding a Bahraini passport, criticised Bahraini officials for "standing by the US" and for taking action against citizens who fought in jihad missions abroad.

He addressed a group of alleged foreign fighters, who were waving black flags associated with Al Qaeda, and screamed "we are fighting for Islam" before he ripped the Bahraini passport to pieces as two other armed men also tore their Saudi passports.

"Destroying a passport is a crime," said Mr Murad, who is also parliament's financial and economic affairs committee chairman.

"We urge the Interior Ministry to step up efforts to disband these groups in Bahrain that target young men to fight in Syria or other missions.

"This is a big problem for us as we are dealing with brainwashed youth who do not clearly understand what they are doing in these conflict zones."

At least three Bahrainis have been killed in Syria fighting alongside rebel forces against President Bashar Al Assad's army.

The GDN reported in March that the Bahrain government announced a two-week grace period for citizens taking part in jihad mission abroad to return, without facing any criminal charges.

However, the Interior Ministry said it will revoke passports of the returnees, who were found involved or deceived into joining any movement in conflict zones.

Mr Murad said he had personally persuaded scores of young men against flying to Syria.

"I can say there are a few Bahrainis abroad who are taking part in missions with foreign fighters," he said.

"Unfortunately these young boys are targeted by those who spread terrorism and get involved in fighting missions.

"They harm themselves and their families back home."

He added that several distressed mothers approached him after their sons left on "jihad missions" without informing them.

"These mothers are in a state of shock because all they find left behind is a paper in which their sons write they are going on jihad and ready to sacrifice their lives," he said.

"Bahrainis should not get involved in fighting abroad in Syria because there are over two million citizens in the war-torn country who need food, medical aid and shelter.

"Let the world governments decide their action against the Syrian regime."

Mr Murad has been at the forefront of several aid campaigns to help Syria refugees in the last two years.

Mr Murad and parliament's second vice-chairman Shaikh Adel Al Ma'awada were embroiled in a controversy in August 2012 when a video of them standing next to five armed Syrian rebels holding AK-47s and a rocket launcher circulated online.
