
Welcome to Newsday's live Long Island Now post for Monday, May 19, 2014, your source for the latest local news, traffic and transit alerts, school updates and more.

We've wrapped the live coverage, but here is a roundup of some of the local stories Newsday has been following throughout the day.

To see social media updates from Newsday and its staff, scroll down.

A crowd  gathered outside the chambers of the Nassau Legislature this afternoon urging the resignation of Nassau County Legis. Ellen Birnbaum, who is accused of making derogatory comments toward African-Americans and the neighborhood surrounding the Yes We Can community center in New Cassel. Scroll down or use the mobile link above to view live tweets from Newsday's Paul LaRocco.

Newsday's Alfonso Castillo was with members of the Transport Workers Union Local 100, which represents 34,000 bus and subway workers, this afternoon as union members voted to ratify a new contract with the Metropolitan Transportation Authority. The MTA has said the contract should set a pattern for all its other unions, including those at the LIRR. The MTA Board will vote on the deal Wednesday.

Castillo also attended this morning's MTA Committee meeting, the first one with the new LIRR president.

Scroll down or use the link above to view his Twitter updates.

LIRR: The Long Island Rail Road was back on schedule this afternoon after experiencing delays throughout the morning due to a disabled tractor-trailer east of Deer Park.

Suffolk County police  said Monday morning a man who was the subject of a Silver Alert had been found.

Peter Fallon, 73, is a mentally disabled and deaf man from West Sayville. He was found unharmed.

Newsday will also be covering the following meetings tonight.

HEIGHT LIMITS. The Village of Old Westbury is to introduce a law to limit the height of accessory structures, including statues, to 25 feet. The 7 p.m. meeting will be at Village Hall, 1 Store Hill Rd. in Old Westbury. Follow reporter Scott Eidler’s Twitter up- dates @EidzTowns.

Get the latest news and information about your community, all in one place.
