
Kabul (BNA) In his meeting with British Ambassador to Afghanistan, Richard Stagg, Acting President, Mohammad Younus Qanooni focused on the country’s election run-off and said both presidential frontrunners had welcomed the release of the final votes’ results and asked for further transparency of the process in the second round.

According to presidential press office to BNA, the defections faced loomed in the first round may not happen in the run-off in order to help the next leadership enjoy more legitimacy, the presidential press office quoted the acting president in the statement as saying.

Meanwhile, British Ambassador, Richard Stagg recalled his country’s support for the Afghan election run-off and vowed that he would cooperate with the UNAMA and the elections commissions in this respect.

Qanooni hoped all sides could have gained enough experiences from the past election process.

The acting president also met with Australian ambassador, Jan Flip and thanked him for his country’s provision of cooperation in military and construction sectors.

The acting president praised Australia for its hosting large number of Afghan citizens and said the people of Afghanistan with their presence in the presidential elections demonstrated well that they had acted for the process well, believed on the Bonn process organized in 2001 and wanted the process to be continued.

He hoped the efforts made by the UNAMA and the elections commissions were directed to a route could reflect the willing and desire of the Afghan people.

Qanooni called it a way could help the country’s next leadership emerge through holding a transparent election process.

He urged the presidential election runners to focus on their work plans and don’t allow racial and ethnical discriminations come out as a threat to the country’s future.

The Australian ambassador praised successfully holding of the first round of the election process and asked for focusing on the bolstering the commissions’ capacities in the second round. Extending his condolence to the recent floods affected people in some parts of the country, the ambassador said his country had contributed $5 million through the UNWFP and half a million other through the development programs to the natural disaster battered people of the country. The acting president thanked the aids provided by Australia to the Afghan people.

Basic HTML code is allowed.
