
H.E. Yuan Guisen, Ambassador of the People’s Republic of China.

Gomez, while forecasting systematic changes which will improve healthcare in the coming months, said he hoped that the Bright Journey Project would be the prototype for future exchanges between the medical scholarship of both countries.

The equipment was sourced from the Bright Journey Project which commenced at the Princess Margaret Hospital on Thursday, May 1, 2014 and concluded on May 12, 2014.

Note: Comments are moderated and generally will be posted if they are on-topic and not abusive.

The Freeport News reserves the right not to publish comments that may be deemed libelous, derogatory  or indecent.

Come celebrate the American Independence with us. Live music, food and fire works.

The Grand Bahama Chamber of Commerce Monthly Business Luncheon Meeting.

The Fun Walk starts from Jasmine Corporate Center to the Lucayan Circle and back.

3rd Annual Conch Festival hosted by Rotary Club of Grand Bahama Sunrise.

3 days of excitement with Youth Explosion: Basketball Tournament and worship church service. Special celebrity Quest Kel Mitchell of Nickelodeon, 6 basketball teams from the waver runner sports program and many more.

Grand Bahama Chamber of Commerce Monthly Business Luncheon meeting.

Under the theme, "Glory is Here," Rev. and Mrs. Ernie Deloach will be guest speakers at this event.

Elder George Cooper will be honored for his years of dedicated service to the Assemblies of God. Contact the church for tickets.

"Da Market"

All persons are asked to attend and be on time.

A review of the proposed amendments to the Bahamas Constitution... What is it? How it impacts this country in the future? Get all your questions answered surrounding this issue.

Pre-show at 8:15 PM.

"IT'S A SPRING CELEBRATION"

Stores remain open late, Bahamian food, Junkanoo rush-out.  All day event ending with Junkanoo!

Leaving from the YMCA and finishing at Port Lucaya Marina for judging of costumes.

(Sisters in The Spirit) Annual Women's Conference\ Theme: The Power of a Praying Woman/Mother. "Scripture 1st Samuel chapter 1.

All interested persons are asked to attend, please be on time.

All retired educators are invited to attend.  Refreshments will be served during the meeting.

All members are asked to attend and be on time.

All interested persons are asked to attend, please be on time.

There will be entertainment, food, drinks and bouncing castle for all to enjoy.

The Grand Bahama Chamber of Commerce will hold their monthly Business Luncheon.

15h Annual Southfest Community Festival, under the theme Unity in the Community, Pre-Independence Celebration.

Bahamas Dance Theatre presents its 17th Annual Dance Performance entitled, The BDT Awards 2013" Live!

Rotary Club of GB Sunrise 3rd Annual "Cigar Nights: a rotary fundraiser." Tickets are $50 includes getting to see an authentic cigar roller's artistry, music, food, Chinese style auction, and other special treats. Dress Vintage Havana.

It's a spring celebration at the Church of the Good Shepherd. All members of the public are invited to attend.
