
AFL Footy Show Australia's favourite team takes you through the week in AFL.

Wide World of Sports Catch up with Ken Sutcliffe and the team on Wide World of Sports.

NRL Footy Show Fatty and the gang bring you an entertaining look at rugby league.

Footy Classified Our award winning panel tell it how it really is in the AFL world.

Australian jockey Tommy Berry has celebrated an emotional win in Singapore's biggest race aboard the John Moore-trained Dan Excel.

Berry's steered the gelding to a comprehensive win in Sunday's $3 million Singapore Airlines International Cup and later dedicated the win to his late twin brother and fellow jockey Nathan.

"This win here in Singapore is very important as this is where Nathan last rode and he really enjoyed himself here," Berry told reporters.

"There was a big butterfly that I saw in the mounting yard and he followed me on the way to the gates. Nathan was with me tonight."

"This horse is not so young anymore, but he always toughs it out and after his last run when he was caught four wide and still ran second to Variety Club in the Champions Mile, I told John he should go to Singapore, and he told me he was and I was riding him.

"I just let him cruise to the lead at the top of the straight. It's a win I won't forget.

Nathan Berry had just begun a riding contract in Singapore when he was struck down by a rare illness, NORSE Syndrome. He was taken home to Sydney where he died last month.

Dan Excel was the lesser fancied of Moore's two runners with last year's winner Military Attack the popular elect.

But Dan Excel had the best run from the inside gate while Military Attack, ridden Joao Moreira had to be used up early to get across from his wide draw.

"I'm really happy for Tommy as we all know he went through really difficult times in the last month or so with the passing of his brother Nathan," Moore said.

Berry said he was grateful to Moore for the opportunity and thanked the Singapore Turf Club for its support for his brother.

Another Hong Kong-based Australian rider, Brett Prebble, took out the other feature on the program when the Caspar Fownes-trained Lucky Nine went back-to-back in the KrisFlyer Sprint.
