
The chief executive of YMCA New South Wales has resigned ahead of the release of a report by the Royal Commission into Institutional Responses to Child Sexual Abuse that is expected to be highly critical of the organisation.

The ABC has confirmed Phillip Hare stood down this morning after eight years as chief executive of YMCA NSW.

Sarah Hawthorn has taken a leave of absence from the YMCA NSW board and will be acting CEO during the recruitment process.

In December, senior counsel assisting the commission described YMCA NSW as an unsafe institution for children.

Among more than 70 submissions from Gail Furness SC were that Mr Hare and general manager of children's services Liam Whitley "may not be fit and proper to hold positions in the organisation".

The recommendations also said staff recruitment, supervision and training were inadequate.

In December, YMCA NSW defended the support given to former colleagues of convicted paedophile Jonathan Lord after allegations emerged about his conduct.

In January 2013, Lord was jailed for a minimum of six years for abusing 12 young boys during his time as a childcare worker at the YMCA at Caringbah in Sydney's south.

The commission was told of a culture at the Caringbah YMCA that tolerated inappropriate touching of children.

"Like Liam Whitley, it is submitted that Phillip Hare demonstrated little insight into the factors that had enabled Jonathan Lord's offending to occur," Ms Furness wrote.

"His evidence was primarily concerned with defending management's position rather than reflecting upon the circumstances within his organisation that allowed Jonathan Lord's offending to occur.

"Phillip Hare would not accept that communications that went to parents and schools and communities were not always frank or accurate."

A childcare worker at the centre, Michelle Bates, told the royal commission she could not pinpoint one instance where YMCA management did the right thing when the allegations surfaced.

The case was the focus of the second public inquiry of the Royal Commission into Institutional Responses to Child Sexual Abuse.

The commission's case study report, listing findings and recommendations in relation to YMCA NSW, is due to be handed down in the next four to six weeks.

Around 11,000 children are cared for in YMCA NSW's 98 facilities each week.

If you have inside knowledge of a topic in the news, contact the ABC .

An aid worker becomes a little girl's sole guardian after Ebola wipes out a family in Sierra Leone.

This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.
