
The Australian LNG industry is poised to become a leader in Global LNG industry by 2018 with its seven new under construction LNG projects, largely driven by creation of better investment  climate by the Government and positive investment outlook of major Oil&Gas companies in LNG industry of Australia.

Due to vast natural gas reserves in Australia, interest of major global and domestic Oil & Gas companies to leverage this excess capacity had resulted in formation of infrastructure for LNG exports to important gas consumer markets. These gas markets particularly in Asian countries are good opportunity for LNG business since their emerging economies had outpaced the domestic energy demand-supply balance and due to geographic proximity of Australia, the LNG export industry can flourish in long term prospects.

The world’s first largest Floating LNG project will also go online, thereby leading the technological innovation and initiating a cost effective alternative to LNG terminals. Regasification capacity developments in Asian countries will make positive scope for Australian LNG export industry since these facilities will drive the LNG import countries to enter into long term gas sales agreements. LNG pricing will be a major talking point in the Australia LNG industry due to emergence of Henry Hub pricing in the US which would make the LNG projects stakeholders to focus on competitiveness and market accessibility in long term.

According to the research report published by Ken Research, “Australian LNG industry in the future would be majorly driven by the high demand of LNG volumes by Asian gas consumer markets such as Japan, China, South Korea and Taiwan”.

The report ‘Australia LNG Industry Outlook to 2018 - Upcoming LNG Projects to Drive the Future Growth’ provides detailed overview on the LNG industry of Australia and the business side of this industry. This report helps reader to identify the ongoing trends, existing and upcoming LNG projects profile, developments in the Australia LNG industry and anticipated growth in future due to major upcoming LNG projects. The report will help petroleum industry consultants, global and domestic natural gas companies, electric utilities sector and other stakeholders to align their market centric strategies by gaining perspectives from this comprehensive report on LNG industry of Australia.
