
Participate in Share Chat.

Manila (Alliance News) - Philippine President Benigno Aquino on Monday accused China of violating a 2002 agreement to refrain from escalating tensions in the South China Sea by its recent activities in disputed areas.

China has reclaimed land at the Johnson South Reef in preparation for the construction of an airstrip and deployed a mobile oil rig to the Paracel Islands.

"In my view, all these activities are seemingly in violation of what we agreed upon in the Declaration of Conduct of Parties in the South China Sea," Aquino said.

"The problem is this declaration is not binding and not enforceable."

He stressed the need for the 10-member Association of South-East Asian Nations to collectively push for a formal code of conduct in the South China Sea.

"We need to expedite the establishment of a code of conduct to resolve the disputes and prevent a potential conflict," he said.

In Brussels, meanwhile, NATO Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen called for a peaceful solution to disputes in the region, pointing the finger at China especially.

"China has a particular responsibility as a major power, as a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council, ... to help upholding international law, rules (and) norms," Rasmussen said.

"I urge China to live up to those commitments also in dealing with China's neighrbours, when it comes to certain border disputes," the NATO chief added.

Four members of the regional bloc have overlapping claims with Beijing to the South China Sea - the Philippines, Vietnam, Malaysia and Brunei.

The Philippines has filed an arbitration case against China at a United Nations tribunal in The Hague, questioning its sweeping claims over nearly the entire South China Sea, which contains key shipping lanes and is believed to be rich in oil and gas reserves.

Datafeed and UK data supplied by NBTrader and Digital Look.      While London South East do their best to maintain the high quality of the information displayed on this site,

we cannot be held responsible for any loss due to incorrect information found here. All information is provided free of charge, 'as-is', and you use it at your own risk.

The contents of all 'Chat' messages should not be construed as advice and represent the opinions of the authors, not those of London South East Limited, or its affiliates.

London South East does not authorise or approve this content, and reserves the right to remove items at its discretion.

This site requires cookies in order to give you the best user experience. By using this site, you are agreeing to the use of cookies.
