
BANJA LUKA, SARAJEVO --  The government of the Serb Republic (RS), the Serb entity in Bosnia-Herzegovina, has decided to declare a day of mourning on Tuesday.

So far 17 people have been listed as casualties of the heavy floods, RS Interior Minister Radislav Jovičić confirmed.

On May 17, the entity declared a state of emergency.

Elsewhere in Bosnia, a 33-member British team arrived to help with the rescue efforts, while a plane from Turkey landed in Sarajevo, carrying 125,000 bags to be filled with sand, as well as some 1,000 blankets, two generators, shovels and other tools.

Previously, Britain sent three experts to Bosnia as part of an EU civil defense team to assess the damage and coordinate efforts.

The European Commission site said that a day after Serbia and Bosnia-Herzegovina appealed for help, 14 EU member states responded. Slovenia, Austria, Britain, Luxembourg and Germany decided to send helicopters and motor boats to Bosnia.

PODGORICA -- The Armed Forces of the Republic of Montenegro sent their troops to provide assistance to the flood-hit areas in Serbia.

SKOPJE -- The Macedonian government decided to send 75 special unit members as assistance to flood-hit Serbia and Bosnia-Herzegovina.

BANJA LUKA, ZAGREB -- Almost the entire territory of the Serb entity in Bosnia, the RS, has been hit by floods, but there are no casualties, Nebojša Radojičić has said.

PODGORICA -- Montenegrin PM Milo Đukanović sent a telegram expressing condolences to his Serbian counterpart Aleksandar Vučić for the victims of floods in Serbia.

VLORE -- The Albanian police on Thursday confiscated two tons of cannabis and arrested two suspects.

SARAJEVO, ZAGREB, LJUBLJANA -- A large storm system that has engulfed the region and much of Europe beyond has caused flooding, strong winds, and damage in Bosnia, Croatia, and Slovenia.

BELGRADE -- Carl Bildt has rejected as false claims that he said "the biggest mistake of Putin was his return to Orthodoxy, which is worse than Islamic terrorism."

BRATISLAVA -- The EU must not forget about the Balkans because of the crisis in Ukraine, Slovakia's Foreign Minister Miroslav Lajčak has said.

ZAGREB -- Croatian PM Zoran Milanović has said that Ukraine was disintegrating as a state, while Russia "crossed the line of what is permissible" when it comes to Crimea.

PODGORICA -- Thousands of people from Montenegro and the region took part in a procession in the town of Nikšić to mark the end of an event dedicated to St. Basil of Ostrog.

BELGRADE -- Serbian Prime Minister Aleksandar Vučić will visit Sarajevo on Tuesday, where he will meet with officials of Bosnia-Herzegovina.

B92 is an environmentally responsible organisation.
