
Last Modified: Monday, May 19, 2014 at 6:13 p.m.

Courthouse video footage shows Mary Wilsey, Keith Vidal's mother, threatening the wife of the Southport police officer who fatally wounded her son, says James Payne, Bryon Vassey's attorney.

Last week, Payne filed a motion in Brunswick County Superior Court requesting the footage because, he says, it is necessary for Bryon Vassey's defense.

If Payne is successful, he likely will use the video to challenge the reliability of Mary Wilsey, Vidal's mother, as a witness during Vassey's trial.

Vassey was indicted on one count of voluntary manslaughter on Feb. 3 in the early January slaying of Vidal. Vassey was the third officer to respond to a mental health call to the 18-year-old Vidal's home and, shortly after arriving on the scene, Vassey had shot and fatally wounded Vidal.

On April 8, according to the motion, Wilsey confronted Victoria Vassey in the Brunswick County Courthouse and told her she would burn down the Vasseys' house with everybody inside of it.

The alleged threat is not the first made against Vassey or his family, Payne said Monday.

April Farr was sitting two seats away from Victoria Vassey outside of courtroom number five, according to the motion, when Vassey was approached by a woman neither knew.

"The woman said something to the effect of how what (Victoria Vassey's) husband did was wrong. She then said, 'I'm gonna burn your … house down with every … body in it.' Vicky said nothing I can remember," wrote Farr, who added she had not met nor spoken with Victoria Vassey before April 8.

Farr later identified the woman as Wilsey, according to the motion. That conclusion was supported by a private investigator hired by Payne who reviewed courthouse video footage and the Brunswick County Sheriff's Office deputy who watched the footage with the investigator.

Payne contends that the footage is necessary to Vassey's defense because it could be used to challenge Wilsey's credibility.

"Without these records, the defendant would be materially prevented from impeaching Wilsey, demonstrating this witness' bias and mental instability," Payne wrote in the motion.

Calls to the Wilsey family and an email to Adrian Iapalucci, the Wilsey family attorney, were not returned on Monday.
