
Rio Tinto Chief Executive Sam Walsh expects the miner to reach an investment agreement with the Guinean government on the $20 billion Simandou iron ore project by the end of the month.

Speaking at a World Bank infrastructure forum in Washington at the weekend, Walsh said Rio Tinto had been in discussions with project partners Chinalco, the World Bank's International Finance Corporation and the Guinean government to agree an investment framework.

"This has taken some time to bring to fruition and I think this signing will inject the project with renewed momentum," he said.

Platts Steel Markets Daily is a leading source for iron ore prices, scrap metal prices, and iron ore news. It is the only publication that publishes global metallurgical coal spot prices on a daily basis and contains two iron ore price benchmark assessments in one report: Platts IODEX and TSI 62% iron ore.

Walsh said a year ago at the company's annual general meeting in Sydney that a deal was close, but things subsequently went quiet on the African project as Rio Tinto focused on cutting capex spend and doing more with existing operations in Western Australia.

In Washington, Walsh said billions of dollars of investment would be required to build the mine at Simandou, along with 650 km of rail and a port for the project, equivalent to "several times the annual GDP of Guinea."

"When fully operational, the annual economic contribution of Simandou to the Guinean economy is estimated to be $7.6 billion -- that's 22 times the $340 million in international aid contributions to Guinea in 2012," Walsh said in his speech.

Rio has to date invested more than $1 billion on the project, which could produce up to 95 million mt/year of iron ore grading 66% Fe.

UBS has estimated operating costs of $25/mt FOB, not including royalty payments, for iron ore produced at the African project. At this stage, most analysts are not including Simandou in their longer-term iron ore supply-demand models. But if the project does come to fruition, it is likely to depress iron ore prices, most believe.

Rio Tinto in April said it was suing Vale and BSG Resources for taking part of its Simandou concession in 2008. Rio Tinto Chairman Jan Du Plessis said at the time the miner intended to "pursue our rights rather vigorously."

Rio owns 50.35% of Simandou, with Chinalco holding 44.65% and IFC 5%.
