
Kendall Jenner has still not gotten over her little fling with Harry Styles, it seems. Jenner was on stage to introduce Aussie band "5 Seconds of Summer" at the Sunday night Billboard Music Awards but the 18-year-old was left embarrassed when she accidentally began to introduce rival band "One Direction" instead. "And now we welcome, one..." Kendall blurted before catching herself, and adding quickly "I'm the worst reader!"

Kendall did not introduce the band at all! The 18-year-old however looked sexy and stylish as she walked the red carpet in tight black leather pants and a white backless top with her equally stylish little sister Kylie Jenner. Kendall showed a bit of a side boob too in her white top. Younger sister Kylie grabbed attention by showing off her newly dyed green hair and ample cleavage.

Kendall, who has successfully walked ramp for Marc Jacobs sometime back, however showed that she can be really nervous on stage where speaking is concerned.

The reality television star from "Keeping Up With The Kardashian" has become the subject of jokes and satire over the social media.

"And now we welcome one-Sorry guys I'm the worst reader" That's why you stay in school kids #kendallyouhadonejob," said a Twitter user @ashtonpassion referring to Kendall's goof-up.

"She blamed the prompter, blamed her "reading skills" and now her contacts? What next? Lol just face it bc ... #kendallyouhadonejob," writes another Twitter user @Lexus_Robbles about Kendall Jenner's blame game.

Kendall and Kylie Jenner are expected to co-host the upcoming Much Music Awards in Canada on June 15, it has been revealed. Kylie tweeted the information over the weekend from her Twitter account.

Meanwhile, check out Kylie and Kendall Jenner's glamorous pictures from the Billboard Music Awards in the slideshow above.

Model Kendall Jenner arrives at the 2014 Billboard Music Awards in Las Vegas, Nevada May 18, 2014.

Model Kendall Jenner and Kylie Jenner arrive at the 2014 Billboard Music Awards in Las Vegas, Nevada May 18, 2014.

We value your privacy. Your email address will not be shared.
