
The 40-year-old Australian tourist who died in a boating accident near Mana Island resort was holidaying in Fiji with his family to celebrate his wife's birthday.

The man, identified as Mark Hardaker by Daily Mail was staying in the island resort with his wife and their three children when he was killed on Thursday when his boat collided with another boat travelling at high speed.

He was taken to the resort's medical centre but he died from injuries.

The family is believed to have returned to Sydney on Friday while the the body of the deceased is expected to be flown across before Tuesday.

A Brisbane tourist who was also on the boat told Courier Mail he was standing next to the victim when the front of the other boat hit his head.

Nick Mcgee said they were heading back to the resort after a fishing tour on a local's boat when the other boat smashed into theirs.

He said they would have all died if the driver of the boat had not speed up to get out of the way.

Meanwhile, Fiji police spokesperson Inspector Atunaisa Sokomuri said investigation is still ongoing and no charges have been laid as yet.

Support for SMEs vital, says Volavola If more emphasis is placed in supporting and promoting SMEs, the country will be able to address its unemployment and create more business activities that will increase economic growth, says Mereia Volavola.

ACS on track to defend U19s title Adi Cakobau School U19 girls opened their title defence with two wins at the Tuckers Ice-Cream Fiji Secondary Schools Basketball competition at the Vodafone Arena today.

'Green'-tinted SUVs at Seoul Motor Show Gas-guzzling SUVs, eco-friendly electric cars and the odd brave attempt to marry the selling points of both are taking centre stage at the biennial Seoul Motor Show.

Fiji to migrate to digital television The Fijian Government has announced plans to switch from analogue to digital television.

Tove Lo’s debut album Queen of the Clouds out Sept 26 Tove Lo’s debut album, Queen Of The Clouds, is to release on September 26, featuring the latest single Not On Drugs, and the previous hit Stay High.

Clean-up day to curb dengue outbreak Fiji's Ministry of Health has declared a clean-up day next Thursday for residents in the central division as it ups the tempo against a dengue fever outbreak currently experienced in the country.
