
May 20, 2014, 5 a.m.

Mine workers headed into their meeting with Integra management on Friday resigned to the fact their underground pit would close.

Mine workers headed into their meeting with Integra management on Friday resigned to the fact their underground pit would close.

Integra mines placed in care and maintenance.

After weeks of rumours concerning the future of  Integra’s underground and open cut mines the axe finally fell on an estimated 500 jobs when the company confirmed both mines would cease production.

Vale subsidiary Integra plans to place the former Camberwell open-cut and Glennies Creek underground mines into care and maintenance.

The closure of  Integra mining complex for an indefinite period is a further kick in the guts to the mining industry and the union is concerned there is more to come, CFMEU northern district president, Peter Jordan said.

“We are hearing rumours of other possible closures and this announcement is a further kick in the guts to the industry with lay-off’s from Drayton expected in July and the scheduled closure of Ravensworth Underground in October,” he said.

Workers are angry and upset about losing their jobs but people are looking for clarity about whether Vale intends to resume production at the mines in the foreseeable future and under what circumstances, he said.

The reason behind the decision was attributed to a tough economic climate characterised by low coal prices, high operating costs and a strong Australian dollar.

Mr Jordan said delegates from the CFMEU will meet with Vale’s management on Wednesday before workers are given formal notice about their futures on Friday.

“We will be seeking guarantees that if production is resumed at Glennies Creek and Camberwell after a period of care and maintenance, current employees are given first option on jobs.

He said the company must not be allowed to use a break in production to replace a local, permanent workforce with a casualised, commuting workforce.

Member of the Upper Hunter, George Souris told The Singleton Argus there is no doubt this is a devastating loss of local Singleton employment which will be felt further afield in the various businesses in the whole district.

“Singleton and the whole upper Hunter Valley have gained a dependency on coal.  We all hope it is not the start of a major realignment of the coal industry itself in response to the current downturn in world coal prices,” he said.

Mr Souris said it was important for the community to understand coal producers must trim their budgets and do whatever they can to remain in production and continue employment provision for our community, a community that has supported mining for a long time.

A Vale spokesperson has confirmed that at this stage the company has advised employees of its intentions and has started a consultation process with employees, their representatives and key external stakeholders.

The decision is due to the unsustainable financial losses of the operation due to the current market conditions, the spokesperson said.

Vale is a multi-national company with headquarters in Brazil and is involved in iron ore, nickel, copper and coal production.

They purchased part ownership of the Integra complex, formerly known as Camberwell Open Cut and Glennies Creek Underground, in April 2007 and at that time held 61.2 per cent of the Integra Coal Joint Venture.

In Australia Vale employ around 1100 people and have projects in Queensland and New South Wales.

The open cut mine at Integra is a medium-size operation, occupying almost 1,900 hectares in total and employing approximately 250 staff.

The mine which commenced operations in 1991 is a multi-seam operation utilising the truck and shovel method of mining.

In terms of production, the site produces 1.3Mtpa semi-soft coking coal and 1.2Mtpa thermal coal.

The site was expected to continue producing until 2019, with further potential for extension of the mine life beyond that timeframe.

Vale Integra's underground mine is a modern longwall operation producing 2Mtpa of high fluidity semi-hard coking coal for bluechip international customers.

The coal seam ranges in height from 1.9 to 2.5 metres, and total underground resources exceed 200 million tonnes.
