
Borealis and Borouge, leading providers of innovative, value-creating plastic solutions for the automotive industry, have worked closely with the Renault-Nissan Alliance to develop a new range of polypropylene (PP) materials that meet the designated "Alliance Specifications" (AS). These specifications have been defined in accordance with the Renault-Nissan product portfolio strategy with the aim to apply them globally on all new cars. This follows the trend of using a focused PP product portfolio on common global OEM platforms such as the "Common Module Family" (CMF), the engineering architecture that covers Renault-Nissan Alliance vehicles for the global compact and large car segments to bring the cost-performance ratio to the next level. Borealis and Borouge support these efforts with their cutting edge PP materials.

• easy processing resulting in increased production efficiency;

• high scratch resistance;

• excellent surface aesthetics.

"At Borealis and Borouge, we are committed to developing cost-competitive and cutting-edge material solutions in line with the automotive industry's drive for cost efficiency, weight reduction and environmental performance," comments Harald Hammer, Borealis Vice President Application Segment Engineering Applications. "We were able to support the Renault-Nissan Alliance, the CMF C/D segment modular platform in particular, by aligning our strategy and putting in place the necessary resources to support the Alliance in key regions including the EU, Morocco, Russia, Brazil, India, Japan, China, as well as North America in the near future."

"The strong, worldwide cooperation between Renault-Nissan and Borealis and Borouge has enabled us to apply cutting-edge technology and develop this exciting new global portfolio of AS grades for the Renault-Nissan Alliance," adds Jost Laumeyer, Marketing Manager, Borealis Engineering Applications.

Franck Lagoutte, Global OEM Manager, highlighted: "Our PP materials deliver maximum value and optimum performance for the Nissan Qashqai, and will also be used on other vehicles from the CMF modular platform in the coming months such as the new Nissan X-Trail. Borealis and Borouge strive to provide weight and costs savings to the Alliance with new generations of dashboard, bumper and other structural parts, such as our FibremodTM family of PP reinforced fibre materials used in various structural applications such as front end modules, air intake manifolds and tailgate structures. These innovative PP grades offer new potential for sustainable auto parts, helping to make vehicles lighter, leading to improved fuel economy and lower CO2 emissions."

For over 50 years, Borealis has been a leading supplier of advanced polyolefin plastics for engineering applications in the automotive industry and for household appliances. Thanks to its unique and proprietary Borstar® technology, Borealis provides a large portfolio of innovative products and services which create real value for customers and partners around the world. Innovative automotive solutions include materials for exterior, interior and under the bonnet applications, such as bumpers, body panels, trims, dashboard, door cladding, climate control units, air intake manifolds as well as battery cases. The appliance product range includes materials for small appliances and white goods, from coffeemakers to refrigerators and beyond. Borealis offers advanced polypropylene solutions which make engineering applications lighter, more energy efficient, robust and visually appealing.

Borealis is a leading provider of innovative solutions in the fields of polyolefins, base chemicals and fertilizers. This year, Borealis already celebrates its 20th anniversary. With headquarters in Vienna, Austria, Borealis currently employs around 6,400 and operates in over 120 countries. It generated EUR 8.1 billion in sales revenue in 2013. The International Petroleum Investment Company (IPIC) of Abu Dhabi owns 64% of the company, with the remaining 36% owned by OMV, the leading energy group in the European growth belt. Borealis provides services and products to customers around the world in collaboration with Borouge, a joint venture with the Abu Dhabi National Oil Company (ADNOC).

Building on its proprietary Borstar® and Borlink™ technologies and 50 years of experience in polyolefins, Borealis and Borouge support key industries including infrastructure, automotive and advanced packaging.

The Borouge 3 plant expansion in Abu Dhabi will be fully operational in 2014. Borouge 3 will deliver an additional 2.5 million tonnes of capacity when fully ramped up, bringing the total Borouge capacity to 4.5 million tonnes. Borealis and Borouge will then have approximately 8 million tonnes of polyolefin capacity.

Borealis offers a wide range of base chemicals, including melamine, phenol, acetone, ethylene, propylene, butadiene and pygas, servicing a wide range of industries. Together with Borouge the two companies will produce approximately 6 million tonnes of Base Chemicals in 2014.

Borealis also creates real value for the agricultural industry with a large portfolio of fertilizers. The company distributes approximately 2.1 million tonnes per year. This volume will increase to more than 5 million tonnes by the end of 2014.

Borealis and Borouge aim to proactively benefit society by taking on real societal challenges and offering real solutions. Both companies are committed to the principles of Responsible Care®, an initiative to improve safety performance within the chemical industry, and contribute to solve the world's water and sanitation challenges through product innovation and their Water for the World™ programme.

For more information visit borealisgroup.com | borouge.com | waterfortheworld.net/.

Borstar is a registered trademark of the Borealis Group.

Newswire Today - PRZOOM / PRTODAY disclaims any content contained in this article. If you need/wish to contact the company who published the current release, you will need to contact them - NOT us. Issuers of articles are solely responsible for the accuracy of their content. Our complete disclaimer appears here .

IMPORTANT INFORMATION: Issuance, publication or distribution of this press release in certain jurisdictions could be subject to restrictions. The recipient of this press release is responsible for using this press release and the information herein in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations in the particular jurisdiction. This press release does not constitute an offer or an offering to acquire or subscribe for any Borealis AG securities in any jurisdiction including any other companies listed or named in this release.
