
Summary: Stuart Marburg plans to double MessageMedia's revenue over the next two year and grow it internationally in his new role as the company's CEO.

Co-founder and former director of Netspace, Stuart Marburg, will join business text messaging provider, MessageMedia, as their new boss.

Marburg, who has been a member of the MessageMedia advisory board for the last two years, will be responsible for doubling the business, which has experienced 28 percent year-on-year growth.

"Our revenue is AU$30 million this year, and my goal is to double that over the next two to three years," he said.

Another focus for Marburg is growing the business in international regions, including the US and UK.

"We currently send 80 million messages in Australia with our population of 25 million; our goal is to get 200 million messages in the US that has 310 million people," Marburg said.

Marburg will draw on his 20 years worth of experience. He was the cofounder and former director of one of the country's original internet providers, Netspace, before it was acquired by iiNet in 2010 for AU$40 million. Following that, he founded call tracking and marketing analytics firm, Call Dynamics, which Marburg describes is still a "start-up" where he will remain as a director while taking up the new position.

Marburg said the main appeal to take up this new position was to allow him to get hands-on with the work he does.

"I enjoy coming to work every day. I'm very hands-on and I enjoy getting into the nitty gritty," he said.

"I took Netspace from a turnover of zero to AU$2 million to AU$3 million to AU$70 million, and I wanted to get MessageMedia to that stage."

Marburg's appointment is in addition to MessageMedia building out a complete executive team in recent times. Barrie Lambert was appointed CFO at the end of last year. He was joined by Justin Drerup in March when he came on as CTO.

Executive director and co-founder Grant Rule will remain on the company's senior executive team and will focus on international strategy and innovation. The company is also looking to hire a president for the US business and CMO.

We're temporarily in maintenance mode, which means you won't be able to sign up for a newsletter. Please check back shortly to resume the subscription process. Thanks for your patience.

ZDNet Must Read News Alerts - US: Major news is breaking. Are you ready? This newsletter has only the most important tech news nothing else.

Learn how you can deploy best-of-breed revenue management solutions that drive scalable, proactive processes. Join us for this live, interactive webcast featuring CBS Interactive's Featured Contributor Bill Kleyman and Intacct's Cloud Financials Strategist Mark Gervase.

Learn how you can deploy best-of-breed revenue management solutions that drive scalable, proactive processes. Join us for this live, interactive webcast featuring CBS Interactive's Featured Contributor Bill Kleyman and Intacct's Cloud Financials Strategist Mark Gervase.
