
Share This Story!

After the brass box was opened before a crowd, the contents were revealed.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Randy Davis, of the Tennessee Baptist Convention Center, is handed a time capsule that was placed behind a stone in 1969 when the building was first constructed in Brentwood. The group is moving soon to smaller, leased offices in Nashville. The ceremony was held Monday, May 19, 2014, in Brentwood, Tenn.

BRENTWOOD – Only days before moving into temporary office space, the Tennessee Baptist Convention thought the time was right to uncover a time capsule buried deep within their headquarters' cornerstone when the building was finished back in 1969.

After the brass box was opened before a crowd, the contents were revealed, including newspapers from the day, two 1969-minted pennies, church programs and two Bibles — all perfectly preserved from more than four decades worth of weather elements.

Jane Madden bows her head in prayer as guests take part in the ceremony as the Tennessee Baptist Convention Center uncovered a time capsule buried in 1969 when the building was first constructed in Brentwood.

"Our forefathers had the foresight to put in items that were current to their day, but there are other things that are timeless. Our location is changing but not the mission at hand," said Executive Director-Treasurer Randy Davis.

The time capsule contents will be displayed at the next executive board meeting and at a summit planned for November at Brentwood Baptist Church.

During the ceremony on Monday, Eugene Cotey, who was then the president of the executive board and pastor at First Baptist Church in Murfreesboro, presented the same piece of Scripture he read 45 years previously during the time capsule's initial burial.

Ground was broken for the offices in 1968 and the building, originally designed by Earl Swensson Associates, Nashville, was occupied by October 1969.

When the Baptist Convention moved out to Brentwood, which had just incorporated earlier that year, it might have seemed like the "middle of nowhere," said Brentwood Mayor Betsy Crossley, "but now it's in the middle of somewhere."

The city's population has grown, Maryland Farms business park blossomed and the corner of Franklin Road and Maryland Way has gotten much busier with traffic.

The executive board staff have been trying to sell the building, which had an aging HVAC system, for a number of years to downsize from 88,000 square feet of office space to smaller headquarters that better align with current organizational staffing levels, according to Davis.

Randy Davis, of the Tennessee Baptist Convention Center, displays some of the contents of a time capsule that was placed behind a cornerstone, bottom left, of the building in 1969 when the building was first constructed in Brentwood. The capsule, uncovered Monday, May 19, 2014, in Brentwood, Tenn., contained Bibles, programs and newspapers. The group is moving soon to smaller, leased offices in Nashville.

H.G. Hill Realty Co., which also owns the adjacent Hill Center Brentwood and the former Murray Ohio property, closed on the Tennessee Baptist Convention property including the conference center, which was added in 1989, along with 5.25 acres of land in November. The price tag was $9 million and will be used for a new Baptist Center. The developers have announced plans to build a new mixed-use project on the land without a residential component.

The Baptist Convention won't be going far after executive board leaders signing a three-year lease of 20,000 square feet of temporary office space on the third floor of the LifePoint Hospitals Building at Seven Springs in far south Davidson County, just a couple miles away from their long-time home in Brentwood.

In the next 18 months, board members hope to identify a more permanent home, said Davis.

Reach Bonnie Burch at 615-771-5421 and on Twitter @BonnieBurch_WAM.
