
The Australian Securities and Investments Commission (ASIC) has imposed licence conditions to the Australian financial services licence (AFSL) of both Commonwealth Bank-owned businesses.

The two Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) businesses only implemented appropriate compensation processes for clients of former advisers Don Nguyen and Anthony Awkar.

However, they did not apply the same measures to clients affected by other financial planners' poor advice.

"This inconsistency disadvantaged some customers," ASIC said.

According to ASIC CBA failed to develop upfront communication with clients affected by poor advice, to advise them in their concerns, to inform that there would be a review of the advice previously provided to them and to provide an opportunity to raise issues.

They were also inconsistent when offering $5,000 to affected clients so they could obtain independent advice to assess whether CBA's review of their advice and any compensation offer was adequate.

CBA admitted in a statement that "the offer to reimburse the cost of independent advice was not applied consistently."

The bank reiterated that "it deeply regrets that a number of former CFPL and FWL advisers did not provide quality advice to some customers in the past."

However, it added that Commonwealth Financial Planning "is now a significantly transformed business."

ASIC chairman Greg Medcraft stressed that the problems identified were not with the file reviews done or with the amounts of compensation offered.

"The problems in the process were with the communication," he said.

ASIC's move on CBA came days after a joint Fairfax and ABC investigation shed light on more cases of poor advice within the bank's financial planning businesses.

The media reports also prompted Shine Lawyers to start an investigation into a potential class action against Financial Wisdom.

"If an action is brought, Shine Lawyers would seek to recover up to $200 million on behalf of 3,000 Australian investors whose money was placed into CBA products," the firm said in a statement.

It added that a number of investors who had lost money due to "bad financial advice" had approached the firm following media coverage.

Cases of improper advice within CBA and ASIC's failure to address the issue prompted a Senate inquiry into the regulator.

The Economics Committee will be reporting the conclusions of its investigation to the Senate on May 30.

FREE to your inbox, get the Financial Standard Daily Email.

All material on this site is subject to copyright. All rights reserved. No part of this material may be reproduced, translated, transmitted, framed or stored in a retrieval system for public or private use without the written permission of the publisher.
