
Hotel Florida is a rather unhelpful title for a book about the Spanish Civil War, especially as the hotel in question, which    stood on Madrid’s Gran Via until 1964, hardly features in the narrative.    It’s a good book, though, written with verve and passion, and full of drama,    pathos and gossip.

Amanda Vaill, who has previously written about the Jazz Age socialites Gerald    and Sara Murphy, portrays the war through the stories of three couples: the    writers Ernest Hemingway and Martha Gellhorn; the photographers Robert Capa    and Gerda Taro; Arturo Barea, who was the republic’s chief press censor, and    his deputy Ilsa Kulcsar, an Austrian communist.

Vaill presents them through a kaleidoscope of datelined dispatches. In “July    1936: London/Paris”, for instance, she introduces Gellhorn, then aged 27 and    living with HG Wells, aged 70, who used to send her letters decorated with “suggestive” drawings, such as one of him naked and about to be spanked by    her.

Encouraged by Wells, she wrote an article titled “Justice at Night”, a    first-hand account of the lynching of a young black man in Mississippi,    which was published in The Spectator and Reader’s Digest. The only problem,    as it later emerged when she was asked to testify before a Senate committee,    was that she had made the whole thing up.

With their monstrous egos, Gellhorn and Hemingway – whom she met that December    in Key West, and who eventually left his wife for her – tend to dominate the    narrative, and he turns out to have been even more dishonest than her.    Initially dismissive of the war, he seems to have gone to Madrid mainly to    see more of Gellhorn, who spent much of her time there shopping.

When a Russian correspondent asked him in French if he sent his nouvelles    (“news”) by cable, Hemingway thought he meant “novels” and that his reports    were fiction, and took a swing at him. But they often were fiction. After a    day spent observing a distant infantry action though binoculars, he reported    that “as you flopped at a close one and heard the fragments sing over you on    the rocky, dusty hillside, your mouth was full of dust”.

On his return home, having ignored the big story of the massacre at Guernica,    he addressed the League of American Writers in typically chest-thumping    style: “It is very dangerous to write the truth in war.” It was as well for    him, then, that he didn’t.

The stories of Capa and Taro – a number of whose celebrated photographs are    used as illustrations – are more edifying, though some of Capa’s pictures    from the early stages of the fighting were posed, and Vaill has a horrifying    story of his asking some soldiers to pretend to have been shot, only for one    of them to be actually shot. Truth is, indeed, the first casualty of war,    and life will imitate art. Taro was killed in 1937 when her car was hit by    a tank, and she became a martyr to the cause of the Left, while Capa went on    to found the Magnum photographic agency.

Surprisingly, it is the censors who emerge as the bravest couple, risking    their lives by refusing to do their job, which was to slant the news to suit    the Russians. Kulcsar was particularly lucky to survive, as Kim Philby was    covering the war as a fascist sympathiser and, having associated with him in    Vienna as a communist, she knew the truth about him.

Vaill has marshalled an impressive array of sources. She copes skilfully with    a fascinating cast and gives a lucid account of a horribly confusing war. I    had not realised, for example, that Stalin supported the republic only to    rob it of its gold reserves, and having done so delivered it up to Franco.
