
Malawi will be holding its first tripartite elections (presidential, parliamentary and local government) on 20 May. Held every five years, this year’s elections will be bigger than ever with the addition of local government elections, and with the presidential field boasting 12 candidates. In the lead-up to the election, and on election day, Malawi Red Cross Society will be involved in delivering first aid wherever it is needed.

The society has chosen nine districts where first aid services at polling stations and tracing services will be offered. These districts have been judged as vulnerable places, where incidents of violence are more likely to occur. Already the Red Cross have set up a hotline where the public can call in to report emergencies which may need a response, or refer the situation to the police or local hospital. The hotline operates 24 hours a day, but Malawi Red Cross for the safety of its volunteers responds to the emergency situations during daylight hours only.

The society is already covering political rallies in the selected nine districts, cementing its presence as first responders with three rebranded vehicles. Secretary General Ethel Kaimila Namaliya has also been meeting with key stakeholders like Malawi Electoral Commission, Malawi police, media and major political parties to ensure everyone understands the role the Red Cross will be playing during the election process.

Malawi Red Cross Society relies on Partner National Societies for support in its activities and has received funding from the Belgium and Finnish societies for its plans. The International Committee of the Red Cross has also been working on its preparations and will send a an officer and two vehicles to support the operation.

ReliefWeb has been the leading online source for reliable and timely humanitarian information on global crises and disasters since 1996.

Location Maps - Country maps for your reports and presentations.

Humanitarian Icons - Ready-to-use symbols and icons. Free download.

RSS - Subscribe to information finely tuned to your needs.
