
State Opposition leader Mark McGowan has called for Nationals leader Terry Redman to lose his Cabinet portfolios after incorrectly claiming accommodation expenses.

Records obtained under Freedom of Information laws show Mr Redman claimed $240 for an overnight stay in Perth in 2009 despite being overseas at the time.

Mr Redman, the Minister for Regional Development and Lands, repaid the money last Wednesday.

Mr McGowan says Premier Colin Barnett should explain why Mr Redman is not being punished, especially after Kim Hames was stripped of his Tourism portfolio under similar circumstances.

"When it was Kim Hames last year, the Premier said there must be consequences when ministers take money to which they're not entitled," he said.

"The Premier should have been out there answering the questions and explaining why Mr Redman's case is different to Mr Hames's, because I don't think it is."

But Mr Barnett says he can draw a clear distinction between the two cases.

"Well, I can, and I judge each issue on its merits at the time, and I think in the case of Terry Redman it was clearly one night, because there was a change to his international travel arrangements that caused the error," he said.

"He claimed incorrectly for one night at the end of an overseas trip. Clearly an accident. I'm not going to take any further action."

Mr Redman, who lives in Denmark, received the money for nights spent in Perth on parliamentary business.

"I don't actually get the full compensation for the time I live in Perth," he said.

"I think I run out of claims by about mid March every year, so it's not something I'm trying to do the state over on.

"Of the 600 claims I've made since February 2009, this is one I made a mistake on."

If you have inside knowledge of a topic in the news, contact the ABC .

An aid worker becomes a little girl's sole guardian after Ebola wipes out a family in Sierra Leone.

This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.
