
A Chinese woman who claimed she had been treated roughly by a bullying police officer had to apologise when these snaps of the incident showing she was the aggressor were uploaded on the internet.

Niu Tuan, 35, spotted the traffic policeman Zhang Mingtong, 43, giving her a ticket when she returned to her illegally parked car in Zijing Road located in Jinmao District of Haikou City in southern China's Hainan Province.

According to the eye witness who gave police a copy of the photos as well as uploaded them onto the internet, the woman had claimed she had only been parked for a minute, and demanded furiously that the officer tear up the ticket. When he refused, she flew into a rage.

The man's colleagues Ou Yinglin, 43, had called for reinforcements and the woman had complained to them that she had been attacked by the officers, even though it was the policeman who ended up being hospitalised for his injuries. The woman, meanwhile, was without a scratch. She was taken to the police station by Ou Yinglin and colleagues, where she initially said she wanted to make a complaint for assault.

The second officer Yinglin said: "She slapped Zhang in the face knocking off his hat, and then she punched and scratched him and was screaming all the time that he was attacking her. She was pretty hysterical and I am not quite so sure why she decided to just fly off the handle, but my poor colleague who wouldn't hurt a fly was pretty traumatised. He had to go to hospital and is still off work while she was left without a scratch. It was good that somebody managed to take a few snaps because it proved who was the aggressor, I hate to think what would have happened to Zhang if it had just been her word against his."

At the police station, when she was confronted with the images, she broke down in tears and admitted that she had been in the wrong, saying that she had been under stress when she saw him giving her a ticket.

Yinglin added: "My colleague wasn't feeling too well that day anyway, but had volunteered to come in anyway. Now I can guarantee he feels a lot worse and I doubt we will see him for a few weeks. It's ironic, because he really is the gentlest person I know, and would never hurt a woman."
