
The Australian government has updated its travel advice on Friday for the Solomons warning people to exercise a high degree of caution in Honiara.

The Solomon Island government says law and order has been restored in the capital after two nights of looting and arson over the weekend.

Honiara remains tense with a large police presence in the capital and there are reports of crowds gathered on the outskirts of the city.

About 79 Australian Federal Police are based in the Solomon Islands as part of the Regional Assistance Mission known as RAMSI.

An Australian helicopter was used to during the police operations in east Honiara on the weekend and there are reports of dozens of rounds of tear gas being fired by the Australian-trained anti-riot squad.

“They were the ones instructed to use (tear gas) on the advice by the prime minister on Friday night only and that resulted in a very fast controlling of the mob,” said Prime Minister Gordon Darcy Lilo’s spokesman Robert Iroga.

Violence erupted on Friday afternoon when an evacuation centre was shut down for people left homeless after the devastating flash flooding in April.

Entire squatter camps in Honiara were swept away, leaving 22 dead, thousands homeless and major infrastructure damage in the capital.

The government blames criminals for looting and arson that started at the evacuation centre at the Solomon Islands National Univeristy campus.

“We believe basically what happened over the weekend was criminal opportunists to break into public utilities or private shops as they have in the past,” said Mr Iroga.

Mr Iroga says eighteen people were arrested on Saturday night when road blocks were set up on the main road into Honiara.

Lack of government assistance for the homeless flood victims and rumours of cash handouts for relocations have been blamed for the disturbances.

“Let me repeat, we have no approval for cash grants for anyone affected by the floods, the government will help them, we have not really come out how, but there is no cash grant,” Mr Iroga said.

The government last week announced they would allocate land near Honiara for those who lost their houses in the floods but is still trying to work out who are legitimate claimants.
