
Residents concerned about plans for a 37-lot development off Southwest West Hills Road met for the second time Monday night with the developers.

“Planning for Retirement: Exploring Opportunities, Surprises and Concerns beyond Finances,” 2 p.m., room 211, Memorial Union, 2501 S.W. Jefferson Way. Retirement is a major life transition that has great opportunities, major concerns and the potential for significant surprises. Karen Hooker and a panel of retirees will explore these areas and illustrate some aspects of the physical, psychological and social dimensions of retirement. Hooker is Petersen Chair of Gerontology and Family Studies and Professor and Co-Director of the School of Social and Behavioral Health Sciences at Oregon State University.

Center for the Humanities Guest Lecture, 4 p.m., Autzen House, 811 S.W. Jefferson Ave. Myra Seaman, professor of English at the College of Charleston and editor of the award-winning postmedieval: a journal of medieval cultural studies, will present “Objects of Correction: How the Book Fashioned the Household in Late Medieval England.” A reception will follow.

“Big Love in the Middle Ages: Adjudicating Jewish Bigamy in Venetian Crete’s Secular Court,” noon, room 301, Milam Hall, 2520 S.W. Campus Way. Rena Lauer will explore the implications of legal pluralism and religious accommodation in a medieval colonial context by examining a trial in which Catholic judges were asked to decipher and rule on Jewish bigamy law.

“TED Talk: Changing Our Ideas on Success and Failure,” 12:10 p.m., main meeting room, Corvallis-Benton County Public Library, 645 N.W. Monroe Ave. TED Talks are short, riveting speeches by innovative thinkers. Hosted by Mark and Terry Weiss. Lunches OK.

The 29th Annual Lonseth Lecture, 4 p.m., Construction and Engineering Hall, LaSells Stewart Center, 875 S.W. 26th St. David Pengelley of New Mexico State University will present “Sophie Germain’s Grand Plan to Prove Fermat’s Last Theorem.” Awards presentation at 3:30 p.m.

“Ethics and Literature in Austria: 1900-1938/1939,” 4 p.m., Journey Room, Memorial Union, 2501 S.W. Jefferson Way. This summer marks the centennial of the First World War, which began with the diplomatic and military responses of the Habsburg Monarchy to South Slav nationalism. Horning professor David Luft will commemorate a different aspect of Austria in the early 20th century, emphasizing the importance of ethics in the generation of Austrian intellectuals who reached maturity in the decade before the First World War.

Stone Lecture, 7:30 p.m., ballroom, CH2M Hill Alumni Center, 725 S.W. 26th St. The speaker will be Tobias Wolff, recipient of the Stone Award for Lifetime Literary Achievement. Oregon State University is home to the $20,000 Stone Award — one of the nation’s largest awards for lifetime literary achievement — a 2011 gift from alumnus Patrick Stone, and his wife, Vicki. The Stones established the prize to spotlight Oregon State’s Master of Fine Arts degree program. Reception and book signing will follow the lecture. Information: oregonstate.edu/stoneaward.

“The Next Public Health Challenge: Losing the Anti-Obesity Paradigm,” 5:30 p.m., main theatre, Withycombe Hall, 2901 S.W. Campus Way. In this provocative seminar, Linda Bacon (City College of San Francisco) debunks obesity myths, explains fallout of a health agenda based on the concept that thinness is the goal and that one’s weight is simply a matter of personal choices, and offers an alternative path to better health and well-being for people of all sizes.

“Knowledge, Power and Right in Vasubandhu’s Abhidharmakosabhaya,” noon, room 301, Milam Hall, When considering philosophers who posit a connection between knowledge, power and right, works of classical Buddhist scholasticism may not come first to mind. Curiously, however, this triad of concepts appears in close relation in Vasubandhu’s Abhidharmakosabhaya, a work of classical Buddhist scholastic philosophy. This presentation by David Fiordalis of Linfield College will explore why.

Copyright 2014 Corvallis Gazette Times. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Follow Us!

Username & Password Required!
