
Cambodian Prime Minister Hun Sen has announced that his country will sign an agreement with Australia to resettle refugees. However Immigration Minister Scott Morrison says there is still some distance to travel before any such deal can be finalised, writes Alexia Attwood.

Cambodian Prime Minister Hun Sen announced on Facebook last night that his country will sign a memorandum of understanding with Australia over refugee resettlement.

‘Cambodia helps legal refugees even though Cambodia is not abundant with resources like a number of developed countries,’ wrote Mr Sen.

We are having positive discussions and I appreciate the response we’re getting from Cambodia, but we’ve still got some distance to travel.

'Refugees who are resettled in Cambodia will have the same opportunities to study and work like the locals without discrimination. Cambodia has decided to accept genuine refugees to be resettled in Australia. MoU with Australia will be signed soon to take refugees deemed to be genuine.'

However Immigration Minister Scott Morrison told RN Breakfast that no such agreement has been reached.

‘We are having positive discussions and I appreciate the response we’re getting from Cambodia, but we’ve still got some distance to travel,’ said Mr Morrison.

Mr Morrison would not say how much funding Australia is planning on providing to Cambodia to facilitate the arrangement or when any formal agreement would be reached.

He said that Australia will attempt to partner with countries like Cambodia by providing financial support and expertise to ensure they can offer well implemented resettlement packages.

‘If someone who says they are persecuted is offered a safe country where they can go and if that country is not to their economic liking, then I think that does raise questions about the claim,’ said Mr Morrison.

Cambodian Opposition Leader Sam Rainsy told RN Breakfast that Australian taxpayers’ money could end up in the pockets of corrupt Cambodian politicians and officials.

However Mr Morrison dismissed Mr Rainsy’s suggestions and said that Australia, Nauru and Cambodia would work well together.

I think we rightfully deserve to know how much this costs.

In the light of a highly criticized Budget, noted for its austerity, there is good reason to be informed of the set up and ongoing cost of this transfer to Australian taxpayers.

Any argument that states that it would compromise the operation is clearly nonsense, and the shroud of secrecy must be lifted.

This is absolutely disgusting. After being to Cambodia and seeing how many people are living in poverty, seeing how they're turned out of their own homes so that corrupted ministers can line there own pockets. It's an eye opening experience and yet we are ok to send people who are legitimate refugees to a country such as that is awful. The money given by the liberal government is not going to be used to help the refugees, it'll be diverted through each layer of the government until it's gone. We need to understand that we're not talking about just money, we're talking about human beings. Like you and I. Yet people are going to be persecuted in Cambodia. What people do not also understand is that fact that many people who are refugees are in fact quite well off in the world, however they are usually things such as academics or doctors which Al Qaeda (where many refugees flee from) do not want to be around. So here's an idea, perhaps solving the crisis with a lack of rural doctors in Australia is by allowing more qualified doctors into the country giving them english lessons and settling them into those communities..Just an idea..
