
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .

If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .

Brisbane’s Banksy claims the city council is destroying thousands of dollars of his work because it considers him a vandal.

Anthony Lister is one of the most in-demand contemporary street artists in the world, with his compelling and dramatic works regularly fetching more than $15,000.

But he said just two weeks ago, a portrait he painted in an Elizabeth Street alleyway was “buffed” away by the Brisbane City Council’s anti-graffiti unit.

“They could’ve pulled off the door, sold it for $10,000,” he said.

Lister posted a photograph of the portrait – a face spray-painted in black with Lister’s hallmark red lips and cheeks – onto his Instagram account, which he believes the council monitors.

“It’s gone on for years... there’s so much of my work that’s just gone,” he said.

He said the council could be getting far more mileage out of his works if it used expert curators to judge street art, rather than “culture-killing neanderthals”.

“They’re gifts, that’s how I see it,” he said of his own stealthy artworks.

Lister was in his hometown last week, commissioned by Westfield Carindale to paint an installation called The Glass Box, which is on display until June 15.

Its central panel features a street artist surrounded by police with guns drawn, having just painted Give Art a Chance on a wall.

It’s a philosophy Lister is deeply passionate about, describing himself a “freedom fighter for visual speech”, and the right of all creative people to beautify public spaces.

“It’s a wall unlike Facebook walls... it’s the real world, and it’s being kept from us,” he said.

He said there was an irony in the Brisbane City Council’s dislike of his work, given that it was its program of painting traffic signal boxes that gave him his break..

“By encouraging me to do these boxes, they gave me the graffiti disease,” he said.

Now he often incorporates high-visibility clad “buff crew” officers into his works, showing them cleaning, or even painted as the devil.

He said the BCC needs to reframe how it sees graffiti and street art.

The council confirmed the Lister piece was the subject of a police investigation, and said the owner of the building it was left on was happy for it to be removed.

"Council commissions murals across Brisbane to be completed by local artists and young people as part of its graffiti management strategy, as well as installing public art," Cr Adams said.

"But there's a clear difference between artwork which has been commissioned and graffiti that has been sprayed onto other people's property without their permission. This is simply illegal."

A Queensland Police spokeswoman said she was unable to comment on whether officers intended to charge Lister with graffiti offences, citing privacy and operational sensitivity.

Whether Lister or anyone else sees his work as art or graffiti is irrelevant. it is pure arrogance on his part to paint on the private property of others and believe he he is doing the world a favour.

Dillitente, hardly avant-garde. Banksy mate, it has all been done before.

These grade 1 primary school attempts at what he has determined as art are just sooooooo boring.

Can you believe how self important this 'artist' is?  Sad.

And personally, I dont think some evil looking face in a public place is a good outcome anyway.  Next time get permission from the building owner.

You're a far cry from Banksy mate, and I'd be hitting you up for damages.

interesting. i'd be keen to hear what you consider good art.

probably much of what you like was commented on in a similar fashion when it came out too.

thankfully we're not all closed minded and realise that different people appreciate different things. if your grade 1 primary school child can paint at this level then book them a gallery space. and i might even buy a piece.

@peter, i believe the point here is that the council is buffing work that has been allowed or comissioned.

Christ, these graffiti pricks are up themselves!  Quote from Lister - “I'm a freedom fighter for visual speech”. So, that's what ALL graffiti vandals say. What's new? Make them pay for the cleanup.

If no one asked for it to be there AND the wall owner wants it removed, then yes, have it removed/ Its not up to him to decorate stuff.

But i do like his work.

All information entered below may be published.

Error: Your Screen Name must be less than 255 characters.

Error: Please enter your comment.

Error: Your Message must be less than 300 words.

I understand that submission of this content is covered by the Conditions of Use by which I am bound and Commenting Guidelines are available for my reference.

You need to have read and accepted the Conditions of Use.

Your comment has been submitted for approval.

Comments are moderated and are generally published if they are on-topic and not abusive.

The opening span of Riverwalk is commissioned on Tuesday, with boaties required to call Council and wait "5 to 8 minutes" for it to open.
