
TEHRAN (FNA)- Iranian President Hassan Rouhani stressed his government's support for investment in Iran's economic sector by the country's expatriates who are now living in different world countries.

"The government's approach in the development of the tourism sector is based on preparing the bed for the presence of the private sector, and we welcome the presence of Iranian investors (who live) in or outside the country in this ground," Rouhani told a meeting with the lawmakers of the Western Kohkilouyeh and Boyerahmad province on Monday.

He underlined that the government will grant the necessary facilities and aids to the private sector to help improve and boost the country's air and land transiting capacity and hotel construction to attract more tourists.

In relevant remarks on Sunday, President Rouhani underlined the need for bringing back the Iranian elites from abroad and attracting even the elites of other countries to help Iran's progress and advancement in different political, economic and cultural areas.

"We should attract the elites of other countries who like Iran, in addition to our own elites who are now residing in foreign countries," Rouhani said, addressing a ceremony to honor the country's top university professors, artists and elites.

The president noted that for the attraction of elites, other bodies like the parliament should also help the government to achieve its goals.

"In the countries that have made progress, their governments, parliaments, specialized bodies and private sectors have all been linked to each other," he added.

He reiterated that attracting elites can help to the country's advancement in political, economic and cultural spheres.

In relevant remarks on Wednesday, Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif said the country's expatriates are playing a crucial role in introducing the nation's true image to the world.

Zarif made the remarks in a seminar attended by Iranian expatriates residing in Vienna on Wednesday.

The Iranian foreign minister underlined that President Hassan Rouhani is determined to provide the necessary grounds for increasing interactions and activities of Iranian expatriates in Austria.
