
We use cookies, internal and external, to improve your experience by offering content related to your preferences. By continuing to browse you are agreeing to our cookies policy .

“The absence of bids near lows may provide a good argument for bears to make a final push lower and break the familiar .9320/30-.94 range”.

“Note that the strong tk/kj cross from last week has failed to provide any momentum to the upside, today losing the daily tenkan, with the kijun at 9310 today, exposed. A break below the latter would probably invalidate the strong cross bullish signal”.

“Regardless of the increased bearish pressures that seems to be building up, a thick bullish daily cloud still suggests that any downside setback will find constant dip buying interest at lower levels, making any progress by the USD slow in nature”.

“Monday's steady decline has allowed the daily chikou span to leave what otherwise could have been a period of slower moves as per the congested blocks starting from May 8. Today, the chikou, should the tenkan be cleared, faces no visible support”.

Ross Burland, Editor and Analyst, joined FXStreet with 13 years of FX market experience. He worked in top tier banks, specialist corporate advisory firms and on London City trading floors. He was previously a regular market analyst on Bloomberg and CNBC TV.

Ross is also the Co-founder of UK Charity Think Twice , which supports the most impoverished villages in the jungles of Guatemala, Central America, where he now lives.

© 2014 “FXStreet. The Forex Market” All Rights Reserved. Every effort is made to provide accurate and complete information. However, with the thousands of documents available, often uploaded within short deadlines, we cannot guarantee that there will be no errors. Any republication or redistribution of FXStreet content is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of FXStreet.

Trading foreign exchange on margin carries a high level of risk and may not be suitable for all investors. The high degree of leverage can work against you as well as for you. Before deciding to trade foreign exchange you should carefully consider your investment objectives, level of experience and risk appetite. The possibility exists that you could sustain a loss of some or all of your initial investment and therefore you should not invest money that you cannot afford to lose. You should be aware of all the risks associated with foreign exchange trading and seek advice from an independent financial advisor if you have any doubts.

Any opinions, news, research, analyses, prices or other information contained on this story, by FXStreet, its employees, partners or contributors, is provided as general market commentary and does not constitute investment advice. FXStreet will not accept liability for any loss or damage, including without limitation to, any loss of profit, which may arise directly or indirectly from use of or reliance on such information.

FXStreet and ForexStreet among the best Forex content Sites and Blogs to Follow in 2014.

Note: All information on this page is subject to change. The use of this website constitutes acceptance of our user agreement . Please read our privacy policy and legal disclaimer .

Trading foreign exchange on margin carries a high level of risk and may not be suitable for all investors. The high degree of leverage can work against you as well as for you. Before deciding to trade foreign exchange you should carefully consider your investment objectives, level of experience and risk appetite. The possibility exists that you could sustain a loss of some or all of your initial investment and therefore you should not invest money that you cannot afford to lose. You should be aware of all the risks associated with foreign exchange trading and seek advice from an independent financial advisor if you have any doubts.

Opinions expressed at FXStreet are those of the individual authors and do not necessarily represent the opinion of FXStreet or its management. FXStreet has not verified the accuracy or basis-in-fact of any claim or statement made by any independent author: errors and Omissions may occur.Any opinions, news, research, analyses, prices or other information contained on this website, by FXStreet, its employees, partners or contributors, is provided as general market commentary and does not constitute investment advice. FXStreet will not accept liability for any loss or damage, including without limitation to, any loss of profit, which may arise directly or indirectly from use of or reliance on such information.

©2014 "FXStreet. The Forex Market" All Rights Reserved.
