
AN enterprising ambassador who has paved the way for better economic relations between Bahrain and Pakistan will be leaving the country next week.

Diplomat Jauhar Saleem leaves Bahrain next Monday to be replaced by current ambassador to the Maldives, Saeed Khan, who is expected to arrive on Tuesday.

Mr Saleem has been in office for three years and in that time he has supported a number of high-profile visits to promote economic ties - including a three-day tour of Pakistan by His Majesty King Hamad in March.

He has organised several  cultural events as well, aimed at improving what he described as the "poor image" of Pakistan in the international media.

"There has been a lot of work on both sides, in bringing the economic ties between Pakistan and Bahrain on an equal par with the two countries' political ties," said Mr Saleem.

"This is something that both Bahrainis and Pakistanis agree needed to happen and I am very happy to say that thanks to a number of measures the commercial ties between the two countries are starting to grow quite rapidly.

"These measures include sending large trade delegations to both countries, holding business seminars and the dissemination of information regarding opportunities for Pakistani businessmen in Bahrain.

"Thanks to these initiatives there are set to be many new business arrangements, collaborations and economic ties between Bahrain and Pakistan in energy, agriculture, real estate and visa facilitation, making it easier for businessmen to travel between the two countries."

Mr Saleem also emphasised the importance of challenging "inaccurate perceptions" of Pakistan.

"One of the challenges that I saw early on was the image problem that Pakistan had been facing because of extremism," he said.

"In many ways both Pakistan and Bahrain have this in common and the best way to combat this problem - mostly due to inaccurate reports in the international media - is to frequently hold events promoting Pakistani culture, such as fashion shows, poetry recitals, seminars and art exhibitions.

"It is all about projecting a more realistic and accurate image of Pakistan, in the same way that Bahrain has recently set out to do.

"The truth is, Pakistan and Bahrain are still safer than some cities in the US and Europe but because of the exaggeration in the Press people are cautious about visiting," he added.

Mr Saleem, who will be returning to his home country to continue his work, said in the next few years he expected to see more Pakistani professionals working in Bahrain as well as more travel and more trade between the two nations.
