
CAR-MAKER Ford has emphasised its continuing presence in Geelong a year after deciding to stop manufacturing in Australia.

While 500 jobs will go when the company closes its Geelong manufacturing plant in or before 2016, 490 workers, many of them engineers and designers, will stay in the Geelong region.

That will leave the company with 1500 staff in Australia, making it the nation’s largest auto company when Holden and Toyota close their doors in 2017.

About 190 of those work at the hi-tech, secluded proving ground north of the You Yangs at Lara, where prototype vehicles are put through their paces.

They are tested on a range of unforgiving surfaces and in extreme climatic conditions.

Steve Pohlner supervises the site’s environmental wind tunnel, where weather simulators expose vehicles to temperatures between -40C and 55C and winds of up to 250km/h.

The tunnel is not only used by Ford, but also other manufacturers, such as caravan and defence suppliers.

“We test at the extremes to see what the limits of the vehicle are,” he explained.

This week marks one year since Ford’s announcement that it would shut manufacturing plants in Geelong and Broadmeadows, shedding 1200 jobs.

After posting an after-tax loss of $267 million in 2013, speculation is mounting that Ford will fast-track some of the job cuts and closures.

But that was not the focus of discussion on Monday as Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister for Industry Bob Baldwin and Corangamite MP Sarah Henderson toured the Lara site with company executives.

Mr Baldwin said he was convinced Ford was in for the long haul.

“What’s critically important through this transitional phase is for people to realise Ford is not deserting the country,” Mr Baldwin said.

“The future here, as put to me, is for the long term.

Ms Henderson said the tour was part of a campaign to “encourage business confidence and positivity”.

“We already have some wonderful capabilities in innovation, research, science and advanced manufacturing on which we can and must build,” she said.

“I know for many who have lost their job, this has been a very tough time. That’s why it’s so important to promote our regional capabilities which will help attract new businesses and new jobs to our region.

Ms Henderson said a $484 million Entrepreneurs’ Infrastructure Program and a $476 million Industry Skills Fund were initiatives in last week’s federal Budget that would drive creativity.

Watch this 86 find its fate in an Armco fence.
