
IN THE past decade Australia has seen towns and communities buckle under drought, lose services and watch young people forced to leave the bush in search of jobs, yet it was the communities with not only agronomic but also economic diversity which best survived.

It was for this reason NSW Land and Water Commissioner Jock Laurie has asked rural communities to think long and hard about their attitude to mining.

The keynote speaker on the opening day of the 92nd Country Women's Association of NSW (CWA) annual conference in Griffith, Mr Laurie said he had been criticised for "selling out" agriculture due to this stance, however, he argued Australia must make the most of economic diversity to ensure rural communities have a future, and that involved considering what mining could contribute.

He said landowners now had more control over their land than in the past - "there are mining access agreements in place giving landowners the power to say no to mining companies coming onto their land" - yet as we all needed power and fuel it was time to work out how best to achieve this "in a situation that suits us".

Mr Laurie said there were some areas which should not be mined but there were others that could be developed.

Highlighting the development history of the Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area, Mr Laurie pointed out it was originally felt the region was not considered worth developing.

Yet, he said, without early pioneers who were prepared to consider going against the general opinion trend the "tremendous food bowl" the region was today might not have happened.

"Development in a community can bring change - the challenge is to make sure that change is a positive," he said.

Pictured above are Rhonda Merchant, Gloucester; June Fuller, Medowie; Colleen Yates, Gloucester, and Claire Reynolds, Gloucester. Click on this photo to see more pics in our online gallery.

In making her first report as president, Tanya Cameron, of Rowena, said it was delivered with "mixed feelings" to 650 delegates and 200 observers - up by 50 delegates on last year's conference at Moree.

"It marks the end of yet another successful year of achievements in, and for, our communities as well as promoting the role women play accomplishing change where it is needed most," she said.

"It also means I must preside over an historic debate regarding the future of our Potts Point (head office) site, and while the Property Sub Committee and State Executive believes it has provided a plan for the future, implementation by the members will mean letting go of the past - something that is not always easy."

Pictured are Hazel Allen and Marie Darcy, both of Tullamore. Click on this photo to see more pics in our online gallery.

Mrs Cameron said the recommendation to sell the property had generated much discussion among members and the wider public with some members "holding fast to fond memories" of fundraising for and supporting the residential club.

"We need to remember the club was built to generate an income to support the activities of the association, alleviating the burden on smaller branches which have often struggled to meet their CWA commitments."

Mrs Cameron said she was the fourth president to grapple with the long process and would "happily hand back the reins" in acknowledgement of patience, perseverance and effort if she thought any of her predecessors would take them.

Members will vote on the sale of the building across Tuesday and Wednesday, with the result announced on Thursday.

On a positive note, Mrs Cameron highlighted the CWA's activities for the past year which included sizeable fundraising efforts.

Following last year's bushfires in the Blue Mountains the CWA donated $20,000 to the Mayoral Bushfire Appeal, as well as $50,000 sent to Medecines Sans Frontiers to assist with on the ground support following the typhoon in the Philippines.

The CWA also donated $50,000 to support rural families struggling in drought-declared areas which was distributed through Rural Financial Counselling Services in the form of cash grants.

Members also raised $513,369 for projects outside the CWA organisation and during 2012-13, in addition to $114,548 for medical research and international projects, almost $168,000 for educational grants and more than $320,000 for other association funds and programs - all raised by a membership totalling 10,135 at the end of September 2013.

Pictured are Velma Walker, Jervis Bay, with Jacqualine Longhurst and Mary McDonald, both of Nowra. Click on this photo to see more pics in our online gallery.

John Hine, you couldn't be further from the truth about the AWB single desk. It left for dead,
