
Sailors and windsurfers training for the 2016 Summer Olympics set for Rio de Janeiro’s Guanabara Bay will be subjected to raw sewage and pollutants if they are looking to train in the Olympic waters.

Not only that, but Olympic contenders worry that debris, from couches to corpses, prevalent in the polluted waters will cause them to capsize during one of the world’s highest-stakes competitions.

Nico Delle Karth, an Austrian sailor preparing for the 2016 Olympics, said it was the foulest place he had ever trained. “I’ve never seen anything like this before,” Delle Karth told The New York Times .

Garbage bobbed on the surface, everything from car tires to floating mattresses. The water reeked so badly of sewage that he was afraid to launch his boat from shore.

“It can get really disgusting, with dog carcasses in some places and the water turning brown from sewage contamination,” Brazilian Olympic hopeful Thomas Low-Beer told the paper. Low-Beer shuddered when recalling how his dinghy crashed into what he believed was a partly submerged sofa, capsizing him into the murky Guanabara.

Although international officials complain that Brazil has had almost five years since winning its Olympic bid to make headway, some of the delays stem from chronic problems the nation has long fought.

Well-financed efforts to clean up the bay have proved disappointing for decades, undercut by mismanagement and allegations of corruption.

Francesco Ricci Bitti, president of the influential association representing various Summer Olympic sports, said the Rio Games were in “the most risky position” of any Olympics he can remember.

Calling the bay “dark, brown and stinking,” Lars Grael, 50, a Brazilian sailing legend who has won two Olympic medals, said he had encountered human corpses on four occasions while sailing in the bay. He told reporters that officials should move the sailing events to a resort area hours away by car.

However, authorities in Rio insist nothing of the sort will happen.

Welcome to TradeOnlyToday’s premium content! To continue reading, please register now, for access to 10 free stories per month. Or subscribe, for unlimited access to all TradeOnlyToday content!

Individual subscription: $29 for unlimited site access for one year.

Small Business subscription: $140 for unlimited site access for up to 10 members of a company for one year.

Corporate subscription: $300 for unlimited site access for all members of a company for one year.

Comments are moderated and generally will be posted if they are on-topic and not abusive. For more information, please see our Comments Policy .
