
In 1923, when Annie Sharman conceived the idea of a little recipe book to raise funds for her school community, she had no idea that it would still be in print 90 years later and sell more than half a million copies – not just in South Australia, but all around the world.

Handed down from grandmother to mother to daughter, the Green and Gold Cookery Book has helped feed millions of Baby Boomers and their families with “tried and tested recipes, contributed by experienced housewives and cookery experts”.

The school was King’s College in Norwood (now Pembroke), and the year was 1923.

Members of the school community were asked to contribute recipes, household and laundry hints, remedies and other miscellaneous information.

Green and Gold cookbook.

In that first edition, advertising space was sold by Mesdames C Morris and G McRitchie to help defray the cost of publication, while Annie had the job of receiving, checking and sorting the recipes, most of which were accompanied by a small donation.

Almost 200 contributors had their recipes published in that first printing, their names and suburb recorded under their recipe, and in some cases the full address. For example, Mrs Harry Arbon of 2 Birkdale Avenue in Clarence Park submitted a ‘Sponge Sandwich’, B W Brice of High Street, Unley Park, contributed ‘Soldier’s Biscuits’ while Miss Queenie Bowering of Barker Street, Prospect, offered ‘Honey Candy’. Several men also came up with a recipe including Henry Savage who suggested the method for ‘Peach Marriage’.

In this age of master chefs and foodies, the ingredients and guidelines seem basic and plain. They are the sort of meals I remember as a child growing up in the ‘50s and ‘60s in a family with four children, living on a single income and making do with the cheaper cuts of meat, home grown vegetables in season and homemade biscuits and cakes.

The cookery books that have been handed down through generations within a family, generally include copious hand written notes or extra recipes, some on sheets of writing pad, or scribbled in the notes section at the back of the book.

When I told my wife I was writing an article on the Green and Gold Cookery Book, she was quickly able to produce her mother’s copy, the thirtieth edition, published in 1953.

Her mum also recorded extra ideas, including how to make tasty mince, tomato relish, apricot balls, a cheese cream dip and ‘never fail’ scones.

Gaylene Watson has the second version, printed in Adelaide in 1925, issued by the Combined Congregational and Baptist Churches of South Australia, in aid of the King’s College Fund. Gaylene explains “the preface details how the first edition raised £250 for the College. I can barely read the front cover and all the pages are well worn, with lots of additional recipes and hints added by my grandmother. To me, it’s priceless”.

Jan O’Donohue says: “I have my nana’s original copy, it came down to me when my mum passed away. I treasure it”.

Fiona Ruth has her mother’s leather-bound deluxe version, which cost 7/6 plus 6d if posted.

“It details inside that it is a splendid preparation for housewives and newly married couples. I still use a couple of the recipes, especially the chocolate recipe favoured by Queen Mary”.

Just looking at some of the recipes brings back some bad memories, like ox tongue in jelly, stewed tripe and onions, boiled lettuce, boiled marrow or trombone, spinach, and for dessert, sago or blanc mange. Ugh, food from hell for a kid!

But there are some favourites too: mum’s Irish stew, steak and kidney pie, rabbit pie, bread and butter pudding, rhubarb tart, cream puffs, nutties (biscuits) and all sorts of sponges and cakes.

There’s a special section for ‘invalid cookery’ including instructions on making barley water and beef tea, a cup of gruel or fricasseed brains.

Breakfast dishes included ‘breakfast wonders’, eggs prepared in every possible way, liver with bacon and a formula for the of use stale bread at breakfast time.

Luncheon guidelines suggested homemade camp pie, fricassee of sheep’s tongue, pork and beans and potted mutton.

There is all manner of soups, fish dishes and stews, instructions on how to cook poultry, meats and vegetables, baked, boiled and steamed puddings, custards, pastry, both large and small cakes, biscuits and shortbreads, bread, scones, rolls and savouries.

Of course in that era almost everybody grew large quantities of fruit, so there’s lots of advice on preserving, plus making jams, jellies and marmalades.

Earlier editions also included some whimsical recipes, for example, ‘How to Preserve Husbands’, where men are likened to peaches and ‘unsound ones should be discarded’.

Scones, jam and cream. Devonshire tea.

There was also ‘How to Cook Husbands’, suggesting a “great many husbands are spoiled by mismanagement. Some women go about as if their husbands are bladders and blow them up, others let them freeze by their carelessness and indifference”.

I have a vivid memory of my mother reading out to us the ‘Happy Day Pudding’ instructions, “Take 2 children, according to taste, one skyful of sun, one lawn fresh and green, four trees (shady ones preferred) mix with love and laughter”….and at that point she would grab one of us and make as though she was going to put us in the pot on the stove. There would be squeals of delight and laughter as we’d scurry for a hiding place to avoid being caught.

The Green and Gold Cookery Book holds a special place in the hearts and kitchens of many families not just for the tried and trusted recipes, but also for the memories it generates. And every year for 90 years the tradition has continued.

A quick call to my daughters revealed neither have a Green and Gold, preferring instead to look up a recipe on the internet on taste.com.au , or use a more modern book with metric measures and temperatures.

I know many baby boomers have faithfully kept their own grandmother’s copy, already handed down to them, and they plan to pass it on to their children or the next generation, but more as a keepsake or memento than a practical cookbook.

The Green and Gold Cookery Book will inevitably follow the way of the wood stove or the frying pan full of dripping. But after nine decades, this little volume has proven itself as a more than useful symbol of a generation of housewives and their children who followed in the kitchen.

What are your memories of the Green and Gold Cookery Book? Tell us below.

Want to read past blogs in this series? Check out the “ Adelaide Remember When ” board on The Advertiser’s Pinterest page. This blog features here and on The Advertiser Facebook page every Monday. You can also check out more of Bob’s musings on SA history on his Adelaide Remember When Facebook page .

News.com.au's Privacy Policy includes important information about our collection, use and disclosure of your personal information (including to provide you with targeted content and advertising based on your online activities). It explains that if you do not provide us with information we have requested from you, we may not be able to provide you with the goods and services you require. It also explains how you can access or seek correction of your personal information, how you can complain about a breach of the Australian Privacy Principles and how we will deal with a complaint of that nature.
