
Jakarta. Bilateral relations between Indonesia and Australia seemed to show signs of improvement after President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono gave the order to send the country’s ambassador to our southern neighbor, Najib Riphat Kesoema, back to Canberra no later than this month, easing diplomatic tension between the two countries.

Minister of Foreign Affairs Marty Natalegawa said on Monday that Najib’s reinstatement was meant to be one of many efforts to overhaul the broken stalemate of the two neighboring countries.

Teuku Faizasyah, presidential spokesman for international affairs, said the decision to return Najib to his original post was determined the cooperation and commitment Australia has shown in establishing a code of conduct, “which includes several points involving future spying activities due to the recent foreign surveillance issues,” according to Marty.

The government has ferreted out some common ground with the Australian government and several preconditions have been fulfilled.

Marty said he plans to meet his Australian counterpart, Julie Bishop, next week to further review the code (COC) before both parties agree to its finalization.

“I hope to have a meeting with minister Bishop at the end of this month, hopefully, to review the progress we’ve made in drafting the COC, particularly the details outlining surveillance issues, as well as how to manage asylum seekers and people smuggling,” said Marty, adding that the terms will be an important tool in maintaining peaceful diplomatic relations between the two countries in the future.

“I regularly keep in touch with Julie Bishop to ensure that progress is being made. Right now, we are in the stage of exchanging the COC,” he said.

Indonesia’s foreign affairs chief emphasized the importance of keeping the line of communication between the two governments open, especially during times of discord or disagreement.

“We want to avoid any miscommunication or misunderstandings between the two countries. The last thing we want is increase tension between us during this difficult situation. We need to maintain contact; keep the flow of communication going,” he said.

Indonesia suspended ties of intelligence and military cooperation with its neighbors from the south in November last year when Australia’s Secret Intelligence Service (ASIS) was discovered to have listened in on phone conversations between President Yudhoyono’s inner circle, including Indonesian first lady Ani Yudhoyono, Vice President Boediono, former vice president Jusuf Kalla, the country’s minister of security and the information minister.

However, tension had already begun to stir months before ASIS’ wiretapping activities when conservative Prime Minister Tony Abbott took power in September and promised to fulfill his hard-hitting, asylum-seeker policies, or so-called “boatpeople problem,” with claims that the country’s navy would turn asylum-seeking boats around once they entered Australia’s state waters.

Repeated incidences of boats filled with mistreated asylum seekers washing up Indonesian shores only fueled the hostility boiling between the two neighbors.

Jakarta viewed the “tow-back” plan and intelligence activities as violations against Indonesia’s sovereignty.

Three bilateral partnerships have been cut since then, among others, the intelligence information exchange field, joint-military practices and coordinating patrols on the borders.

Australia confirmed that it would not use its intelligence resources to the impairment of Indonesia and its neighbors, “but we [still] demand its commitment [of the code of conduct],” Abbott said.

Teuku said Indonesia continues to be a strategic partner in trade an business to Australia, but admitted that other bilateral ties, particularly in security and defense, have deteriorated.

“Though our relationship suffered in certain areas, we still managed to maintain a satisfactory connection in others that prove beneficial to both our economies,” he said.

Australia has enjoyed a large amounts of access too Indonesia’s various private and public sectors under Yudhoyono’s reign, which showed signs of waning since trouble began to brew last year. But six months into the suspension, “it looks like one of their [Australia’s] agendas is to strengthen its grasp on our economic sector,” said Teuku.

According to reports made by Reuters on Monday, business leaders have begun to raise concerns that a prolonged rift would seriously hurt trade relations, which was worth around $13 billion last year.

“There’s no point in continuing the conflict,” said Aleksius Jemadu, a political analyst from Pelita Harapan University, adding that the two nations need to move forward and admit they need each other.

Indonesia, he continued, must extend its recent efforts to maintain regional stability to also include Australia.

“Right now, Indonesia wants to increase its leadership role in Asia, while also nurturing its promising economic growth,” he said, referring to the archipelago’s status as the world’s 10th largest economy, contributing 2.3 percent of global economic output with its middle class’ growing purchasing power, according to data from World Bank. This places Indonesia among the economic ranks of the United States, China, Japan, Germany, Russia, England, France and the United Kingdom.

“To do that, the government has to be accessible to any strategic country, and of course, that includes Australia — who strives to maintain friendly ties with China and the US,” he said.

Steps toward rebuilding trust between the two countries were finally made when Australia showed its determination to mend fences by making positive contributions toward establishing a code of conduct with Indonesia.

After fulfilling the first condition on President Yudhoyono’s six-step road map for a full bilateral recovery, the neighbors are currently working on drawing up a Memorandum of Understanding and reaching a mutual consensus, after which an in-depth discussion on the protocol and COC is expected.

Regarding Ambassador Najib’s return to Canberra, Aleksius said the decision reflected a positive attitude from Indonesia.

“Sending back Najib is the wisest decision the government has made so far. The key here is to re-bridge the cracked avenue of communication in order to solve those important yet ‘sensitive’ issues with the Australian government,” he said.

Canberra’s post should not be abandoned, so “Najib’s return is necessary, but not sufficient,” said Bantarto Bandoro, a senior lecturer at the Indonesia Defense University, emphasizing that our country needs to take more concrete steps.

“The two countries should be able to respect each other’s differences and Australia should be more willing to listen to the opinions and ideas of other countries. This will gain Indonesia’s trust,” he said.

Tony Abbott’s decision not to attend Yudhoyono’s invitation at the Open Government Partnership forum recently raised both questions and eyebrows.

However, Aleksius suspected Yudhoyono’s move to invite Abbott had more to do with boosting his own image as he reaches the end of his term in office.

“It’s classic. He’s now focusing on building a personal image and appearing more as a public figure,” he said about the presidents recent efforts.

You just figured it out that there are indeed major differences between Indonesia and Australia past or present. Mutual respect and cooperation would benefit both nations as long as Australia  listens carefully and Indonesia accepts some constructive criticism.

Subscribe to our newsletter to get a briefing on the day's top stories, photos and more.
