
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .

If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .

A hitman serving life in jail wants to be excused from giving evidence at the inquest investigating the murders of police informer Terence Hodson and his wife.

State coroner Ian Gray was on Monday scheduled to open the inquest into the killings of Mr Hodson and wife Christine at their Kew home on May 16, 2004 - a decade ago last Friday - but had to adjourn proceedings to wait on advice from the Australian Crime Commission, which has material that could be relevant to the case.

Hitman Rodney Collins and former drug squad detective Paul Dale were charged with killing the Hodsons after gangland boss Carl Williams implicated both men in the crime when trying to cut a deal with police while in jail awaiting his own sentence for murder.

Williams told police he contracted Collins to kill Hodson on behalf of Mr Dale. In 2003 Hodson told police that Mr Dale was part of a plot to steal cash and drugs from a house in Oakleigh with him and Mr Dale's then colleague, David Miechel.

Both Collins and Mr Dale have maintained their innocence over the Hodsons’ murders and the case against them collapsed when Williams was killed in prison in 2010.

Barrister Chris Traill, representing Collins, told the Coroners Court on Monday his client would apply to be excused from giving evidence, but did not say why.

Mr Traill said he had also only recently learnt of the existence of the ACC material that could be relevant to the inquest, and needed time to go through it.

Collins is serving life in prison over the 1987 murders of Ramon Abbey and his wife, Dorothy.

Mr Dale's barrister, Geoff Steward, told the court he also wanted more time to go through any material that could be made available by the ACC and the Independent Broad-based Anti-corruption Commission.

Judge Gray adjourned the inquest until Friday, by which stage the court expected to hear from the ACC on whether its material could be made available.

Judge Gray said he was conscious of avoiding further delays in the matter because of the impact on the Hodsons' family, but conceded that if the court was told the ACC material would be made available, it could take some time for it to be passed on.

The inquest is scheduled to run for five days.

The stars of television splashed the red carpet with colourful outfits as they headed into the 66th annual Emmy Awards.
