
Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own.

Australian authorities heading the southern Indian Ocean search for Malaysia Airlines MH370 reported that the Chinese ship Zhu Kezhen would begin a bathymetric (seafloor) mapping survey of the area under scrutiny.

In a statement, the joint Australian agency coordinating search efforts for the missing Boeing Boeing 777-200 said that this decision had been reached over the weekend after a meeting between Malaysian, Australian and Chinese authorities in Perth.  There, it was apparently agreed that the Chinese survey ship would, weather permitting, sail for “areas provided by the Australian Transport Safety Board” to begin its mapping operation.

But because these areas of the southern Indian Ocean have probably been never mapped, Pattiaratchi told Forbes.com that this will offer searchers a “pre-survey” to be able to better plan for the next set of MH370 search missions by the U.S. Navy’s Bluefin-21 Autonomous Underwater Vehicle.

Such a bathymetric survey, he says, might also be able to give searchers a better understanding of regions where the Bluefin would be unable to go, simply due to the sheer depth of the ocean.

However, Pattiaratchi notes that because the actual multi-beam bathymetric sonar survey instrument would likely be mounted to the hull of the ship, the Chinese vessel will not be as hamstrung by foul weather as the Bluefin.

“You can cover large areas at pretty high speeds, but it gives you only about a resolution of 100-meters,” said Pattiaratchi.

Meanwhile, after completing its initial sidescan sonar survey some 1500 miles northwest of Perth, the Bluefin arrived at the port of Geraldton, Western Australia on Sunday local time.  There, it was to receive spare transponder parts for both the submersible itself and transponder equipment onboard the Australian Defence Vessel (ADV) Ocean Shield.

As U.S. Navy spokesman Chris Johnson told Forbes.com, the transponders (one on the vehicle and one on the ship) enable the operators to communicate and track the submersible while also allowing the Bluefin to get updated position information from the ship.

The Australians note that the transponder problem became apparent during Bluefin-21′s last week and that once the replacement parts are installed, the Bluefin will be tested in port at Geraldton before proceeding back to the search area.

Although there’s no official word on how long the Chinese seafloor mapping will take, Pattiaratchi says he would expect it to be finished within a matter of days.
