
GBP/AUD Exchange Rate Forecast: The Pound to Australian Dollar exchange rate continued trading higher on Monday even as UK house price concerns pushed the British asset lower against several of its other major peers.Overnight the ‘Aussie’ faltered as violent developments in Vietnam and Ukraine reduced the appeal of higher risk assets and commodity prices fluctuated.

With economic news from Australia lacking, the nation’s Dollar broadly softened in response to the news that the price of iron ore (one of Australia’s major commodities) dipped.

A recent report also indicated that the options market is foretelling the end of the Australian Dollar’s lengthy rally.

The Pound Sterling to Australian Dollar exchange rate is trading up +0.14% at 1.79903 GBP/AUD.

In the opinion of Bloomberg News Agency, the ‘Aussie’ may see a reversal of recent gains as ‘derivatives that give the buyer the option to sell the ‘Aussie’ against the US Dollar [...] have made up a majority of trades for the past five weeks’.

As stated by industry expert Neil Azous; ‘The professional or hedge-fund universe still has a negative bias on the Australian Dollar as a result of being closely linked to China. [Analysis] of the options market suggests there’s a downside bias to Aussie Dollar’.

However, gains in the GBP/AUD pairing were a little restrained as UK house price data put pressure on the Pound.

Bank of England Governor Mark Carney asserted that the surge in UK house prices posed a real threat to the UK’s economic performance and argued that policy makers could do more to limit the increase.

Carney also highlighted the adverse impact of Pound strength on UK exporters.

The BoE chief’s comments came just before a report compiled by Rightmove revealed a 3.6 per cent month-on-month increase in house prices in May.

UK asking prices were up 8.9 per cent on the year.

Sterling softened modestly against the Euro after the data was published.

During local trading Australian Dollar movement may be caused by the nation’s conference board leading index and the minutes from the Reserve Bank of Australia’s recent policy meeting.

If the minutes attempt to talk down the ‘Aussie’ the GBP/AUD pairing could extend its advance.

Save Money on International Payments If you're looking to make an international money transfer , we recommend TorFX as our preferred currency provider.

Sending money overseas over £5000? Free Transfers, No Fees, Best Exchange Rates Request a quote today!

Find the Best Foreign Exchange Rates Today!

Copyright © 2012 Exchange Rates UK - The advice provided on this website is general advice only and does not constitute as a financial recommendation.

All data shown, such as that of the Pound Sterling, dollar or euro exchange rates are indicative of interbank rate and should only be used as an indication of market movement. Exchange Rates UK cannot guarantee the accuracy of the rates being displayed. Please confirm with a FCA regulated foreign exchange broker before entering into any financial      transactions that could be affected by these rates.
