
Fatima Elomar, 29, was arrested as she tried to board a plane with her four children at Sydney Airport on May 3.

Although her lawyer insists she was heading overseas for a family reunion, police allegedly seized a sum of cash and military fatigues from her.

The 29-year-old was taken to Mascot Police Station where she was charged under the Crimes (Foreign Incursions and Recruitment) Act 1978 with supporting incursions into a foreign state with the intention of engaging in hostile activities, reported the ABC .

Authorities confirmed to the ABC that Fatima is married to Mohamed Elomar, who is understood to have left Sydney for Syria in November and is now fighting for the terror group ISIS - the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria.

He is believed to use the alias Abuhafs al Australi. A Facebook page under that name has pictures of his children as well as a photo of him posing in military clothing and holding a weapon.

Mohamed Elomar's uncle, also named Mohamed, was reportedly jailed for plotting to blow up a Sydney army base and his brother Ahmed is due to be sentenced for his role in the 2012 Hyde Park riot.

Al Australi openly declares his loyalty to ISIS - a terrorist group so extreme that it has been rejected even by Al-Qaeda, according to the Washington Post - on the page.

'Whosoever dies without participating in an expedition (jihad) nor having the intention to do so, dies on a branch of hypocrisy,' he wrote.

She was granted conditional bail to appear in court on June 2 after police executed search warrants on properties in Sydney and Brisbane.

Mohamed Elomar used the Abuhafs Al Australi Facebook page earlier this month to make a death threat against a Sydney man who is a critic of ISIS.

Zaky Mallah, a Muslim and outspoken critic of  both sides in the Syrian conflict, told the Mailonline Elomar had threatened violence against him.

'Wait till I send some1 to ur house,' the Facebook post said. 'I'll make sure you pay for what u say.

'Dnt worry I know all about u were u live ur not hard to find its just a matter of time.. I'll get some1 to put u away for good. Put ur teeth in ur throat u munafiq dog.'

As many as 200 Australians, and hundreds of other foreign nationals including UK passport holders,  are believed to have travelled to Syria during the country's civil war to fight with rebel forces engaged in civil warfare with the the army of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.

Last year, Australian couple Amira Karroum and her husband Yousef Ali, from Granville in western Sydney, died in a mortar attack near the city of Aleppo.

Ms Karroum, who attended a private Christian girls' school on the Gold Coast and graduated from university in graphic design, became radicalised after meeting Mr Ali, an American.

She wrote of dying and going to heaven to meet Allah on her Facebook page, and listed her occupation as 'Slave of Allah'. Her title photo had a picture of a garden with the saying, 'Jannah [heaven] is the motive'.

She and Mr Ali died when government forces attacked rebel insurgents, killing dozens of people.

The claim was made by the Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, which says it is the true death toll for the three-year conflict.

The group said it has documented 162,402 deaths since the uprising against President Bashar Assad's government began in March 2011.

The comments below have been moderated in advance.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
