
Robert Copeland, a police commissioner in Wolfeboro, N.H., has resigned after fallout from use of a racial slur to describe President Obama.

An elected police commissioner in Wolfeboro, N.H., who ignited a national firestorm when he used a racist slur to describe President Obama has resigned, town officials said Monday.

Robert Copeland told the chairman of the town’s three-member Police Commission and the police chief that he will leave the office he was slated to hold until 2017, Town Manager David W. Owen said in an interview.

The 82-year-old Copeland became a national story after a resident reported she heard Copeland use the slur when describing Obama. The woman complained to town officials.

When questioned about it, Copeland sent an e-mail acknowledging that he had used the word, but also refusing to apologize.

Copeland’s comments were widely denounced by political leaders, including former Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney who has long had a summer home in the resort town on the shores of Lake Winnipesaukee in the state’s Lakes Region.

Owen said in a telephone interview that Copeland had “tarnished the town’s reputation and brand’’ and that he and the local Chamber of Commerce had received e-mails from people vowing to boycott the town’s businesses, to cancel summer reservations, and to never return.

Linda Murray, chairwoman of the Board of Selectmen, told the Associated Press the town is pleased by Copeland’s decision. ‘‘This gives us the opportunity to move on,” she said.

Copeland acknowledged using the slur at a restaurant in March.

Town officials had said they shared the outrage but were powerless to remove an elected official, the AP reported.

You can now read 10 free articles.

Read it all, now.

Don't miss any of your favorite stories again. Read the stories that matter to you as much as you want, whenever you want when you subscribe to BostonGlobe.com.

The login information you entered does not match an account in our records.

To activate FREE access as a home delivery subscriber start here.

If you don't have a subscription, you can view our digital offers here.

Please check your e-mail for a message from BostonGlobe.com with the subject line "BostonGlobe.com password request." Click the link in the e-mail to choose a new password for BostonGlobe.com, and note that your new password will also be used for your Boston.com membership.

Enter your e-mail address below. We’ll send you an e-mail with a link to reset your password.

Continue reading by subscribing to BostonGlobe.com for just 99¢ .

Continue reading by subscribing to BostonGlobe.com for just 99¢ .

Stay informed with unlimited access to Boston’s trusted news source.
