
Tectonic plates are shifting under Africa. The continent is coming of age and growing in importance. Around the world new alliances, treaties and partnerships are being forged. Globalisation and emergence of a multi-polar world presents new challenges to us all, and new opportunities. But amid this tumult of change some fundamentals remain.

When 61 heads of state and government from Africa and Europe met in Brussels earlier this month, the two-way dialogue was about peace, prosperity and people. It is a conversation that has lasted through the decades.

It has many faces and is ever changing to fit the times. It remains as strong and successful as ever. The partnership between Europe and Kenya is steadfast because we are working together to keep it relevant to and of beneficial to ordinary Kenya ns. That was apparent as we celebrated Europe ’s Week, last week.

As I met students and vets, businessmen and children during the week’s events, I was reminded why development is so important. Future economic growth will depend on investing in public infrastructure and raising living standards, especially for the man, woman and youth in the remotest part of Kenya . That requires serious investment in the basics, such as roads, electricity and water.

Europe has a great role to play as Kenya moves forward economically and democratically. Europe continues to offer a scale and range of support that few other international partners can muster.

In Kenya , Europe helps the government with a broad range of issues from emergency support in humanitarian crises and cooperation against major security threats, to infrastructure investment and development opportunities for the most vulnerable.

Kenya is increasingly setting the direction of how that support is delivered, and rightly so. We welcome the leadership and continued dialogue around priorities, and where we can best help. We recognise that one area where our development aid is most relevant to Kenya is when it can benefit the poorest and most vulnerable.

Europe continues to think big and bold for Kenya ns, as it always has. We were one of the earliest to invest in infrastructure here, and have built or renovated over 2,000km of roads since the 1980s, including more than a third of the Northern Corridor.

Good roads mean Kenya n businesses can sell their goods throughout the region. But ready access to clean water is an even more basic requirement for increasing opportunities for all.

The Europe an Union has partnered with water boards to provide more than 2,000 kilometres of water piping and over a thousand new taps and kiosks.

When I met with families on the shores of Lake Victoria recently, I was reminded how accessible clean water can make a real difference to people’s lives. At the same time, Kenya ’s inward investment climate is improving and increasingly being seen as a place to do business. Europe an companies recently agreed to invest Sh18 billion for the Turkana Wind Project, representing the largest private sector investment Kenya has seen. It will bring 300 megawatts onto the national grid,Â  and at current supply that would be a fifth of the national power.
