
Patients  with a faulty heartbeat want Pradaxa - and their clinicians want them  to have it, too. You can understand why - when the UK authorities  licensed the drug  for treating atrial fibrillation in 2012, it came  with irresistible selling points.

Atrial fibrillation, which affects  1.2 million Britons, raises the risk of stroke fivefold. For years the  usual treatment has been with the blood-thinning drug warfarin.

However,  if you're on warfarin you need frequent monitoring - involving a trek  to the surgery once or twice a week for blood tests - to check the dose  is correct, so that your blood is thin enough for protection, but not so  thin it won't clot at all. Patients on warfarin also have to be careful  about what they eat, as some foods (such as green leafy veg) reduce the  drug's effectiveness.

Warfarin may save lives, but it is an inconvenient solution to say the least.

Then  Pradaxa was launched. Experts reported that it was more effective in  preventing strokes than warfarin; indeed, if it replaced warfarin, 5,000  strokes a year would be prevented. And with Pradaxa, we were told,  patients don't need monitoring and can eat what they want - so patients  could just take it and forget about it. Not surprisingly, the coverage  in the Mail and elsewhere was favourable.

'But patients prefer them and if clinicians  were given carte blanche, I reckon about 50 per cent would be on them,'  says John Camm, professor of clinical cardiology at St. George's,  University of London.

However what we didn't know back in 2012, was  that by then the U.S. authorities had already received more than 1,000  reports of deaths linked to Pradaxa and 12,494 injury reports, according  to the independent Institute for Safe Medication Practices.

The U.S.  drug watchdog, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), said that the  benefits outweighed the risks - and let us be clear, Pradaxa can be a  life-saver.

But as the families and patients affected have pointed  out, the problem was that the drug company didn't properly warn them or  their doctors about the risks.

And as 79-year-old retired accountant  Charles Lewis, from Florida, found, without access to all the  information, even life-saving drugs can become life-threatening.

Mr  Lewis started taking Pradaxa after having a stent - a tiny tube - put  into a blocked artery to keep it open. He'd been on warfarin three years  when he was switched to the new drug to avoid the need for weekly  monitoring.

After he had been on Pradaxa several months, one morning  in 2011 he woke up feeling 'pretty terrible' - after becoming  increasingly exhausted he'd also noticed his stools were black.

'But  I forced myself to go into work' - he has a part-time job as a cashier  at a hardware store. 'I had always been a good worker and I didn't want  to let my colleagues down.'

It was a blessing he did go in because a  short while later Charles, who lives alone, collapsed at work. He'd  suffered a massive haemorrhage in his stomach and needed four blood  transfusions.

Charles is one of more than 2,300 people in the U.S. now suing the manufacturer, Boehringer Ingelheim.

One  of the claims is that they weren't warned that the anti-clotting effect  of Pradaxa can't be reversed quickly. If you start bleeding badly on  warfarin, a dose of vitamin K can start your blood clotting normally  again.

But with Pradaxa more elaborate emergency procedures such as  blood transfusions or dialysis (filtering the blood) are needed until  the drug is cleared, which can take hours.

While  drug information stated there wasn't an antidote, those suing say that  the information for dealing with a Pradaxa bleed was inadequate.

But there is another worrying claim about the drug.

Earlier  this year lawyers for the patients uncovered internal company emails  indicating that around a fifth of those taking Pradaxa can actually end  up with too much or too little of the drug in their bloodstream - too  much would make any bleed dangerous, while too little would provide  inadequate protection against stroke.

In other words, Pradaxa, like warfarin, might need monitoring after all.

The internal emails showed that a company  scientist checking the data from a major trial noticed that some  patients had either too much or too little of the drug in their  bloodstream, even though they were all taking the same dose. Crucially  the scientist's report said: 'Monitoring would be required to identify  these patients.'

But the response of a senior executive was to cover  it up: 'Is it really wanted to publish this? This will make any defence  of no monitoring extremely difficult.'

This was correct, of course. The finding threatened to undermine Pradaxa's key selling point - that it didn't need monitoring.

The  drug company has since claimed there was nothing sinister about this.  'The emails just represent small fragments of the robust discussion and  debate that is vital to medications such as Pradaxa,' said a  spokesperson.

But other incidents have raised eyebrows. One was the  fine of almost a million dollars imposed by judges on Boehringer  Ingelheim last December when lawyers were gathering evidence.  When any  U.S. company is sued, it has to release internal emails, documents and  reports relating to the case. Lawyers complained that much of the  material they'd asked for had gone missing.

It is impossible not to wonder what was in those disappeared files.

And  then there are the odd events surrounding the university that helped  run the main trial, and which is now also being sued by the patients.

The  allegations against McMaster - a top Canadian university - relate to an  FDA investigation about the reliability of the data being collected, in  particular discrepancies in the number of side-effects reported by the  university team and the company.

However the company checked and represented their findings and the FDA approved the drug for use.

Expert  opinion is divided about whether those emails, disappeared documents  and allegations of poor data gathering represent a threat to patients.  The issue won't be thrashed out in court until later in the year.

Tom  Moore, the senior scientist at the Institute for Safe Medication  Practices (ISMP), is concerned that the way this drug has been developed  is not in patients' interests.

'The emails showed that there is a  blood level of Pradaxa that, like warfarin, patients need to stay  within. That was an opportunity to make it safer. Instead it appears the  commercial instinct to sell more drugs won out.'

A report this  month from the ISMP claims that the bleeding risk of Pradaxa could be  substantially reduced if there was a laboratory test to identify  patients who needed their dose adjusting.

However, Lisa Schwartz,  professor of medicine at Dartmouth College in New Hampshire, has more  confidence in what we have been told about Pradaxa. She runs a company  analysing patient safety data held by the FDA.

She admits the emails don't look good but says: 'You can understand being worried about commercial advantage.'

'There is no doubt that the ability of the drug to cut the risk of brain bleeds is of real benefit'

More  importantly, she thinks the emails show that perhaps we should rethink  how we test for safety. 'Where the stakes are really high, it's crazy  that we put so much responsibility for safety into the hands of people  who have such a conflict of interests.'

In the UK drug side-effects  are recorded under the Yellow Card scheme - since 2009, there have been  2,300 yellow card reports for Pradaxa, of which 81 were fatal. Warfarin  saw 3,022 'adverse events' (i.e. reports of side-effects), and 399  deaths - but there were many more prescriptions for warfarin handed out  last year: 10 million compared with Pradaxa's 180,000.

There are signs of expert disagreement about Pradaxa in the pages of the BMJ a few months ago.

Mark  Davies, an anaesthetist at Royal Liverpool and Broadgreen University  Hospitals NHS Trust, Liverpool, warned about the lack of antidote: 'For  patients with major bleeding, an inability to rapidly reverse the  anticoagulant effect may seriously compromise the clinical outcome and  even render the situation unsalvageable.'

But Newport GP Sam Lewis pointed out the major trial on Pradaxa shows fewer deaths using it, even though there's no antidote.

'We are guided by NICE, which says the drug is safe and appropriate for the right patients,' said a spokesperson.

It  is worth noting that the Australian authorities have been more cautious  about licensing Pradaxa - in 2013 they were still demanding more  research. At one point the drug company was fined £60,000 for organising  a campaign urging Australians to sign a petition demanding the drug be  made available. The drug is now approved - but only for patients 'unable  to achieve adequate anti-coagulation with warfarin'.

Given that we  currently have to rely on drug companies for details about the safety of  their products, GP and BMJ columnist Dr Des Spence suggests we need a  better checking system when drugs are released.

'New drugs are always  claimed to be better and safer than previous ones,' he says. 'But you  can't really tell how good they are until they have been widely used for  a while. Ideally they would be carefully monitored, especially one that  clearly has a high risk such as Pradaxa, but the system we have at the  moment is woefully inadequate.'

'We  should be deeply concerned that there are suggestions that any data on  Pradaxa is lost or inaccurate, for there's a litany of examples of  wonder drugs that turn out to be dangerous once widely prescribed,'  continues Dr Spence.

'Drug companies are conflicted, having the  potential to make billions from new medications. This makes me always  concerned about the quality of their research.'

Drug companies do not have a good history when it comes to honesty about side-effects.

both withdrawn from the market after they were linked  to dangerous side-effects, effects that the manufacturers had known  about but concealed for years.

However, the drug industry says it's becoming more transparent.

Last  year, for instance, GlaxoSmithKline said it would share the results of  its clinical trials since 2000. And figures from the Association of the  British Pharmaceutical Industry show that 89 per cent of all  industry-sponsored clinical trials for new medicines had some results  disclosed within a year.

So have the emails changed UK clinicians'  view of Pradaxa? 'They've shown the company was keen to avoid  illuminating the issue of monitoring, which is something we needed to be  told about,' says Professor Camm. 'It's clear that one dose doesn't fit  all, so we'd all like the ability to do spot checks on patients' blood  levels but not as intensely as with warfarin.

'For patients with major bleeding, an inability to rapidly reverse the anticoagulant effect may seriously compromise the clinical outcome'

'At the moment there is  one simple but not very useful test and one very sophisticated one that  few hospitals can do. But there is no doubt that the ability of the  drug to cut the risk of brain bleeds is of real benefit. They are the  ones most likely to cause strokes that too often leave people dead or  severely incapacitated.'

A test is clearly something that might have  made all the difference to Charles Lewis that morning he went to work  feeling so ill.

He, thankfully, is alive. Many of the other cases are  being brought by the families of patients who have died. Some from  major gastrointestinal bleeding like Mr Lewis, others from a relatively  mild bleed that should have been easy to staunch but, possibly because  of the lack of an antidote, the flow couldn't be stopped.

How  much Pradaxa was responsible for Mr Lewis's massive bleed has yet to be  decided,  but it was clearly a dreadful experience for him.

'I've  had 26 operations - six on my heart, five angioplasties (to widen blood  vessels) seven on my knees, including two replacements - and I can tell  you this business with blood pouring into my stomach was the worst. The  others were a piece of cake by comparison.'

Boehringer Ingelheim  told the Mail: 'Research doesn't support the idea Pradaxa needs  monitoring. The original trial that showed it was more effective than  warfarin didn't use monitoring.

'The best guide is facts about the patient - their age, health of their kidneys any other drugs they are taking.'

As for whether there should be an antidote for the drug, the firm responded: 'No, without one it is better than warfarin.

'Other  anticoagulant medicines such as heparin and aspirin don't have an  antidote. The measures used with warfarin to control bleeding work as  well for Pradaxa.

'Even so we are developing an antidote to instantly reverse the anticoagulant effects in patients with uncontrolled bleeding.'

The comments below have not been moderated.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
