
Manama, May. 19. (BNA) -- The American Chamber of Commerce Bahrain today announced that it has partnered with FinMark Communications, a leading Bahrain and London based business communications consultancy, in support of ongoing efforts to further strengthen its channels of communications and outreach to member companies and the community at large. FinMark is a member of AmCham.

According to the agreement, FinMark will work closely with AmCham to further develop its strategy for engaging with stakeholders and building awareness of AmCham efforts and initiatives in support of member companies. The organizations will also work together to enhance participation at AmCham events in the Kingdom and abroad, each focused on providing member companies and individuals a platform for business development, networking and the sharing of insight on key economic opportunities and challenges.

At the same time, as part of the partnership FinMark also expressed its willingness to provide AmCham members - across sectors - with communications services to similarly bolster their own presence and profiles in the regional and international markets through strategic communications advice and consultancy. FinMark currently provides communications services to leading financial institutions, professional services firms, industrial companies and family businesses across the GCC and internationally.

Commenting, Mr. Qays Hatim Zu'bi, President, AmCham Bahrain, stated, "We are pleased to partner with our member FinMark Communications to help build awareness of the many benefits AmCham membership provides to businesses in the Kingdom. For many years, AmCham has played an important role in supporting business connectively and our agreement with FinMark will enable us to keep our stakeholders better apprised of our activities on their behalf and, importantly, of the business development opportunities we are creating and which are available for them to leverage."

Zahraa Taher, Managing Director of FinMark Communications, added, "As a specialist in business to business and investor marketing and communications, FinMark is delighted to join AmCham in promoting the organization and its initiatives. As members ourselves, we have benefited greatly from the unique platform AmCham provides to businesses of all sizes and across sectors to engage with business leaders, expand their networks and ultimately achieve business goals. We look forward to helping AmCham enhance its member relations and the way in which it communicates its services and upcoming activities and events to Bahrain's business community."

There will be a Business Networking Lunch on 4 June 12:30 to 2:00pm featuring a distinguished speaker on a current topic of interest to our members.  (we don’t have a confirmed speaker yet since we are trying to fill the slot formally filled with the Business Seminar now being rescheduled to October).
