
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

Gun control groups file lawsuit to force NJ attorney general to report on 'smart guns'

Proponents said these smart guns would  prevent children from accidentally shooting unsecured weapons owned by their parents. Opponents said they would hinder gun owners when an assailant invaded their homes.

But then the debate largely died because the law had one big “if.” Nothing would happen, it stipulated, until the technology actually existed.

Now the smart guns are being manufactured — and the fight over them is being revived.

Today, gun control advocates filed a lawsuit aimed at forcing New Jersey’s attorney general to issue reports that could usher in the smart gun requirements in New Jersey.

“This is a very straightforward lawsuit. This was an extraordinarily important law that was passed, that was designed to save lives,” said Gregory Little, an attorney for The Brady Center to Prevent Gun Violence, at a Statehouse press conference.

New Jersey’s law, signed in 2002 by then-Gov. James E. McGreevey, said the state’s smart gun requirements would kick in within three years of when it became available for sale in the United States. Because the technology did not exist then, the law required the attorney general to determine when it became available for sale and produce progress reports to the state Legislature every six months.

Such a gun has now been manufactured by the German company Armatix. It was shipped to gun dealers in California and Maryland, but gun rights activists convinced those dealers not to sell them for fear of triggering the New Jersey law — the only one of its kind in the nation.

The Maryland store owner, Andy Raymond, recently made an internet video in which  he said he received “numerous death threats” over his effort to sell the gun. Raymond said he still believed he was in the right to offer the gun, but conceded that “maybe I was wrong” and apologized to New Jersey gun owners.

Gun control advocates today said the state attorney general’s office has been shirking its responsibilities because it has not produced  smart gun reports as required by the law..

Carole Stiller, president of the Mercer County Million Mom March, which is a co-plaintiff in the lawsuit, said she was told one report was produced under McGreevey’s administration in 2003. Since then, all gubernatorial administrations from both political parties have not filed the reports.

“Frankly, I’m shocked that over the past decade the attorney general has not complied with this law,” Stiller said.

Donna Dees-Thomases, founder of the Million Mom March, said the lack of action only came to activists’ attention after the school shooting in Newtown, Conn. that left 26 people dead, including 20 children.

“It wasn’t because (Gov. Chris) Christie is a Republican. But because in Newtown, there was a new reality in our world,” Dees-Thomases said.

Little said the lawsuit seeks a “simple ” and “straightforward” remedy. “We want the attorney general to do his job and issue a report,” he said.

Paul Loriquet, a spokesman for the attorney general’s office, said the office would not comment on pending litigation.

State Sen. Loretta Weinberg (D-Bergen), who sponsored the law, said she’s willing to repeal it if the NRA agrees to stop opposing the retail roll-out of  smart guns.

"I would be willing to work to repeal this law if, in fact, the NRA and the gun owners of America would make a public declaration that they will not stand in the way of the research, development, manufacture and distribution of a child-proof gun,” she said.

Check here if you do not want to receive additional email offers and information.

Thank you for your subscription!

To view and subscribe to any of our other newsletters, please click here .

© 2014 New Jersey On-Line LLC. All rights reserved ( About Us ).

The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of New Jersey On-Line LLC.

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
