
The election of a new government in India opens up new vistas  for Sri Lanka’s relationship with its closest neigbour. With his congratulatory  phone call to the Indian Prime Minister-elect Narendra Modi,President Mahinda  Rajapaksa took the initiative to rebuild ties with India. Relations with India  have grown strained due to the Indian stance on issues relating to the country’s  Tamil problem and the government’s prevarication regarding promises of  devolution of power made to the Indian government. The President’s ability to  get a phone call through a very busy Narendra Modi just after his party’s  victory at the election was being announced shows the special nature of the  relationship that Sri Lanka can enjoy with India. This is an opportunity that  comes from both geography and history and needs to be carefully built upon so  that it is an asset and not a liability.

The fact that Sri Lanka’s estranged Tamil community is bound by  kinship and close cultural ties with the Tamils who inhabit southern India links  the two countries together with bonds that are permanent. This is a reality that  any Sri Lankan government will have to both acknowledge and cope with. For the  past three decades, and coinciding with the period of the war, the major feature  of Sri Lanka’s relationship with India has been its ethnic conflict. Since the  end of the war, relations with the South Indian state of Tamil Nadu have  plunged, with even visitors from Sri Lanka liable on occasion to be subjected to  attack on its streets. It has been to the Sri Lankan government’s advantage that  the BJP won the election decisively and does not need the support of regional  parties, including the dominant party in Tamil Nadu.

With the advent of the BJP government, the Sri Lankan government  has an opportunity to reach a new understanding with their counterparts in India  and reach a new understanding that will be mutually acceptable. In this regard  there are two factors that favour the Sri Lankan government. The first is the  overwhelming size of the parliamentary mandate given to the BJP which makes it  less reliant on regional parties, such as the AIDMK headed by the Chief Minister  of Tamil Nadu state which has been both hostile and demanding towards the Sri  Lankan government. Second is the fact that Indian Prime Minister-elect Modi has  little reason to view Western policy on the contentious issue of human rights  with favour, as he himself has been pursued by them on account of the mass  anti-Muslim riots in Gujarat while Modi was Chief Minister.

Although the war is now over more than five years the political  roots that gave rise to war have yet to be addressed by the Sri Lankan  government. The last occasion on which there was progress in taking Sri Lanka  from its status of a post-war country (in which there is no more war) to a  post-war country (in which there is national reconciliation) was in September  last year. This was when the government held provincial elections in the  Northern Province. The issue of Tamil self-rule and in those areas in which they  constitute a majority in the North and East was one of the driving forces of the  three decade long war. The establishment of the Northern Provincial Council for  the first time since the provincial system was established 26 years earlier was  welcomed by most of the people of the North, by those in civil and political  society who seek an answer to the root of the ethnic conflict, and also by the  international community. It was praised as a positive outcome of the end of the  war.

However, more than eight months after the establishment of the  Northern Provincial Council, Sri Lanka has yet to make progress in its journey  to become a post-war society in which the roots of war have been eliminated and  reconciliation has begun to dawn. The provincial council has been rendered  dysfunctional due to the refusal of centrally appointed authorities to relax  their controls. There is a sense of stagnancy where negotiated and mutually  acceptable post-war political reform is concerned. The two most important  post-war issues that have to be dealt with are being completely sidelined with  far more emphasis given to other matters. The fact that there is no war is  welcomed by all right thinking citizens and most of them will give the  government due credit for this. However, to transform a country from being  post-war to being post-conflict requires the roots of conflict be addressed.

India’s approach to conflict resolution in Sri Lanka so far has  been to seek the devolution of power to the Tamil-majority areas, which would  assuage the sense amongst the Tamil people that they are a marginalized  community without access to state power. Under the previously dominant  Congress-led governments, the Indian solution to Sri Lanka’s conflict has been  to implement the 13th Amendment and provincial council system it established,  and ensure the maximum possible devolution of power to the Tamil-majority areas.  However, this solution has never been fully acceptable to successive Sri Lankan  governments, and is fundamentally at odds with the present government’s policy  of centralization of power and national security. It is possible that the new  Indian government leadership will not be wedded to the old modes of conflict  resolution and be more open to new ways of addressing issues within Sri Lanka.

In these circumstances even as nothing is fundamentally changing  on the ground, there is also no evident political challenge to the government  that comes from the opposition. Instead there is a sense that Sri Lanka is  stable and the government can continue to be as it is. The political opposition  continues to be divided and unable to mount a serious challenge to it. Still the  government cannot be satisfied or be at peace with itself because there is a  looming threat that will not go away. This is on account of the issue of  accountability in which the international community is involved. After the third  UNHRC resolution in Geneva the UN machinery on accountability has started to  work. A budget has been approved and now the members of the investigation team  are to be appointed. The international machinery is on the move and will  continue to move even if the government acts as if nothing is happening. There  is speculation that targeted sanctions may be applied to Sri Lanka as they were  to Russia. The Indian position can be decisive.

All Rights Reserved.

Solution by Lankacom .
