
American, British and French Intelligence services are convinced that Assad continues to use chemical weapons against his people. As I’ve previously noted , for the Obama Administration, this is a triple disaster: strategic (the Russian-brokered WMD deal has been rendered a tragic farce), political (domestic perceptions of Obama’s leadership have suffered), and humanitarian (Syrians continue to choke to death).

Still, for three reasons, I believe Obama might soon enforce his ‘‘red line’’ with US military force.

1)  Obama doesn’t need Congress to approve military action. Nor would America have to act alone.

Since September 2013, when Obama withdrew his Syria authorisation of force request from Congress, many have claimed  that future American military action against Assad is inconceivable. The truth is quite different. While Obama would face significant criticism were he to order military action without Congressional approval, he has deliberately retained that very option. On August 31 2013, explaining his original decision to go to Congress, Obama stated ‘‘…. I believe I have the authority to carry out this military action without specific congressional authorisation…’’ It’s not just Obama’s opinion,  the legal precedent for a President's authority to order limited military operations is largely uncontroversial.

Obama is also aware that the US wouldn’t have to act alone. While Britain has effectively ruled out using military force, France is doing just the opposite. Last Tuesday, declaring that Assad has used chemical weapons at least 14 times in recent months, the French foreign minister openly lamented last September's policy choices.

2)   The US Military has pre-positioned capabilities that would enable military action.

The USS George HW Bush carrier strike group is in the region and could be close to Syria within a short period of time. Interestingly, the French Carrier, Charles de Gaulle, recently completed five weeks of joint operations with an American sister carrier of the George HW Bush. This co-operation will have fostered a shared understanding of tactics, techniques and procedures (a crucial advantage regarding potential future military action). Moreover, the US Navy also has a number of Cruise-missile armed destroyers and submarines in the Mediterranean Sea. Taken together, these assets would allow the US and/or France to launch limited "stand-off" (beyond the range of Syrian air defences) strikes against Assad-regime targets. While the U.S. Military has always been uncomfortable with potential strikes – watch this telling exchange between John Kerry and the US Chairman of the Joint Chiefs – the President is the Commander in Chief. The military will follow his orders without question.

3)  Ordering military strikes now, the Obama Administration might hope to address critical strategic challenges.

US foreign policy credibility has been greatly damaged by the "red line" fiasco. This is especially true in the Middle East , where American allies believe Iran has been empowered by the President’s failure to use force. Correspondingly, were Obama to act against Assad, he would reassure his strategic partners of America’s continued deterrent posture. Similarly, as nuclear negotiations with Iran continue to struggle , military action against Assad would send an unmistakable signal: reminding Iran that the Presidential seal carries arrows as well as an olive branch. Obama might hope that military action against Assad would encourage Iran into concessions. Finally, Obama might realistically believe that striking Assad would reduce the likelihood of unilateral Israeli military action against Iran (a possibility greatly underestimated by many commentators).

Anyway, let me know your thoughts.
