
Most great-grandmothers, having undergone surgery involving 33 cm of intestine being removed, might take it easy afterwards, perhaps recovering with a cup of tea in front of daytime TV. But one 85-year-old is nursing herself back to health in a rather less traditional way.

As Britain's reputed oldest 'lady of the night', Sheila Vogel-Coupe, grandmother of Katie Waissel, who shot to fame in 2010's X-Factor, is sticking to her sideline of pleasuring male clients.

Although she's lightened her workload, she's hoping to get to work full time, and is proud that she's still seeing to clients only 8 weeks after her surgery. 'I don't think I'll ever stop,' she says.

Sheila, who appears in a new Channel 4  documentary My Granny The Escort, due to air next week, explains her unusual late-life career choice: 'The most important reason is because I love sex. Even  thinking about it makes me feel better,' she says.

'Young men see something about me. It is a nice feeling. Often men call me up and they say please go on talking because you're turning me on. I'm very very sexy,' she says.

The mother of three, grandmother of 3 and great-grandmother of 2, only became a prostitute four years ago, at the ripe old age of 81. she says she missed having male company since the death of her aeronautical engineer husband in 2004, so turned to selling her body as a solution to loneliness.

Sadly,  if not surprisingly, Sheila's job has created rifts in her  family, so much so that she only remains on speaking terms with one of her  three daughters.

At the time of the expose, during 2010's X-Factor, it was reported that Katie screamed down the phone when she found out her grandmother was a £250-an-hour prostitute.

'You'd think I had committed a murder,' Sheila says of her family's reaction to the expose, which she was tricked into by a reporter from newspaper New of The World, which has since been shut down.

'They couldn't believe it. I said, "What do you think I've done?" But everyone thinks about things differently I guess.

'They wanted me to promise I would never do it again, but I told them to stuff it,' says Sheila.

Since then only her daughter Josie has forgiven her mother for revealing her shocking secret.

'It is difficult,' admits Josie. 'But if I told her not to do it, she'd still do it -- but she wouldn't tell me. If she goes off to a hotel I make her ring me first and after -- there are some nutcases around.

'She'll never stop because she wouldn't be happy,' she adds.

At the time of the expose in 2010 Sheila described Katie's reaction as 'vicious and vile'. 'She screamed and shouted at me, saying "What are you doing to Mummy, what are you doing to the family?"

'She thinks I heaped shame on them. But I told her, "I'm doing what I enjoy - just leave me to do what I want to do."

'I'm proud to be a prostitute. I love what I do. I love sex,' she said. She has even extended an invitation to X Factor supremo Cowell: 'Simon's welcome any time.'

Sheila, who goes by the name Grand Dame Cecilia Bird on the website for escort agency Mature Courtesans, has bedded men as young as 20 and even made kinky sex tapes, which she proudly plays on the Channel 4 documentary.

'It makes me feel good that at the age I am, I’ve preserved my body so well and men love it. It's lovely to still be sexy at my age. I mean, look at this, announces Sheila.

So does she do it for the sexual thrills or the company? 'I think it's both,' Sheila admits.

'It doesn't begin and end with sex, there's also companionship. I've been on my own for the last 8 or 9 years and I do get lonely. So I do like the companionship of a gentleman.'

'I really have no inhibitions,' she adds, and says she doesn't feel guilty about seeing clients who are married.

'Some of my clients have a fetish and want  to call me mummy, auntie or grandma. I think it is a bit weird,' Sheila told The Sun back in 2010.

'It seems to be the 'in' thing. All the younger men want older women and I'm the oldest one at my agency, possibly the oldest in the country.

'I  asked one, "What do you want with an old lady like me?" He said,  "Because you're experienced, intelligent. Give me some intelligent conversation."'

At the time, X Factor finalist Katie's  sister Natalie Davis said in a statement: 'We were completely shocked  and devastated to hear the news that my grandmother has been conducting  immoral activities, including prostitution and pornography.

'We, as a family, disassociate ourselves wholly from these activities and from any future stories that arise from them.'

In the aftermath, Sheila admitted to reporters that Katie's mother Diana, her daughter, was furious with her actions.

'Diana called me a f***ing wh*** and her husband called me a wrinkly saggy old lady.

'The family are very embarrassed about it and Diana is making a big thing out of it to try to get Katie publicity and sympathy.'

But twice-married Mrs Vogel-Coupe, who has also appeared in a porn film, is defiant.

'I work as a prostitute because I love it,' she declared. 'It gives me great satisfaction and keeps me young.

'I think of myself as a refined lady giving a very special service men are not going to get anywhere else.

'I've had a few celebrity clients but I would never say who they were. They worked in the music industry and TV and things.

'I like to make men happy and content. I have no inhibitions. I love people. I'm an outgoing personality who lives in the 21st century.'

The comments below have been moderated in advance.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
