
Wempy Dyocta Koto.

Jakarta. Award-winning entrepreneur Wempy Dyocta Koto joins Global Indonesian Voices (GIV) as Chairman of its newly formed Board of Advisors (BOA). Named by Fortune as one of Indonesia’s “40 Under 40”, Wempy is the Chief Executive Officer of both Wardour and Oxford (London, UK) and venture capital firm Systec Group (Jakarta, Indonesia).

Founded on 16 July 2013, GIV’s vision is to be a valuable lens into the world’s fourth most populous country, Indonesia. The creation of the BOA, in addition to the appointment of Wempy as its Chairman, is aligned to GIV’s strategic vision of becoming a credible, impactful and vital media brand.

“The GIV family warmly welcomes Wempy, a celebrated Indonesian diaspora. We believe that Wempy, with his reputation, experience and network, can greatly propel GIV towards its vision,” said Maulana Bachtiar, GIV Co-Founder and CEO.

As BOA Chairman, Wempy will be advancing the vision, mission and ambitions of its founders Harry Akbar Sutiono, Maulana Bachtiar and Tony Sugiarta.

Indonesian media, political and business leaders cite Wempy Dyocta Koto as one of the nation’s most accomplished and prominent figures of all-time. He was born in Padang Panjang at West Sumatra, but entirely educated in Australia and The Netherlands. Professionally, Wempy has worked in London, San Francisco, Hong Kong, Singapore, Sydney and Jakarta on global assignments for American Express, Microsoft, Sony, Citigroup, SAP, Samsung, BP, LG Electronics, BT and Lenovo.

In 2013, Wempy was awarded Asia’s highest entrepreneurial accolade – the Asia Pacific Entrepreneurship Award. He was also named by the United Nations award-winning communications agency Strategic Objectives as one of the world’s 200 leading social CEOs, in a list led by Oprah Winfrey, Bill Gates and Richard Branson.

“Further to our meetings with Wempy at London and Jakarta, we are truly honoured to announce his appointment as GIV’s BOA Chairman. Wempy shares our vision, passion and commitment for Indonesia, when once combined with his authority, experiences, successes, connections and knowledge, serve as a powerful single springboard for launching Global Indonesian Voices into the future”, concluded Co-Founder and Editor-in-Chief Maulana Bachtiar.

Global Indonesian Voices (GIV) is Indonesia’s first independent online media, established for ‘Connecting Indonesia to the World‘ by publishing independent news and stories written by and for Indonesians and Indonesia-philes all around the world.
