
A group is evacuated by boat over flooded streets in the town of Obrenovac, 40 kilometers west of Belgrade, on May 17, 2014.

Prime Minister Aleksandar Vucic said today 12 bodies were discovered in the town of Obrenovac, 25 kilometers southwest of the capital, amid concern more will be found, the state-owned Tanjug newswire reported. The previous official death toll was five.

Serbia declared a state of emergency on May 15, after record rainfall triggered floods that killed at least five people in one day. More than 24,000 have been evacuated and some 7,000 homes left without electricity, Predrag Maric, the head of the Serbian Interior Ministry’s emergencies unit, said.

Russia , the European Union, the U.S., Turkey and Belarus have sent helicopters, planes, rescue units and life-saving equipment. Donors have been asked to provide canned and baby food, medicines and disinfectants, Vucic said. The government has also mobilized psychologists to assist people at shelters.

Heavy rain initially hit the western parts of Serbia, bordering Bosnia, where six people were found dead. Two were missing in eastern Croatia , state radio reported, citing local police. In Serbia and Bosnia, where more than two million people have been affected, the army was preparing to clean and disinfect areas where receding waters exposed dead bodies and animals.

The United Nations will send its specialized teams to Serbia and “is fully mobilized and stands ready to provide the government with support in coordinating the international emergency assistance,” its office in Belgrade said in an e-mail.

The World Bank will consider releasing some aid from its emergency fund to help Serbia recover from the disaster and “the International Monetary Fund also expressed understanding for the hardship and pressures on the budget resulting from this,” Economy Minister Dusan Vujovic said in an e-mail.

Finance Minister Lazar Krstic told private TV broadcaster Pink that contact has been made with the European Investment Bank about 30-year loans, and central bank governor Jorgovanka Tabakovic told newspaper Blic the government will organize public works to rebuild towns, roads and rail tracks.

Press spacebar to pause and continue. Press esc to stop.

U.S.

U.S.
