
A federal jury in New York City on Monday morning found Muslim imam Abu Hamza guilty of supporting terrorist acts committed by Islamist groups such as al-Qaida , according to Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara.

The jury heard testimony and saw evidence that the 56-year-old Hamza assisted the Islamist kidnappers of tourists in Yemen in 1998 and that he tried to establish a terrorist training camp in Oregon. While the evidence against him was overwhelming, Hamza, who was an active cleric in the United Kingdom and was extradited to the United States in 2012, denied all the charges.

A federal judge will impose sentence later this year. Hamza is facing a life sentence.

Abu Hamza became a well-known radical Muslim in the U.K. after a series of sermons he gave outside a London mosque. In one of those sermons, he praised the al-Qaida terrorists who perpetrated the Sept. 11, 2001 attacks.

He was extradited from the U.K. to the U.S. after spending seven years in a British prison for inciting murder and hate speech. In New York, the federal jury of eight men and four women reached a unanimous guilty verdict on all 11 terror charges.

Manhattan US Attorney Preet Bharara said: "The defendant stands convicted, not for what he said, but for what he did. Abu Hamza was not just a preacher of faith, but a trainer of terrorists. Once again our civilian system of justice has proven itself up to the task of trying an accused terrorist and arriving at a fair and just and swift result."

Rep. Darrell Issa believes former Internal Revenue Service official Lois Lerner broke the law in singling out certain conservative organizations for extra scrutiny between 2010 and 2012, and that her attorney has lied about her role to protect her.

If you have any information on the identity of the suspects shown in this video, please call Crime Stoppers Atlanta at 404-577-TIPS(8477).

Anthony Reddick leaves a Nassau County courtroom on Aug. 25, 2014 after pleading guilty to 21 animal cruelty charges.
