
Each year the OAS Secretary General publishes a proposed Program-Budget for the coming calendar year.  The OAS General Assembly meets in a Special Session to approve the Program-Budget.  Find these documents from 1998-2013 here.

Each year in April, the OAS Board of External Auditors publishes a report covering the previous calendar year’s financial results.  Reports covering 1996-2013 may be found here.

About six weeks after the end of each quarter of each year, the OAS publishes a Quarterly Management and Performance Report, which since 2013 includes reporting on programmatic results.  The full texts may be found here.

Here you will find data on the Human Resources of the OAS, including its organizational structure, each organizational unit’s staffing, vacant posts, and performance contracts.

The OAS executes a variety of projects funded by donors. Evaluation reports are commissioned by donors.  Reports of these evaluations may be found here.

The Inspector General provides the Secretary General with reports on the audits, investigations, and inspections conducted. These reports are made available to the Permanent Council.  More information may be found here.

The OAS has discussed for several years the real estate issue, the funding required for maintenance and repairs, as well as the deferred maintenance of its historic buildings.  The General Secretariat has provided a series of options for funding it.  The most recent document, reflecting the current status of the Strategy, is CP/CAAP-3211/13 rev. 4.

Here you will find information related to the GS/OAS Procurement Operations, including a list of procurement notices for formal bids, links to the performance contract and travel control measure reports, the applicable procurement rules and regulations, and the training and qualifications of its staff.

The Secretary General of the Organization of American States (OAS), José Miguel Insulza, met today with the President of the National Executive Committee of the Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI) of Mexico, César Camacho Quiroz, at the headquarters of hemispheric institution.

Secretary General Insulza and Camacho Quiroz talked about the agenda of the next OAS General Assembly , which will take place on June 3-5 in Asuncion, Paraguay. The OAS Secretary General and the President of PRI agreed on the importance of the central theme of the Assembly, "Development with Social Inclusion," and both highlighted the opportunity it presents for the countries of the region to reach agreements with the objective of tackling the problem of inequality that is affecting all countries in the Western Hemisphere.

Secretary General Insulza and Camacho Quiroz also discussed the reforms that the government of the President of Mexico, Enrique Peña Nieto, is implementing in his country related to strategic issues such as education, energy, political - electoral issues, and public finance. The PRI President also told the OAS leader about the process of transformation underway in his party.

During his visit with the OAS Secretary General, the PRI President was accompanied by the Permanent Representative of Mexico to the OAS, Emilio Rabasa; the President of the Colosio Foundation, Adrián Gallardo; the Secretary of International Affairs of the Executive Committee of the PRI, Javier Vega; the Strategy Coordinator of the PRI, Arturo Huicochea; and the Secretary of Institutional Communication of the PRI, Alfonso Camacho.

For more information, please visit the OAS Website at www.oas.org .
