
Thyme oil is more effective at relieving period pain than ibuprofen, according to a new study.

Researchers from the Babol University of Medical Sciences in Iran conducted a test with 84 female students and found that the natural remedy - widely available at health food stores - provided quicker relief from menstrual stomach cramps than its 'man-made' counterpart.

They highlight that the plant extract, which should be applied to the abdominal area and not taken internally, also comes without the possible unpleasant side effects of ibuprofen, which can include gastrointestinal bleeding, constipation, diarrhea, gas, heartburn and vomiting.

Thyme oil is extracted from the flowers and leaves of the thyme plant.

It contains thymol, which belongs to a naturally-occurring class of compounds known as 'biocides' - substances that can destroy harmful organisms.

To treat ailments it should be applied to the skin and not taken internally.

It is commonly used by people for the treatment of diarrhea, stomach ache, arthritis, colic, sore throat, cough, bronchitis, flatulence and as a diuretic.

The thyme essential oil group’s average  pain scores went from 6.57 before treatment to 1.21 during the first  menstrual cycle tested, and 1.14 during the second menstrual cycle.

Meanwhile, the ibuprofen group’s scores went from 5.30 to 1.48 in the first cycle and 1.68 during the second menstrual cycle.

The researchers conclude: 'Comparing the satisfaction of pain relief and symptom reduction after the first and second cycles showed that majority of the subjects in [the thyme oil] group found the results great, ibuprofen group, moderate and the placebo group ineffective.'

They go on to note that period pain is a widespread problem and 'the most common  cause of absence from school and work in women, causing 600 million work  hours and [a] $2 billion loss annually in the U.S.'

While  ibuprofen is commonly used as a remedy, the Babol University of Medical  Sciences team highlight that it can sometimes cause adverse effects. It is also more expensive to produce and manufacture than alternative remedies.

Thyme oil,  which is extracted from the fresh or partly dried flowering tops and  leaves of the thyme plant, contains a compound known as thymol.

This belongs to a naturally-occurring class of substances  known as 'biocides' that can destroy harmful organisms.

While the new study reveals it as an effective  solution for period pain it has historically been used to treat diarrhea, stomach ache, arthritis, colic, sore throat,  cough, bronchitis, flatulence and as a diuretic.

The Babol University of Medical Sciences' findings were published in the spring edition of the Caspian Journal of Internal Medicine.

The comments below have not been moderated.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
