
Jessica writes: The success of the Longitude 2014 Prize will depend on its design. As I said earlier, challenge prizes only work well when they open up the problem to a wider pool of people to solve, when those people will make the time to get involved and when it's likely that the solution will be picked up widely. I am looking forward to being part of making this happen.

You can sign up for a newsletter to keep up to date with Longitude 2014 news.

And don't forget to vote for your favourite challenge when the public poll opens after BBC Horizon's programme at 9pm GMT on Thursday, The £10 Million Challenge .

Finding the right (and fair) way to support entrants to challenge prize competitions like this one depends on the challenge. One increasingly common facet of prize designs is to support several teams through intermediate steps towards the solution.

In a recent prize for off-grid electricity technologies , the UN Development Programme supported field-testing for finalists. The tests were carried out in the returning refugee communities in Bosnia and Herzegovina that will ultimately benefit from the new technology.

Jessica writes: Nesta and the Longitude Committee will be working with an even larger group of experts to design how the prize that wins the public vote should work: how it will be awarded, and for what exact type of technology development.

Three hundred years ago, the Board of Longitude chose not to reward just one person or idea. While Harrison was the single greatest beneficiary of the Longitude Acts, a list of their rewards includes many other names . One of the astronomical solutions to finding longitude, the lunar-distance method, as the timekeeping solution, particularly with the publication of the Nautical Almanac .

On the question of the relatively modest £10m, science writer Ed Yong points out how specific the six prize areas are.

My colleague on the Guardian's science blog network, Rebekah Higgitt, agrees wholeheartedly with Brian Cox's statement that "every citizen in this country should have the right to be engaged in science".

Jessica from Nesta writes: Before I sign off, I wanted to respond to a couple of good questions that have come through on Twitter.

There were some questions about the relatively modest size of the prize fund compared with the scale of these problems (see tweet). It's a fair point. Martin Rees mentioned in his speech earlier that solving this will be partly about prestige. The £10m is an incentive. But it's also the same size as some large research grants.

Jessica: They're clearing away the coffee in the BBC media cafe, and I have had my first locust.

The Astronomer Royal, Martin Rees, has issued a call to arms to mobilise "the power of science" in a blog marking the launch of the new prize.

Importantly, the Longitude Prize 2014 is open to everyone, worldwide.

International organisations can participate in the competition as long as they can demonstrate that in winning the prize they would deliver "direct economic benefit" in the UK – in other words the creation of new jobs, revenues and taxes.

The winning prize fund is £10m. However, full details of the prize fund are dependent on the prize area that is selected, and will be unveiled in the autumn.

Just to clarify some key points, the winning challenge will be announced on 25 June on the BBC’s One Show. After this announcement people can submit ideas through the Longitude Prize website.

The full entry criteria and prize specifications will be made available in Autumn 2014.

This tweeter has identified his top four contenders.

On Twitter, people are already coming out in favour or against particular challenges.

Tony Hall rounds things off, saying he's only managed to get half way through his locust. He'll share it with the family tonight. Martin Rees has finished his!

Cox says that the BBC serves the country, not shareholders –it should support democratic conversation, educate the population and engage them, so that we can face these challenges, so that we don't make these mistakes of having just one voice decide.

He refers to an argument once made by CP Snow for the value of many voices in a science funding decision. According to Cox, Snow said Lindeman, Churchill's key scientific adviser, did not think radar was worth researching: he thought it was useless. Fortunately there was a period when Churchill wasn't in power and so Lindeman wasn't the loudest voice, so radar got funding. Snow realised that if there had been just one voice, one opinion, we might have not done that research, not had radar, and perhaps might have lost the war.

He made his debut as a science communicator when he was interviewed in the Horizon episode on Einstein in 2005. He then presented three Horizon episodes himself.

Alice Roberts says that science is part of our culture. But she wonders if we don't ask the British public for their input enough.

Beijing, drought-stricken since 1999 and unable to draw from its polluted rivers, announced that it would build a new desalination plant, while admitting that the technology they were using would cause further pollution. A third of Beijing's water supply could come from salt water by 2019 .

Finally we hear more about the water challenge.

Apparently, already 44% of the world’s population are located in regions classed as "highly water stressed".

Today California is experiencing drought. In the five years leading up to the outbreak of the current crisis in 2011, Syria suffered one of the one of the “worst long-term droughts in modern history”. 60% of Syria's land was affected, and 75% of farmers suffered total crop failure.

Aircraft that produce no emissions during flight have already been demonstrated with considerable success. The solar Impulse airplane is powered entirely from wing-mounted solar cells and capable of covering intercontinental distances. Pipistrel Taurus G4 airplane has demonstrated an extremely efficient flight powered from electric batteries at the Nasa Green Flight Challenge. But these have either been over short distances and/or with very small payloads.

Scaling up is a significant challenge, but if successful this could make a huge difference to humanity's carbon footprint.

If "flight" wins the vote, the challenge will be to design and build a zero or close to zero carbon aeroplane that is capable of flying from London to Edinburgh, at comparable speeds to today’s aircraft. More than this, it will have to prove that the technology is scalable and safe, and could make a real, significant impact on the aviation industry.

She says this is reminiscent of when Charles Lindbergh became the first pilot to fly non–stop from New York to Paris winning the Orteig Prize in 1927. That was one of those times when a prize was part of the development of whole new industries. His celebrity transformed the aviation industry. The number of US passengers increased 30–fold in three years, while applications for pilot licences increased 300%.

Dr Helen Czerski is advocating the challenge of reducing net carbon emissions from flights to zero.

Jessica writes: I remember early on in the background work for this one, I sat with a group of robotics experts. They agreed that cutting edge work is not about building humanoid carer bots. It is about creating monitoring systems that sit in the background, giving carers the tools to spend more time as companions. It completely flipped my idea of what a robot is.

The NHS runs a range of inducement prizes to encourage, recognise and reward exemplary practice, including Innovation Challenges (up to £150k); Breakthrough Challenges (Dementia, Diabetes and Stroke, £1m top prize); Dementia Partnership Challenge (£150k).

Current technologies can solve some of the problems of caring for someone with dementia – quickly detecting falls, reminding about medication, reminding them of steps in the sequence of simple tasks such as cooking or contacting family members.

The goal of the Longitude prize for dementia would be to create an intelligent system that adapts to the wants and needs of the person and their carers.

Kevin Fong is introducing the dementia challenge. He says nearly a million people in the UK live with dementia, costing an estimated £23bn to the UK economy alone each year , including health and social care costs, productivity losses and the value of unpaid care.

With an ageing population, the cost of supporting people with dementia is increasing as more people develop the condition. This increasing pressure on our resources is forcing us to develop new solutions. This is not technology replacing human care, but supporting that care.

Jessica writes: I like this one because it is about a food revolution – perhaps another green revolution, only this one will emerge in the shadow of a biodiversity crisis. The next green revolution needs to be about diverse solutions, in a world of increasing extremes and degraded resources.

While there is debate about the specific effects of climate change on food production, there is general consensus that the impact of global warming on food production will be largely negative. Increased food supply will need to occur amidst increasingly extreme weather patterns and diminishing resources. Any winning solution will also need to prove that it will not contribute further to these.

A successful solution to this prize would, in the first instance, demonstrate benefit at a small scale – convincing a community to really change what and how they eat. It would also show projections of the potential environmental and social impact of scaling up to provide for millions of people. The solution will have the potential to improve nutrition across the world in both rich and poor countries.

He says his personal favourite would be a solution that uses insect protein, and from the expression on his face it seems he likes it! He says the UN agrees that this could be an important source of nutrients in the future.

Many people recoil at the idea (and there were some nervous laughs in the room when the locusts came out) illustrating how important taste and choice are in implementing a prize on food.

Michael Mosley is now introducing the food challenge – by eating a locust!

The prize is worth £10m.

Rapid point-of-care test kits would allow more targeted use of antibiotics and an overall reduction in misdiagnosis and prescription. Bonnin points out that the Gates Foundation has already awarded a prize for TB point-of-care tests .

We can't outpace bacterial mutation, says Bonnin. We need a new, smarter approach. But clinicians often prescribe broad spectrum antibiotics to sick patients because they have to act quickly on imperfect information.

The Longitude prize for antibiotics would be awarded to a competitor who creates a cheap, accurate, rapid, and easy-to-use test for bacterial infections that will allow doctors and nurses all over the world to better target their treatments, administering the right antibiotics at the right time.

The World Health Organization estimates that antibiotic treatments add an average of 20 years to all of our lives. But in the 80 years since the discovery of penicillin, our misuse and overuse of antibiotics has put pressure on bacteria to evolve resistance, leading to the emergence of untreatable superbugs that threaten the basis of modern medicine.

In 2013, the UK's chief medical officer Dame Sally Davies stated that antimicrobial resistance is “as big a risk as terrorism”. The development of antibiotics has saved billions of lives, yet the rise of antimicrobial resistance is threatening to make them ineffective in the future.

Liz Bonnin is now introducing the antibiotics challenge, via videolink.

Some of the most promising technologies come from solutions that combine brain stimulation with exoskeletons or wearable devices to bring about movement for people with different kinds of paralysis, says Dr Ashan. UCL's bioengineers are at the cutting edge of this field.

Researchers in the field of paralysis speak of "degrees of freedom’" – a term to describe the range of parameters necessary to enable the full variety of bodily movement. A simple hand grasp, for instance, requires a minimum of seven degrees of freedom; but full hand movement requires up to 27.

Less often discussed, says Dr Ashan, are the secondary symptoms of paralysis, namely its impact on bowel function, bladder, function, sexual function, respiratory capabilities, blood pressure. Other symptoms are neuropathic pain and uncontrollable spasms.

Dr Ashan says the current annual cost of caring for people paralysed by spinal cord injury alone in the UK is more than £500m – with 21% of people discharged from Spinal Cord Injury Centres going into nursing homes, hospitals or other institutionalised settings instead of their own homes.

We get to meet Sophie and her exoskeleton Rex.

Dr Saleyha Ashan is arguing that paralysis should be the challenge we vote for.

Lord Rees is now talking about the new demands of creating a prize in the 21st century, given the diversity of research and global challenges today. The £10m pot is less than a thousandth of what we spend on R&D in the UK.

Jessica Bland of Nesta writes: It was interesting working with experts to answer not just “what are the global challenges we face this century?”, but also “which of these could we help solve with a leap forward in technology?” and “would a challenge prize be the right way to make this happen?”.

Nesta spoke to many of these experts several times. I think some of them might be sick of us by now! At first it was about finding the potential points for intervention by mapping out the technology developing in different areas. Then it was about challenging those maps, asking whether a prize could usefully accelerate innovation in any of those areas. And more often than not, this involved going backwards and forwards quite a bit between people with different areas of knowledge.

Lord Rees mentions the journey to find the six areas and then how the committee defined the prizes in consultation with over 100 experts.

Challenge Prizes only work well when they open up the problem to a wider pool of people to solve, he says, when those people will make the time to get involved and when it's likely that the solution will be picked up widely. Lots of ideas can be thrown out quite quickly because it's not obvious that a prize will make any difference. For example, battery technology and some other energy storage technology is advancing quickly anyway without a prize to support them.

Martin Rees is talking about his experience of putting together Longitude 2014. He says he remembers the early Horizon episodes, before Brian Cox was even conceived! He is glad to be here for a double celebration; it's also Alice Robert's birthday.

Martin Rees's role as Astronomer Royal is a key to the link to longitude. The first six Astronomers Royal were all Commissioners of Longitude in the 18th and early 19th centuries and, although they did not sit in the chair, they were often the driving force.

The original commissioners represented political, maritime and scientific interests. Rebekah Higgitt has blogged today about the commissioners, how they later became the Board of Longitude, and how they compare to today’s Longitude Committee.

Lord Rees, at one point in his career, was in positions that would have put him on the Board of Longitude three times over: as Astronomer Royal, Plumian Professor of Mathematics and as President of the Royal Society.

Dr Alice Roberts now reveals the six challenges that will go to a public vote to a hushed room. Here they are quickly. We'll go into more detail on each one as they are discussed in turn.

The challenge is to design and build an aeroplane that is as close to zero-carbon as possible and capable of flying from London to Edinburgh, at comparable speed to today’s aircraft.

The challenge is to ensure a future where everyone has enough nutritious, affordable and environmentally sustainable food.

The challenge is to create a cost-effective, accurate, rapid, and easy-to-use test for bacterial infections that will allow health professionals worldwide to administer the right antibiotics at the right time.

The challenge is to invent a solution that gives paralysed people close to the same freedom of movement that most of us enjoy.

The challenge is to alleviate the growing pressure on the planet’s fresh water by creating a cheap, environmentally sustainable desalination technology.

The challenge is to develop intelligent, affordable integrated technologies that revolutionise care for people with dementia, enabling them to live independent lives.

Up now, a trailer video with Dr Alice Roberts, who will host the Horizon episode. She will speak later on this morning.

The programme will also feature contributions from Michael Mosley, Liz Bonnin, Prof Iain Stewart, Dr Helen Czerski, Dr Kevin Fong and Dr Saleyha Ahsan. Most of them are here this morning to discuss the challenge in more depth.

He is delighted that BBC programmes can inspire a new generation. The Horizon episode on Longitude 2014 will mark 50 years of the science programme. It's (probably) the 1,150th episode.

Nine of Horizon's 14 editors are at the announcement this morning. They have influenced some big public debates over the years.

He says that John Harrison was “a real outsider … determined to solve one of the greatest scientific challenges of the time” and that he's excited by the possibility of a modern day John Harrison.

For him, the reason the public vote following the Horizon episode on Thursday is so important is that everyone will have the chance to “help decide which one of six great challenges they’d most like to solve”.

Fellow Guardian science bloggers Rebekah Higgitt ( @beckyfh ) and Athene Donald ( @AtheneDonald ) are also here this morning.

The audience are filling up the BBC Radio Theatre in London. Side of stage, we have a sparkling robot and an exoskeleton, along with Harrison's sea watch that won the final prize 300 years ago. Martin Rees and Brian Cox are chatting in a corner. Tony Hall, director general of the BBC, is sat in the front row, checking over his speech. Nick Hawes from the University of Birmingham is up in the balcony with the remote control for his robot appearance.

In front of the stage at today's launch is Harrison's H4 fast-beating sea watch that brought him success 300 years ago, after it was trialled on a voyage to Barbados .

John Harrison’s extraordinary clocks are still owned by the Ministry of Defence (as the successor to the Admiralty, which had received them in exchange for the £10,000 reward Harrison received in 1765).

His first sea clock, now known as H1 , was made between 1730 and 1735. Its impressive performance on a voyage to Lisbon earned Harrison his first reward from the Commissioners of Longitude, of £250, also intended to encourage further development of a new design, H2 , made between 1737 and 1739.

H2 had a design fault, and Harrison never allowed it to be tested at sea. He moved on to his next sea clock, H3 , in 1740 and work lasted nearly two decades. It was a highly complex experimental machine, incorporating important innovations such as the bimetallic strip (for temperature compensation) and caged roller bearing (to reduce friction).

Harrison found that H3 would not keep adequate time and it was never trialled at sea, despite the Board of Longitude giving him £3,000 over two decades to help improve it. Some of that money also went to Harrison’s radical new idea, the H4 here today.

All of these clocks, together with Harrison’s second sea watch, H5 (owned by the Worshipful Company of Clockmakers) will be on display in the forthcoming exhibition at the National Maritime Museum, Ships, Clocks & Stars: The Quest for Longitude .

The Horizon episode on Longitude 2014 will mark 50 years of the science programme. It's (probably) the 1,150th episode.

Sir David Attenborough has been involved in Horizon almost form the start. In 1965, he oversaw Horizon's transition into a documentary format, with one subject per episode. There is a great interview with Peter Goodchild, who worked on Horizon from 1965 to 1975 as part of the BBC's history of Horizon .

Nine of Horizon's 14 editors are at the announcement this morning. They have influenced some big public debates over the years.

After the transmission of Whales, Dolphins and Men in 1972, pet food companies stopped using whale meat in pet food and within a year the government banned all imports of whale meat.

Horizon broadcast the first television documentary about HIV/Aids in 1983, called the Killer in the Village, before the virus and its method of transmission were understood.

The episode with the largest audience was the Secret Life of The Cat in 2013, when the Royal Veterinary College fitted 50 cats in the village of Shamley Green with GPS collars and cameras.

The original 1714 Longitude Act can be read here , part of the recent digitization of the archives of the Board of Longitude , at Cambridge University Library, and related books and papers at the National Maritime Museum. The Act is usually seen as one of the first examples of an incentive prize. It offered a £20,000 reward for a method that could find longitude to within half a degree after a voyage from Britain to the West Indies.

Rebekah Higgitt, one of the project team, described the content of the archive on her Guardian blog .

Atmosphere in the room is great. There's a robot on stage!

Three hundred years ago, the British government threw down the gauntlet, offering a huge prize to anyone who thought they could solve one of the great scientific challenges of that century: how to pinpoint a ship’s location at sea by determining its longitude. Without any way to accurately determine longitude, ships frequently get lost at sea, causing shipwrecks and disrupting global trade.

The challenge was solved by watchmaker and carpenter John Harrison when he designed the first reliable seafaring clock or chronometer, which allowed people to pinpoint their exact position at sea. The solution not only led to safer sea travel, but also opened up global trade.

Commemorating the 300th anniversary of the Longitude Act, the Longitude Prize 2014 aims to identify and tackle one of the greatest challenges of our own era in a similar way. This time, however, it will be the British public, rather than the government, who choose which challenge the £10m prize will be used to tackle.

Shortly after 10am today, a shortlist of six potential challenges for Longitude 2014 will be unveiled at the BBC. There will be a speech from the chair of the Longitude Committee, Astronomer Royal Martin Rees, followed by a presentation from an ambassador for each of the six challenges.

The ambassadors will also feature in a special 50th Anniversary episode of BBC's Horizon on Thursday, exploring each challenge in turn and why we should solve it. After this, viewers will be able to vote for the challenge they feel is the most important.

By the end of June, the public vote will have decided which challenge will be given a £10m prize fund and up to five years to find a solution.

A great deal of background research has gone into each of the shortlisted challenges. Guardian science blogger Jessica Bland has worked closely with a team at the innovation charity Nesta to support the Longitude Committee. Jessica is a technology futures analyst at Nesta .

In addition to reporting back from the BBC as the announcement is made, she will add more details below of her experience behind the scenes.

The main announcement starts at 10am.

Before then, you can check out Longitude 2014 @longitude_prize and on Facebook . Let us know what you think about the announcement here and on Twitter #longitude2014 . Check out this history of challenge prizes .
