
The newly-installed culture secretary Sajid Javid has said that immigrants coming to the UK must learn English and “respect our way of life”.

Mr Javid, the UK’s first Asian secretary of state and the son of Pakistani immigrants, was critical of those who had not integrated into British society despite living here for many years.

He said in an interview with the Sunday Telegraph: "People want Britain to have more control over its borders, and I think they are right.

"People also say, when immigrants do come to Britain, that they should come to work, and make a contribution and that they should also respect our way of life, and I agree with all of that. It means things like trying to learn English.

"I know people myself, I have met people who have been in Britain for over 50 years and they still can't speak English.

"I think it's perfectly reasonable for British people to say 'look, if you're going to settle in Britain and make it your home you should learn the language of the country and you should respect its laws and its culture'."

Mr Javid did stress that he thought the “vast majority” of immigrants wanted to integrate with the rest of society.

Responding on BBC Radio 5 Live, chairman of the home affairs select committee Keith Vaz said: "It was a Labour government that introduced an English language test for those who wanted to get indefinite leave to enter the country.

"This is not new; it's just interesting because it's been said by the first Asian cabinet minister. Politicians have been saying this of all parties.

"Of course we want people to learn English, of course we want people who come into this country to respect our values. We're not suggesting otherwise."

Everything Legal Ltd is a company incorporated in England and Wales, company number 06205456 and regulated by the Claims Management Regulator                  in respect of regulated claims management activities; its registration is recorded on the website www.claimsregulation.gov.uk .

Processing.
