
RADICAL cleric was extradited to the United States in 2012 after an eight-year legal battle and 56-year-old now faces life in prison.

THE radical London-based Muslim cleric Abu Hamza al-Masri has been convicted of terrorism charges in New York following a four-week trial.

A jury of eight men and four women found Abu Hamza guilty on all 11 counts he faced.

The 56-year-old – who has one eye and no hands and is best-known in Britain for his inflammatory anti-Western rhetoric – could now face life in prison.

The Egyptian-born preacher was charged with creating an Al-Qaeda training camp in Oregon in 1999 and 2000.

He was also charged with helping kidnappers in a 1998 hostage-taking in Yemen that left four people dead and raising money to send militants to Afghanistan.

Hamza, the former imam of Finsbury Park mosque in London, was extradited to the US after an eight-year legal battle in 2012.

He had previously served time in prison in the UK for inciting his followers to kill non-Muslims.

US Attorney General Eric Holder described the verdict as "a triumph".

Hamza was accused of providing material support to terrorist groups by helping hostage takers in Yeman, by sending men to establish an Al-Qaeda training camp in Bly, Oregon and by sending at least one man to training camps in Afghanistan.

Hamza looked straight ahead as the verdict was read out at the federal court in Manhattan.

For much of the past month, jurors watched videotapes and heard audio clips in which Hamza shouted to his followers, telling them non-Muslims could be treated like animals and women and children who were not Muslim could be taken captive.

But they saw a gentler version of Hamza on the witness stand, one who spoke confidently in the tone of a college professor as he insisted he did not engage in acts of terrorism, nor did he aid Al-Qaeda.

His testimony over four days was derided by Assistant US Attorney Ian McGinley, who told jurors to ignore his lies and concentrate on evidence.

In his closing argument, Mr McGinley read aloud the names of four European tourists who died in 1998 in Yemen after their convoy of cars was overtaken by extremist Islamic kidnappers who had been given a satellite phone by Hamza.

Mr McGinley said a guilty verdict would provide a measure of justice for them and another dozen hostages who survived.

"Don't be fooled by his testimony," the prosecutor said. "Don't let the passage of time diminish what he did."

Hamza told the court how he lost both hands and part of his forearms in a 1993 accident when he helped the Pakistani military as a civil engineer.

The prosecutor acknowledged Hamza's speaking skills, saying he was "good with words," but also warned: "Don't buy it."

"The real Abu Hamza is not the man you see in 2014," Mr McGinley added.

Hamza now plans to appeal his conviction.

SECURITY officials in the US will demand to see electronic gadgets powered up - to show they aren't carrying a hidden bomb.

THE trial of Abu Hamza, the radical cleric extradited from the UK to the US in 2012, is due to start at a federal court in New York today.

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).
