
Adam Longden, left,  from South Yorkshire Fire &Rescue, on a military exercise.

Staff from Sheffield organisations swapped their suits for combat fatigues and their offices for wild moorland in an exercise run by the military.

Employees at South Yorkshire Fire & Rescue, Sheffield Council and Vasanta Group were among those put through their paces in a two-day exercise designed to give them a taste of life as a reservist.

They worked on a variety of challenges, including launching a search and rescue mission for a downed pilot and evacuating casualties from a vehicle hit by a bomb.

The exercise was run by employees who also serve as reservists in the Royal Navy, Royal Marines, Army or RAF in units across Yorkshire.

It was designed to provide an opportunity for businessmen and women to develop leadership, teamwork and communication skills, as well as giving them an insight into the skills that reservists develop during their training exercises.

Chris Harrison, 29, a senior pricing executive from Vasanta Group, said: “I loved every minute. Not only because of the sheer fun we had, but also the self-confidence it gives you and your capabilities, especially your capacity for leadership, communication and teamwork.

Colonel Snagge, chief executive of the Reserve Forces’ and Cadets’ Association, said: “The exercise was a great success and enjoyed by all, but there’s also a serious side to the whole event about the benefits a reservist can bring to employers.

© 2014 Johnston Publishing Ltd.

This website and its associated newspaper adheres to the Press Complaints Commission’s Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion, then contact the Editor by clicking  here .

If you remain dissatisfied with the response provided then you can contact the PCC by clicking here .

The Star provides news, events and sport features from the Sheffield area. For the best up to date information relating to Sheffield and the surrounding areas visit us at The Star regularly or bookmark this page.

For you to enjoy all the features of this website The Star requires permission to use cookies.

Cookies are small data files which are sent to your browser (Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome etc) from a website you visit. They are stored on your electronic device.

This is a type of cookie which is collected by Adobe Flash media player (it is also called a Local Shared Object) - a piece of software you may already have on your electronic device to help you watch online videos and listen to podcasts.

Yes there are a number of options available, you can set your browser either to reject all cookies, to allow only "trusted" sites to set them, or to only accept them from the site you are currently on.

However, please note - if you block/delete all cookies, some features of our websites, such as remembering your login details, or the site branding for your local newspaper may not function as a result.

A tool used by some of our advertisers to target adverts to you based on pages you have visited in the past. To opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

Our sites contain advertising from Google; these use cookies to ensure you get adverts relevant to you. You can tailor the type of ads you receive by visiting here or to opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

This is used to help us identify unique visitors to our websites. This data is anonymous and we cannot use this to uniquely identify individuals and their usage of the sites.

This comes from our ad serving technology and is used to track how many times you have seen a particular ad on our sites, so that you don't just see one advert but an even spread. This information is not used by us for any other type of audience recording or monitoring.

ComScore monitor and externally verify our site traffic data for use within the advertising industry. Any data collected is anonymous statistical data and cannot be traced back to an individual.

Our Classified websites (Photos, Motors, Jobs and Property Today) use cookies to ensure you get the correct local newspaper branding and content when you visit them. These cookies store no personally identifiable information.

We use Grapeshot as a contextual targeting technology, allowing us to create custom groups of stories outside out of our usual site navigation. Grapeshot stores the categories of story you have been exposed to. Their privacy policy and opt out option can be accessed here.

Our partner for Newspaper subscriptions online stores data from the forms you complete in these to increase the usability of the site and enhance user experience.

Add This provides the social networking widget found in many of our pages. This widget gives you the tools to bookmark our websites, blog, share, tweet and email our content to a friend.
