
“Four glasses of wine is enough to harm your health, scientists say,” reports The Independent. A study has found that just a small amount of alcohol can cause harmful bacteria to leak from the gut into the blood.

The research aimed to see whether binge drinking affects the ease that bacterial substances move through the lining of the gut and into the blood stream. It included 25 healthy adults and gave them alcoholic drinks, then measured the levels of alcohol, bacterial molecules called endotoxins and markers of inflammation in their blood for the next 24 hours.

Endotoxins are produced from the cell wall of certain types of gut bacteria, including E. coli, and can trigger immune responses, such as inflammation.

The study found that bacterial endotoxin levels increased after drinking alcohol, with the increase more noticeable in women.

This small and short-term study tells us little else, however, as the researchers did not find out what effects the inflammatory markers have on the body. We also don’t know if the same results would be obtained in larger samples of people of different ages, health statuses or habitual alcohol intakes.

Men are advised not to regularly drink more than 3-4 units of alcohol per day (equivalent to a pint and a half of 4% beer), and women no more than 2-3 units a day (equivalent to a 175ml glass of wine).

“Regularly” means drinking this amount every day or most days of the week. For men, binge drinking is defined as drinking more than 8 units of alcohol (about 3 pints of strong beer) on a single day. For women, it is defined as consuming more than 6 units of alcohol (about 2 large glasses of wine).

The study was carried out by researchers from the University of Massachusetts Medical School in the US and was funded by the National Institutes of Health.

The study was published in the peer-reviewed ,  open access scientific journal PLoS One, meaning it is free to access online .

The UK media’s reporting of the study is generally accurate, though none of the coverage acknowledges that only partial conclusions can be drawn, due to the study's limitations.

This was a controlled study that aimed to examine one potential effect of binge drinking on the body. The authors reported that chronic alcohol consumption makes the wall of the gut more “leaky”.

This makes it easier for molecules from the bacteria living in the gut, such as endotoxins, to enter circulation. It is thought that this contributes to the effects of alcohol on the liver. Sustained alcohol-related liver damage can lead to alcohol-related liver disease .

In this particular study, they wanted to see if a single episode of binge drinking had the same effect on levels of endotoxin in the blood. Endotoxin is part of the cell wall of certain types of gut bacteria, such as E. coli, and can prompt the body to mount an immune response.

The researchers gave volunteers either alcoholic drinks or a similar drink without alcohol, and compared the effects on the levels of various substances in the blood over 24 hours.

The study included 25 healthy adults (14 female, 11 male) aged 21 to 56. To be eligible, men had to drink fewer than 12 alcoholic drinks per week and women fewer than 9. They abstained from alcohol for at least 2 days before the tests.

The participants were given either 2ml vodka (40% ethanol) per kg body weight in a total volume of 300ml orange/strawberry juice, or the fruit juice without alcohol. It was unclear how participants were allocated to the alcohol or control groups, or if the same participants drank the alcoholic and non-alcoholic drinks at different times. The study defined binge drinking as “more than 4 drinks”, but they did not report exactly how much the participants drank.

Drinking alcohol increased blood alcohol levels, which reached a maximum an hour after drinking. Women showed a slower decline then men in blood alcohol levels over the next few hours.

Blood endotoxin levels also rapidly increased up to 30 minutes after drinking, stayed level for 3 hours, then returned to baseline levels at the 24-hour mark. Endotoxin levels were also significantly higher in women.

The study also found increases in certain inflammation-related proteins, and an increase in bacterial DNA in the blood.

This experimental study in 25 healthy adults informs us of some of the possible biological effects that a binge drinking session can have upon the human body – namely, an increase in bacterial endotoxin levels and a corresponding increase in blood inflammatory markers.

We also don't know what results would be obtained from larger samples of people, including those of different ages, health and habitual drinking patterns.

The study also does not tell us what effects the increase in inflammatory markers seen would actually have on the body.

Nevertheless, despite the limited information that can be obtained from this small study, the effects of excess alcohol consumption are well known and include an increased risk of liver disease , certain types of cancer,  high blood pressure and obesity .

Alcohol is also associated with mental health problems, including  depression .

If you want a response from an NHS professional or the website team, please contact us.

If women regularly drink more than two to three units of alcohol a day, it could add up to a serious health problem.

Call to make 5 a day fruit and veg into '7 a day'

Visit our language section for more health websites in foreign languages.

With an account you can keep track of pages on the site and save them to this tab, which you can access on every page when you are logged in.
