
NEW YORK, May 20, 2014 /PRNewswire/ -- .LUXURY, the first Internet top-level domain dedicated to bringing together the luxury industry online, begins General Availability (GA) on May 19th. Following its successful priority registration phases where over 600 luxury brands including Hermes, Chanel, Versace, Gucci, Cartier, Valentino, Van Cleef and Armani secured their .LUXURY domain name, the GA launch marks the first time where interested registrants may secure highly sought after domain names through general registration.

.LUXURY is part of the new top level domain program being rolled out by the global regulator of web addresses to introduce greater domain name choice and availability online. These new extensions, which appear to the right of the dot in a web address, are emerging every week and will enable the Internet to be utilized in ways never before possible.

".LUXURY will quickly become the destination for luxury online. With the beginning of general availability, businesses and consumers will be able to obtain a more attractive and relevant web extension to further define themselves within the luxury space," said Monica Kirchner, CEO of .LUXURY. "Imagine the business potential of not only owning a brand or company name under .LUXURY, but also an entire category such a frenchriviera.luxury, scarves.luxury or carrental.luxury."

.LUXURY provides a new way to market and communicate around diverse initiatives such as new product launches, VIP customer experiences, exclusive service offerings and non-traditional marketing opportunities. Further, given significant challenges with authenticity online, the robust policies adopted by .LUXURY protect the interests of brands, including express prohibitions of activities such as counterfeiting and cybersquatting.

.LUXURY is a new top level domain (TLD) whose mission is to provide a dedicated digital platform for all things luxury. Designed to meet the distinct needs of the luxury industry, .LUXURY offers product manufacturers, service providers, retailers and consumers a central place online to engage, transact and celebrate luxury.

.LUXURY domain names are currently available for registration in most locations where traditional domains are sold. For an updated list of retailers please visit www.dotluxury.com .
