
She recently agreed to marry her martial artist boyfriend after a romantic holiday in Spain.

And it seems that a double celebration may be in order for Danniella Westbrook, who was spotted trying on rings in a jewellery store and looking at baby clothes.

The 40-year-old actress looked relaxed and carefree as she browsed the shops with her fiancé Tom Richards on Thursday.

The star sported a baggy grey T-shirt with the words Los Angeles and a palm tree, which was teamed with black leggings, peep-toe heels and a Louis Vuitton tote.

While the star's tummy was covered up by her attire, Danniella was seen resting her hand over her stomach.

The Sun reports that the couple are expecting their first child, with a source telling the paper: 'They are both over the moon. It's not something they planned but their romance has been intense.

'People may turn their noses up at the fact they've only been together three months but they're really in love.'

The star has recently spoken of her desire to begin a family with Kevin, telling Closer earlier this month: 'We're trying for a baby now, I can't wait to get pregnant.'

She added of Tom, who is 16 years her junior: 'He's not a baby, all his milk teeth have fallen out. He's ready to be a dad. I'm broody and I want to have a family with him. He'll be a great father.'

Danniella, who recently split with husband of 13-years Kevin Jenkins, reportedly agreed to marry martial artist boyfriend Tom after he proposed during their current sunshine break in coastal Spain.

A source told the Sun: ‘The proposal  took Danniella by surprise. She’s over the moon. They booked a romantic  break to Palma in Spain and Tom thought it was the perfect opportunity  to show her how much she meant to him.

The actress enjoyed a lavish lifestyle  with Kevin prior to the economic downturn in 2008, which saw Kevin’s  car-hire and security business go bust and prompted a move to Orange  County, California – where they became born again Christians.

Danniella, who has previously battled cocaine addiction, opened up about her troubled past in 2013 autobiography Faith, Hope and Clarity.

Danniella is also a parent to 17-year-old son Kai from a former relationship with Robert Fernandez.

Her first marriage, to van driver Ben Morgan, lasted just nine months.

A representative for Danniella declined to comment when contacted by MailOnline.

The comments below have not been moderated.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
