
A major investigation into whether mobile phones and other wireless technologies affect children's mental development is getting under way.

The study - funded by the government and industry - will track 2,500 11- and 12-year-olds from September.

It will look at their cognitive ability - thinking skills, memory and attention - and then repeat the tests in 2017.

The researchers say "very little" is known about what impact these technologies have on children.

The World Health Organization has said research in this area is of the "highest priority".

More than 160 secondary schools in the outer London area will receive invitations to enrol pupils into the study.

Much of the research into mobile phone use has focused on adults and in particular, the risk of brain cancer. No evidence of harm has been established to date.

Nonetheless, NHS advice is that children under the age of 16 should use mobile phones only for essential purposes and, where possible, with hands-free kits.

The theory has been put forward that children's brains may be more susceptible because they are still developing.

This research - led by Imperial College London - will put that idea to the test by asking children and their parents about their use of mobile phones and wireless devices, such as tablets, as well as analysing data from operators.

The 11-12 age group is particularly important as many children get mobiles at that age to coincide with starting secondary school. Some 70% of that age group now own a mobile.

Lead investigator Dr Mireille Toledano said: "The advice to parents is based on the precautionary principle given in absence of available evidence and not because we have evidence of any harmful effects.

"As mobile phones are a new and widespread technology central to our lives, carrying out the study is important in order to provide the evidence base with which to inform policy and through which parents and their children can make informed life choices."

This looks a waste of time and money. How children use mobiles has changed over 20 years. In the early days the mobile was glued to the ear and the brain in close proximity to the aerial. Then came the SMS revolution where the mobile is held at arm's length. Smartphone web browsing is another arm's length activity. So unless the study captures how the mobile is used the results will be useless.

The problem may not be the actual phone, however the lack of exercise, fresh air, verbal conversation, eye contact, body language, lack of parental control/encouragement etc that is completely missed when using the device.  You rarely see kids in the street playing games, climbing trees etc. It's pretty sad! All these things help with the cognitive function.

I suspect that even if it's found that the devices themselves are harmless, it doesn't take a study to see that a lot of people (yes adults and children) spend so long playing mindless games that they are distracted from doing jobs, study or sleep which would greatly enhance their lives.

It's great that they are planning some proper research to assess any effects of mobile phone usage. Hopefully It will balance the scaremongering with some real facts.

All posts are reactively-moderated and must obey the house rules .
