
An admin manager stole more than £90,000 while working for a PPI refunds company - and used the money to fund breast enlargement surgery.

Louise Hitchen was working for Wigan-based Hardwick Financial Solutions Ltd when she carried out the fraud.

The 27-year-old also used the cash to buy a Vauxhall Astra convertible and to fund shopping sprees and day trips.

She was jailed for 12 months after admitting two counts of fraud by abuse of position.

Liverpool Crown Court heard the company specialised in refunding Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) policies unwittingly sold to people arranging bank loans or overdrafts.

Hitchen resigned from her post before the scam was uncovered in October 2012.

Police were called after Hitchen's former line manager was contacted by a customer asking where her money was.

'Frittered away'

An investigation was launched and it was established the client's money had been paid into Hitchen's bank account, rather than the company's.

Further checks found funds due to 15 people had not been paid, with a total of £93,250.56 moved to Hitchen's account.

Hitchen, of Newton-Le-Willows, Merseyside, tried to cover her tracks by deleting emails and destroying paper records, but was eventually arrested.

Det Con Mark Edwards, of Greater Manchester Police, said: "With the exception of the cosmetic surgery and car - which has since been returned - Louise Hitchen frittered away much of the cash on shopping sprees and trips out.

"The cost to Hardwick Financial Solutions Ltd has been significant and has included staff losing their jobs, but the only person Louise thought about was herself."

Hitchen has since repaid £23,849.98. She could now be ordered to repay the rest of the money, and a further court hearing has been scheduled for July to discuss this.

According to BBC Weather , it'll be rather cloudy through the evening and night.

The rain will be mainly in the south, before easing away towards dawn. It will also be rather windy.

The minimum temperature will be about 14C (57F).

Britain has one of the best records in the world for road casualties. However, hundreds still die on the roads every year. In 2010, the police recorded 1,850 deaths, 22,660 people seriously injured and 184,138 who received light injuries.

Earlier this week James Alexander Gordon (pictured) died. He was famous for reading the classified football results on BBC radio for 40 years,

To a whole generation of sport lovers he was the voice of Saturday afternoons.

BBC Travel News reports there's stop-start traffic on the M6 southbound between J21a, M62 (Croft Interchange) and J18, A54 (Middlewich).

BBC News reports a man from Liverpool caught with cocaine with an estimated street value of £32,000 in Aberdeen has been jailed.

Peter Walters, 31, was found with the drugs in a property in Whitehall Place in the Rosemount area last October.

He admitted being concerned in the supply of cocaine.

Gerard Ingham is accused of carrying out the attack on 7 September last year.

This weekend, Match of The Day celebrated 50 years on air.

BBC Travel News reports the M62 is blocked and there's queuing traffic in both directions between J9, A49 (Winwick) and J8 Burtonwood Road.

SP Energy Networks, which supplies electricity through power lines, is spending £8m to replace 6km of underground cables between Rainhill and St Helens.

The company says it has been working with St Helens Council to minimise disruption while the 132,000-volt underground cables, which supply Manweb, are replaced.

Walks around the National Wildflower Centre, in Liverpool, are taking place tomorrow, reports BBC Things To Do .

BBC Radio 1 and 1Xtra DJ Charlie Sloth thinks new Liverpool signing Mario Balotelli could bring some "explosive" action to the pitch and become a "great asset" to the team.

The self-proclaimed "massive Liverpool fan" said: "Mario Balotelli is constantly getting a bad rep in the press, but we don't look at the positive things he's done."

Liverpool's International Music Festival Summer Jam continues today , ending a weekend which will have seen more than 150 acts from 20 countries hit the stage at Sefton Park.

Police are patrolling the M57 after reports that a woman was dangling over the motorway on one of the bridges.

A member of the public raised the alarm, fearing she was about to jump.

More on the special train laid on at the weekend by Merseyrail to make sure bride Leanne Cole got to the church (well, St George's Hall) on time - and in style.

Leanne says she thought it would be "a fun and unique way to travel".

Merseyrail provided a bride with a special train to transport her to her wedding on time.

BBC Travel News is warning drivers to expect delays in both directions on the A5049 at Green Lane, Tuebrook, due to roadworks.

Our team has done the Ice Bucket Challenge.

We have made a donation to the Motor Neurone Disease Association.

Police are looking into the death of a man who may have attended the Creamfields Festival in Cheshire.

One line of inquiry is that his death was drug related.

Liverpool John Lennon Airport is having one of its busiest weekends of the year, with about 60,000 travellers expected to have passed through over the bank holiday.

Almost 30,000 passengers departed from the the airport, with the Mediterranean the most popular destination.

According to BBC Weather , outbreaks of rain will mainly affect southern areas through the day, becoming heavy and persistent for a time.

Across northern parts, it'll stay generally dry but mainly cloudy with strong gusty winds for most areas.

Maximum temperature: 16C (61F).

Welcome to your bank holiday Monday Local Live page for Merseyside. I'm here to bring you all the news, sport, weather and travel today.
