
Karnataka Chief Minister Siddaramaiah and nearly his entire cabinet of ministers paraded their achievements from their first year in power in a show of solidarity here on Monday but refused to answer questions on why the achievements had not helped the Congress win more than nine of 28 seats in the parliament polls.

Highlighting the achievements of the Congress government at the end of its first year under his leadership, Chief Minister Siddaramaiah said the government had fulfilled 90 of the 160 promises made by the party while going to polls in 2013 including the rice for one rupee scheme, free milk for school kids scheme, loan waivers for farmers and increased housing subsidies.

The chief minister however refused to comment on why the achievements of the Congress had not held it in good stead in the parliament polls. “I will not talk politics today. This is a day to talk about our achievements,” Siddaramaiah said.

He identified solving the energy problems of the state, making drinking water available to all people in the state, completion of irrigation projects, fulfilling the remaining promises in the Congress manifesto and increasing the GDP of the state as the challenges before the government in the coming days.

“We want to make the state hunger free and hut free. We want to put Karnataka among the top five states in terms of development in the country,” Siddaramaiah said.

The chief minister, who wished luck to the new BJP government in the country, said he expected the Narendra Modi government to co-operate in the development of Karnataka.

“The centre has to co-operate with us. It has to follow the provisions of the constitution. There will be different governments in the state and the Centre but development is not related to this,’’ he said.

The state government had initially planned to have events at each of the districts in the state to mark the first anniversary of the government with district-in-charge ministers releasing a booklet of the government’s achievements. The plan was changed at the last minute and the chief minister released the booklet along with his entire cabinet in Bangalore on Monday.
