
Right from the onset, some of us stressed on why the National Economic Forum befits the medical condition of stillbirth; and in this scenario the rebirth of a long time ignored ideas. So no matter how feasible the outcomes may look, we saw the Senchi Forum a gathering non grata. This is to the effect that the will to read in details the Consensus, even not to talk of implementing, still remains under the discretionary of the Executive Group of government.

But that kingpin called the zeal and willingness to implement is simply unavailable, meanwhile the consensus, just like the national development plan lacks the effective legal binding for implementation. So even though a reconsideration, enrolling of more feasible policies into the National Development Plan and a means to make it legally binding document seemed a serious discourse; the gathering for economic salvage still centered on invention of ideas with the usual essay cajoles like ‘a mechanism’, government must reconsider’, ‘government must’, “government should” among others.

Being straightforward, a closer look at the economic pages of NDC’s manifesto reads more promising and juicy far more than the outcome of Senchi Economic Scan. In respect of this a zealous pursue of ONLY the party’s economic manifesto is far enough to take on the current challenges in the short to medium terms. From Agriculture through Fiscal Policy to Power Supply and Waste Management, NDC’s manifesto does not indicate significant shortfalls which necessitate a V8-motorcade journey to Senchi.

If the government takes no interest in pursuing its own points-scoring documented policies, you and I remain the best persons to estimate the probability of government pursuing a virtually the same set of proposals; from non-compelling source such as forum.

Aside how powerless the Senchi Consensus is (in terms fetching for itself some sort of implementations), it baffles to think if participants as part of problem-solving mechanisms were briefed about what might have triggered the current challenges. Assuming they were briefed, how come Government’s priorities, Value for money and Fiscal discipline individually or all together never formed even a point among the twenty-two? Does it mean this set never had a hand in our current challenges? If we side with the fact that solutions are best arrived after causes are clearly diagnosed, how come the consensus generically (instead of specifics) touched on solutions for financial malfeasance and setting priorities by the government? And all the 22 Consensus runs throughout the manifesto. This means the re-echoing of ideas already in existence but not implemented. So what is preventing their implementations? Senchi Consensus rather needed to toe this line.

To add a point, nobody doubts the fact that the economy has been in the case of roller coaster since pre-independence, and the raw-material exporting nature among other factors remain the cause for these high and low swings. But changing a 1:1.20 dollar rated economy to 1:3 among other indicators mean something more eminent might have happen rapidly in addition to the existing raw-material-exporting economy. And this needs much scrutiny for a way out.

So in conclusion, in as much as there is nothing like legal or constitutional backing for the nations development road map, any forum remains a set of suggestions which can easily by shelved just as the dusted thesis in our various tertiary institutions. There exist even a much detailed roadmaps for economic revamp of which when pursued will put the economy back on track. The NDC’s own manifesto is one of such detailed works. We rather need a reconsideration of the national development plan, consensually enrolling more feasible policies, and constitutionally or legally binding the plan. So that political parties never dodges the plan upon ascending the throne, and also political campaigns focus on means of financing projects and policies, rather than inventing projects and policies.

Spyghana.com is a premier news source that covers daily news of Ghana, Africa and the World over. Today, the site is updated 24 hours a day, seven days a week with follow-ups and breaking news, as well as original reporting, entertainment and sports. And our traffic has grown accordingly.
