
They are known for rescuing cats stuck up trees.

But firefighters in Manchester have gone one step further - and started rescuing birds.

Two crew members rescued a blackbird that had become stranded 40ft above the ground on a block of flats in Salford in an operation costing in the region of £1,500.

The female bird is thought to have become stranded by a length of plastic while repairing a nest housing its chicks under the eaves of the four-storey flats.

It became so entangled that it was unable to fly away away.

Firefighters Robby Scott and Shaun Bannon from Stretford Fire Station went up to the eaves with an RSPCA inspector and rescued the bird.

It is understood the RSPCA were first alerted after the bird was seen dangling from the roof with some plastic ‘string’ wrapped around its leg.

The two firefighters, who operate a hydraulic platform, were called to the flats in Elmira Way, shortly after 11am on Sunday.

They and the inspector freed the bird and lowered it safely to the ground.

The RSPCA inspector tried to get the bird to fly, but took it away after it was unable to get off the ground.

It is thought the plan is reunite the bird with its chicks, which are continuing to be fed by the male blackbird, once its leg is on the mend.

It is understood the cost of the operation could be met by the RSPCA.

What do you think about this story? Have your say by leaving your comments below.

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

The Manchester Evening News and www.manchestereveningnews.co.uk conform to the newspaper industry's voluntary Code of Practice, administered by the Press Complaints Commission.

If you feel we have made an error in a report, or have fallen below our usual high standards, please write in the first instance to: Rob Irvine, editor, Manchester Evening News, Mitchell Henry House, Hollinwood Avenue, Chadderton, Oldham OL9 8EP.

M.E.N. Media is one of the north west’s largest media providers and reaches 7 out of 10 people in Greater Manchester every week.

Online, manchestereveningnews.co.uk welcomes 2.4million unique users who experience12.4million page views every month.

Our newspapers include the flagship Manchester Evening News - Britain's largest circulating regional daily with up to 130,485 copies - as well as 20 local weekly titles across Greater Manchester, Cheshire and Lancashire.

Free morning newspaper, The Metro, published every weekday, is also part of our portfolio, delivering more than 200,000 readers in Greater Manchester.

Greater Manchester Business Week is the region’s number one provider of business news andfeatures, targeting a bespoke business audience with 12,687 copies every Thursday.

Every month, M.E.N. Media’s print products reach 2.2 million adults, spanning from Accrington in the north to Macclesfield in the south.

Rob Irvine was appointed editor-in-chief of MEN Media and Trinity Mirror Huddersfield in April 2012.

Rob joined Trinity Mirror in 2001 and was editor of the Daily Post North Wales for seven years. He was also publishing director for Trinity Mirror North Wales and Cheshire.

He grew up in Stockport, Greater Manchester and has worked in the local newspaper industry for 27 years.
