
At a parley in Lagos, members of the Lagos State Executive Council and legislators have resolved to chart a new way forward for the Centre of Excellenece, ahead of the next general elections. Miriam Ekene-Okoro reports.

Lagos State Governor Babatunde Fashola will bow out of office next year. He has promised to sustain the tempo of achievements till the last day. How to guarantee more dividends of democracy to Lagosians was the focus of the recent Executive/Legislative parley in Lagos.

The theme of the parley was: “Public sector management re-engineering: the continuing Story of Lagos”. It was organisd by the Political and Legislative Power Bureau.

The forum brought the commissioners, special advisers, House of Assembly members and federal legislators under one roof.

They converged with one accord on the Golden Tulip Hotel, Festac, as members of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). At the forum were Fashola, his deputy, Mrs.   Joke Orelope-Adefulire, House of Assembly Speaker Hon. Yemi Ikuforiji, top government officials and APC leaders.

The parley offered an opportunity to them to share experiences, review policies and brainstorm on the way forward for Lagos State.

One of the issues on the front burner is the proposed general elections. To the forum, the poll is a collective enterprise involving the active participation of stakeholders.

For ensure free and fair elections, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) should be impartial. Apart from urging the INEC boss, Prof. Attahiru Jega, to be above board, the forum also called for the reversal of the order of the 2015 elections by the National Assembly.

In a 15-point communiqué, the forum articulated the need to fast-track post-election litigations. Urging the INEC to remove the time limit  on the conclusion of electoral petitions after the general elections, the forum said: “The National Assembly should review and reverse the order of the 2015 general elections, starting from the local to the national”.

The forum reflected on the Boko Haram insurgency. It called for increased intelligence and counter-terrorism actions, adding that multinational military cooperation and foreign assistance, based on agreed parametres of engagement that will not compromisesovereignty, will be helpful.

But, Lagos, the commercial  hub,  also needs security. The participants urged the government to strengthen the Security Trust Fund, with a view to making the security arrangement more productive. They also brainsormed on the maintenance of law and order, judicious allocation of resources to meet specific demands, the provision of infrastructure, promotion of human rights and sustenance of the effective revenue collection.

According to the forum, “the laws designed to protect fundamental human rights must enjoy a measure of immunity from legislative review and amendment and credible bodies must be vested with the power to blow the whistle when the parameters of the constitutional covenant are transgressed”.

Noting that Public Private Partnership (PPP) is effective, participants advocated the training of public officers about its workings so that “the  arms of government can support them to strengthen private investment in the development of public infrastructure for job creation”.

Government, the forum said, “must work with people to organise economic institutions in such a way that there is no oppression, based on class, social status, ethnic group or state.” In addition, the participants stressed that “a distributive equity is an important cornerstone in the act of national objectives for the government’s programme on reconstruction and social reform”.

The forum also called for an urgent global action “to halt the alarming pace of climate change and environmental degradation, which pose unprecedented threats to humanity.”  It explained that that urgent action has become expedient to save humanity from extermination.

The participants urged the government to focus on the realisation of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) to ensure. It added:“There is no time to lie at ease or be complacent, despite the progress made so far, and hence, we must set new goals and reach for greater heights”.

Fashola charged the National Assembly to make laws that will strengthen security.

He said the security challenges underscored the need to review the country’s laws to conform with modern trends.

Fashola stressed: I will not leave this event without a word or two  about what I think our national legislators can do and be looking at, in view of the challenges we are facing . I believe that the most urgent and compelling issues our nation faces now is law and order. That is the bedrock of good governance and foundation for economic growth .

“ I think the time has come for our legislators to dig deep. No nation that has the kind of challenges that we have must refuse or continue to refuse to be imaginative about law enforcement. Whatever the argument and fears  about state police may be, we have nothing to fear than the fear itself .

The governor argued that the constitution has never prohibited multi-level policing. He said:  “Since that has not been forbidden, many legislators who are imaginative can come up with laws that will allow the establishment of multi-level policing”.

Fashola said that the laws that tend to pitch the state against the federal authority should be reviewed in the interest of cooperative federalism.

He alluded to the National Inland Waterway Act, which limits the power of states to freely use inland waters creeks and canals. He said, if this act is reviewed, it would boost the capacity of the state to  explore the waterways.

The Special Adviser on Political and Legislative Matters, Hon. Musiliu Folami, said the theme of the conference has provided an opportunity for political office holders to interact and brainstorm on ways of moving the state forward.
