
BIRMINGHAM, Mich., May 19, 2014 /PRNewswire/ -- Quarton Partners is pleased to announce that Freestone Partners has sold Service Refrigeration Company ("SRC") to Source Refrigeration & HVAC, Inc. ("Source Refrigeration"), a portfolio company of Arsenal Capital Partners. SRC is a provider of commercial and industrial refrigeration and air conditioning solutions to grocery, food distribution and industrial end markets. Quarton Partners acted as the exclusive financial advisor to SRC in this transaction.

Service Refrigeration Company ( www.servref.com ), headquartered in Humble, Texas, is a high quality provider of commercial and industrial refrigeration and air conditioning solutions. SRC specializes in providing engineering and design, installation, maintenance and repair services on a wide range of refrigeration equipment, including walk-in coolers/freezers, display cases, ice machines, freezers and coolers. SRC provides services to supermarkets, convenience stores, food processors and industrial companies.

Freestone Partners ( www.freestonepartners.com ) is a private equity firm located in Houston, Texas. Freestone principally targets companies in manufacturing, distribution, and commercial and industrial services. The firm's geographic focus for platform investments is the southwestern and southeastern United States.

Source Refrigeration & HVAC, Inc. ( www.sourcerefrigeration.com ) is based in Anaheim, California. Source Refrigeration is a provider of new system design and installation, remodels and repair and maintenance for commercial refrigeration and HVAC systems. Source Refrigeration serves supermarket chains, convenience store chains and leading telecom and industrial companies throughout North America.

Arsenal Capital Partners ( www.arsenalcapital.com ) is a private equity firm based in New York, New York that invests in middle-market specialty industrial and healthcare companies. Arsenal currently has $1.7 billion of committed equity capital.
