
Thursday, May 22 is the day of the European Elections - the only time outside of a general election when all 46 million UK voters can take part.

The day will be your chance to choose your directly-elected representative in Brussels and Strasbourg.

Defines itself as a Euro-realist party vowing to take the UK out of Europe without recourse to a referendum. Also wants to scrap VAT and establish deeper links with the Commonwealth.

Frontline candidate for the Eastern Region: Paul Wiffen.

Frontline candidate for the Eastern Region:  Richard Perry. 2009 percentage of votes: 6.2% with two MEPs elected.

Insists on EU reforms to portray “Christian vision” of its founders. If this is not achieved it wants the UK to remove itself from Europe.

Frontline candidate for the Eastern Region: Carl Clark.

The official Conservative website states they are focusing on their undertaking to hold a referendum on Europe in 2017.

Frontline candidate for the Eastern Region: Vicky Ford. 2009 percentage of votes: 27.7% with 25 MEPs elected.

Promises to ‘look after English interests’. Maintains it is inequitable to levy prescription fees and tuition charges on the English people when there is free provision for these services in other parts of the UK.

Frontline candidate for the Eastern Region: Robin Tilbrook.

Wants to “make a real difference” on topics such as fishing policies and bankers’ bonuses. The Greens say European policy “does not need to be a shouting match”.

Frontline candidate for the Eastern Region: Rupert Read. 2009 percentage of votes: 8.6% with two MEPs elected.

Aiming to put ‘jobs and growth’ at the heart of the EU and campaigning for change within the EU. Also pledged to cap rent increases in the private sector, scrap letting fees to estate agents and give a ‘fairer deal’ to tenants. Frontline candidate for the Eastern Region: Richard Howitt. 2009 result: 15.7% of votes with 13 MEPs elected.

Liberal Democrats: Portrays itself as the party of “optimism and openness” versus the “fears and falsehoods” of “isolationists”. Their official website proclaims the “fight is on” to keep the UK in Europe.

Frontline candidate for the Eastern Region: Andrew Duff. 2009 percentage of votes: 13.7% with 11 MEPs elected.

Wants to stage a referendum on membership of the EU. Against privatisation, ‘yes to workers’ rights’ and improved public services.

Frontline candidate for the Eastern Region: Brian Denny.

Create your own advertisement or send someone a special message.

© 2014 Johnston Publishing Ltd.

This website and its associated newspaper adheres to the Press Complaints Commission’s Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion, then contact the Editor by clicking  here .

If you remain dissatisfied with the response provided then you can contact the PCC by clicking here .

Bedford Today provides news, events and sport features from the Bedford area. For the best up to date information relating to Bedford and the surrounding areas visit us at Bedford Today regularly or bookmark this page.

For you to enjoy all the features of this website Bedford Today requires permission to use cookies.

Cookies are small data files which are sent to your browser (Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome etc) from a website you visit. They are stored on your electronic device.

This is a type of cookie which is collected by Adobe Flash media player (it is also called a Local Shared Object) - a piece of software you may already have on your electronic device to help you watch online videos and listen to podcasts.

Yes there are a number of options available, you can set your browser either to reject all cookies, to allow only "trusted" sites to set them, or to only accept them from the site you are currently on.

However, please note - if you block/delete all cookies, some features of our websites, such as remembering your login details, or the site branding for your local newspaper may not function as a result.

A tool used by some of our advertisers to target adverts to you based on pages you have visited in the past. To opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

Our sites contain advertising from Google; these use cookies to ensure you get adverts relevant to you. You can tailor the type of ads you receive by visiting here or to opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

This is used to help us identify unique visitors to our websites. This data is anonymous and we cannot use this to uniquely identify individuals and their usage of the sites.

This comes from our ad serving technology and is used to track how many times you have seen a particular ad on our sites, so that you don't just see one advert but an even spread. This information is not used by us for any other type of audience recording or monitoring.

ComScore monitor and externally verify our site traffic data for use within the advertising industry. Any data collected is anonymous statistical data and cannot be traced back to an individual.

Our Classified websites (Photos, Motors, Jobs and Property Today) use cookies to ensure you get the correct local newspaper branding and content when you visit them. These cookies store no personally identifiable information.

We use Grapeshot as a contextual targeting technology, allowing us to create custom groups of stories outside out of our usual site navigation. Grapeshot stores the categories of story you have been exposed to. Their privacy policy and opt out option can be accessed here.

Our partner for Newspaper subscriptions online stores data from the forms you complete in these to increase the usability of the site and enhance user experience.

Add This provides the social networking widget found in many of our pages. This widget gives you the tools to bookmark our websites, blog, share, tweet and email our content to a friend.
