
The case of a murderer being given day release, allowing him to go on the run for the the third time , is "unacceptable" Justice Secretary Chris Grayling said, adding the government would speed up a planned tightening of the rules around releasing prisoners on temporary licence.

Arnold Pickering, 44, absconded from prison at the weekend, while on day release, despite the fact he had twice tried to escape before.

Pickering, from Chadderton, Greater Manchester, failed to return to HMP Kennet in Maghull, Merseyside, after leaving the Category C jail on day release at about 9.30am on Saturday.

Grayling pledged the abolition of "town leave", where a prisoner can be temporarily allowed to "wander around town all day", more stringent risk assessments, and electronic tags for prisoners on day release.

On Monday, Grayling told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "I think most people would struggle to find this remotely acceptable, I certainly do.

"This comes off the back of a series of planned changes that we are now accelerating.

"If you look at what's happened over the past 12 months, as I say we've got a system where most people treat it properly and appropriately and there are very few people who cause trouble.

"But the reality is we have had a number of serious incidents with people out on temporary licence."

The disappearance of Pickering and robber Thomas Moffett comes just days after Michael Wheatley, AKA the Skull Cracker, allegedly absconding from HMP Standford Hill open prison, also while on day release, on May 3.

ichael Wheatley AKA Skull Cracker arriving at South East Surrey Magistrates Court in Red Hill today. Michael Wheatley was arrested Wednesday in East London after a four day man hunt after he failed to return to prison whilst on day release.

Michael ‘Skull Cracker’ Wheatley has finally been captured. The 55-year-old fugitive was arrested after four days on the run after he absconded from HMP Standford Hill after being released on temporary licence. Kent Police confirmed that two men, aged 55 and 53 were arrested on suspicion to commit armed robbery, at an address in East London by Met Police officers. Wheatley was also arrested on suspicion of being unlawfully at large. DCI Ann Lisseman from Kent Police said: “We are no longer looking for Michael Wheatley.

Police outside a branch of the Chelsea Building Society in Sunbury-on-Thames, Surrey which was robbed today, Police are investigating whether armed robber Michael Wheatley also known as the "Skull Cracker" has struck again.

Police outside a branch of the Chelsea Building Society in Sunbury-on-Thames, Surrey which was robbed today, Police are investigating whether a fugitive armed robber known as the "Skull Cracker" has struck again.

Undated handout photo issued by the Metropolitan Police in 2002 of Michael Wheatley performing an armed raid, as Wheatley, dubbed the "Skull Cracker", who went missing after temporarily being allowed out of jail, has been seen in south west London, Scotland Yard said.

EDITORIAL USE ONLY : Metropolitan Police handout issued Tuesday October 1, 2002, of Michael Wheatley performing an armed raid. A dangerous armed robber dubbed the Skull Cracker,   * ...Wheatley will learn at the Old Bailey in London today if he is to spend life behind bars when he is sentenced for 13 raids on building societies and banks over 10 months. He earned his nickname after pistol-whipping victims and was described in court as a "career" criminal.

Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day..

Use this form to alert a HuffPost editor about a factual or typographical error in this story.

Thank you!
