
Demand for 'cosmetic surgery tourism' has risen as the number of people travelling overseas for treatments has more than doubled in the past two years, according to new research by private healthcare search engine WhatClinic.com.

The ability to get cheaper treatments is the main reason more people are opting to have dentures, boob jobs and bottom lifts abroad.

But it's not just cosmetics treatments which are proving popular with tourists, more Brits are also travelling over seas for fertility treatment.

Even with the cost of flights and hotels, the total spend adds up to less than the bill for private surgery in the UK.

For example, Thailand has proven a hotspot for dentures, with demand soaring by 320 per cent in the past year. On average a full set of dentures costs £184 in Bangkok, which is £256 cheaper than in the UK.

Eastern Europe boasts the largest number of hubs for cosmetic tourism, as short flights and cheap fares with budget airlines prove popular with patients. The Czech Republic has seen a 304 per cent increase in interest for nose jobs in the past year, with an average procedure costing £847, versus £3,557 in the UK. The operation, which separates the nasal skin and soft tissue from the nasal framework, allows the nose to be reshaped.

Meanwhile, those looking for breast implants are heading to Poland. Enquiries there have risen by 57 per cent  in the past year. With flights taking just over two hours and costing  as little as £42 return from London to Warsaw, patients can look to  still make considerable savings by paying £1,972 in Poland for the  operation, instead of £3,736 in Britain.

Huge costs attached to IVF and NHS waiting lists  have also led to serious growth in fertility hubs around Europe. In the  Czech Republic, one treatment will cost £791 but in the UK it costs  £2,420.

Greece offers egg donation and  pre-implantation genetic diagnosis (PGD) at a considerable saving  compared to the UK - patients can save between £700 and £900 per  treatment.

Caelen King, CEO of WhatClinic.com, comments: 'The biggest draw of medical and cosmetic tourism is price - as Brits going abroad can look to make considerable savings even after the travel costs. You may even be able to tie it in with a holiday for less than the cost of the procedure in the UK.

'But with any procedure, wherever it's done, make sure you do your research and shop around. Speak to a number of specialists until you find one that you are comfortable with. If you do decide to go overseas, be realistic about recovery time and getting home.

The comments below have not been moderated.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
