
Slimmers have joined forces to spring-clean their wardrobes to donate 110 bags of their unwanted clothes to help raise funds for a charity.

To send a link to this page to a friend, you must be logged in.

Members of the Dagenham & Barking Slimming World groups collected all their unwanted clothes, shoes and accessories to donate to their local Cancer Research UK shop to support The Big Slimming World Clothes Throw campaign which ran for two weeks from May 5. Each bag of clothes could raise around £25 for the charity.

The campaign is a nationwide fundraising drive that sees Slimming World members across the UK donating clothes to Cancer Research UK, Slimming World’s charity partner for 2014. Last year slimmers donated £888,586 worth of stock across the UK. All profits go to support the charity’s life-saving work to help beat cancer sooner.

Lynda Gray, slimming world consultant, said: “Members of Slimming World group have really embraced this fabulous fundraising campaign and they have been more than happy to donate their ‘big’ clothes because they know that they’re never going to need them again.

“One in three of us are affected by cancer and being overweight increases the risk of developing the disease, so we’re determined to do anything we can do to help fight cancer and help people lead healthier lives.

Please log in to leave a comment and share your views with other Barking and Dagenham Post visitors.

We enable people to post comments with the aim of encouraging open debate.

Only people who register and sign up to our terms and conditions can post comments. These terms and conditions explain our house rules and legal guidelines.

Comments are not edited by Barking and Dagenham Post staff prior to publication but may be automatically filtered.

If you have a complaint about a comment please contact us by clicking on the Report This Comment button next to the comment.

Register to create your own unique Barking and Dagenham Post account for free.

Signing up is free, quick and easy and offers you the chance to add comments, personalise the site with local information picked just for you, and more.
