
In this image captured from a 57-minute video released May 5, a man purported to be Boko Haram leader Abubakar Shekau says he will sell the girls kidnapped April 14 from school in Chibok village, in Borno state, Nigeria.

''They gave us drinks and we were asked to prepare food to eat," Joyce said. At about 2 p.m. the next day, "as I pretended to go to the toilet, I managed to escape, along with two other classmates."

The three girls reached a camp of Fulani, an ethnic group of largely nomadic herders, at about 8 p.m. The girls spent the night at the camp before finally reaching their homes the following day, exhausted.

''We live in anxiety day and night," said the man, whose name is being withheld by World Watch Monitor to protect his safety. "We are idle, while the rainy season (for farming) has started. We mourn and pray day and night for the return of our daughters."

Chibok is a predominantly Christian enclave in Muslim-majority Borno state, in Nigeria's northeastern corner. Christian communities in the northeast have been repeatedly attacked in recent months by Boko Haram, a heavily armed insurgent group fighting to impose its version of Islamic law across the country.

The families of the victims have become aware of the worldwide outpouring of sympathy ''We believe they have realized that they are not alone in this difficult circumstances as many around the world support them,'' said Rev. Samuel Dali, president of Ekklisiyar Yan Uwa a Nigeria, known as Church of the Brethren, or EYN Church. Most of the affected families are members of EYN Church. Dali and his delegation have been visiting families across Chibok, without a security escort.

On Tuesday, a delegation of women visited Chibok to extend their sympathy to the grieving mothers of the kidnapped girls. ''We have come to express our compassion," Dali told World Watch Monitor. "We prayed with them and we urged them to turn to God, as He is the only one who can appease their hearts."

Some of the world's top Islamic scholars have denounced Boko Haram's spree of violence. The Islamic Fiqh Academy, based in Saudi Arabia and part of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation, said the kidnapping "contradicts all humanitarian principles and moral values and violates the provisions of the Quran and Sunnah."

Former UK Prime Minister Gordon Brown, now a UN education envoy, announced a "safe schools initiative" aimed at providing security for around 500 schools in northern Nigeria. Meanwhile, the girls who escaped have been called back to school to compete their exams.
