
New Delhi: Even though Congress President Sonia Gandhi and Vice President Rahul Gandhi offered to resign taking responsibility for the party's debacle in 2014 Lok Sabha elections, in typical Congress style it was outrightly rejected by the leaders. The offer made by Sonia and Rahul to resign was unanimously rejected," said party leader and Amritsar MP Amarinder Singh.

Prime Minister Manmohan Singh echoed the views of Congress leaders and opposed accepting the resignations of Sonia and Rahul. "Resignation is not the solution, mistakes need to be corrected," he said.

"I take responsibility of the loss of this defeat as far as government functioning is concerned," Manmohan Singh added.

While addressing the media, Congress leader Janardhan Dwivedi quoted Sonia Gandhi saying, "Rivals polarised the electorate. "Results were extremely disapointing and we were defeated despite doing good work."

Sonia Gandhi and Rahul resigning is not the solution," Dwiwedi said.

The Congress leader, however, refused to comment on Rahul's campaign which according to many political experts was one of the reasons of party's dismal performance.

Rahul though admitted in the meeting that he did not meet the expectations. He also praised the Prime Minister saying he did good work in the last 10 years.

Defending Sonia and Rahul, senior Congress leader Beni Prasad Verma said, "Why should they resign. It is a collective responsibility of the party."

"We will fight under Sonia and Rahul's leadership and there is no question of retreating," said another senior Congress leader Oscar Fernandes.

Senior Congress leaders had met on Monday evening to review the party's worst ever electoral performance in the Lok Sabha polls where it won only 44 seats in the 543-member House. The meeting was held at the party headquarters.

All the members of the CWC including Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi were present at the meeting.

There were no major changes in the CWC, but it passed a resolution in which the communication strategy of the government in the general elections was criticised.

CWC also accepted the verdict of the people and said both the government and the party must share responsibility for Congress's defeat.

A review panel is likely to be appointed to analyse why the party failed to get even 50 seats, said sources.

When the CWC meeting was underway, Youth Congress workers were seen shouting slogans in support of Rahul outside party headquarters.

Sonia and Rahul had earlier taken the responsibility for the party's rout in the polls.

Earlier during the day, Congress leaders though put their weight behind Sonia and Rahul and said that everyone in the party was responsible for its worst ever performance in general elections.

"The question of Sonia and Rahul resigning does not even arise. It's a collective responsibility. I am equally responsible," party leader Manish Tewari said.

Renuka Chowdhury seconded him. She said, "There is no question of us evaluating Rahul Gandhi. We have to hit the ground as we have Assembly elections coming in six months. We have to get our act together and have to deliver."

The lone Congress leader to pin the blame for the electoral defeat on Rahul Gandhi was former Law Minister Ashwani Kumar. He told CNN-IBN that the party's "campaign managers" made mistakes. He also said that it was high time Sonia again took charge of the party.

CNN name, logo and all associated elements ® and © 2013 Cable News Network LP, LLLP. A Time Warner Company. All rights reserved. CNN and the CNN logo are registered marks of Cable News Network, LP LLLP,

displayed with permission. Use of the CNN name and/or logo on or as part of CNN-IBN does not derogate from the intellectual property rights of Cable News Network in respect of them.
