
President John Dramani Mahama, has reposed confidence in his Vice President Kwesi Amissah for his leadership acumen as the head of government economic management team, contrary to  months of speculation that President Mahama is not impressed with him.

President Mahama said this when he closed the National Economic Forum at Senchi in the Asuogyaman District of the Eastern Region.

“I wish to take this opportunity to thank my Vice President Kwesi Amissah Arthur for all the hard work, time, dedication that he has invested in this forum. The leadership and  other contributions  that he has made to ensure the success of this  forum is not short of exemplary,” president Mahama stated.

President, John Mahama also commended all participants in the just ended National Economic Forum and has promised that his government will attach the same urgency exhibited by the participants in the quest to solve the nation’s economic challenges.

According to him, some of the proposed solutions proffered by the stakeholders are “far reaching” and his government will take the necessary steps to immediately implement the agreement.

President Mahama was addressing the closing ceremony of the National Economic Forum at Senchi  near Atimpoku in the Eastern Region.

The participants were tasked to deliberate and prescribe effective ways through which government can improve and sustain the economy which will positively impact the lives of citizens.

Speaking to some of the participants at the forum most of them were impressed with Kwesi Amissah Arthur as the head of government economic management team and believes that  leading government development strategy, emphasizing transparency, accountability and a strong civil society with the public and private sector participation, he is the one who has what it is per the Senchi accord for the kind of reform that can help unleash transformational change, so that Ghana’s future would be for Ghanaians.

Spyghana.com is a premier news source that covers daily news of Ghana, Africa and the World over. Today, the site is updated 24 hours a day, seven days a week with follow-ups and breaking news, as well as original reporting, entertainment and sports. And our traffic has grown accordingly.
