
AstraZeneca appeared to bring an end to a protracted takeover attempt by US drug giant Pfizer yesterday as it rejected a final offer of £69 billion.

The UK firm said the proposal undervalued it by £5bn and the move was motivated by tax-saving and cost-cutting plans.

AstraZeneca shares plunged by up to 15 per cent as the prospect of a deal faded, yet chairman Leif Johansson admitted he had “no idea” whether the saga was over.

One leading investor said Pfizer’s offer was a “good price” though it could do better, while an analyst suggested the American firm could come back with a fresh approach in six months.

AstraZeneca’s statement echoed fears expressed by critics that a deal would hit jobs and damage the UK’s science base, and they urged the board to continue to stand firm against the merger. But the FTSE 100 company for the first time revealed a price at which it might be prepared to consider a deal.

AstraZeneca’s rejection came after a “fourth and final” proposal from Pfizer on Sunday night. It insisted that the terms undervalued the company, though a fall in shares in the wake of the announcement left its market value nearly £18bn lower than what Pfizer was prepared to pay.

Astra said the deal would bring “uncertainty and risk,” also highlighting plans to re-domicile the company in the UK for tax purposes, and the fact that the takeover offer was mainly comprised of shares.

Pfizer upped its offer from a previous £50 a share to £53.50 on Friday, before raising this again to £55 on Sunday evening.

The US giant’s chief executive, Ian Read, urged the Astra board to engage in “meaningful dialogue,” saying the offer represented “compelling and full value”. But Astra indicated it would not consider anything less than 10 per cent above the £53.50 offer, or £58.85, valuing it at £74.3bn, and that the £55 proposal represented only a “minor improvement”.

© 2014 Johnston Publishing Ltd.

This website and its associated newspaper adheres to the Press Complaints Commission’s Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion, then contact the Editor by clicking here .

If you remain dissatisfied with the response provided then you can contact the PCC by clicking here .

The Scotsman provides news, events and sport features from the Edinburgh area. For the best up to date information relating to Edinburgh and the surrounding areas visit us at The Scotsman regularly or bookmark this page.

For you to enjoy all the features of this website The Scotsman requires permission to use cookies.

Cookies are small data files which are sent to your browser (Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome etc) from a website you visit. They are stored on your electronic device.

This is a type of cookie which is collected by Adobe Flash media player (it is also called a Local Shared Object) - a piece of software you may already have on your electronic device to help you watch online videos and listen to podcasts.

Yes there are a number of options available, you can set your browser either to reject all cookies, to allow only "trusted" sites to set them, or to only accept them from the site you are currently on.

However, please note - if you block/delete all cookies, some features of our websites, such as remembering your login details, or the site branding for your local newspaper may not function as a result.

A tool used by some of our advertisers to target adverts to you based on pages you have visited in the past. To opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

Our sites contain advertising from Google; these use cookies to ensure you get adverts relevant to you. You can tailor the type of ads you receive by visiting here or to opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

This is used to help us identify unique visitors to our websites. This data is anonymous and we cannot use this to uniquely identify individuals and their usage of the sites.

This comes from our ad serving technology and is used to track how many times you have seen a particular ad on our sites, so that you don't just see one advert but an even spread. This information is not used by us for any other type of audience recording or monitoring.

ComScore monitor and externally verify our site traffic data for use within the advertising industry. Any data collected is anonymous statistical data and cannot be traced back to an individual.

Our Classified websites (Photos, Motors, Jobs and Property Today) use cookies to ensure you get the correct local newspaper branding and content when you visit them. These cookies store no personally identifiable information.

We use Grapeshot as a contextual targeting technology, allowing us to create custom groups of stories outside out of our usual site navigation. Grapeshot stores the categories of story you have been exposed to. Their privacy policy and opt out option can be accessed here.

Our partner for Newspaper subscriptions online stores data from the forms you complete in these to increase the usability of the site and enhance user experience.

Add This provides the social networking widget found in many of our pages. This widget gives you the tools to bookmark our websites, blog, share, tweet and email our content to a friend.

We use Advertising agencies to provide us with some of the advertising on our websites. These include (but are not limited to) Specific Media, The Rubicon Project, AdJug, AdConion, Context Web. Please click on the provider name to visit their opt-out page.
