
Khalid Sheikh died suddenly  at his home in Oadby.

He was expelled from the east African country by Ida Amin in 1972 and along with thousands of other Asians ended up in Leicester with his father, elder sister and three younger brothers.

In 1981, after a series of menial jobs, Khalid and his brothers set up Clifton Packaging, a food packaging firm in Meridian Business Park, which today employs 70 people, with annual sales of more than £10 million.

After returning to Uganda for the first time in 20 years, Khalid set up a project which uses business expertise to help grow the economy of Uganda and other African countries.

The Buy Africa, Build Africa  initiative came to the attention of president Yoweri Museveni, who was so impressed he asked Khalid to be his economic   adviser for two years from   2011.

Khalid's funeral, which took place at Saffron Hill cemetery, in Aylestone, on Friday, was   attended by Uganda's deputy higher commissioner Isaac   Sebulime Biruma.

His brother, Shahid, 46, said Khalid was proud to help the country, which is where their mother Hajan Anwar Begum is buried after she died following a car accident in 1971.

"It played a big part of his life over the last five years," he said. "He was so proud of that. He was affectionate towards Africa because our mother is buried there. That legacy will live on."

Shahid, who is managing director of Clifton, said a post-mortem was inconclusive about the cause of Khalid's death.

"He was a diabetic and had a heart attack about five years ago," he said.

"He was not the fittest of souls, but not to the extend that we thought this was going to happen.

"Khalid was the same age as our father when he passed away in 1985. It's just a terrible coincidence."

Uday Dholakia, chairman of Leicestershire Asian Business Association, said: "He was a grounded, hard-working man who was a consummate salesman, and who was a very ambitious and flamboyant character. He will certainly be missed.

"He was also the first among the Ugandan Asians who said they were proud to be British and stand up for the city and county."

Friend and fellow Ugandan refugee Jaffer Kapasi, of Oadby, said: "He was very well liked by the president of Uganda.

"He was quite instrumental in promoting trade between the UK and Uganda. I will miss him, particularly our discussions about business issues."
