
The meeting was to launch a report ‘Zimbabwe’s International Re-engagement: The Long Haul to Recovery’ by Steve Kibble and Zanu PF apologist Knox Chitiyo. Just to make sure of things another featured speaker was Zanu PF sympathiser Dr Miles Tendi, Lecturer in African History and Politics at Oxford University.

Among business leaders at the meeting was the head of Anglo-American who felt the indigenisation policy was being implemented pragmatically as shown by the fact that although they had handed over 51% of their shares, they had still maintained control of the company. The Head of Rio Tinto also managed to get into the select meeting.

The Vigil is appalled by the tenor of the meeting. Re-engage Zimbabwe? Since when has the West stopped engaging Zimbabwe? There is a full pack of western ambassadors in Harare falling over themselves to feed the starving and support the hopeless.

Only this week the French Ambassador, Laurent Delahousse, said Zimbabwe had imposed sanctions upon itself through corruption, violation of people’s rights and other unacceptable behaviour and should stop blaming other countries.

Whatever Chatham House thinks, it is not up to the West to change its policy towards Zimbabwe, it is up to Zanu PF to re-engage with the donor community and stop spitting in their face. The reality is that there can be no fruitful engagement unless Mugabe goes.

·         The Zimbabwe Action Forum met after the Vigil to discuss the progress of its diaspora initiative to promote change at home. It was agreed that ZAF would remain a platform for discussion embracing all views and would engage the Zimbabwe We Can Movement (ZWC), which is part of the Vigil Coalition, with a view to developing a political force. David Kadzutu said a ZWC meeting earlier in the day had set an annual membership fee of £15. It was noted that a request had been sent to the Home Secretary Theresa May asking for a meeting to discuss the treatment of Zimbabwean asylum seekers. The  ZAF meeting was told that a number of MPs had offered their support.

·         We were saddened to hear of the death of Vigil founder member Clifford Mahembi. Our thoughts and prayers are with his family and friends.

·         Thanks to Isaac Chatikobo, Tendai Bhallphi and Helen Rukambiro who arrived early to help set up.

FOR THE RECORD: 27 signed the register.

Hie im shocked to hear of Clifford Mahembe death. I lost his contact sometime last year.  I know he had moved from Eastham to Royal Victoria dock. Does anyone have Linnette (Clifford sister) number so i can contact her.Thanks.

It is now ten months since the rigged July 2013 elections and the Mugabe regime has failed to get even one dollar into its $27 billion ZimAsset begging bowl to finance its own economic recovery programme. Investors are not investing in the country because of the lawlessness in the country. Australia’s Ambassador to Zimbabwe compared investing in Zimbabwe to someone swimming in the crocodile infested Zambezi.

This people coming up with reports of re-engaging the regime as the “only game in town” are just stringing the regime along giving it the impression that investors will have no choice but take the dive and the ZimAsset begging bowl will fill up. That is simply not true, no investors are queuing to be have their investments taken away from them; there other countries for them to go.

The only way to restore investor confidence in Zimbabwe is for this illegitimate Mugabe regime to step down to allow an interim administration to implement the reforms and to hold free and fair elections.

being pushed to civil disobedience, rioting or even civil war as the only means to push Mugabe out of office; the nation is not going to wait for much longer whilst Mugabe continues to destroy everything of value for selfish political gain!

It is high time the international community told Mugabe in no uncertain terms that holding fresh elections is the only way Zimbabwe can restore confidence to investor and get the much needed financial assistance to kick-start the economic recovery. Mugabe should not be allowed to hold the whole nation to ransom for another day longer.
