
Nationalist Party leader Simon Busuttil insisted that Parliament’s Public Accounts Committee should immediately publish the contract through which Henley and Partners was made “concessionaire” for the Individual Investor Programme.

Dr Busuttil was speaking at a political activity in Senglea this evening, shortly after Speaker Anġlu Farrugia ruled that it was up to the PAC to decide whether the contract should be open to its scrutiny.

The longer the contract was kept under wraps, he said, the more people’s suspicions of a link between Henley & Partners and the Labour Party grew. He pointed out that elsewhere, the company faced serious allegations that it financed a political party’s election campaign to secure the agreement it wanted.

At the activity, Dr Busuttil warned that his party’s aim of winning three seats in next Saturday’s European Parliament election was far from a foregone conclusion, even though he stressed that the aim was nevertheless a realistic one.

He started by pointing out that many were stating that there was the need to send a message to the government. Labour MP Marlene Farrugia – whose article on today’s edition of The Malta Independent appeared to suggest as much – was specifically mentioned as an example.

He said that the PN was asking those who were disappointed, felt used or betrayed, to send a message to the government.

Dr Busuttil recognised that the surveys showed that the Labour Party was ahead, but insisted that it was not discouraged. However, he insisted that the party could not take its target of winning three seats for granted, stating that the third seat would be in the balance if the result mirrored that of last year’s general election.

Prime Minister Joseph Muscat had maintained that the coming election was a choice between him and Dr Busuttil: in reaction, the PN leader said that it appeared that Dr Muscat was in politics not to serve others but to serve himself.

“It’s always about him,” Dr Busuttil quipped. The PN leader said that Dr Muscat’s insistence that both parties started on an equal footing showed that he did not have a sense of fairness.

“I assure him that if we started on an equal footing, we would win... but we know that we start at a disadvantage,” he said.
