
America’s best known dictionary the Merriam-Webster has announced more than 150 new words and definitions for 2014, with many of them referring to the growing influence of technology, the internet and social networking.

Many of the new words refer to a meeting of pop culture   and technology, such as ‘big data’ and ‘unfriend’, where someone   removes someone else from a list of designated friends on a   social networking site such as Facebook.

“So many of these words show the impact of online   connectivity to our lives and livelihoods. ‘Tweep’, ‘selfie’, and   ‘hashtag’ refer to the ways we communicate and share as   individuals. Words like ‘crowdfunding’, ‘gamification’, and ‘big   data’ show that the Internet has changed business in profound   ways," Peter Sokolowski, an editor for Merriam-Webster said   in a statement Monday.

Other words, which refer to the huge digital revolution in our   lives, include ‘catfish’, which has the added definition   of referring to a person who creates a false social networking   profile for deceptive reasons.

And ‘digital divide’, which first began to appear in   1996 and refers to the economic, educational and even social   inequalities between those who have access to the internet and   those who do not.

But other new words refer more to pop culture than the technology   revolution. ‘Pho’ refers to a soup made of beef or   noodles and is originally a Vietnamese word. It is a reflection   of the popularity of the dish amongst Americans.

While ‘Poutine’, which comes from Canada is a dish of   French fries covered with gravy and cheese and ‘turducken’ is a boneless chicken stuffed into a   boneless duck, which is then stuffed into a boneless turkey.

Other words appear to have crept over the Atlantic from Britain’s   celebrity and royals obsessions such ‘fangirl’, a woman   who is extremely overenthusiastic fan of someone or something   else, and ‘baby bump’, the enlarged tummy of a pregnant   woman, usually used by British tabloids to describe pregnant   celebrities.

Others such as ‘fracking’ have grown from new   technological advances unrelated to the digital revolution.   Fracking, which is otherwise known as hydraulic fracturing is   where fluid is injected in shale rock beds at high pressure in   order to extract oil and natural gas deposits.

One of the more colloquial words to have made into the   Merriam-Webster is ‘Yooper’, a native or resident of the   Upper Peninsula of Michigan, on the US Great Lakes.

email before you can log in.

successfully!
