
The "Grandmother of Liverpool" will join a parade of giants to commemorate the outbreak of World War One.

The giant will make an international debut at July's Memories of August 1914, alongside the Little Girl Giant and her dog Xolo.

Jean Luc Courcoult, founder of French creators Royal de Luxe, said the "feisty and loveable character [has] some surprises up her sleeve".

Mayor Joe Anderson said its inclusion was a "massive coup and huge honour".

A city council spokesman said the giant would be on public view before the parade at St George's Hall "where she will be sleeping".

'Cheeky humour'

He said that due to the journey "through time from the past, it will take a couple of days before she is ready to explore the city".

"In the meantime, she will rest in the beautiful surroundings of the Great Hall."

Mr Anderson said the figure brought "a whole different dimension to the event".

"We know she will be a real character that will bring out a mixture of emotions in the visitors descending on the city.

"It's extra special to have the St George's Hall element - it is the perfect opportunity for people to see one of our visitors up close and take in how beautifully intricate the work of Royal de Luxe is."

Mr Courcoult said French and Liverpudlian grandparents had "a huge amount in common - they like to talk about the past and tell family stories to keep them alive".

"Add to this sentimentality a cheeky sense of humour and you've got the makings of a great story to be told."

The event, which runs from 23 to 27 July, comes two years after a Titanic-inspired show called Sea Odyssey, which saw the little girl and her dog search the city for her uncle.

According to BBC Weather , it'll be rather cloudy through the evening and night.

The rain will be mainly in the south, before easing away towards dawn. It will also be rather windy.

The minimum temperature will be about 14C (57F).

Britain has one of the best records in the world for road casualties. However, hundreds still die on the roads every year. In 2010, the police recorded 1,850 deaths, 22,660 people seriously injured and 184,138 who received light injuries.

Earlier this week James Alexander Gordon (pictured) died. He was famous for reading the classified football results on BBC radio for 40 years,

To a whole generation of sport lovers he was the voice of Saturday afternoons.

BBC Travel News reports there's stop-start traffic on the M6 southbound between J21a, M62 (Croft Interchange) and J18, A54 (Middlewich).

BBC News reports a man from Liverpool caught with cocaine with an estimated street value of £32,000 in Aberdeen has been jailed.

Peter Walters, 31, was found with the drugs in a property in Whitehall Place in the Rosemount area last October.

He admitted being concerned in the supply of cocaine.

Gerard Ingham is accused of carrying out the attack on 7 September last year.

This weekend, Match of The Day celebrated 50 years on air.

BBC Travel News reports the M62 is blocked and there's queuing traffic in both directions between J9, A49 (Winwick) and J8 Burtonwood Road.

SP Energy Networks, which supplies electricity through power lines, is spending £8m to replace 6km of underground cables between Rainhill and St Helens.

The company says it has been working with St Helens Council to minimise disruption while the 132,000-volt underground cables, which supply Manweb, are replaced.

Walks around the National Wildflower Centre, in Liverpool, are taking place tomorrow, reports BBC Things To Do .

BBC Radio 1 and 1Xtra DJ Charlie Sloth thinks new Liverpool signing Mario Balotelli could bring some "explosive" action to the pitch and become a "great asset" to the team.

The self-proclaimed "massive Liverpool fan" said: "Mario Balotelli is constantly getting a bad rep in the press, but we don't look at the positive things he's done."

Liverpool's International Music Festival Summer Jam continues today , ending a weekend which will have seen more than 150 acts from 20 countries hit the stage at Sefton Park.

Police are patrolling the M57 after reports that a woman was dangling over the motorway on one of the bridges.

A member of the public raised the alarm, fearing she was about to jump.

More on the special train laid on at the weekend by Merseyrail to make sure bride Leanne Cole got to the church (well, St George's Hall) on time - and in style.

Leanne says she thought it would be "a fun and unique way to travel".

Merseyrail provided a bride with a special train to transport her to her wedding on time.

BBC Travel News is warning drivers to expect delays in both directions on the A5049 at Green Lane, Tuebrook, due to roadworks.

Our team has done the Ice Bucket Challenge.

We have made a donation to the Motor Neurone Disease Association.

Police are looking into the death of a man who may have attended the Creamfields Festival in Cheshire.

One line of inquiry is that his death was drug related.

Liverpool John Lennon Airport is having one of its busiest weekends of the year, with about 60,000 travellers expected to have passed through over the bank holiday.

Almost 30,000 passengers departed from the the airport, with the Mediterranean the most popular destination.

According to BBC Weather , outbreaks of rain will mainly affect southern areas through the day, becoming heavy and persistent for a time.

Across northern parts, it'll stay generally dry but mainly cloudy with strong gusty winds for most areas.

Maximum temperature: 16C (61F).

Welcome to your bank holiday Monday Local Live page for Merseyside. I'm here to bring you all the news, sport, weather and travel today.
