
A man has gone on trial of accused of drugging and sexually assaulting a young woman after promising her a modelling contract.

Augustin Edaghese, 31 and from Monagh Crescent in west Belfast, has been charged with administering a substance with sexual intent and of carrying out a sexual assault at a house in the Holylands area of Belfast on 21 November, 2011.

He denies both charges against him.

The young woman, who was 21 at the time of the alleged incident, claims that after initially meeting Edaghese, who called himself Jason Banks, on Facebook, they met at a Belfast nightclub where they sat in the VIP and discussed his career in the music industry.

She said that two days after meeting in the club, she met Edaghese at a city centre hotel to discuss a modelling/PR contract.

The woman told the court: "He told me that he wanted me to go to Dublin to be in this video shoot and he wanted me to go to London to do my portfolio."

The woman said that after meeting in the hotel at around 9.30pm on 21 November, they left and went to a nearby off licence where he purchased a bottle of brandy.

She claimed that as they made their way to a house where she believed she was signing a modelling contract, a female passer-by who she didn't know walked up to her, hugged her and whispered in her ear that the man she was with was a rapist and the next time anyone found her she would be "six feet under."

She told a jury that after walking to a house in the Holylands area, Edaghese - who claimed he worked for a high profile Belfast modelling agency - led her into a flat where he poured them both a drink.

After encouraging her to knock the drink back, she said she "necked" the brandy, went to the bathroom and when she returned, Edaghese handed her another glass but this time the liquid was cloudy.

The woman said that after consuming some of the second glass, she felt sick and dizzy.

She said the next thing she remembers is waking up under the covers with her jeans around her knees and Edaghese between her legs, trying to pull down her underwear.

She told the jury that after coming round, she pushed Edaghese off her, punched him and then ran into the street.

The police were contacted and the young women was taken to hospital.

Her allegations were refuted by Edaghese's barrister, who said it was his client's case that none of the woman's claims were true.

The trial continues.
