
Ingrid Olson of Cody holds a patient while on a medical mission to Kenya. She traveled to the African nation last August.

Young patients wait in line at a volunteer medical clinic in Ghana. Cody nurse Ingrid Olson traveled to Ghana for the mission March 5-21. The clinics were set up in abandoned schools and other defunct facilities, moving to a new town daily.

Children in Ghana play outside a medical mission clinic. Cody nurse Ingrid Olson says volunteering for the March mission and seeing how the people of Africa live has changed her priorities in life.

Posted: Monday, May 19, 2014 12:35 pm | Updated: 1:00 pm, Mon May 19, 2014.

It’s not a question registered nurse Ingrid Olson of Cody had planned to struggle with upon her return from medical missions in Africa.

An online service is needed to view this article in its entirety. You need an online service to view this article in its entirety.

Choose an online service.

Thank you for reading 5 free articles on our site. You can come back at the end of your 30-day period for another 5 free articles, or you can purchase a subscription and continue to enjoy valuable local news and information. If you need help, please contact our office at (307) 587-2231   . You need an online service to view this article in its entirety.

Choose an online service.

Posted in People on Monday, May 19, 2014 12:35 pm. Updated: 1:00 pm.

1 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language.

2 Don't Threaten or Abuse. Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated. AND PLEASE TURN OFF CAPS LOCK.

3 Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.

4 Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.

5 Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.

6 Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness accounts, the history behind an article.

Welcome to the discussion.

We're always interested in hearing about news in our community. Let us know what's going on!
