
NEW YORK: A New York jury convicted British hate preacher Abu Hamza on 11 kidnapping and terrorism charges Monday, opening the way for a judge to impose what will almost certainly be a life sentence.

The hook-handed imam, who became a tabloid bogeyman in Britain at the Finsbury Park mosque in London, showed no reaction as the guilty verdict was returned on all counts following a four-week trial.

Judge Katherine Forrest will return to the Manhattan courtroom on September 9 to sentence  Abu Hamza and wrap up what was the second high-profile terror trial in  New York in three months.

Campaigners will seize on the trial as further proof that US terror cases could be tried more effectively in civilian courts as pressure builds to close the Guantanamo Bay prison camp.

In March, another  New York jury also found Osama bin Laden's son-in-law and former Al-Qaeda spokesman, Suleiman Abu Ghaith, guilty in a lightning-quick trial a year after his arrest.

"These trials demonstrate that in an American civilian courtroom, the American people and all the victims of terrorism can be vindicated without sacrificing our principles," said Manhattan's top federal prosecutor, US attorney Preet Bharara.

Mustafa Kamel Mustafa, 56, better known in  Britain as  Abu Hamza al-Masri, was charged with the 1998 abduction of Western tourists in Yemen, providing material support to Al-Qaeda, assisting the Taliban and sending terror recruits to Afghanistan.

It took the 12-member jury just 12 hours over two days to reach the unanimous verdict.

In the hostage-taking, he was found guilty of providing the Islamist kidnappers with a satellite phone, acting as an intermediary and dispensing advice by telephone from home.

Two of the hostages were Americans.

The jury also also convicted him of trying to set up a terror training camp in Oregon in 1999 and, from his London base, of promoting "violent jihad" on a global scale.

Blind in one eye and with both hands blown off by an explosives experiment in Pakistan, he compared himself to Irish republican leader Gerry Adams and spoke of his love for Osama bin Laden, the  Al-Qaeda mastermind killed by US forces in May 2011.

He denied all the charges, though he acknowledged he occasionally used strong words in his sermons and fiery speeches -- numerous extracts of which were played for the jury.

He admitted supplying the satellite phone to the Islamist group that kidnapped the Australian, British and US tourists in Yemen, but said he was only told of the abduction after the fact.

He also claimed he didn't know another of the young men at his mosque had left to fight in Afghanistan.

Prosecutors wrapped up their case last week, saying the evidence against  Abu Hamza was "simply overwhelming."

Defense lawyer Jeremy Schneider argued that his client was being tried for "his words in general, not his deeds."

The Egyptian-born father of nine and an engineer by training, joined  Finsbury Park mosque in 1997, where he preached vitriolic sermons, in particular against the United States.

The mosque closed in 2003, but he continued to preach outside on the street.

British police arrested  Abu Hamza in August 2004 at Washington's request, and he was sentenced to seven years in jail in 2006 for inciting murder and racial hatred.

Your feedback is important to us!

We invite all our readers to share with us their views and comments about this article.

Disclaimer: Comments submitted by third parties on this site are the sole responsibility of the individual(s) whose content is submitted. The Daily Star accepts no responsibility for the content of comment(s), including, without limitation, any error, omission or inaccuracy therein. Please note that your email address will NOT appear on the site.

A New York jury convicted British hate preacher Abu Hamza on 11 kidnapping and terrorism charges Monday, opening the way for a judge to impose what will almost certainly be a life sentence.

Judge Katherine Forrest will return to the Manhattan courtroom on September 9 to sentence Abu Hamza and wrap up what was the second high-profile terror trial in New York in three months.

It took the 12-member jury just 12 hours over two days to reach the unanimous verdict.

He also claimed he didn't know another of the young men at his mosque had left to fight in Afghanistan.
