
THE SNP could be on course to take another seat in the European elections this week, according to polls.

But Alex Salmond’s party looks likely to be in close competition with Nigel Farage’s Ukip for the final available place.

A Survation poll in the Daily Record newspaper puts the SNP in front on 37 per cent, followed by Labour on 26 per cent.

Ukip is within touching distance of snatching its first seat in Scotland, with 10 per cent support.

The Tories are on 13 per cent, followed by the Greens and Liberal Democrats on 6 per cent.

An separate ICM poll in the The Scotsman newspaper was broadly in line with the findings, putting the SNP on 36 per cent, Labour on 27 per cent, Tories on 13 per cent, Ukip on 9 per cent and the Greens and Lib Dems on 7 per cent.

Despite increased support for the anti-European Union (EU) Ukip, which is not yet represented at any levels in Scotland, people appear relatively happy with European membership.

The ICM poll shows 41 per cent of Scottish voters think the UK has benefited from being in the EU compared with 29 per cent who believe it has not benefitted.

SNP leader Alex Salmond said voters have a choice between candidate Tasmina Ahmed-Sheikh and Ukip.

“The intolerant message that Ukip is peddling has no place in Scotland and the way to keep Ukip’s agenda out of Scottish politics is by voting SNP,” he said.

“In our candidate Tasmina Ahmed-Sheikh, we have the antithesis of everything Ukip stand for.

Scotland is currently represented by six MEPs - two SNP, two Labour, one Tory and one Lib Dem.

Poll expert Professor John Curtice said the SNP looks on course for its best-ever performance in a European election.

Ukip’s fortunes are very different north and south of the border, he points out.

© 2014 Johnston Publishing Ltd.

This website and its associated newspaper adheres to the Press Complaints Commission’s Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion, then contact the Editor by clicking here .

If you remain dissatisfied with the response provided then you can contact the PCC by clicking here .

The Scotsman provides news, events and sport features from the Edinburgh area. For the best up to date information relating to Edinburgh and the surrounding areas visit us at The Scotsman regularly or bookmark this page.

For you to enjoy all the features of this website The Scotsman requires permission to use cookies.

Cookies are small data files which are sent to your browser (Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome etc) from a website you visit. They are stored on your electronic device.

This is a type of cookie which is collected by Adobe Flash media player (it is also called a Local Shared Object) - a piece of software you may already have on your electronic device to help you watch online videos and listen to podcasts.

Yes there are a number of options available, you can set your browser either to reject all cookies, to allow only "trusted" sites to set them, or to only accept them from the site you are currently on.

However, please note - if you block/delete all cookies, some features of our websites, such as remembering your login details, or the site branding for your local newspaper may not function as a result.

A tool used by some of our advertisers to target adverts to you based on pages you have visited in the past. To opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

Our sites contain advertising from Google; these use cookies to ensure you get adverts relevant to you. You can tailor the type of ads you receive by visiting here or to opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

This is used to help us identify unique visitors to our websites. This data is anonymous and we cannot use this to uniquely identify individuals and their usage of the sites.

This comes from our ad serving technology and is used to track how many times you have seen a particular ad on our sites, so that you don't just see one advert but an even spread. This information is not used by us for any other type of audience recording or monitoring.

ComScore monitor and externally verify our site traffic data for use within the advertising industry. Any data collected is anonymous statistical data and cannot be traced back to an individual.

Our Classified websites (Photos, Motors, Jobs and Property Today) use cookies to ensure you get the correct local newspaper branding and content when you visit them. These cookies store no personally identifiable information.

We use Grapeshot as a contextual targeting technology, allowing us to create custom groups of stories outside out of our usual site navigation. Grapeshot stores the categories of story you have been exposed to. Their privacy policy and opt out option can be accessed here.

Our partner for Newspaper subscriptions online stores data from the forms you complete in these to increase the usability of the site and enhance user experience.

Add This provides the social networking widget found in many of our pages. This widget gives you the tools to bookmark our websites, blog, share, tweet and email our content to a friend.

We use Advertising agencies to provide us with some of the advertising on our websites. These include (but are not limited to) Specific Media, The Rubicon Project, AdJug, AdConion, Context Web. Please click on the provider name to visit their opt-out page.
