
A Manx branch of the Western Front Association is being formed and all those interested in learning more are invited to a meeting at the Manx Aviation and Military Museum, Ronaldsway,  on May 29.

Alan Dawson is behind the initiative and said he is ‘surprised’ there is no branch already in the island, giving the high level of general public interest in the war.

The association – formed in 1980 – is committed to furthering interest in the First  World War, ‘to perpetuate the memory, courage and comradeship of all those on all sides who served their countries in France and Flanders and their own countries during The Great War’ and it has grown so there are now 6,000 members worldwide.

There are several reasons a branch should be established here, said Alan, particularly in this year, a centenary since the conflict began.

Being part of the wider association will also give access to speakers who give talks to branches of the association in the UK.

The island also has its own unique story to tell of its role in the conflict said Alan.

He said he hoped the association will ‘share resources’ with Manx National Heritage and ‘tap into things’ that are already planned to mark the centenary.

The museum, which is south of Ronaldsway airport terminal, opens at 6.30pm on Thursday, May 29, a discussion on forming a branch of the association from 7pm to 7.30pm is followed by a talk, by Alan, on motorcycles and the First World War.

Get your favourite newspaper at a great low price.

Call us on 0844 292 0216 or click here to start your subscription today!

© 2014 Johnston Publishing Ltd.

This website and its associated newspaper adheres to the Press Complaints Commission’s Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion, then contact the Editor by clicking here .

If you remain dissatisfied with the response provided then you can contact the PCC by clicking here .

Isle of Man Today provides news, events and sport features from the Isle of Man area. For the best up to date information relating to Isle of Man and the surrounding areas visit us at Isle of Man Today regularly or bookmark this page.

For you to enjoy all the features of this website Isle of Man Today requires permission to use cookies.

Cookies are small data files which are sent to your browser (Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome etc) from a website you visit. They are stored on your electronic device.

This is a type of cookie which is collected by Adobe Flash media player (it is also called a Local Shared Object) - a piece of software you may already have on your electronic device to help you watch online videos and listen to podcasts.

Yes there are a number of options available, you can set your browser either to reject all cookies, to allow only "trusted" sites to set them, or to only accept them from the site you are currently on.

However, please note - if you block/delete all cookies, some features of our websites, such as remembering your login details, or the site branding for your local newspaper may not function as a result.

A tool used by some of our advertisers to target adverts to you based on pages you have visited in the past. To opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

Our sites contain advertising from Google; these use cookies to ensure you get adverts relevant to you. You can tailor the type of ads you receive by visiting here or to opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

This is used to help us identify unique visitors to our websites. This data is anonymous and we cannot use this to uniquely identify individuals and their usage of the sites.

This comes from our ad serving technology and is used to track how many times you have seen a particular ad on our sites, so that you don't just see one advert but an even spread. This information is not used by us for any other type of audience recording or monitoring.

ComScore monitor and externally verify our site traffic data for use within the advertising industry. Any data collected is anonymous statistical data and cannot be traced back to an individual.

Our Classified websites (Photos, Motors, Jobs and Property Today) use cookies to ensure you get the correct local newspaper branding and content when you visit them. These cookies store no personally identifiable information.

We use Grapeshot as a contextual targeting technology, allowing us to create custom groups of stories outside out of our usual site navigation. Grapeshot stores the categories of story you have been exposed to. Their privacy policy and opt out option can be accessed here.

Our partner for Newspaper subscriptions online stores data from the forms you complete in these to increase the usability of the site and enhance user experience.

Add This provides the social networking widget found in many of our pages. This widget gives you the tools to bookmark our websites, blog, share, tweet and email our content to a friend.
