
LONDON (MarketWatch) — AstraZeneca PLC shares tumbled in London on Monday after the pharmaceutical maker rejected Pfizer Inc.’s increased takeover offer, while some mining firms declined on further signs of a slowdown in the Chinese housing market.

The losses hit the FTSE 100 index UKX, -0.04% which shed 0.2% to close at 6,844.55.

Euro-scepticism is likely to dominate the European Parliament elections this week, while fresh PMI data could add more pressure on the ECB to take easing measures. Also watch out for Vodafone full-year results on Tuesday.

Some mining firms were further adding pressure in London, falling on signs that the Chinese real-estate market continues to cool . Beijing’s prices for second-home purchases fell in April by the most in two years, while newly built residential-housing price gains eased for the sixth straight month, according to data from China’s National Bureau of Statistics.

Housing shares were also in for a weak session after Bank of England Governor Mark Carney on Sunday said the U.K.’s elevated housing prices pose a big risk to the economy .

“When we look at domestic risk, the biggest risk to financial stability, and therefore to the durability of the expansion, those risks center in the housing market and that’s why we are focused on that,” he said in an interview with Sky News.

Shares of Barratt Developments PLC BDEV, +0.87%  and Persimmon PLC PSN, +0.52%  each slipped 0.4% and Berkeley Group Holdings PLC BKG, -0.08%  lost 0.8%.

Extending gains, shares of Shire PLC SHP, -0.63%  popped up 2.7% after the drug maker said it plans to submit a new application to the U.S. Food and Drug administration for lifitegrast as a treatment for dry-eye disease.

And in Ireland, shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC RY4B, +0.39%  rallied 11% after the budget airliner said profit should grow this fiscal year , after reporting a drop in full-year profit for the year ending March 31. The jump in Ryanair shares helped push Ireland’s ISEQ Overall Index IEOI, +0.65% up 2.6% to 4,776.61.

Copyright ©2014 MarketWatch, Inc.  All rights reserved.

Intraday Data provided by SIX Financial Information and subject to terms of use .                 Historical and current end-of-day data provided by SIX Financial Information. Intraday data                 delayed per exchange requirements. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones & Company, Inc.                 All quotes are in local exchange time. Real time last sale data provided by NASDAQ. More                 information on NASDAQ traded symbols and their current financial status. Intraday                 data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, and 20 minutes for other exchanges. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM)                 from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. SEHK intraday data is provided by SIX Financial Information and is                 at least 60-minutes delayed. All quotes are in local exchange time.
