
NEW YORK -- Abu Hamza al-Masri , the radical Islamic cleric who was extradited from the UK to the US in 2012, has been found guilty of terror-related charges by a federal court in New York. The verdict, reached after a four-week trial in Manhattan, means the cleric is likely to spend the rest of his life in a maximum security prison.

After two days of deliberation, the jury found Hamza , who was born Mustafa Kamel Mustafa, guilty on 11 counts, including planning to establish a jihad training camp in Oregon, conspiring to kidnap Americans in Yemen, facilitating violent jihad in Afghanistan and suppling the Taliban with goods and services.

Former Home Secretary David Blunkett said the verdict justified the lengthy legal battle surrounding Hamza's extradition. "This has been a very long journey to obtain justice, and to ensure that someone who has been so adept at avoiding the just penalty for his extensive activities is at last being brought to book," said Blunkett. "The verdict justifies the extensive measures over many years to ensure through his extradition that he should pay for the misery he brought to others."

Hamza , who was born in Egypt in 1958, suffered injuries to his hands and eye in Afghanistan where he travelled to fight against the Soviet invasion. During the trial, the prosecution portrayed Hamza to be a terrorist trainer, with the defense arguing he was a man with strong views but not a criminal.

During the trial, Hamza proclaimed his love for Osama bin Laden, reiterating his belief in the validity of the 9/11 attacks. He was also shown on video giving sermons on why non-Muslims should be treated like "cows and pigs". However, the cleric insisted that he did not take part in any terror-related activity, with his defence lawyer Joshua Dratel telling the jury that these were "expressions, not crimes".

Assistant US attorney Ian McGinley argued that the jury should look beyond Hamza's lies, highlighting four European tourists that died in 1998 in Yemen by kidnappers who had a satellite phone supplied by Hamza. "Don't let the passage of time diminish what he did," McGinley told the jury.

The cleric travelled to Britain the early Eighties, after which he met Valerie Fleming, an English woman whom he married, gaining British citizenship in the process. He divorced her a few years later.

Despite having worked as a bouncer in a Soho nightclub and with a reputation for socialising and heavy drinking in the mid-1980s, Hamza slowly turned towards religious fundamentalism, and in 2006 he was jailed in the UK for seven years for soliciting murder.

The cleric, who preached at the infamous Finsbury Park Mosque once attended by "shoe bomber" Richard Reid and 9/11 conspirator Zacarias Moussaoui, was originally indicted on terror charges in 2004 however was only extradited to the US after a protracted legal battle.

The firebrand cleric Sheik Abu Hamza, Mullah at the Finsbury Park Mosque arrives ahead of a demonstration which was held outside by the British far right movement the National Front. The Mosque has been identified by many as a centre for Islamic radicalism.

Sheikh Abu Hamza al Misary, head of religious & political affairs for the Supporters of Sharia, at a London news conference in London where he called for the release of innocent detainees in Yemen.  His stepson is one of 5 Britons being held in Yemen on terrorism charges.   * Reissued 15/3/99 - Hamza was arrested under the Prevention of Terrorism Act in an early morning police raid.  17/01/03 Abu Hamza who vowed to persist making political speeches at a British mosque, despite facing expulsion from the mosque for his extremist Islamic views. The Charities Commission has told Hamza, 45, that it will exclude him as an agent of the North London Central Mosque Trust for his  inflammatory and highly political  speeches at prayer meetings.

Muslim cleric Abu Hamza outside Finsbury Park Mosque,  where he was banned from speaking by the Charity Commission. The cleric was accused of abusing his position to preach his radical brand of Islam and make inflammatory sermons.

Muslim cleric Abu Hamza (centre) is lead away from the press after addressing an audience of around 120 during lunchtime prayers outside Finsbury Park Mosque in north London.   * Mr Hamza today claimed that Home Secretary David Blunkett was acting like a 'Nazi Minister' over new measures allowing the government to strip people of their citizenship.

Abu Hamza answers questions from journalists after addressing an audience of more than a 100 muslims during lunchtime prayers outside Finsbury Park Mosque, north London.

Abu Hamza addresses an audience of more than a 100 muslims during lunchtime prayers outside Finsbury Park Mosque, north London.

Radical Muslim cleric Abu Hamza speaks during his regular Friday prayer meeting outside Finsbury Park Mosque, north London.  Hamza said that the coalition soldiers involved in the torture of Iraqi prisoners are "evil Satanic" people and added, "to kill is better than torture".

Radical Muslim cleric Abu Hamza arrives with masked security for his regular Friday prayer meeting outside Finsbury Park Mosque, north London.  Hamza said that the coalition soldiers involved in the torture of Iraqi prisoners are "evil Satanic" people and added, "to kill is better than torture".

Radical Muslim cleric Abu Hamza speaks during his regular Friday prayer meeting outside Finsbury Park Mosque, north London.  Hamza said that the coalition soldiers involved in the torture of Iraqi prisoners are "evil Satanic" people and added, "to kill is better than torture".

Muslim Cleric Abu Hamza (centre) addresses worshippers after the Friday prayers outside Finsbury Park Mosque in north London as police officers look on.  27/08/04: Police were Friday August 27, 2004, awarded more time to question muslim cleric Abu Hamza on suspicion of being involved in terrorist offences, Scotland Yark said tonight.

Muslim cleric Abu Hamza outside Finsbury Park Mosque,  where he was banned from speaking by the Charity Commission. The cleric was accused of abusing his position to preach his radical brand of Islam and make inflammatory sermons.   01/04/03 : An MP has called for radical Muslim cleric Abu Hamza to be kicked out of Britain as new powers come into force. Hamza, who has British citizenship, has repeatedly preached against the West at the Finsbury Park mosque in north London.  26/04/04: Muslim cleric Abu Hamza begins his legal bid to stay in Britain. The hook-handed preacher is appealing against Home Secretary David Blunkett's attempt to strip him of UK citizenship and send him back to the Yemen. 01/07/04: Muslim cleric Abu Hamza, accused by the United States of being a "freelance consultant" to terror groups across the world, will appear in court Thursday July 1, 2004 via video link. Hamza, who is being held at high-security Belmarsh prison in south-east London, was arrested in May after an extradition request from the US, where officials believe he played a key role in Osama bin Laden's al Qaida terror network. 26/08/04: Hamza, 47, has been arrested under the Terrorism Act Thursday August 26, 2004. He was held this morning on suspicion of involvement in the "commission, preparation or instigation of acts of terrorism". He is being quizzed by detectives from the Anti-Terrorist Branch in London.  26/10/2004  Hamza will appear at the Old Bailey, Tuesday October 26, 2004 charged with a string of offences including soliciting murder. Hamza, 47, will appear by video link for the hearing before the Common Serjeant of London Judge Peter Beaumont. The former imam of Finsbury Park mosque in north London who has no hands and only one eye, faces 16 charges.

Video-grab from a video issued by the Metropolitan Police of a sermon dated 13/10/2000 by Muslim cleric Abu Hamza. Hamza was convicted of six out of nine soliciting to murder charges and two out of four charges of "using threatening, abusive or insulting words or behaviour with the intention of stirring up racial hatred" at the Old Bailey Tuesday February 7, 2006. He was also convicted of a charge of possession of video and audio recordings which he intended to distribute to stir up racial hatred and a final charge, under section 58 of the Terrorism Act, of possession of a document, the Encyclopaedia Of The Afghani Jihad, which contained information "of a kind likely to be useful to a person committing or preparing an act of terrorism". See PA story COURTS Hamza. PRESS ASSOCIATION Photo. Photo credit should read: Metropolitan Police/PA.

Abu Hamza addresses an audience of more than a 100 muslims during lunchtime prayers outside Finsbury Park Mosque, north London. 20/08/2004   The radical cleric will appear in court Friday August 20, 2004, via video link, for a brief hearing regarding an extradition request from the USA. The full hearing is due to resume October 19.

Radical Muslim cleric Abu Hamza speaks during his regular Friday prayer meeting outside Finsbury Park Mosque, north London.  Hamza said that the coalition soldiers involved in the torture of Iraqi prisoners are "evil Satanic" people and added, "to kill is better than torture".

File photo dated 25/08/02 of Islamic preacher Abu Hamza, who will be extradited to the United States after Europe's human rights judges rejected a request for an appeal, officials said. Radical cleric Abu Hamza and four other terror suspects could be put on a plane to the United States within days after Europe's human rights judges rejected their bid for an appeal.

Muslim cleric Abu Hamza addresses an audience of around 120 during lunchtime prayers outside Finsbury Park Mosque in north London. Mr Hamza today claimed that Home Secretary David Blunkett was acting like a 'Nazi Minister' over new measures allowing the government to strip people of their citizenship.  27/05/2004: Muslim cleric Abu Hamza, 47, who was arrested at his west London home early Thursday May 27, 2004, on an extradition warrant issued by the US government. He will appear appear at Bow Street Magistrates Court, sitting at Belmarsh, later Thursday.

File photo dated 11/04/03 of Abu Hamza as The High Court reserved judgment today on his plea, who is fighting extradition to the US, to have further medical tests.

File photo dated 06/04/03 of radical Islamic cleric Abu Hamza who, along with four other terror suspects, are expected to find out if they have won their latest legal move to avoid extradition from the UK to America for trial on terrorism charges.

Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day..

Use this form to alert a HuffPost editor about a factual or typographical error in this story.

Thank you!
