
WORKERS in North Staffordshire are among the lowest paid in the West Midlands.

New figures show the average annual pay in Stoke-on-Trent is £22,000 – compared with the national average of £27,200.

This means people in the Potteries pick up one of the lowest annual pay packets in the West Midlands.

And employees in Newcastle are receiving even less pay – with people earning £21,700 a year.

Workers in the Staffordshire Moorlands are paid on average £24,300-a-year.

Today's study shows the best-paid West Midlands towns are Warwick, Solihull and Rugby, where average annual pay is more than £30,000. Sandwell and Walsall came joint bottom on the list of shame.

Newcastle MP Paul Farrelly today blamed the growing number of distribution firms and warehouses in North Staffordshire for the poor pay levels.

He said: "In North Staffordshire we have a proliferation of distribution and warehouse companies that don't pay workers high wages. This is a problem we have been facing for a long time.

"What we need to do is attract a variety of businesses to the area that employ high-skilled workers and pay higher pay packets.

"When people are paid low amounts, they often have to put in extra hours to make sure they have a decent standard of living."

Stoke-on-Trent North MP Joan Walley, said: "Our economy has always been a low-wage economy and the challenge is to attract new jobs that would pay over the odds.

"Traditionally, Stoke-on-Trent has relied on a single industry and that's why it was possible for the manufacturers to keep wages down.

"Another problem is zero-hour contracts which allow employers to hire staff with no guarantee of work.

"We have too many low-paid jobs and people are having to work longer hours.

"It is vital we increase investment in the area."

The owner of Talke haulage firm Barry Proctor Services said: "It doesn't surprise me that people in Stoke-on-Trent and Newcastle earn less than others in the West Midlands.

"There are a lot of warehouse jobs in this area and traditionally they are very low paid jobs.

"I have around 25 drivers in my company and they are all paid according to their productivity rather than where they work. They get paid just as much as drivers living in   London.

"Companies should pay a living wage rather than the minimum wage which just isn't enough."

Today's study is produced by recruitment firm ManpowerGroup.

It is based on Office of National Statistics figures for annual earnings and hours worked.

specialbrew........twisted.............you ruin your own despicable life,as well you know lol!

Yep,I think we need to know the mean (and I do mean mean) wage.Council aristocrats at the top and the poorest earners,identified as the Asian community by HMCR I believe,at the bottom.

Once again,neither of the MPs mentions immigration.Wage costs are a factor of supply and demand.  I can understand the CBI and the Conservatives favouring a single labour market.I could forgive the Labour party if they really were being internationalists,wanting to bring all wages globally to one level.But to do it in the name of community dissonance is unforgivable.

As someone once said There are statistics, more statistics, and dammed lies" I think this story falls into the latter category.

MP Joan Walley needs to do her job and carry out what she says the area needs instead of just chattering on about it. You've had long enough after all, haven't you? Inaction in regard to this by the political representatives of the area who have the power to push parliament to invest in skills and training for the downtrodden, poorly paid residents around here.
