
A former top-secret World War II and Cold War naval communications centre in Wales – once a prime target for a Russian nuclear strike – could become a national museum of international importance if campaigners have their way.

For 60 years in its hey day, mystery surrounded Criggion station near Welshpool in Mid Wales. Built during WWII, the remote station was rumoured to have been used to keep the Admiralty in contact with Royal Navy ships around the world and to have ordered the sinking of the pride of the German Navy, The Bismark.

The station’s three magnificent 700ft-high radio masts and three 600 ft-high towers could be seen for miles around in the shadow of the volcanic feature, The Breidden hill.

Powys councillor Graham Brown is leading a campaign to revamp the old buildings and turn them into a war-related tourist attraction.

Mr Brown said: “You would not believe what went on in these buildings that were linked up to Hawaii and Colorado in the USA.

“Orders to sink the Bismark during World War II came from Criggion and it is believed that Margaret Thatcher’s direct order to sink the Argentine ship, the General Belgrano, during the Falklands War was transmitted through Criggion.

“The buildings have been left to decay over the past decade but we want to turn them into a museum exhibition which could have both historical and educational value.

“We think the project has the potential to bring in tourists and could lead to a major economic regeneration of the area.

“We have interest in purchasing the site from a private investor but we feel that our requests for sale information have been ignored by its current owners, London-based Telereal Trillium.

Following marketing of the Criggion site, it is understood that all interested parties were asked to submit bids by April 11.

An insider at Telereal Trillium revealed that more than 10 submissions of interest were received, including a number of bids from members of the local community – one for a museum. Four bidders are believed to have been shortlisted and the sales are expected to be completed by the end of June.

Criggion became one of Britain’s key military locations in 1942 when the Churchill Government learned of Hitler’s plans to bomb the communications headquarters in Rugby. They acted quickly to decentralise communications to Wales.

When the war ended, the naval site became a signal relay station for nuclear submarines during the Cold War, as well as for overseas telephone communications.

During the 1960s, 160 people were employed at Criggion. Security was tight and the site was surrounded by high fences and monitored by surveillance equipment. It became a target for anti-nuclear protesters who held demonstrations there up until the late 1990s.

The site would appear to be the last place an enemy would look for 700ft radio masts. But just like other defunct bastions of the Cold War, such as the Berlin Wall, the masts were demolished in 2003, with the remaining eerie buildings sadly becoming a modern-day target for thieves and vandals.

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

Join us on social media.

For the latest local news straight to your Twitter, Facebook feed, e-mail inbox or tablet .

WalesOnline.co.uk conforms to the newspaper industry's voluntary Code of Practice, administered by the Press Complaints Commission.

If you feel we have made an error in a report, or have fallen below our usual high standards, please write in the first instance to: Ceri Gould, Online Editor, WalesOnline.co.uk, Media Wales, Six Park Street, Cardiff CF10 1XR. Tel: 029 2024 3672.

We reach over 1,384,563* unique users a month with dedicated coverage of all things Welsh.

WalesOnline is part of Media Wales, publisher of the Western Mail, South Wales Echo, Wales on Sunday and the seven Celtic weekly titles, offering you unique access to our audience across Wales online and in print.

Ceri has been editor of WalesOnline since April 2012. She was previously executive editor of Media Wales and deputy editor of the Western Mail. She started her career on the Glamorgan Gazette.
