
It’s that time of year again. The sun is shining, the birds are singing and    the beauty industry is rubbing its hands with glee as it peddles an array of    useless products to a pasty and paranoid public, desperate to get ‘beach    beautiful’ in time for the summer.

Named ‘Harmonized H20 UV’ it claims to make water molecules of the product    vibrate on the skin to cancel out 97 per cent of UVA and UVB rays.

Apparently, according to founder Dr Ben Johnson, the water has been ‘imprinted’ with frequencies which ‘vibrate on your skin’ and block those    nasty cancer causing/skin ageing rays.

It seems Dr Johnson has been rather secretive about his ‘breakthrough,’ keeping it firmly away from the prying eyes of scientists and scrutiny of    peer review.

In fact it appears there is nothing backing up his claim scientifically at    all. Although he says there is six years of consumer trials, only anonymised    reviewers testify to the efficacy of the product. I have asked to see the    trial data but am still waiting for it to be sent to me.

The strange claims continue in a press release issued by the company: “Similar    to how noise reduction headphones work, these waters help to cancel out and    rebalance internal disharmonies by delivering medicinal radio frequencies to    your cells in the form of water.

UV radiation is part of the electromagnetic light spectrum that reaches the    Earth from the Sun.

Both UVA and UVB, however, penetrate the atmosphere and play an important role    in conditions such as premature skin aging, eye damage (including    cataracts), and skin cancers.

They also suppress the immune system, reducing your ability to fight off these    and other maladies.

UVB penetrates the epidermis, the top layer of skin, while UVA goes deeper    into the dermis. Both are now known to damage the DNA.

Which is why the claims of Osmosis Skincare are so worrying. There is no    science to back up these assertions yet they encourage people to stop using    sunscreen - which is proven to block harmful rays – and instead put their    trust in an unproven alternative.

It's true that our molecules vibrate more in direct sunlight. It's why we get    warm and eventually feel a burning sensation. Any change to that vibration    will only occur because the body is cooling, because it is ingesting, well,    water. But that doesn't mean harmful UV rays are not getting through.

The beauty industry does not have to meet the same standards as the medical    industry and so claims like this often go unchallenged.

Professor Antony Young, of the St John’s Institute of Dermatology, at Kings    College said it was unlikely that anything that could be ingested which    would give an SPF protection of Factor 30, as claimed by the manufacturers.

“It’s just a gimmick, “ said Dr Rang Singh, “We know that ingestible sun    products aren’t that good. To say they have changed the frequency of water    molecules, well I just don’t understand how they could have done that.

“Everything in our body vibrates at it’s own frequency anyway and, as far as I    know, nobody has found a way to change that.

The British Skin Foundation has also urged extreme caution.
