
A “Twitter troll” bombarded a Labour MP with a series of abusive messages after a successful campaign to feature Jane Austen on the £10 note, a court heard.

Peter Nunn, 33, retweeted “menacing” messages threatening to rape Walthamstow MP Stella Creasy and branding her a “witch”, it is alleged.

He launched his campaign of “hatred” after the Labour politician backed a high-profile bid launched by feminist Caroline Criado-Perez to keep a woman on a British bank note, Westminster Magistrates’ Court heard.

Alison Morgan, prosecuting, told the court that Nunn “embarked on a campaign of hatred in various different forms towards both women” last summer.

He allegedly retweeted a threatening message sent to Ms Creasy which threatened her with rape which he intended to video and broadcast on the internet. Over the next day he allegedly  sent a barrage of other offensive messages to the London MP using twitter.

At 10pm that night, half an hour before Ms Criado-Perez and Ms Creasy were due to appear on Newsnight, Nunn left another tweet branding the MP an “evil witch”.

Nunn was arrested at his home Emersons Green, Bristol, on August 7. The self-dubbed blogger and journalist admitted he had retweeted the messages, but said he did “to further debate”.

Nunn has since accused Ms Criado-Perez in a series of manic video blogs of lying about rape threats in a “hoax” to clamp down on internet freedom.

Ms Morgan told the court that while the blog entries do not form part of the criminal charge, they show the “hatred” he had for the women.

Nunn denies sending a message that was grossly offensive or of an indecent, obscene or menacing character by a public electronic network between July 28 and August 5 last year.

© 2014 Johnston Publishing Ltd.

This website and its associated newspaper adheres to the Press Complaints Commission’s Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion, then contact the Editor by clicking here .

If you remain dissatisfied with the response provided then you can contact the PCC by clicking here .

Yorkshire Post provides news, events and sport features from the Yorkshire area. For the best up to date information relating to Yorkshire and the surrounding areas visit us at Yorkshire Post regularly or bookmark this page.

For you to enjoy all the features of this website Yorkshire Post requires permission to use cookies.

Cookies are small data files which are sent to your browser (Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome etc) from a website you visit. They are stored on your electronic device.

This is a type of cookie which is collected by Adobe Flash media player (it is also called a Local Shared Object) - a piece of software you may already have on your electronic device to help you watch online videos and listen to podcasts.

Yes there are a number of options available, you can set your browser either to reject all cookies, to allow only "trusted" sites to set them, or to only accept them from the site you are currently on.

However, please note - if you block/delete all cookies, some features of our websites, such as remembering your login details, or the site branding for your local newspaper may not function as a result.

A tool used by some of our advertisers to target adverts to you based on pages you have visited in the past. To opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

Our sites contain advertising from Google; these use cookies to ensure you get adverts relevant to you. You can tailor the type of ads you receive by visiting here or to opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

This is used to help us identify unique visitors to our websites. This data is anonymous and we cannot use this to uniquely identify individuals and their usage of the sites.

This comes from our ad serving technology and is used to track how many times you have seen a particular ad on our sites, so that you don't just see one advert but an even spread. This information is not used by us for any other type of audience recording or monitoring.

ComScore monitor and externally verify our site traffic data for use within the advertising industry. Any data collected is anonymous statistical data and cannot be traced back to an individual.

Our Classified websites (Photos, Motors, Jobs and Property Today) use cookies to ensure you get the correct local newspaper branding and content when you visit them. These cookies store no personally identifiable information.

We use Grapeshot as a contextual targeting technology, allowing us to create custom groups of stories outside out of our usual site navigation. Grapeshot stores the categories of story you have been exposed to. Their privacy policy and opt out option can be accessed here.

Our partner for Newspaper subscriptions online stores data from the forms you complete in these to increase the usability of the site and enhance user experience.

Add This provides the social networking widget found in many of our pages. This widget gives you the tools to bookmark our websites, blog, share, tweet and email our content to a friend.
