
The UN World Conference on Disaster Reduction urged governments to (a) prioritize disaster risk reduction, (b) enhance early warning, (c) build a culture of safety, (d) reduce underlying risks, and (e) strengthen preparedness across the board.

trailblazer. Its reconstruction effort evolved into a thoroughgoing disaster risk action plan that effectively used a second tsunami of aid, Development Asia notes.

Maldives, Thailand and Vanuatu, among others, cobbled new disaster risk management agencies. Measures range from new laws to relocation schemes, to a region-wide web of early warning systems anchored by the pan-regional Deep Ocean Assessment and Reporting of Tsunamis.

Upgraded hazard maps today pinpoint places under threat. A radar tracks typhoons. Systematic efforts are made to  monitor eruptions from active volcanoes. More than 5,000 families have been relocated. And a trained local volunteer corps is in place.

Is common sense what we lack, asks Cebu Daily News. Only one out of the 51 towns and component cities in Cebu province has an honest-to-goodness disaster risk reduction and management (DRRM) office.

The  standout is San Francisco in  Camotes Island. The former mayor Al Arquillano is credited for tracking Yolanda’s approach and his early decision to evacuate town people. Result: zero deaths and minimal property damage.

The Camotes town meets the standards set by the Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Act of 2010 (Republic Act No. 10121). The international community hailed  Camotes as a model.

“Cebu City provides some comic relief in the bad habit of token response.” The city council declared a “‘State of Preparedness’ for the expected arrival of El Niño next month. Big words.” Declaring a “state of preparedness” for a calamity is not just redundant. It may actually mean unpreparedness. The last thing we need is a “pwede na” attitude, Cebu Daily News concludes.

Disaster risk information often does not trickle down to local communities. And when it does, it may be in forms that are not user-friendly, adds Development Asia. Building new houses is only half the battle.

Many people are reluctant to jettison the only livelihoods they’ve ever known, including farming or fishing. New skills  are needed. For others, the call is to think bigger. Some Visayas coconut farmers use post-Yolanda aid to diversify from copra  to furniture, coco sugar and other products.
