
The value of UK public sector outsourcing contracts increased by 168%   year-on-year in the first quarter of 2014, a new study of the   outsourcing market has revealed.

According to the first arvato UK Quarterly Outsourcing Index, the public   sector dominated deal activity accounting for 74% of total spend in the   first three months of the year. The local government sector alone saw a   58% year-on-year increase in deal values. In contrast, the value of   private sector deals decreased by 20% in the same period.

The data was compiled by business process outsourcing (BPO) provider   arvato, in partnership with industry analyst, NelsonHall. It reveals   that 39 new contracts worth a total of £2.1bn were agreed in the period,   representing a 65% increase on figures from the first quarter of 2013.

The data includes encouraging news for the outsourcing industry's   performance and contribution to the UK economy. Three quarters (75%) of   the contracts were completely onshore agreements, with all work being   delivered in the UK. In more than half (59%) of deals, the services in   question were being outsourced for the first time, representing new work   for businesses in the sector, rather than contract renewals or work   transferring between vendors.

Back-office BPO services were most in demand (38% of contracts), with HR   outsourcing which includes services such as payroll, benefits   administration and recruitment process outsourcing accounting for 93%   of back office BPO agreements.

Debra Maxwell, Managing Director of arvato UK, said: "The outsourcing   industry is in good health at the start of 2014. A rise in total spend   coupled with a high proportion of first-time outsourcing partnerships   proves there is a clear business case for outsourcing, and smart   organisations continue to use it as a means to achieve their objectives.

"This is particularly true for the public sector, where the strong   performance suggests that outsourcing remains a key strategy to reduce   costs while protecting front-line services.

"There's also a positive to be taken from the high proportion of onshore   deals. While there remains a place for offshore work in the private   sector, more contracts delivered in the UK is good news for the   outsourcing industry's contribution to the economy and the UK's status   as a leading global outsourcing hub."

The arvato UK Quarterly Outsourcing Index was compiled by leading BPO   and IT outsourcing research and analysis firm NelsonHall, in partnership   with arvato. The research is based on an analysis of contracts completed   in Q1 2014.
