
No? You're not the only one.

Preliminary findings from a European-wide survey of more then 1,100 people, including scientists, indicate staggering levels of ignorance about female contributions to science .

Participants in the UK, Ireland, France, Spain, Germany, Italy and other western European countries filled out questionnaires about their science knowledge.

About 75% of people were able to name at least one female scientist while around 25 per cent were unable to think of one.

Physicist and chemist Marie Curie, who was the first woman to win a Nobel prize, is by far the most well known, but the researchers believe this is mainly due to her association with the Marie Curie Cancer Care charity .

The results of the study will be presented at a conference organised by the Women in Science Research Network, to be held at the Royal Society in London this Thursday and Friday.

Our cluelessness regarding female scientists may be down to the lack of women working in the field.

“We need to stop defining girls by their looks and focus on what they can do and the impact they can and will have on the world” she said.

The out-dated idea that women can not make a difference to society may also be to blame for our ignorance about female scientists through history, who perhaps haven't always received the same praise as their male counterparts.

Science journalist Priya Shetty said: "Women's contributions have always been overlooked whether in politics, literature or science.

"This poll shows that it's more important than ever that female scientists have a duty to provide young girls with strong role models, both past and present."

Professor Cynthia Burek, the deputy director of the Centre for Science Communication at the University of Chester undertook the study.

Burek told The Independent on Sunday that some scientists who had been questioned during the survey had resorted to naming their university colleagues, as they were unable to think of enough famous names.

She added that without efforts to promote them, female scientists would sink into obscurity.

"We're hoping this might encourage people to look at these lives – at women who have been killed while doing research, who have had their research stolen, who have so fundamentally changed our ideas."

The sister of astronomer William Herschel, Caroline Herschel worked as his apprentice and helped him develop the modern mathematical approach to astronomy.   In 1783, she discovered three new nebulae and between 1786 and 1797, she also found eight comets.   The Royal Astronomical Society awarded Caroline its gold medal in 1828.

According to the Natural History Museum, Anning had a long career as a fossil hunter, finding the ichthyosaurs, the long-necked plesiosaurs, a pterodactyl and hundreds, possibly thousands, of other fossils that helped scientists to draw a picture of the marine world during the Jurassic.   Scientists of the time traveled from as far away as New York City to Lyme Regis to consult and hunt for fossils with Anning.

In 1847 Mitchell spotted a comet through her telescope and was soon honored around the world, earning a medal from the king of Denmark.  She became the first woman to be elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and he first female astronomy professor in the United States, when she was hired by Vassar College in 1865.

Marie Curie is famous for her work on radioactivity.  She was the first woman to win a Nobel Prize and the only woman to win this award in two categories: Physics and Chemistry.   She discovered polonium and radium and her work helped with the creation of X-rays.

Meitner collaborated with Otto Hahn on the study of radioactive elements.   After Hahn discovered that uranium atoms were split when bombarded with neutrons, she calculated the energy released in the reaction and named the phenomenon “nuclear fission.”   The discovery - which eventually led to the atomic bomb - won Hahn the Nobel Prize in 1944.  “You must not blame scientists for the use to which war technicians have put our discoveries,” Meitner said in 1945.

Rosalind Franklin made crucial contributions to the solution of the structure of DNA. Speaking about her in 1968, Sir Aaron Klug said: "She discovered the B form, recognized that two states of the DNA molecule existed and defined conditions for the transition.   From early on, she realized that any correct model must have the phosphate groups on the outside of the molecule.   She laid the basis for the quantitative study of the diffraction patterns, and after the formation of the Watson - Crick model she demonstrated that a double helix was consistent with the X-ray patterns of both the A and B form."

Gertrude B. Elion is famous for helping the development of new drugs.  She was a joint-winner of the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1988 “for discoveries of important principles for drug treatment.” One of her most notable creations was the development of the AIDS drug AZT.  Writing after she received the Nobel Prize,  Elion said: "Over the years, my work became both my vocation and avocation. Since I enjoyed it so much, I never felt a great need to go outside for relaxation."

Known for her work with telomere, Elizabeth Blackburn won the Nobel Prize along with her work partners Carol W. Greider and Jack W. Szostak in the category of Physiology or Medicine in 2009.  The prize was awarded "for the discovery of how chromosomes are protected by telomeres and the enzyme telomerase".

Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day..

Use this form to alert a HuffPost editor about a factual or typographical error in this story.

Thank you!
