
If you are planning a trip abroad, and have been waiting for a good deal, your wait might just be over.

Emirates, the Dubai-based carrier, has dropped fares to key routes globally from India by 10% for travel between June 1 and July 21.

Some of the destinations include flying to places like London, New York, Istanbul, Frankfurt, Johannesburg, Milan and San Francisco.

According to industry players and travel agents, other airlines, including the Indian carriers, are expected to respond to the scheme offered by Emirates.

"Emirates has announced a special one-week sale between May 19 and 25. Discounts of up to 10% are available for passengers booking economy-class fares for a range of destinations across Africa, Americas, Europe and the Middle East from any of the 10 Indian destinations Emirates flies from," the airline said in a release.

Industry officials say other airlines such as Qatar Airways, Etihad Airways, Lufthansa and Turkish Airlines are likely to follow the trend. Air India, too, may also look at dropping fares, in response to the Emirates's move.

"Nobody has so far reacted. However, in the next couple days, other airlines may also come out with attractive fares, which is a good news for customers," said Sharat Dhall, president, Yatra.com.

Emirates is offering a round trip to London at a price of Rs 44,349, while for Istanbul the fare on offer is Rs 40,052. Similarly, one can fly to New York for Rs 56,772, while the Milan ticket is for Rs 44,728.

To put things into perspective, a flight to Istanbul generally costs around Rs 48,000-50,000.

May-June generally is the peak season for international travel due to summer vacations, while the market starts to go slower from June-end. According to experts, these fares will help in stimulating the market and give boost in the slower season.

Emirates operates in 10 cities in India, which include, Mumbai, Delhi, Ahmedabad, Chennai, Bangalore, Hyderabad, Kolakata, Kozhikode, Thiruvananthapuram and Kochi.
