
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

BIRMINGHAM, Alabama -- Birmingham Board of Education President Randall Woodfin said today the board will consider in July whether to enter into a new contract with Superintendent Craig Witherspoon.

Witherspoon, who took control of the system in March of 2010, said his current contract runs out June 30 of 2015. The board has already extended his contract once since he took charge of the system.

During a work session today, Susan Salter, director of leadership for the Alabama Association of School Boards, gave the board pointers on how to evaluate Witherspoon's performance.

While most of the current school board has been on the job for less than a year, Salter said that was enough time to accurately assess the superintendent's performance.

"I'd love to see you have a year, but yes, I think you can do it in the nine or 10 months that you've had," she said.

Woodfin said the board will complete its evaluation of Witherspoon in June. Salter advised they present him the results in a private session so he'll have an opportunity to respond before the evaluations go public.

Woodfin said the board could consider this summer adopting a new system for evaluating the superintendent if it is not satisfied with the current system.

That new system could include what Salter called a "360-degree assessment," which includes input from stakeholders such as employees and community members.

She advised against implementing such a system this year, saying it would need to be in place for at least 10 months to a year in order fairly evaluate the superintendent.

"If you're doing the job, you're going to make enemies," she said.

The board will also evaluate its own performance in July, Woodfin said.

According to Salter, that evaluation is an opportunity for board members to assess their strengths and weaknesses in an anonymous format.That includes perceived incidences of micro management by board members.

The upcoming assessments come as parents and some lawmakers associated with Ramsay High School say they will push to remove the board and fire Witherspoon over the recent transfer of Ramsay High School Principal Evelyn Nettles .

Alabama Rep. Anthony Johnson, D-Birmingham, said Witherspoon's contract is up for renewal this year and that supporters of Nettles plan to remove the board and Witherspoon.

"We're going to take these petitions, we're going to clean out this school board and we're going to fire Witherspoon, in that order," said Johnson.

The board has maintained a unified front though, with Woodfin saying all of the board's decisions have sought only what is best for the education of Birmingham City Schools students.

© 2014 Alabama Media Group All rights reserved ( About Us ).

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
