
He’s one of the only 18-year-old boys in the world who wants you to know he’s a virgin.

Meet Phin Lyman—the British boarding school student urging his fellow teens to wait for true love before getting down to it. Lyman has risked ridicule by publicly confessing to his lack of sexual experience and encouraging his friends to ignore the pressure to get laid. Now, every major media outlet in the U.K. is working hard to make Lyman a purer-than-pure star.

His article will appear in the next edition of the school magazine at one of Britain’s most upmarket establishments. Annual fees there run to more than $55,000 a year.

Lyman argues that his generation treats sex far too casually. In excerpts of the story, which were published by The Times of London , he claims that teenage boys had received the bulk of their sex education alone in front of a computer and thought “it was just for them,” while girls were less likely to spend hours watching online pornography and thus developed a more romantic notion of sex.

“I believe that sex is an incredibly strong symbol of love between two people. Think of it as glue. Once you have had sex with someone, you’re connected to them emotionally and physically. If you tear that bond the rip leaves open scars where the glue once was. That’s why ‘casual sex’ never works in the long term,” he wrote in The Wellingtonian.

Lyman admitted that his friends were skeptical about his motives but he denied suggestions that this was an elaborate ruse. “I have never seen any evidence that girls are interested in that sort of challenge. I want to wait until I have met someone who knows me and I love them,” he said.

The declaration was published on the same day that a survey of British students ++ found that almost one in 10 had lost their virginity by the age of 14, while 51 per cent had experienced one-night stands.

His friends have suggested to Lyman that he is missing out on an awful lot of fun. “I really believe I am not. The people sleeping around are the unhappy ones,” he said.
