
This isn't America's first time seeing an infusion of personal wealth getting poured into research, but the last time around, it was done more democratically.

From their home in Los Angeles, philanthropists Eli and Edythe Broad support scientific and medical research in the areas of human genomics, stem-cell research, and inflammatory bowel disease. In 2013, they gave $157 million to their Broad Foundations, which awarded $100 million to the Eli and Edythe L. Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard for biomedical research. This brought the couple’s contributions to the institute up to $700 million since its founding in 2003. In 2011, however, 60 Minutes criticized Eli Broad for “micromanag[ing] almost every dollar he gives.” It seems that the Broads are personally invested in the outcome of their philanthropic work. So too are New Yorkers Jonathan and Mindy Gray. As of January, the head of global real estate at Blackstone and his wife have given $30 million to the University of Pennsylvania for a center focused on cancer treatment and prevention. Investing in their alma mater, this gift was principally a tribute to Ms. Gray’s sister who had passed away from ovarian cancer.

Unlike their early-20th-century predecessors, philanthropists today are bypassing traditional intermediaries such as trustees, federal actors, and research experts.

To show that private science has roots in the first gilded age, though, is not to dismiss Americans’ perceptions that there is something new in the way science is now being funded. Unlike their early-20th-century predecessors, for example, philanthropists today are targeting particular fields themselves and bypassing traditional intermediaries such as trustees, federal actors, and research experts. On the one hand, these intermediaries can be perceived as an unnecessary and time-consuming bureaucratic hurdle that not only stands in the way of donors’ passionate inspirations, but also stalls innovation and avoids risk-taking. On the other hand, their presence can facilitate informed decision-making and serve as a democratizing element, ensuring that several groups of Americans besides the private-sector elite have a say in the course and development of American science.

In January, Carnegie declared that his purpose was “[t]o found in the city of Washington an institution which, with the cooperation of institutions now or hereafter established, there or elsewhere, shall in the broadest and most liberal manner encourage investigation, research and discovery—show the application of knowledge to the improvement of mankind, provide such buildings, laboratories, books and apparatus as may be needed, and afford instruction of an advanced character to students properly qualified to profit thereby.” He commissioned the organization with the general task of improving knowledge in the sciences; the following year in 1903, Congress incorporated the Carnegie Institution of Washington. Its board consisted of five ex officio members such as the U.S. president and the speaker of the House and 22 other leading American policymakers. It also established advisory committees in various fields such as anthropology, astronomy, bibliography, botany, chemistry, economics, engineering, geography, geophysics, geology, history, mathematics, meteorology, paleontology, physics, physiology, psychology, and zoology.

After you comment, click Post. If you’re not already logged in you will be asked to log in or register.
