
FRANKFORT Ky. (May 19, 2014)– Gov. Steve Beshear and U.S. Rep. Hal Rogers today joined the SOAR Executive Committee to launch a summer internship program through the Shaping Our Appalachian Region (SOAR) initiative, in partnership with Eastern Kentucky University and the University of Kentucky Institute for Rural Journalism and Community Issues.

EKU committed $20,000 to support five interns who will work directly with each of the 10 working group chairs until August. The interns will support each group by communicating progress and discussions in an effort to promote transparency and increase citizen participation in the SOAR initiative. Additionally, a UK graduate student will work directly with communications teams from the offices of the governor and congressman to assist with media relations.

Beshear and Rogers met with the executive committee and working group chairs to discuss the structure and bylaws of SOAR, the next steps for the working groups and initiating the search for an executive director to be in place later this year. He or she will organize a second SOAR summit to be conducted this fall.

With an overwhelming response to help shape the future of Kentucky’s Appalachian region, 250 people are now involved in the initiative’s 10 working groups and executive committee. Those individuals are leading discussions focused on the region’s future economic well-being and quality of life. Based on citizen and organizational input, the groups will identify significant opportunities and a long-term vision related to their topics.

The working groups’ focus areas include broadband; agriculture, community and regional foods; business recruitment and incubation; education and retraining; and health.

Groups also include infrastructure; leadership development and youth engagement; regional collaboration and identity; and tourism, including natural resources, arts and heritage.

To help carry the mission forward, East Kentucky Power provided a contribution of $5,000 to support various SOAR meetings and activities this summer.

The next SOAR joint committee meeting is tentatively scheduled for July.

For more information about SOAR, visit governor.ky.gov/soar/ .
