
A row over the way older women are portrayed in the media has erupted in Italy – with the ex-wife of Silvio Berlusconi emerging as a perhaps unlikely crusader against female objectification.

Veronica Lario, who left the former prime minister in 2009 after nearly 20 years of marriage, reacted with fury after the celebrity gossip magazine Chi published a spread of paparazzi photographs of her under unflattering headlines claiming she had put on weight and asking "experts" what kind of plastic surgery could help her combat the ageing process.

The fact that Chi is published by Mondadori, controlled by the Berlusconi family holding company Fininvest, and regularly attacks the centre-right leader's enemies, only served to rub salt in the wounds.

Lario, who is reported to have pushed for a divorce settlement of more than €500m (£408mm), called the Chi feature "an unacceptable attack" that wounded not only her but all women "who, like me, want to age without subjugating themselves to the 'young at all costs' stereotype".

The former actor, 57, told Il Messaggero: "I am almost 60 years old; probably, according to current obsessive standards, I am not ageing well. I don't attend to my waistline or the wrinkles on my neck … Is that sufficient motive for suggesting that I – and, I assume, all my peers – go to a plastic surgeon?"

The interview, published on Sunday, was met with support from women across the political spectrum, including from within Berlusconi's Forza Italia (FI) party, which is leading a lacklustre campaign ahead of this week's European elections.

"Everyone has the right to grow old as they wish and no one should feel they can tell a lady what she should do," said Renata Polverini, an FI MP. "What is this, a dictatorship of eternal youth to enrich [plastic] surgeons?"

Alessandra Moretti, from the centre-left Democratic party, said the Chi piece was an example of "a last legacy of macho culture that wants to chain us women to a stereotype of beauty". She cited the formidable Oscar-winning actor Anna Magnani, famed not only for her films but for having defended her wrinkles.

Lorella Zanardo, director of a 2009 documentary entitled Il Corpo delle Donne (Women's Bodies), also said she gave Lario her "total solidarity". "Older women represent just 4.8% of [faces on] TV … The media must represent women as they are and must give space not only to women who have had cosmetic surgery but to those who age with their own face," she was quoted as saying.

"As soon as I read her [Lario's] interview, I laughed," Alfonso Signorini, editor of Chi, told Il Messaggero. "With all the problems that Italy has, is Veronica Lario's cellulite really becoming a national political problem? … That Chi is concerned with her extra kilos is normal. We are a gossip magazine … But politicians and intellectuals should concern themselves with much more serious matters."

In her attack, Lario – whose real name is Miriam Bartolini – accused the magazine of setting a bad example to young women "who today ask for liposuction for their birthday" and said its use of so-called medical experts was "ethically reprehensible".

But Signorini was having none of it. "Mrs Lario, when she was very young, posed for some reports that did not represent a good model for 16-year-olds then or now," he said.

"Also, to her who speaks of examples, I would like to ask: do you think it sets a good example, for a country like ours in crisis and with many Italians almost reduced to starvation, to live on Berlusconi's €47,000 a day?"

The figure appeared to be a reference to a temporary alimony agreement, according to which Lario reportedly receives €1.4m a month from Berlusconi. The ex-couple have agreed to a divorce but the financial settlement remains subject to court proceedings. According to a report earlier this month, she asked for a one-off payment of €540m.

Lario first met Berlusconi, a television magnate whose channels abound with scantily-clad showgirls, during a performance in a Milan theatre in 1980 in which she appeared topless. The couple went on to have three children together.

SheLario announced she was leaving him after reports surfaced that he had attended the 18th birthday party of a young woman who reportedly called him "Daddy". Berlusconi, 77, currently serving community service for a tax fraud conviction and expelled from the Italian senate, is now dating former television showgirl Francesca Pascale. She is 28, and keen to marry.

Our editors' picks for the day's top news and commentary delivered to your inbox each morning.
