
The Obama administration is set to designate a 600,000 acre national monument in south-central New Mexico to be managed and controlled by the Bureau of Land Management, a federal agency. The designated land will be called the Organ Mountains-Desert Peaks National Monument, and environmentalists have long-sought the designation.

Utah Republican Rep. Rob Bishop, the chairman of a key subcommittee, blasted the plan in a letter Monday, saying it would allow the region to become an unfettered drug corridoor.

"National Parks, monuments, and wilderness areas along our southern border have become prime drug-trafficking corridors for violent criminals and drug cartels.  Restrictive environmental laws within these federal corridors limit Border Patrol access and, as a result, make it easier for drug smugglers and human traffickers to move their drugs and people in and out of the United States unnoticed," Bishop, who is chairman of the Public Lands and Environmental Regulation subcommittee on the House Natural Resources committee, wrote.

"The Antiquities Act is a tool for presidents to lock up land," Subbotin told Breitbart News. "Environmentalists have had their eye on this specific land for a long time--they think that Border Patrol is destroying the landscape by driving vehicles on it. But it's often individuals involved in the drug trade who are littering the area and making diversionary fires."

She added that ultimately, it will be up to the Obama Administration to decide if Border Patrol agents are able to access the land with vehicles. "In some national monuments, no vehicle traffic is allowed," Subbotin said. "Making this a new national monument will impede Border Patrol's ability to have routine access to the land."

Carol Richardson, a Tea Party activist who lives near the land in question, said that environmental activists organized buses to bring in supporters to speak at that meeting.

"The National Wilderness Alliance advertised that they were offering buses to pick people up and transport them to the meeting. The bussed in people stayed the night in a hotel where the meeting. There were people that came in from El Paso, Santa Fe, all over. The local public had no forewarning about the meeting--the National Wilderness Alliance knew much earlier than we did because they arranged for the buses and hotels," Richardson said.

Garrison told Breitbart News,"Once the land becomes a national monument, local law enforcement can no longer effectively patrol the areas. When the Obama Administration makes it a monument, the existing roads there will close down. We will not have access to the land. I can't go out and patrol the area like I do now, which lessens crime. If we cant get out there to control it, only law abiding citizens will follow the law and criminals wont."

"Local law enforcement was never brought to the table to discuss this issue," he continued. "We have one of the largest cartels right across the Mexican border, and one of the most unsafe cities in the world. Are we supposed to believe that nothing's going to happen here if we impede law enforcement authorities from doing their jobs? That's just stupid."
