
Civil servants have still not been paid and there are no signs that they will be paid soon because there is reportedly no money in the government coffers.

Sources from cabinet office have told the Zambian watchdog that last week there was a stakeholders’ meeting composed of officers from the ministry of finance and cabinet office Public service management division where they were brainstorming on which category of civil servants should be paid amongst nurses, policemen and teachers.

The source further said that a suggestion was reached that teachers should be paid first in view of the schools that have just opened in order to avert a possible strike but later on again the decision was reversed for fear that it would create disharmony among the civil servants. Initially the civil servants are supposed to get paid on 15th and the fact that they have not been paid means they have gone for 34 days without salaries.

“Actually, a stakeholders’ meeting took place just after the cabinet meeting to decide which group should be paid first ahead of others and teachers came in but later the decision was reversed for fear that it would cause acrimony, so they will all be paid at the same time though there is no money at the moment, they are initiaally supposed to be paid by 15th but now it is 19th, exactly 34 days from day they got thei last salaries,” said the source.

They will get paid when the latest $ 1bn eurobond hits BOZ, and when it is “eaten” they will go back to borrow again. All this will adversely trickle down to suppliers of goods and services to govt and the entire economy. I do not recall “nyama soya” not paying salaries despite his “kamwendo munjila” tag. HH was ridiculed as an “under five” that’s only clever with a calculator, but would he have gotten his maths this wrong? Civil servants know what’s wrong so fix the problem by educating those you care for to vote wisely in 2016 or before if there’s a presidential by-election as Wynter Kabimba seems to suggest.

What do you expect from the Govt that runs the country thru gues work without implementing projects that would be bringing money in the national cofers. where do you expect the money when you have suspended the windfall tax. when you chess away big companies like U&M and Moolmans,leaving more than two thousand workers languishing in abject poverty. when you borrow too much what can remain of you  when giving back at high interest.

Govt liquidity will improve when the US 1bn eurobond lands at BOZ. It will then be consumed like the last one before this govt goes to borrow again. Suppliers of goods and services to govt have similarly not been paid for a long time and the trickle down effect will hurt all of us. “DONCH KUBEBA”, e pamaka balelanda!

Chisilu iwe. We know what delayed salaries mean. What do you know!

reap what you sow. thats all i can say about that!

Zambia's Leading Investigative, 24-hour Breaking News Newspaper.
