
Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own.

Soccer Analyst for Fox Soccer Report and Fox Soccer News 24/7 from 2001 to 2013 and I can now be seen on Soccer Central in Canada. I have been a soccer writer and broadcaster for over 20 years and I have followed the world's game for as long as I care to remember. I also write a regular column at soccerly.com.

After weeks of speculation UEFA finally announced sanctions on clubs that breached the Financial Fair Play regulations.

The regulations came into effect in for the 2011/12 season and the sanctions are based on the first monitoring period which concluded with the 2012/13 season. Essentially clubs that competed in either the Champions League and/or the Europa League were limited to incurring a cumulative loss of no more than $62M (exchange rate 1.37 to Euro).

The cumulative limit of $62 remains in place for the 2013/14 season when the monitoring extends to a three year window. The limit will then drop to $41M for the three seasons 2012/13, 2013/14 and 2014/15.

Because losses incurred in one year impact multiple monitoring periods any clubs that fall foul run the risk of becoming recurring offenders.

The first sanctions were agreed to be each of the nine clubs with the “Investigatory Chamber” or in other words they went for a plea bargain. The other option was to allow their case to go to the Adjudicatory Chamber of the UEFA Club Financial Control Body and that might have brought a heavier punishment.

Full details of each of the nine settlements have been posted by UEFA and can be accessed through the link.

Daniel Geey posted an excellent summary of the sanctions and salient points of each on his blog.

The heaviest punishments were issued to PSG and Manchester City. Prize money will be withheld, squads limited for the 2014/15 Champions League, limitations on salaries and a cap on transfer spending for the next two seasons. If the targets are met $55M of $82M in prize money deductions will be returned.

The restriction on squad size is the most interesting and potentially has the greatest impact on the competitiveness of PSG and Manchester City in next season’s Champions League. A normal squad size is 25 with 8 of the named players having to qualify through the “home-grown” rule. “Home-grown” applies to players who are trained in their formative years at the club as well as players trained by other teams in the same country.

If a club fails to name a “home-grown” player then the squad size is reduced for each “home-grown” player not named. Another way to look at it is that next season Manchester City and PSG will be able to name a maximum of 13 non-home-grown players.

In the case of Manchester City many of the players that were expected to leave this summer fall into the “home-grown” category and now some may finish up with a contract extension instead.

Here are some other points of interest emanating from the announcements.

1. It is clear that there remain a lot of fans that do not understand the limitations and purpose of UEFA Financial Fair Play. Hard on the heels on the announcement of the Manchester City there were fans calling for the Premier League title to be given to Liverpool on account of City “cheating”. UEFA Financial Fair applies to the Champions League and Europa League and it is not applicable to domestic competitions.

If a Premier League title is to be taken away – and it is very unlikely – it will be because a club has run foul of Premier League financial regulations not UEFA.

There again, when you have an award winning sport journalist such as Paul Hayward of the Daily Telegraph unable to understand distinctions in jurisdictions what hope does the average fan have?  Domestic associations are responsible for monitoring who buys clubs not UEFA.

2. The FFP regulations were not imposed by UEFA but approved by over 200 European clubs including those that recently ran foul of the financial rules. No club is forced to play in any of the European competitions but it is simply common sense that if you want to become a member of a group you accept the prevailing rules. Playing in European competition is a privilege and not an automatic right.

UEFA Financial Fair Play is not about spreading wealth throughout, giving small clubs a helping hand or an attempt to have all clubs on equal footing any more than the IOC encourages weekend joggers to compete at the Olympics. The Champions League and Europa League are elite competitions and by nature they attract elite clubs.

3. Ten months ago I posted an article that said PSG’s financial statement was a work of fiction. In particular I focused on the close to $1B four year deal with the Qatar Tourism Authority.

4. One area where Manchester City appear to have run aground was an attempt to generate revenue by selling intellectual property to their soccer franchises in MLS, in Australia and the Manchester City Ladies team. The financial statements identified close to $80M in such sales.

If this is the case, and there is a very good chance that it was, it was extremely important for UEFA to shut down such an avenue otherwise it would have set off a stampede of similar arrangements.

5. It will not be in play until statements are monitored next year but Monaco’s qualification for the Champions League carries the greatest potential for club push-back and ultimately a court challenge.

Resident in a tax haven with relatively little revenue beyond TV income, Monaco is dependant on Russian oligarch Dmitry Rybolovlev for its lavish spending on players. Keep an eye on this one it could get juicy.
