
Camden traders: 'Lucky no-one hurt in fire'

About 600 people were evacuated after a fire broke out at a market in Camden, north London.

Firefighters were called to the Stables Market after the blaze broke out at about 20:00 BST. It was brought under control about two hours later.

London Fire Brigade (LFB) sent 10 fire engines and more than 70 firefighters to tackle the blaze.

The Stables Market is the largest of a number of markets in Camden, selling books, clothing, and jewellery.

A nearby supermarket was also evacuated.

Shortly after the fire broke out, LFB tweeted: "The fire at Stables Market on Chalk Farm Road can be seen from miles around."

It later tweeted: "Fire is in the roof voids of the shops at Stables Market in #Camden. We've stopped the fire from affecting the overhead passenger train line."

David Byard, who works in the Barfly pub opposite the market, said: "We noticed thick black smoke billowing from the market.

"The fire brigade were at the scene with a hydraulic platform."

He said that the fire appeared to have been put out by about 21:00 BST.

Ash Jones, who was in a pub close to the market, said: "An alarm went off and we were evacuated.

"Buses were abandoned as the roads were closed and 200 or 300 people were left standing in the street."

The Metropolitan Police confirmed Chalk Farm Road had been cordoned off at Camden High Street .

The market is located in the historic former Pickfords stables and Grade II-listed horse hospital which served the horses pulling Pickfords' distribution vans and barges along the canal.

Many of its stalls are set in large arches in railway viaducts.

Like much of the day today, it will remain cloudy with rain throughout the evening and night, heavy at times.

It may be raining, but that's not stopped the crowds turning out for the Notting Hill Carnival to indulge in some dancing and Caribbean food.

On this day in 1900, writer Sir Arthur Conan Doyle (pictured), playing for MCC in his first first-class match, bowled out the great WG Grace who was batting for London County.

On our programme just before 17:50 , we'll be finding out more on the 13 suspected illegal immigrants discovered in the back of a lorry at the Dartford Crossing.

A Metropolitan Police helicopter crew witnessed a marriage proposal after seeing the words "will you marry me?" spelt out in a north-west London park.

The Metropolitan Police says officers have made 11 arrests during the final day of the Notting Hill Carnival . including two for possession of offensive weapons, five for drugs and two over public order issues.

On a four-day visit to India, the deputy prime minister said: "I sometimes wish it was as simple as Boris Johnson implies: All we need to do is pass a law and everything will be well.

The 28-year-old driver of the car in Romford has been arrested on suspicion of assault and drinking and driving.

A police community support officer (PCSO) suffered a fractured skull after officers stopped a vehicle in Brentwood Road,  Romford, east London, yesterday night, the Met Police said.

Two PCs in an unmarked car blocked the vehicle, containing a driver and a passenger, after it drove into the car park of the Oak pub.

We have received mixed response on Facebook to London Mayor Boris Johnson's support for taking passports away from jihadists returning to the capital.

Lizzy Soraya said : "His notion that we should undermine one of the main tenets of the English legal system makes him equally as dangerous as any "jihadist" and a far greater threat to the British way of life".

Britain has one of the best records in the world for road casualties. However, hundreds still die on the roads every year. In 2010, the police recorded 1,850 deaths, 22,660 people seriously injured and 184,138 who received light injuries.

Join me at 13:20 on BBC London news to hear what Lewisham Islamic Centre is saying about a Twitter comment believed to have come from a former member of the congregation, who has vowed to become the first woman fighter to kill a western prisoner in Syria.

There is no Tube service on the Bakerloo line between Stonebridge Park and Harrow and Wealdstone as engineers try to fix a signal failure at Harrow and Wealdstone.

It's definitely quieter but the performers at Notting Hill Carnival are still giving it their all despite the rain.

Jah Zipper and Althea have come down from Derby to sample the food at Notting Hill Carnival . On the rainy day the pair said if they decided where they were going by the rain "we'd never go anywhere".

He said: "I do catering in York, it's mainly Jamaican street food and I wanted to see how they do it down south.

Mayor of London Boris Johnson has called for tougher powers to deal with British extremists who leave the UK to fight in Iraq and Syria.

A cyclist has died after falling from his bike in Richmond Park on Sunday morning.

Nikki Bedi is in for Vanessa Feltz's show today and we're discussing Boris Johnson's comments that returning jihadists to the capital should be stripped of their citizenship.

It will be a cloudy day with outbreaks of rain for much of the time.

Good morning, I'll be bringing you all the latest news, sport, travel and weather from London today for BBC Local Live.
