
Eurosceptics  are on the rise in the UK, Italy, France, Finland, and even Germany.  The problem is they have no united voice. Here are a couple of recent  articles that discuss the situation.

Mr. Farage, leader of the United Kingdom Independence  Party (UKIP), sips his pint of beer with the smile of a man on track to  win the biggest share of British votes in elections this month for the  European Parliament — a parliament Mr. Farage wants to abolish, along  with the entire 28-nation European Union bloc.

Increasing numbers of voters agree with him — not just in euro-wary island nation Britain, but across the continent.

Polls suggest Euroskeptic parties could take between 25% and 30% of the  751 European Parliament seats in May 22-25 elections. In Britain, Mr.  Farage’s UKIP — which advocates UK withdrawal from the EU and has never  won a seat in the British Parliament — has pulled ahead of the Labour  Party into first place. The Conservatives, who lead Britain’s coalition  government, look likely to finish an embarrassing third.

Euroskeptic parties rail against the EU red tape they say enmeshes  farmers and businesses, and against the open borders that mean French  and British workers must compete with jobseekers from Poland or Spain.

Their message appeals to right-wingers opposed to immigration and  worried about national identity and growing Muslim communities. But it  also echoes left-wing concerns about the power of banks and big  business.

In Greece, the country worst hit by the financial crisis, opposition to  the EU stretches from the Communist Party and left-wing Syriza to  right-of-centre Independent Greeks and neo-fascist Golden Dawn.

Such animosity may be expected in beleaguered Greece or ambivalent  Britain, which is not among the 18 countries using the euro. But  countries that have been among the strongest supporters of the union are  also seeing a surge in skepticism.

Finland’s Finns Party became the third-largest force in the national  parliament in 2011 and has pushed mainstream parties into a more  critical stance on Europe with its call to restrict immigration and claw  back some powers from the EU. It doesn’t want to leave the bloc, but it  strongly opposes bailouts, saying richer countries have done too much  for ailing eurozone members.

In Italy, the anti-establishment Five Star Movement led by comedian  Beppe Grillo is polling about 25% of the vote ahead of the European  elections. Mr. Grillo argues Italians have subjected themselves to  European control in exchange for membership in the single currency and  has said Five-Star will push for a referendum on leaving the euro.

Add the 5% or so likely to be won by the regional anti-immigrant  Northern League, and almost a third of Italian votes will go to parties  hostile to the EU — a remarkable development in a country that has long  hitched its star to Brussels.

Even if euroskeptics win big, the demise of the EU is not imminent. The  European Parliament will remain dominated by two big blocs of the centre  left and centre right. The euroskeptics’ influence is likely to be  limited by their relative inexperience and the huge differences among  them.

Alliance for Germany has criticized UKIP’s populist, anti-immigrant tone  and insists it won’t team up with the British party. Parties seeking  electoral respectability steer clear of far-right forces like Greece’s  Golden Dawn or Hungary’s Jobbik. Mr. Farage has rejected an alliance  with the Netherlands’ anti-Muslim Freedom Party or France’s far-right  National Front.

Whatever the election outcome, euroskeptic parties are having an impact.  Parties that were once on the political fringe have managed to sway  national politics — notably in Britain, where Prime Minister David  Cameron has promised a referendum on EU membership in 2017.

Germany's Junge Alternative (JA), or Young Alternative, may be  dissidents - a Eurosceptic youth movement determined to overturn  Germany's long-standing pro-European orthodoxy - but they are very  conservative ones, advocating a crackdown on immigration and crime.

In fact their stance has earned them a particularly bad rap from the  national press. In the short year since the group's launch last June,  the JA have repeatedly been accused of being "too far right",  politically regressive and anti-feminist.

The organisation is linked to the country's first Eurosceptic party in  decades, the Alternative fuer Deutschland (AfD), or Alternative for  Germany, which wants the euro broken up.

But it remains an independent movement and even the groundbreaking AfD  regards it as something of an unruly offspring. The organisation is linked to the country's first Eurosceptic party in  decades, the Alternative fuer Deutschland (AfD), or Alternative for  Germany, which wants the euro broken up.

But it remains an independent movement and even the groundbreaking AfD regards it as something of an unruly offspring.

The youth organisation invited Mr Farage to speak at a conference in Cologne in late March.

Mr Farage's appearance sparked a deluge of negative headlines and soured  relations with AfD chief Bern Lucke who called the move a "sign of poor  political tact".

"There are significant differences between the AfD and UKIP," he said.

Mr Lucke has repeatedly sought to distance himself from right-wing  populism ahead of the European elections, where his party is expected to  reap around 7% percent of the vote.

If successful, the AfD will need to join a pan-European faction in order to make its voice count.

UKIP led by Nigel Farage will not unite with National Front led by  Marine Le Pen in France. Greece’s Golden Dawn,  Hungary’s Jobbik, or the  Netherlands’ anti-Muslim Freedom Party.

Germany's JA wants to affiliate with AfD and UKIP but may have to choose between the two.

Beppe Grillo's 5-Star movement does not seem interested in an alliance with UKIP or the National Front.

The next European parliament will be the most fragmented ever. Don't expect it to accomplish much of anything.

On the other hand, look for center-left and center-right blocs to align,  if only for the purpose of stopping the fragmented groups of  Eurosceptics from achieving any real power.

Meanwhile, absolutely nothing in the EU has been fixed or will be fixed.  At some point, this simmering stew will boil over in a major way.

Yet, UK prime minister David Cameron insists he will be able to get EU  treaty changes passed for the benefit of Great Britain. It's absurd, and  he likely knows it.

Mike Shedlock is a registered investment advisor representative for Sitka Pacific Capital Management.

Follow Townhall Finance!

TownhallFinance.com does not itself offer, verify, sponsor, or promote, directly or indirectly, any investment or trading advice, or information or any product or service offered by these independent sources.

Every investor or trader should consider all advice and all offerings of products and services on their own merits and for suitability to the individual's personal needs and circumstances. Before using this site, please read our complete Terms of Service by clicking here.

Make TownhallFinance.com your premier source for stock market and financial market information. Individual investors enjoy our worldwide investor seminars and trading seminars. Our investment advisor seminars keep financial advisors up to data with CEUs, and this site provides investors, traders, and advisors with the latest stock market analysis tips, information and research tools. Be sure to be a part of our options day trading tips and picks from professional day traders and various trading, investing and advisor Webcasts and financial podcasts.
