
Washington D.C.- Few days after the publication of a Morocco World News article pleading with the Moroccan Prime Minister to take charge of the Anouzla case and put an end to this unnecessary and pointless episode that have damaged the image of Morocco, the Washington Post is urging Morocco to “drop the prosecution of Ali Anouzla,”.

The Washington post called prosecution of Mr. Anouzla for “inciting and providing material support to terrorists” as “misguided.” Mr. Anouzla was arrested after his website Lakome.com published a link to an al-Qaeda video calling for attacks against Morocco.

Influential decision makers in Washington DC read and analyze the Washington Post editorials. This negative piece will likely create a wave of anti-Moroccan activities in the USA including a campaign by the Algeria backed Polisario advocates bashing the Kingdom’s rights record in the “Western Sahara.” The Moroccan authorities keep making the same mistakes by allowing simple internal political events to turn into international incidents with far reaching consequences.

The disconnect between the decisions makers in Rabat and the front line diplomats and lobbyists on human rights issues continues to hamper the wobbly Moroccan diplomacy. Morocco can’t spend money and energy advertising itself as a democratic and rule of law country then turn around and persecute journalist on bogus charges.

Morocco’s Foreign Minister Mezouar evasive comments on the case and the Government Spokesman elusive explanations are unacceptable, although telling. It shows a lack of transparency in the “decision making machine” that takes these critical judgments.

Anouzla’s articles were daring, different and provoking. He was one of the few Moroccan journalists who did not follow certain self-imposed red lines. Thus, before dispensing the decision to persecute him, the “authorities” should have assessed and analyzed the ramification of their conclusion.

Given the negative international coverage, the Moroccan authorities will eventually relent and drop all charges against Anouzla, but not before the damage to the reputation of the nation is done. These kinds of faux pas have been plaguing Morocco. Controversies of this nature harm the civil society work to improve the standing of the Kingdom, especially on the “western Sahara” issue.

Since the Post’s view carries a lot of political weight in Congress and the White House, the 4 million dollar Moroccan lobbying machine will have to do some real work to counter the bad press. Moroccoonthemove.com will have to do more than write a basic reply with rosy and patronizing essays to respond to the Post solid article.

Much to do about nothing, just like the Nador Kiss. When morocco finds itself in a bargaining situation  in the future with nothing of substance to show for, the government will release the guy and make a field day out of it. That’s how Mekhzen has been handling the country’s P.R function, drag our reputation in the mud before correcting course to give the impression that things are actually improving.

So much superficial analyses. I would love to see an in depth article about Mr. Anouzla, who he is as person and as a professional. Before all this ranting about rights and public image and reputation management  and lobbying, there is no way that the U.S. and it’s papers can make us forget about what they are doing on golbal level. Torture, secret torture camps, assassinations, wiretapping JOURNALIST, illegal concentration camps. Neglecting human rights of children and indigenous populations all over it’s ground.

Do your self’s a favor, and get out of your bubble, it will be shocking but refreshing!

Have a look at the “AKAKA BILL”, of the Kingdom of Hawaii.

Bradley Manning, Edward Snowden, and above all, the actual journalist, Barrett Brown. America has no lessons to give, never mind the fact that unlike the aforementioned cases, Ali Anouzla’s overt support of terrorism was not in public interest!

Britain currently has 40 odd journalists on trial for their alleged involvement in the country’s phone-hacking scandal (a scandal which led to the end of a historic, 168 year old paper, the News of the World) with jail sentences likely if convicted. These journalists are on trial for breaking the law; unfortunately, and contrary to the apparent belief held by journalists/activists who have come out in support of Anouzla, the profession doesn’t give you impunity. It’s about time that journalists adhered to the canons of journalism (although the majority of Western journalists and media-outlets are at least outwardly law-abiding), especially those so-called journalists in Morocco –who are so often merely maverick activists, agents in the pay of foreign governments/organisations and ideologues hiding behind the noble profession of journalism with absolutely no regard for the laws that govern the land or their profession– who risk damaging the repute of journalists altogether among the ordinary Moroccan. Indeed, Ali Anouzla crossed an international red-line when his paper resorted to publishing an unfiltered, unedited Al-Qaida video, in its entirety, inciting grotesque terrorist acts in the language of the terrorist organisations target audience (that is, the Arabic-speaking world and in particular, Moroccans). When did that become acceptable practice and how dare anybody defend that!

Allow me to make an important correcting. The paper only linked to the video hosted and published by EL PAIS.

I’m aware of that, but what difference does that make? He linked to a blog post by Ignacio Cembrero, published on Cembrero’s blog on the El Pais website, which itself linked to the terrorist video. Neither the actions of the bigoted, anti-Moroccan Spanish press (who would go so far in their crusade against Morocco that they would even link to a terrorist video in its entirety) nor the actions of Ali Anouzla are, however, justifiable and nor should either escape punishment for their criminal actions. Indeed, whilst El Pais (who removed the link from their website and Cembrero as their North-West African correspondent, and who are currently being investigated by public prosecutors in Spain for their actions) can argue that their target audience are Spaniards (who would understand nothing of a video in Arabic), Ali Anouzla has absolutely no defense for what is at best, sheer negligence/incompetence and more likely, a cynical and calculated attempt to destabilize Morocco by using his website as a platform for disseminating terrorist material to the very audience it was aimed at, Moroccans! Absolutely unacceptable. The West and all their puppet NGOs have nothing to bark about here, nor do they have any lessons to give about press freedom. For goodness sake, Barrett Brown was absurdly arrested, in America, for merely linking to hacked material.

El País is like many media-outlets in the modern media landscape all about advertising and spreading the lies of it’s masters. Spanish media holds a particular grudge against Moroccans because of the lengthy and sometimes bloody history between Morocco and Spain! It’s nothing more than a propaganda machine for the special interest. I sorry to say that’s not the only one.

In general I inclined to believe in individuals than organization. So, if I do not find an extended piece and an in-depth analysis about some so I can become to trust his judgement, I always take the information for what it is. A opinion. Nothing more!

When you find that out you will know if this man is as honorable is he claims to be!

Like the proverbial goes: colonialism left through the door and came back through the window ( some may argue that it never left). Amateurish activism, and ambiguous liberalism is their new ammunition now, specially against countries who live on handouts. I, at least, give the guy credit for saying what he wants from within morocco. A healthy situation that deserve nourishing and preserving regardless of his luck of judgement. My problem is with few Moroccans, lucky enough to sit through university courses overseas,  usually some linguistic Bullshit, unable to land a spot at a medical, engineering or advanced business course, are predisposed and willing to turn the gun on morocco for a little recognition or approval abroad with the Sahara as their meal ticket to getting an article published. I feel your frustration but what do you expect when we don’t have a decent national public library to point at so some journalists can visit before their pen hit the paper.

The author seems to worry much about Morocco’s image rather than addressing the real which gave rise human, democratic and economic rights violations perpetrated on the daily basis in the Moroccan kingdom! The article should be shelved in the PR section, if there is one to boot!

He should be thanking God that he is out on bail and not in some underground torture den being sodomized with a coke bottle.

You cannot ask for Justice when there is none. Until the judiciary is made to account and Justice comes to Morocco – either leave and go to a place where there is some kind of working legal system, or stay quiet, do as your told, and be an obedient pup, stay out of the limelight and you will probably be ok.

Have a look at this, it’s sobering and disturbing at the same time. People who are advocating American Policies and the hypocrisy this criminal nation stands for only have to see what’s written down on the link below. So called free and fair press has yielded for their masters by not giving complete and honest account about NSA worldwide surveillance and the neglect of international law and customs.

publication refers to as country “X”.

investigations”.
