
The Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Abkhazia Vyacheslav Chirikba welcomed the participants of the 44th General Session of the Council of the Federations of Turkish Journalists and the first Abkhaz-Turkish Congress of Journalists.

“Here in Abkhazia, the historical and cultural ties with the Republic of Turkey are highly esteemed and the intensification of contacts and communication between the two friendly nations is greeted with satisfaction. We truly live in a unique time. We are building a new, free, independent Abkhazia. However, not a single country can develop without allies. We have already achieved strong partnership and allied relations with the Russian Federation, we are developing and strengthening ties with other countries who we have diplomatic or simply friendly relations with,” said the Foreign Minister in his welcoming speech at the MFA of Abkhazia.

Chirikba named the direction of the policies of the Abkhaz government towards “strengthening already existing contacts, as well as developing new strong channels of cooperation with the outside world” a priority.

“The main aim of the foreign policies of the Republic of Abkhazia at this stage is its wider international recognition, its membership in the UN, as well as other significant international organizations,” said the Foreign Minister.

“Unfortunately, it needs to be said that the new Georgian authorities also do not hesitate to use any available means to isolate the Abkhaz nation from cultural and humanitarian relations with the outside world,” said the Foreign Minister.

Despite all, Abkhazia, according to the Minister, is building a coherent and systematic program of foreign policy geared to promote good neighborly relations with neighboring countries – especially with such a large regional leader as is the Turkish Republic.

In his speech, Vyacheslav Chirikba, emphasized a series of significant tasks in the foreign policy activities of Abkhazia regarding its relations with Turkey. The tasks include: the recognition of independence of the Republic of Abkhazia by the Turkish Republic, the establishment of diplomatic facilities of the Republic of Abkhazia in Ankara and of the Turkish Republic in Sukhum, mutual recognition of travelling documents, as well as legal documents, the establishment of aerial and maritime communication between the Republics of Abkhazia and Turkey, the involvement of Turkish investments in the Abkhaz economy.

Vyacheslav Chirikba emphasized the significance of establishing strong channels of regional cooperation between the Republic of Abkhazia with the Turkish Republic and the countries of the Middle East, the activation of existing ties, including strong ties with the representatives of the Abkhaz Diaspora in those countries.

“I would like to note, that thanks to the coordinated efforts with the heads of the Abkhaz cultural centers in Turkey in the last few years, we have made significant progress in the establishment of good-neighborly relations with the Turkish Republic, its cities and regions,” he said.

The Minister expressed his great satisfaction with the fact that the Turkish Parliament has adopted a law giving the opportunity to study the Abkhaz language in places densely populated by the Abkhaz Diaspora.

He also expressed his assurance in the fact that this visit to Abkhazia will aid the further strengthening of historically good-neighborly relations between the Abkhaz and Turkish nations, as well as allow the Turkish population to better discover Abkhazia and the peaceful Abkhaz nation.
