
A national conference to bridge the gap between education, training and industry opened on Monday with a call for greater collaboration between industry and academia in the training of graduates to meet industry demands.

President John Dramani Mahama, who made the call, said his administration is ready to provide all the necessary interventions to achieve the goal.

The two-day conference is on the theme: “Achieving a Stronger Partnership between Education and Industry: the way forward”.

The President urged industry and businesses to let government and the various educational institutions know the skills set and areas of training they require to allow educational institutions to realign their curricular to suit that demand.

President Mahama urged participants to make suggestions to improve internships and apprenticeship for skills training, practical attachments and incentives that could encourage industry to recruit and train graduates.

Professor Naana Jane Opoku-Agyemang, Minister of Education, said the question of youth unemployment had assumed global dimensions and that no country regardless of its level of development is immune to the fact of young persons’ lack of jobs.

She said the disturbing global and national trend of unemployed youth stresses the need for continuous training to meet the demands of the job market.

She assured the conference of the Ministry’s support to all the relevant stakeholders towards the full implementation of policies that would come out of the conference.

Nii Armah Ashietey, Minister of Employment and Labour Relations, blamed the current unemployment situation on the kinds of skills training and education strategies adopted by the country in the past.

This, he said, does not respond perfectly with the country’s drive towards an industrialised country, and that, it had created a yawning gap between the needs and requirements of industry and the education process.

“Be it basic or post-basic; secondary or post-secondary; tertiary or post-tertiary, education has always been envisaged as one of the most efficient vehicles for economic emancipation, social mobility and political stability.

“Being educated means having greater access to certain levels of employment, salary, responsibility, prestige and social capital,” he added.

He announced that the Ministry had taken steps to make vocational training attractive to all, as it is a catalyst for socio-economic and technological advancement.

The Ministry, he said, is collaborating with accredited demand-driven skills training and development institutions to train the youth and unemployed persons to acquire the requisite skills for gainful employment.

He called for the amendment of the Ghana Education Trust Fund (GETFund) Act to include Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET).

Nii Ashietey also urged government to include TVET in the policy of free Senior High School and other subsidies, such as the capitation grant, should be extended to cover the TVET institutions to ensure equity and attractiveness.

He also advocated that curricula of courses such as civil engineering, being run by the tertiary institutions, be revised to include labour-based engineering to support labour intensive public works.

Youth unemployment, which is high in Ghana, is considered a hindrance to the country’s development.
