
The Secrets & Lies director says 'Any serious complainers can f*** off'

The British director of a new film on the artist JMW Turner has said that his film is 'not a documentary' and anyone who complains about it straying from the facts can 'f*** off'.

new biopic, Mr Turner, is one of 18 in the running for this year's Palme d'Or award.

Speaking alongside actor Timothy Spall, who plays the Romantic landscape artist, Leigh said he was anticipating criticism from Turner anoraks.

He said: 'The Turneracs, as we call them - the real Turner nuts - haven't seen it yet, but we've ordered some protective armour to wear at the screening.

'It's not a documentary, but there's always going to be some serious complainers.'

Leigh, whose other hit films include Abigail's Party and Life Is Sweet, said his new film was based closely upon the artist's life, though it did not stick 100 per cent to the facts for the plot.

But he said he and his team had worked hard to make it as realistic as possible, by studying the artist's letters and written by works to get a feel for how he spoke, as well as striving to make sure the costumes and houses were historically correct.

The film, described by Mail film critic Brian Viner as 'something of a masterpiece', tells the story of the later years of the eccentric painter.

Its precise depiction of the Victorian era is based in meticulous research; Leigh told the audience in Cannes how he believed compromising on dialogue or costumes resulted in unconvincing films which audiences would struggle to believe in.

He also told how he fell out with the owner of a period house who refused to let him paint it black, as it would have been at the time, for the film.

Last week, Timothy Spall told how he spent two years learning how to paint before making the film, and said he spent hours in the Tate gallery looking at Turner's paintings 'until the colours got into the bloodstream'.

Leigh said he would not stay on in Cannes this week to find out if he had won the prestigious film prize, following previous years when he missed out on it having packed his black tie and bought the plane tickets.  This year, he said, he would be staying at home.

Born in 1943, Leigh is best known for his grittily realistic depictions of people's everyday lives.

He began as a playwright in the 1960s before he began making films for television.

It was in 1977, with his suburban satire Abigail's Party, that he made a name for himself.  Starring Alison Steadman, who was married to Leigh from 1973-2001, it centred on a toe-curling suburban drinks party with lines such as 'Tone?  A little cheesy-pineapple one?'.

In 1989, his bitter satire, High Hopes, portrayed life in post-Thatcher England, and won the Venice Film Festival's FIPRESCI prize.

The following year, Leigh's comedy Life Is Sweet garnered massive acclaim, featuring Jane Horrocks as a bulimic insecure young woman, as well as Steadman, Jim Broadbent, and Mr Turner star, Timothy Spall.

And in 1993 his bleak film Naked, starring David Thewlis as a drifter, won huge acclaim, with Thewlis named Best Actor at Cannes and Leigh named Best Director.

Leigh, whose other works include Vera Drake and Topsy-Turvy, was honoured at Cannes again in 1996 for his film Secrets & Lies, telling the story of a woman's adoption and reunion with her family.  The film won the Palme d'Or at Cannes and actress Brenda Blethyn won Best Actress at the Golden Globes.

Leigh, who has two grown-up sons by Steadman, now lives in Camden, north London.

The comments below have not been moderated.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
