
Deborah Chniti is pleading with the Government to let her to return to the UK with the Tunisian husband she met on Facebook.

MUM-OF-THREE Deborah Chniti is pleading with the Government to let her return to the UK with the Tunisian husband she met on Facebook.

The 43-year-old has been fighting for 27-year-old hubby Ala to be granted a visa so the couple can move back to North Staffordshire from Tunisia.

She left Blythe Bridge to move to the African country two years ago believing that after four years they would be able to return to England without Ala needing a visa.

But new rules mean penniless Deborah – who was on disability benefits in the UK – will now need to earn at least £18,600 a year or have savings of £62,500 before Ala can get his visa.

Deborah and Ala claim they are being forced to live below the poverty line in Tunisia.

The couple were married in May 2012 – two years after becoming friends on Facebook.

She said: “I was initially on the internet just looking to meet new people, and then this man in Tunisia popped up. I sent him a request, we got chatting and never stopped.

Deborah moved to Tunisia in June 2012, believing she could return with Ala after four years without him needing a visa. But the rules later changed to leave Deborah’s plans in tatters.

She added: “I gave my house up, lost my car and my kids went to live with my daughter. Every single thing in the UK I owned is gone. I’ve got nothing now.

“I need to go home. I want to be with my children and grandchildren, but I can’t leave my husband. I’m an emotional wreck. No-one speaks English where we live. I’m stuck in the house all day.

Deborah will need to earn at least £18,600 a year, or have savings of £62,500, before Ala can get his visa.

But she says she is too ill to work and was on disability benefits when she lived in Blythe Bridge. She says Ala is a ‘qualified’ labourer.

She added: “The UK Government is letting the wrong immigrants in. It’s unfair for us to be apart when we have lived together for two years.

“Why does money have to stop us having a normal life? He’s a qualified labourer.

“He doesn’t want a penny from the Government. He said he will work 24 hours a day to support me if it comes to that.

“I can’t work because I have a bad back from three car crashes and will need a knee replacement operation when I am 70.

“I can’t walk long distances and can’t sit or stand for a long time. I also have asthma and have suffered with depression, stress and anxiety since I was 21.

Deborah missed the birth of her fourth grandchild last Thursday, and has never seen her third grandchild.

Stoke-on-Trent South MP Rob Flello has written to the Home Office to highlight Deborah’s plight.

The Government introduced the new rules for earnings and savings in July, 2012.

A Home Office spokesman said: “We welcome those who wish to make a life in the UK with their family, work hard and make a contribution, but it must not be at the taxpayers’ expense.

“Our family rules were brought in to make sure that spouses coming to the UK do not become reliant on the taxpayer for financial support, and are well enough supported to integrate effectively.

If Rob is looking after people like her he should be psychiatrist not an M.P.

Rightly or wrongly Rob Flello has got to be seen to be doing his job.

Old Debs does not seem to have achieved much sympathy on here, but she has achieved fame, as she was in the daily paper yesterday, and she looked even more stupid in that one. Looks like big brother beckons next for her. Her and White Dee will get on like a house on fire.

What is a "qualified labourer?" and "no one speaks English?" much the same around here me Duck because of people like you!
