
Boots the Chemist may be the next major British born brand to be snapped up by a US giant in a £10.5billion deal.

The High Street stalwart, which is part of the Alliance Boots group, could be taken over by rival Walgreens in a matter of months shaving millions off the tax bill of its US suitor.

It comes as Britain’s second largest pharmaceuticals firm AstraZeneca is stalked by America’s Pfizer in what could be the largest foreign takeover of a British firm worth some £62.7billion.

The ease with which British firms can be taken over by foreign companies has become controversial since Kraft, now called Mondelez snapped up Dairy Milk maker Cadbury.

Some workers and politicians feel the playing field is not level with other countries such as America and France operating more protectionist policies.

They are also concerned about the commitment to jobs.

Boots became Alliance Boots in 2007 when American private equity firm Kohlberg Kravis Roberts teamed up with Italian billionaire Stefano Pessina in a £12billion deal. Its tax domicile is in Switzerland.

Last year Walgreens bought a 45per cent stake in the firm with the option of buying the reminder from February next year.

Walgreens would move its tax domicile to either the UK or Switzerland cutting the rate from 37.5per cent to 20 per cent in a complex transaction known as a ‘tax inversion’.

The source said it would be hard to complete the manoeuvre prior to next February even if it started now anyway.

Alliance Boots declined to comment.

Boots, which can trace its roots back to Nottingham in 1849, started as a herbal medicine shop by John Boot.

But it was his son Jesse who grew the business having helped his mother run it from the age of 10 following the death of his father in 1860.

Now the retail giant has close to 2,500 stores in the UK along with the No7 beauty range.

The wider group operates in more than 25 different countries. It has 108,000 employees and has a wholesale business.

Last month it announced it was buying pharmacy chains in Mexico and Chile after long eyeing expansion in emerging markets.

It is spending £375million buying Mexico’s Farmacias Benavides and Farmacias Ahumada in Chile.

The comments below have not been moderated.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
