
Share This Story!

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

On Jan. 8, representatives from the Missouri House listen to Speaker of the House Tim Jones outline proposals for the legislative session that was about to begin. Lawmakers wrapped up the session Friday.

JEFFERSON CITY – There are many ways to measure the success (or lack thereof) of the legislative session: number of bills passed, how many bills were vetoed, how many priority measures were accomplished.

Yet, there are other ways to take stock of the just-completed session that are not as concrete. Significant moments serve as another way to reflect on the past several months of lawmaking.

Below are 10 moments that defined the 2014 legislative session.

What began as a filibuster on the Monday night of the last week of session ended in the announcement of the largest legislative deal of the entire year, involving multiple Republican and Democratic priorities.

Senate Democrats had vowed to block a bill extending the abortion waiting period in Missouri from 24 to 72 hours. Republicans had hinted that they might employ rarely used procedural tactics to shut off debate.

To avoid that possibility, Democrats headed into negotiations with Republicans on the night of May 12 and, after only a couple of hours, had a deal. Democrats would allow the abortion legislation to pass, along with a bill to create six days of early voting.

In exchange, Republicans would not advance so-called Paycheck Protection legislation, which requires annual written permission from workers for unions to collect fees for political purposes. Additionally, legislation requiring photo identification to vote was also killed.

The Senate galleries were already full, and at 11:30 a.m. May 6, more than 100 demonstrators began chanting, urging lawmakers to expand Medicaid.

“Missouri Senate expand Medicaid, bring dignity, do your jobs!” the demonstrators shouted.

The Senate quickly suspended business, and Capitol police began removing the protesters. Many went voluntarily, but 23 were arrested.

In a moment of high drama, the General Assembly overrode Gov. Jay Nixon’s veto of income tax cut legislation on May 6, just days after he issued the veto.

The override handed Nixon the biggest defeat of his second term and came after the governor successfully stopped another Republican tax cut proposal last year.

Prior to the override, in an early morning press conference, Nixon’s general counsel said the governor’s staff, while reviewing the tax cut bill, Senate Bill 509, had found a provision they say would eliminate taxes on all income above $9,000.

Republicans hit back hard against the accusation, with House Majority Floor Leader Rep. John Diehl, R-Town and Country, calling it nonsense.

One of the most intense debates of the session came between two Republicans over the issue of Medicaid expansion.

Sen. Ryan Silvey, R-Kansas City, had announced his support for a form of expansion combined with reforms. On April 2, he decided to promote his plan on the Senate floor and engaged ardent expansion opponent Sen. John Lamping, R-St. Louis County, in a debate.

“Your faith in government is not my faith in government,” Lamping told Silvey.

An effort by three lawmakers to impeach Nixon was not successful but did result in hearings.

Republican Reps. Rick Brattin, Nick Marshall and Mike Moon sought to impeach the governor for various alleged failures in office — including allowing legally married same-sex couples to file joint tax returns and not holding administration officials accountable after it was revealed last year that the Missouri State Highway Patrol had given a list of concealed-carry permit holders to the federal government.

The articles of impeachment did not advance out of committee.

Although lawmakers in both chambers had championed a $6 million funding increase for the state Children’s Division, which investigates child abuse and neglect, Sen. Kurt Schaefer, R-Columbia, shocked some observers when he questioned the need for an increase on the Senate floor.

Completing a years-long effort, the General Assembly this year passed an overhaul of the state’s criminal code.

The overhaul, spearheaded by Sen. Bob Dixon, R-Springfield, and Sen. Jolie Justus, D-Kansas City, was allowed to become law by Nixon, but not before lawmakers promised to make a number of fixes wanted by the governor.

At least earlier this month, Springfield Mayor Bob Stephens did not think he had much to thank lawmakers for.

In an email sent to other City Council members, Stephens criticized local lawmakers, particularly for voting in favor of telecommunications legislation that Springfield and other cities fear will reduce local control.

“I haven’t seen them do anything to thank them for as of yet,” Stephens wrote.

Sometimes you just have to let the eagle soar.

In April, Clark the Eagle, an American bald eagle, flew through the House chamber several times commemorating the seventh anniversary of the removal of the eagles from the endangered species list.

Afterward, lawmakers and staff posed for photos with the eagle.
