
An error has occured and your email has not been sent.

• Seperate multiple addresses with Commas.

• Must enter an email address.

• You must enter the verification code below to send.

• Invalid entry: Please type the verification code again.

LONDON-- AstraZeneca PLC Monday rejected what U.S. peer Pfizer Inc. said was its final increased offer, dealing the biggest blow yet to prospects for a huge trans-Atlantic pharmaceutical merger.

Late Sunday, Pfizer made a final offer for AstraZeneca valued at about $120 billion, or GBP55 ($92.51) a share with a 45% cash component, after the British pharmaceutical company rebuffed its latest effort to enter takeover talks.

AstraZeneca said it made clear on a phone call to Pfizer Sunday afternoon that an offer more than 10% above the GBP53.50 Pfizer offered Friday--which would equate to a figure greater than GBP58.85--would be needed to secure the board's recommendation. A few hours later, Pfizer came back with its "final" offer of GBP55 a share.

While the rejection is a major setback in any potential deal between the two drug giants, U.K. takeover rules give Pfizer and AstraZeneca until May 26--a month from the confirmation of Pfizer's earlier approach--to enter takeover discussions. That allows time for any investors dismayed with AstraZeneca's 12% share-price fall Monday to push the board to engage in talks.

"I think this rejection will go down poorly with investors who are urging AZ to engage with Pfizer," Credit Suisse said in a note to clients Monday, adding that investor feedback was that the GBP55 level was fair. "Investor pressure on AZ really now becomes key in this process."

One top-10 shareholder who had been pushing last week for the AstraZeneca board to engage with Pfizer reacted with displeasure to the rejection. "This looks to me like a case of blatant disregard of shareholder interest," the shareholder said.

"The final proposal is a minor improvement which continues to fall short of the board's view of value and has been rejected," AstraZeneca Chairman Leif Johansson said in the company's Monday-morning statement. AstraZeneca believes the offer to be a final one, Mr. Johansson said in a BBC radio interview Monday.

"They can either accept it or reject it," Pfizer Chairman and Chief Executive Ian Read said Sunday in an interview with The Wall Street Journal. "They have until the 26th of May."

After the rejection, the U.K. drug company's shares slumped as much as 15% in early London trading before recovering slightly. AstraZeneca shares were lately down 11.3% to GBP42.77.

Mr. Johansson said in an interview with the British Broadcasting Corp. that a potential deal would be disruptive to the U.K. company's future operations. He also cited the "big execution risk" involved in any deal with Pfizer, which had already drawn scrutiny and criticism on both sides of the Atlantic.

Pfizer is seeking to acquire AstraZeneca in a so-called inversion deal, a kind of merger in which a U.S. company changes its domicile to the relatively tax-friendly home of its target. The U.S. drug giant hopes to reduce its annual tax bill sharply by changing its domicile to the U.K., but U.K. politicians have been suspicious that Pfizer might slash British jobs.

AstraZeneca was primarily concerned about getting the right price for the company from Pfizer, according to a person familiar with AstraZeneca's thinking, with regulatory and political concerns secondary considerations.

"They seem to have quite a punchy view of what their pipeline is worth," said Dan Mahony, a health-care fund manager at Polar Capital and a small AstraZeneca investor, adding he was frustrated with the rejection. "I don't think GBP55 was too unreasonable, to knock it completely out of the park again."

Mr. Mahony said he doubted another bidder would emerge, and that he didn't see Pfizer returning with another offer.

"I get the impression Pfizer will just walk," he said. "I think a lot of these companies are more financially disciplined than they were 15 years ago."

Analysts at Credit Suisse don't yet think the deal is dead. "The CEO in investor meetings really just seemed to be concerned about getting the right price, so this latest rejection really just seems to be part of a tactical game," the bank said in an email to clients Monday, adding that "we think there is still a good chance a deal gets done in the end."

Mr. Mahony added that AstraZeneca management was now in a difficult position if it failed to live up to ambitious new sales targets in coming years. "The next three years are going to be really tricky for them as [cholesterol drug] Crestor goes off patent."

AstraZeneca shares closed Friday at GBP48.23, valuing the company at GBP60.89 billion.

Ian Walker contributed to this article.

An error has occured and your email has not been sent.

• Seperate multiple addresses with Commas.

• Must enter an email address.

• You must enter the verification code below to send.

• Invalid entry: Please type the verification code again.
