
Uncertainty among British businesses over the UK's future relationship with the European Union has risen in recent months, according to the latest survey from the British Chambers of Commerce.

BCC director John Longworth said the results indicated support was waning for David Cameron 's policy of renegotiating powers with Brussels followed by a referendum on Britain's membership.

The lobby group's poll released ahead of European elections this week showed a dwindling minority of businesses, just 12%, believe a full withdrawal from the EU would help their prospects. Almost two-thirds, 61%, said that withdrawing would harm their business.

The lobby group highlighted that the 'don't know' camp had grown the most since the last quarterly poll when it asked businesses about how possible scenarios would affect them. The scenario that produced the greatest increase in uncertainty was Britain retaining membership of the EU but transferring specific powers back from Brussels.

BCC director general John Longworth said: "The increase in businesses who say they don't know how these potential scenarios will affect the UK's future should be a wake-up call for Britain's political elites. Our findings suggest that the prime minister may soon need to shore up flagging business support for his 'renegotiation and referendum' strategy."

A separate poll from the Institute of Directors found more than 60% of its members made their support for continued EU membership conditional on reform in key areas. Its responses from more than 1,400 members found 31% would vote to remain a member in all circumstances, while only 6% would vote to leave whatever happens. A majority insisted the UK parliament was best-placed to legislate on employment law and on company law and corporate governance.

Simon Walker, IoD director general, said: "With the European parliament now co-deciding on up to 70% of EU laws, British business is looking for the next wave of MEPs to focus on building a union based on innovation and competitiveness, as these are the forces that will bring prosperity and jobs to the people of Europe ."

Our editors' picks for the day's top news and commentary delivered to your inbox each morning.
