
Earn Free CME Credits by reading the latest medical news in your specialty.

For best viewing, click the bottom right corner for full screen.

Treatment of patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis for 52 weeks with pirfenidone, an antifibrotic, reduced disease progression.

All-cause mortality was significantly reduced in patients receiving the drug in a pooled analysis with prior studies.

SAN DIEGO  --  The novel antifibrotic drug pirfenidone (Esbriet) slowed progression of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) in the ASCEND trial, which also turned up a survival benefit when pooled with prior pivotal trials.

While the trial didn't show an improvement in overall or disease-specific survival, a pooled analysis with the two prior pivotal trials (CAPACITY trials) did favor pirfenidone on both counts, they reported at the American Thoracic Society meeting and simultaneously online in the New England Journal of Medicine.

Across the pooled 1,247 patients, pirfenidone reduced the risk of death at 1 year by a relative 48% overall and by 68% for death from IPF (P=0.01 and P=0.006).

These results closely matched topline results released in February.

These are game-changing results for IPF, Gary M. Hunninghake, MD, MPH , of Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston, wrote in an accompanying editorial, especially when paired with results from two other positive trials on the novel tyrosine kinase inhibitor nintedanib (also reported at the ATS late-breaking session and in the NEJM).

The disease has a death rate worse than many cancers, with 3-year survival of 50%.

But "beyond providing information about prognosis or referral for lung transplantation or palliation, there has been little to offer in the way of treatment," he said.

The new findings offer hope that "we may soon have choices in the medical management of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis," he said.

The trial was drugmaker InterMune's response to the FDA's 2010 refusal to approve pirfenidone in IPF on the basis of two prior multinational trials, which, combined, showed only a small difference in the surrogate endpoint and no differences in hard endpoints like exacerbations, lung transplantation, and mortality.

The question now is whether the new results will be enough to tip the balance in favor of pirfenidone for the FDA.

"We did exactly what they asked us to do, and the results are even more positive than we expected," King told MedPage Today. "So I would think the FDA would look favorably on this compound."

His group argued that they used "reliable, valid, and responsive measures of disease status and independent predictors of the risk of death" in IPF  --  FVC and 6-minute walk distance  --  and found effects "well above the estimated minimal clinically important difference for each."

NEJM editor-in-chief Jeffrey M. Drazen, MD , had high praise for the study overall, calling the results "really good news" and "groundbreaking."

However, he urged researchers not to rest upon just slowing the disease.

"It's great, you're having a significant impact, you're halving the death rate over this time," he said. " But these people have a death sentence, they just have longer. They get to live with their disease longer before it does them in. We can't quit."

ASCEND randomized 555 patients with centrally-confirmed IPF to receive either oral pirfenidone (a total of 2,403 mg divided into three doses daily) or placebo for 1 year.

Patients were allowed to stay on other IPF drugs only if used for another indication without an acceptable alternative.

While the primary endpoint sought a slowing in the progressive loss of lung function seen from fibrotic scarring, pirfenidone substantially increased the proportion of patients with no decline in FVC (22.7% versus 9.7%, P<0.001).

Key secondary endpoints also improved with the drug compared with placebo.

Pirfenidone reduced the decline in the 6-minute walk distance at week 52, with 25.9% of patients losing 50 m or more or dying compared with 35.7% (P=0.04).

Overall progression-free survival, defined as alive without a 10 percentage point decrease in percent predicted FVC or 50 m loss in 6-minute walk distance, also improved with the drug compared with placebo (hazard ratio 0.57, 95% CI 0.43-0.77).

However, the drug didn't improve dyspnea scores (P=0.16) or rates of death from any cause (4.0% versus 7.2%, P=0.10) or from IPF (1.1% versus 2.5%, P=0.23).

The most common serious adverse event was worsening IPF. But excluding these events, serious adverse event rates were about similar between pirfenidone and placebo (18.7% versus 20.2%).

Gastrointestinal and skin-related adverse events were more common with pirfenidone group than placebo, but these rarely led to treatment discontinuation and none were grade 4, as the researchers noted.

Grade 3 GI events occurred in 5.4% versus 1.4% of patients; while grade 3 skin-related events occurred in 1.8% versus 0.4%.

Clinically significant elevations in aminotransferase levels occurred more with pirfenidone but King's group noted these were still in "less than 3% of patients, were reversible, and did not have clinically significant consequences."

That ASCEND succeeded where the CAPACITY 006 pivotal trial failed may have been because of the higher placebo response in CAPACITY, they noted.

"In our study, we modified certain aspects of the CAPACITY study design, including increasing the sample size and requiring central confirmation of the diagnosis," they explained. "We also modified selected eligibility criteria in order to enroll patients at higher risk for disease progression."

Still, there was general similarity in 1 year results compared with the pivotal trials studies without central diagnosis confirmation, which they said "militates against any limitation that this requirement might impose on the generalizability of our results."

The study population had mild-to-moderate physiological impairment, so it's not clear how well the results would generalize to patients with advanced disease, the group cautioned.

"Although these results are a major breakthrough for patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, we should be cautious in extrapolating these findings to patients who fall outside the recruitment criteria for these trials," Hunninghake added, in referencing the group of trials reported together here.

The trial was funded by InterMune.

King disclosed relationships with InterMune, Immune Works, Daiichi Sankyo, Boehringer Ingelheim, and the NIH.

Hunninghake disclosed no relevant relationships with industry.

This survey is a poll of those who choose to participate and are, therefore, not valid statistical samples, but rather a snapshot of what your colleagues are thinking.

MedPageToday, powered by Everyday Health Inc., is a trusted and reliable source for clinical and policy coverage that directly affects the lives and practices of health care professionals.

Physicians and other healthcare professionals may also receive Continuing Medical Education (CME) and Continuing Education (CE) credits at no cost for participating in MedPage Today-hosted educational activities.

© 2014 MedPage Today, LLC. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of the MedPageToday.com terms of use and privacy policy . The material on this site is for informational purposes only, and is not a substitute for medical advice, diagnosis or treatment provided by a qualified health care provider.
