
Participate in Share Chat.

LONDON (Alliance News) - Tungsten Corp PLC Monday said its e-invoicing network has been contracted to roll out a multi-year invoicing programme into every General Electric Co operation globally, with potential invoice volumes of over 16.0 million per year.

Tungsten provides services to customers with the aim of facilitating trade by streamlining invoice processing, improving cash-flow management, and helping to them to make better buying decisions from detailed spend data. Under the agreement, Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE also will take Tungsten's invoice status service.

Tungsten Network, the e-invoicing network, is compliant in 44 countries across Europe, the Americas and Asia Pacific. Tungsten Corp says the network can reduce invoice-processing costs by 60%.

"Tungsten Network is accelerating its expansion, with another new customer choosing us to offer electronic invoicing services globally - on a scale comparable with the entire volume of invoices being transacted over the network last year," Edmund Truell, chief executive, said in a statement.

Tungsten said results for the full-year to April 30 will be announced in July.

Tungsten shares were Monday quoted at 211.00, up 0.1%.

Copyright 2014 Alliance News Limited. All Rights Reserved.

Datafeed and UK data supplied by NBTrader and Digital Look.      While London South East do their best to maintain the high quality of the information displayed on this site,

we cannot be held responsible for any loss due to incorrect information found here. All information is provided free of charge, 'as-is', and you use it at your own risk.

The contents of all 'Chat' messages should not be construed as advice and represent the opinions of the authors, not those of London South East Limited, or its affiliates.

London South East does not authorise or approve this content, and reserves the right to remove items at its discretion.

This site requires cookies in order to give you the best user experience. By using this site, you are agreeing to the use of cookies.
