
Cannes: Mel Gibson praises Bulgaria in spectacular press conference with Stallone and Co.

There was little improvement inside Cannes' Carlton Hotel as hundreds of journalists squeezed into its ornately pillared ballroom for a raucous press conference. Sylvester Stallone took the mayhem in his stride with practised aplomb, though other members of The Expendables 3 cast looked as if they had been caught in the eye of a hurricane. Arnold Schwarzenegger, Mel Gibson and Harrison Ford completed the quartet of Hollywood stalwarts, with Spain's Antonio Banderas, Sweden's Dolph Lundgren and Britain's Jason Statham fleshing out the film's middle-aged contingent. The atmosphere was one of back-slapping camaraderie, with Gibson describing the Bulgaria shoot as "a blast" and Ford calling his co-stars "a great bunch of guys to work with", BBC reports.

"I'm a big fan of action movies," said Terminator star  Schwarzenegger, who shot his contribution to the first Expendables film  in 2009 while still serving as Governor of California.

"They are always a great way of entertaining people," the 66-year-old went on. "They have a universal language."

According to Twilight actor Kellan Lutz, one of the younger members  of the cast, being on set was like "winning an action sweepstakes -  running around shooting guns with all my favourite heroes."

"All these guys have worked on so many films," said Patrick  Hughes, the sequel's Australian director. "To have that wisdom on set  was like [being in] film school all over again."

Jokes were freely exchanged between the actors, with Stallone  and Schwarzenegger swapping jibes about their less successful, more  comedic ventures.

Inevitably, though, talk soon turned to how long the  mercenary-based series can continue in the light of the various injuries  sustained and mishaps endured during filming.

One of them - an accident that saw a truck plunge into a dock  with Statham at the wheel - featured in a montage of behind-the-scenes  footage shown before to journalists before Sunday's press conference.

Statham swam away unscathed on that occasion, unlike the stuntman who  died in a boat explosion during the making of The Expendables 2 in  2011.

"Everyone gets hurt," sighed Stallone. "There's no getting around it. Everyone goes home bruised.

"You try to take precautions, but when you do hands-on action  that's what you take pride in - actually talking the bumps and  bruises."

"You do get hurt and things do go wrong," nodded Statham,  also known for his recurring role in the Transporter series. "It's par  for the course.

"We have a battery of physicians who come in like elves and  fix us every night," joked Lethal Weapon star Gibson, who takes the role  of the villain in the latest Expendables instalment.

Ford's involvement in the franchise coincides with his return to the  resurgent Star Wars series, which began shooting in the UK this week.

"I'm just delighted to be involved," he said of JJ Abrams' as yet untitled sequel. "We have a great script and a wonderful cast.

"JJ is a director at the top of his game and I'm looking forward to it," the actor continued.

The 71-year-old would not be drawn, however, on whether his  Han Solo character would return in future Star Wars movies, feigning  deafness when pressed by this British reporter.

For his part, Stallone expressed delight to see Ford become  one of what he described as a group of "very adult children... with  arthritis".

"We go back a long time," he said of the Indiana Jones and  Blade Runner star. "I think Lincoln was in the White House when we first  met."

"We want to reach as much people as possible," said Stallone.  "We owe it to the next generation for them to be able to enjoy the  film, without having to sneak into the theatre."

The Expendables 3 is released in the UK on 14 August, while the Cannes Film Festival continues until 25 May.
