
A Welsh couple have been turfed out of their first choice wedding venue by the President of the United States.

Christie Connolly and Sam Holland had the shock of their lives when they received a letter informing them that their wedding day would have to move venues due to the presence of Barack Obama and other world leaders in the Welsh capital for the NATO Summit .

Now the couple are making the most of the unexpected move – by inviting the President along to their big day.

“I’m not expecting him to turn up but just to get an email back would be quite cool,” said Christie.

The Cardiff couple had their wedding booked for September at the capital’s City Hall but have since received a letter from the Superintendent Registrar informing the pair that it will have to be moved to the city’s Mansion House – the official residence of Cardiff’s Lord Mayor – because of the NATO Summit being held in Newport.

Christie, 25, who has been with her fiance Sam, 28, for seven years, said: “I phoned the registrar as we needed to make an appointment to go back in and see them, we got chatting and I said I knew the NATO conference was on and we knew Barack Obama was going to be in South Wales that weekend, because we couldn’t book hotel rooms for our wedding guests on the same night."

She said they were "amazed" when they were told their wedding venue would be swapped to the city's Mansion House because of the Nato Summit.

The NATO summit is being organised by the UK Government on behalf of NATO and First Minister Carwyn Jones this week hinted that the Welsh Government would be looking to host an event during the summit: “It is being organised by the UK government so we have to organise ourselves around their own arrangements” he said.

For Christie, who works as a demand planner for Allied Bakeries, and her fiance Sam, who handles press and marketing for The Moon Club and Full Moon Bar in Cardiff, the change of venue has worked out well as their original choice of venue was actually The Mansion House.

“It’s a bit of a blessing in disguise if not a little bit strange,” laughs Christie. “When I read the first paragraph of the letter I nearly fainted as I thought ‘oh god we haven’t got the money to make new plans, it’s a little bit late as we’ve already booked stuff’ and then I read the rest of it and thought okay I remember the Mansion House and it was really pretty.

“Our main concern was can we still get all the people there, as we’ve already told them where and when the wedding will be. We’re going to have to reprint invitations and things like that. It was a little bit hectic at first. However the registrar was great and really, helpful.

“We originally planned to get married on May 25,” she adds. “Then we looked at finances and things were tight so we said we’ll have to move it to make sure things don’t go wrong.

The couple said they are more than happy to accommodate the extra special guest on their wedding.

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

Join us on social media.

For the latest local news straight to your Twitter, Facebook feed, e-mail inbox or tablet .

WalesOnline.co.uk conforms to the newspaper industry's voluntary Code of Practice, administered by the Press Complaints Commission.

If you feel we have made an error in a report, or have fallen below our usual high standards, please write in the first instance to: Ceri Gould, Online Editor, WalesOnline.co.uk, Media Wales, Six Park Street, Cardiff CF10 1XR. Tel: 029 2024 3672.

We reach over 1,384,563* unique users a month with dedicated coverage of all things Welsh.

WalesOnline is part of Media Wales, publisher of the Western Mail, South Wales Echo, Wales on Sunday and the seven Celtic weekly titles, offering you unique access to our audience across Wales online and in print.

Ceri has been editor of WalesOnline since April 2012. She was previously executive editor of Media Wales and deputy editor of the Western Mail. She started her career on the Glamorgan Gazette.
