
Trades councils in Wales are committed to the WTUC annual conference and last year, 50 per cent of the motions admitted to the agenda were submitted by trades councils.

This year’s coming together of trade unions in Llandudno sees the Wales TUC putting forward rule changes which, if passed, will not only cast aside the annual conference and move to a biennial one but also intend to attack the representation and democracy of the trades councils on the WTUC general council (GC) by reducing the eight seats they currently have to two.

To enable this to happen, the larger unions will forfeit some 50 per cent of their existing seats while trades councils will be forced to lose 75 per cent of theirs.

As a result of this change, I would be surprised if the total number of votes cast by all the trades councils at a WTUC conference would be any more than around 130.

As all trade unions attending conference are still entitled to use their complete membership numbers in Wales in their bloc vote, it is highly unlikely that if trades councils were to pool all their votes together, they would match the numbers cast by even the smallest union in Wales.

With the reduction in the number of trade union branches and union mergers, these cuts put a financial strain on trades council finances, but they fight on, determined that their voices be heard.

Trades councils in Wales continue to play a vital role. Local trades councils can make an invaluable contribution by uniting trade unionists, organising solidarity and by instigating campaigning initiatives within the local communities to fight the cuts we all now face.

Trades councils have historically forged mutually beneficial links with local communities and other progressive organisations, although their effectiveness in Wales is conditional upon trade union branches playing an active part in strengthening and rebuilding them and in fighting austerity in Wales.

The Welsh government itself has highlighted the fact almost £930 million is lost to the Wales economy due to welfare reform. It argues the figure is equivalent to every working-age adult in Wales having £500 less to spend each year.

If that were to happen not only would the WTUC conference suffer, there is a likelihood that the attacks on trades councils would continue and eventually they would lose both their general council seats and any conference/talking shop they may be given.

Ramon Corria is secretary of the Cardiff Trades Union Council.

We're a reader-owned co-operative, which means you can become part of the paper too by buying shares in the People’s Press Printing Society.

Have the Morning Star at your fingertips, wherever you are.

We're a reader-owned co-operative, which means you can become part of the paper too by buying shares in the People’s Press Printing Society.
