
With its boarded-up windows and faded whitewash walls, walkers could be forgiven for ignoring this decaying concrete building tucked away in the Welsh hills.

But Criggion station, not far from Welshpool, Powys, was once the heartbeat of Britain's naval communications and played a vital role in many key military decisions.

The centre was built during the Second World War amid fears the Germans could bomb the UK's main communications post at Rugby, Warwickshire.

While Criggion was still being tested, a fire knocked out the centre at Rugby, making the Welsh station Britain's foremost naval communications post, sending out orders to our huge fleet of submarines and battleships.

The station was used in ordering the sinking of German battleship Scharnhorst in 1943, seen as huge psychological blow for the German high command and the nation as a whole.

As the centre of communications with missile-launching submarines, it was feared the site would be one of the first Russian targets in the event of nuclear war and it soon saw protests by nuclear disarmament campaigners and activists.

The centre  remained key to Britain's naval communication right up until the end of  the 1990s, but its three 700ft-high radio masts and three 600ft-high  towers were demolished in 2003.

Eerie new pictures of the abandoned building have emerged ahead of plans to turn it into a war museum.

Local councillor Graham Brown, who is leading a campaign to revamp the decaying centre, said: 'You would not believe what went on in these buildings that were linked up to Hawaii and Colorado in the USA.

'It is believed Margaret Thatcher’s direct order to sink the Argentine ship the General Belgrano during the Falklands War was transmitted through Criggion.

'The buildings have been left to decay over the past decade but we want to turn them into a museum exhibition which could have both historical and educational value.'

The area's naval traditions go back to the building of 'Rodney's Pillar' on Breidden, a mound created by underground volcanic activity.

The 1782 monument which tops the hill is dedicated to naval hero Vice-Admiral Sir George Bryden Rodney, to commemorate the defeat of a French fleet in the West Indies.

Four bidders are believed to have come forward to Criggion's current owners Telereal Trillium and the potential sale is expected to be completed by the end of June.

The comments below have not been moderated.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
