
A dramatic spike in lawlessness in Libya's two largest cities has edged the country closer to civil war between heavily-armed rival militias, stirring concern abroad and on oil markets.

Gunmen stormed parliament in southern Tripoli on Sunday, hot on the heels of an anti-Islamist offensive launched by a rogue general in the eastern city of Benghazi.

With interim authorities failing to build a regular army and police force, militias have ruled the roost since their fighters ousted longtime dictator Moamer Kadhafi in a 2011 revolution.

After the attack on parliament, a colonel claiming to speak on behalf of the army declared that the General National Congress (GNC) had been suspended.

Authorities did not comment but issued instead a call for national dialogue.

Justice Minister Salah al-Marghani said two people were killed and 55 wounded in clashes between rival militia groups in southern Tripoli.

But he said the violence had "no real link" to the offensive launched by ex-general Khalifa Haftar in Benghazi.

Witnesses said the Tripoli assailants were members of the powerful Zintan brigades who have attacked the GNC in the past.

MPs were evacuated from the building as heavy gunfire erupted after a convoy of armoured vehicles headed to the GNC.

The Zintan brigades, ex-rebels who fought Kadhafi, control areas in southern Tripoli around the airport.

Gunmen set fire to an annex of the parliament building and several cars parked nearby were damaged in the attack, before the gunmen withdrew towards the airport.

Militias have launched several attacks on the GNC, including on March 2 when two lawmakers were shot and wounded.

The Tripoli violence came two days after fierce fighting killed 79 people in Benghazi, where Haftar unleashed his so-called National Army on Islamist militiamen, backed by warplanes.

Also on Sunday, armed Islamists attacked Benina air base in Benghazi but no one was hurt, base commander Colonel Saad al-Werfalli said.

Accused by Tripoli of staging a coup, Haftar has said he is readying a new assault on Islamists in Benghazi, vowing to eradicate "terrorism".

"Each battle is followed by a regrouping of units. And we will return in force," he said.

Haftar, who led ground forces in the 2011 revolution, said: "Our operation is not a coup and we do not plan to seize power."

Sharing the Zintan militias' hostility toward the interim parliament, Haftar has said he does not recognise the GNC whose "mandate has already expired and who are rejected by the people".

The interim parliament, in which Islamists are strongly represented, sparked outrage earlier this year when it extended its mandate from February until December.

Subsequent protests compelled it to promise early elections and a new electoral law.

The army says Haftar is backed by tribes, army defectors and former rebels who oppose Libya's interim authorities.

Haftar's forces on Friday mainly targeted Ansar al-Sharia, an organisation designated by the United States as a terrorist group.

In the face of growing anarchy in Tripoli, Saudi Arabia on Monday shut down its embassy and evacuated its diplomatic staff on a special flight.

And two Tunisian carriers, Tunisair and Syphax Airlines, suspended all flights to and from Libya.

The European Union, meanwhile, said it was "deeply concerned" by the violence in Libya.

"The EU renews its commitment to support the Libyan people... and calls on all parties to build consensus so as to ensure a transition to a stable democracy," said foreign affairs head Catherine Ashton's spokesman.

With the violence sounding alarm bells abroad, oil prices advanced Monday due to concerns over potential supply disruptions from oil-rich Libya, analysts said.

The US benchmark, West Texas Intermediate (WTI) for delivery in June, rose 71 cents to $102.73 a barrel.

West Texas Intermediate (WTI), the US benchmark, for delivery in June rose 71 cents to $102.73 a barrel.

Brent North Sea crude for delivery in July climbed 41 cents to stand at $110.16 a barrel in London midday deals.

We will not publish comments which contain rude or abusive language, libelous statements,                                             slander and personal attacks against any person/s.

We will not publish comments which contain racist remarks or any kind of racial                                             or religious incitement against any group of people, in Egypt or outside it.

We welcome criticism of our reports and articles but we will not publish personal                                             attacks, slander or fabrications directed against our reporters and contributing                                             writers.

We reserve the right to correct, when at all possible, obvious errors in spelling                                             and grammar. However, due to time and staffing constraints such corrections will                                             not be made across the board or on a regular basis.
