
We use cookies, internal and external, to improve your experience by offering content related to your preferences. By continuing to browse you are agreeing to our cookies policy .

Mixed day in Europe as Germany and France rally while Italian shares fell hard.   UK FTSE -0.2%  French CAC +0.3%  German DAX +0.3%  Spain IBEX -0.5%  Italy MIB -1.6%  Italian shares were down as much as 3.5% in early trading as concerns about banks mount.

The opinions and analysis offered on Forexlive are for educational purposes only and clients and prospects are advised to carefully consider the opinions and recommendations offered by the analysts and to use the analysis and opinions in conjunction with the client and/or prospects own independent analysis.

FXStreet and ForexStreet among the best Forex content Sites and Blogs to Follow in 2014.

Note: All information on this page is subject to change. The use of this website constitutes acceptance of our user agreement . Please read our privacy policy and legal disclaimer .

Trading foreign exchange on margin carries a high level of risk and may not be suitable for all investors. The high degree of leverage can work against you as well as for you. Before deciding to trade foreign exchange you should carefully consider your investment objectives, level of experience and risk appetite. The possibility exists that you could sustain a loss of some or all of your initial investment and therefore you should not invest money that you cannot afford to lose. You should be aware of all the risks associated with foreign exchange trading and seek advice from an independent financial advisor if you have any doubts.

Opinions expressed at FXStreet are those of the individual authors and do not necessarily represent the opinion of FXStreet or its management. FXStreet has not verified the accuracy or basis-in-fact of any claim or statement made by any independent author: errors and Omissions may occur.Any opinions, news, research, analyses, prices or other information contained on this website, by FXStreet, its employees, partners or contributors, is provided as general market commentary and does not constitute investment advice. FXStreet will not accept liability for any loss or damage, including without limitation to, any loss of profit, which may arise directly or indirectly from use of or reliance on such information.

©2014 "FXStreet. The Forex Market" All Rights Reserved.
