
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

BIRMINGHAM, Alabama - The 51-year-old driver of a MAX DART bus that killed a special needs student on Birmingham's Southside in March will not face any criminal charges in the crash.

"We have determined that this was a tragic accident, and there is no criminal intent involved in the case that would warrant a criminal charge,'' Jefferson County District Attorney Brandon Falls told AL.com.

Pouneh Bahri, 25, died March 4 on 20th Street South. A student at Horizons School, she had just finished a cooking class where she had helped to make soup. She and a group of friends were walking back to their school-owned apartment complex two blocks away when she was struck by the DART bus in an intersection and dragged to her death.

Birmingham police said the driver, Alex James Mixon, was at fault because he failed to yield the right of way to the Bahri, who was in the crosswalk. The driver was traveling eastbound on 14th Avenue when he turned left onto 20th Street. Police said he wasn't under the influence of alcohol or drugs, and was not using his cell phone at the time of the crash.

The driver is still employed by the transit system. MAX officials released this statement: "We will continue our prayers for the Bahri family in regards to their loss of Pouneh. We are pleased with the Jefferson County District Attorney's decision but still sad about the occurrence. MAX will continue with the goal of providing safe and reliable transportation to the Birmingham-Jefferson County community."

At age 3, Bahri underwent radical brain surgery to remove the right hemisphere of her brain to treat seizures. She suffered from a rate condition known as Rasmussen's Encephalitis, which is a progressive neurological disorder that results in sever seizures, loss of motor skills and speech, paralysis, inflammation of the brain and mental deterioration.

She was one of 41 students the school for special needs, ages 18 to 26. The school teaches independent living.

She would have graduated from Horizons School on Friday, May 16. Instead, her parents and brother held a memorial near where she was killed. They released balloons and 25 white doves in her memory.

The family's attorney, Mike Kendrick, declined to comment Monday on the ruling by Falls. Bahri's parents have indicated they will file a civil lawsuit in the case, but haven't done so yet. In March, the family asked a court to order the driver and the Birmingham Jefferson County Transit Authority to turn over certain documents. The family also requested Mixon to answers certain questions in a video-taped deposition.

Updated at 5:26 p.m. to include a statement from MAX.

© 2014 Alabama Media Group All rights reserved ( About Us ).

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
