
Lew Ladwig knows World War II. He knows how soldiers ate, how they slept, the gear they carried. He knows the weight of an M1 Garand rifle and an infantryman's haversack.

A founding member of the Colorado Military Historical Group, as well as founder of Crew 42, a Boy Scouts Venturing program devoted to the history of World War II, Ladwig can share small details about the the perils and practicalities of fighting. From the wool blankets soldiers slept on on the cold ground in Ardennes (when temperatures dipped to minus 10) to what a WWII-era jeep could or couldn't do, Ladwig has an encyclopedic knowledge of the war.

He had five uncles who fought in World War II and his dad was a Boy Scout troop leader during the war. He grew up in a home where the bookshelf was full of books about WWII and played Army with WWII-era gear purchased at surplus stores.

"I wore out pieces of World War II equipment that would be now be worth a lot of money," he said with a smile.

Ladwig has gone from playing Army to immersing himself in it as a member of CMHG. The group, whose motto is "honor and educate," does reenactments (called skirmishes and tacticals) using the same gear and supplies used in WWII battles. The only difference, Ladwig said, is there is no fear of death.

"It's great fun," Ladwig said. "But we also want to kind of immerse ourselves to get one-tenth of 1 percent of what these guys went through."

That respect for what soldiers faced harkens back to the "honor" half of the CMHG motto. The remaining half, "educate," will be on full display May 26 at Broomfield County Commons. Ladwig and his Crew 42 will be at the Broomfield Veterans Memorial Museum's Memorial Day picnic, along with an assortment of World War II memorabilia, including a 1944 Studebaker Weasel owned by the Military Vehicle Collectors of Colorado.

The Weasel, which Ladwig said is "as rare as hen's teeth," is a tracked vehicle built to traverse snow and difficult ground. It also was amphibious. And, Ladwig said, it made one of the most welcome sounds heard by fighters on the ground in the European Theater.

The Broomfield Veterans Memorial Museum  will hold a showing of "Climb to Glory: The Legacy of the 10th Mountain Ski Troopers" by Warren Miller at 7 p.m.  June 19 at the Broomfield Auditorium. The event and film screening also will feature  10th Mountain Division and other memorabilia and is a celebration and recognition of all veterans.

The bogeys inside the Weasel's tracks would pick up pea gravel, and when the tracks were moving, the gravel made a distinctive noise. That noise, Ladwig said, meant food, water and ammunition were on the way, as was med-evac for the wounded.

The display at the Commons also will feature three or four military jeeps, including one owned by museum board member Ray Fernandez. His jeep is a labor of love. He originally bought it as a vehicle to take camping, but as he was restoring the military jeep, he found a box in the garage. The box contained the campaign ribbons and other items from his father, Rafael Fernandez Sr., and his service in World War II with the 535th Anti-Aircraft Artillery Automatic Weapons Battalion. Fernandez, who found the box 20 years after his father died, knew then the jeep wouldn't be for camping.

Instead he painstakingly restored it, paying tribute to his father's unit while doing so.

While restoring the jeep, Fernandez joined the Military Vehicle Collectors of California. When he moved to Colorado, he joined the MVCC here.

Both Ladwig and Fernandez said authenticity is key, whether restoring a vehicle or speaking at an event.

"There are a lot of reenactment groups, but some are just into playing Army," Ladwig said. "Our goal is to be as historically correct as possible."

That accuracy is a matter of respect, Fernandez said. Ladwig added it also evokes unexpected emotional moments. He recalled a time when a WWII vet approached him at an event. The veteran told Ladwig of the only time he sat in jeep such as the one Ladwig had on display -- on Omaha Beach, to take a brief rest, not to ride -- then poured out stories from his time in boot camp to his homecoming. Stories, Ladwig said, "he never even told his wife. He was so happy to get of his chest."

Fernandez added such occurrences aren't uncommon. "It happens all the time. It's not just a guy telling you the story, it's a guy reliving it. It gives you chills."

Just as the Greatest Generation takes something away from the historic displays, so, too, can Millennials. Ladwig told a story about a teen approaching him, looking over the M1 Garand and saying "I shoot that on Xbox." So Ladwig loaded him up with the rifle and a haversack and asked him how he would like to lug that 18 to 19 hours a day, running on little sleep, and then handed him a K-ration, adding that's all he had to eat three meals a day. It was a teaching moment to say the least.

Such teaching moments also are at the heart of the vets museum's picnic, which also will feature remarks by Mayor Randy Ahrens and music by the Broomfield Civic Chorus and the 101st Army National Guard Jazz Band.

"A lot of people take Memorial Day as an excuse to go out and party and have fun and don't grasp what it's all about," Fernandez said. "We drive the point home that it's Memorial Day."
