
I am not much of a thrill-seeker, but I couldn’t turn down an opportunity to take my first helicopter ride.

Tennessee Valley Authority officials invited members of the media on Tuesday to its office on Trotwood Avenue in Columbia to discuss its vegetation maintenance program that will be newly enacted in Maury and Williamson counties.

TVA uses helicopters to survey its right-of-way areas that need clearing, and I was gearing up to take my first flight and see examples of what the agency deals with daily.

Right after the meeting, I could feel my nerves starting to work their magic — sweaty palms and a feeling of general uneasiness ensued. We approached the helicopter where the pilot delivered a safety briefing — instructing us to stay clear of the rear rotor because we could get chopped up.

“Great, you are not helping the situation here buddy,” I thought.

But once I heard the pilot’s name, some of my nerves were calmed. Randy Love, a 17-year helicopter veteran, would be taking me on my maiden voyage.

Another TVA employee, whose name I can’t recall because I was still somewhat rattled, reached into his pocket and pulled out an Altoids tin filled with ginger-flavored mints. Surely my breath was not that bad. I was already chewing gum in an effort to stave off any anxious feelings.

I discovered the mints were kept handy for those who have never ridden in a helicopter. Ginger is good for nausea.

“This day is just getting better and better,” I thought.

I quickly grabbed two.

We piled into the small capsule, put on on our headsets and the chopper blades began to spin. I was eating the mints as I felt us leave the ground. Riding in a helicopter could be comparable to being on a roller coaster, but this had a much better view.

I quickly got used to the feeling after getting to our cruising altitude. The anxiety was gone. A permanent grin was painted on my face.

“I got this. This is easy,” I thought.

Everything was going fine, until about 15 minutes into the ride. The pilot said he was going to perform a yaw maneuver so that I could get a good picture of the power lines. A yaw happens when the pilot turns the aircraft to one side. In this case, making us perpendicular to the lines.

That move didn’t sit very well with me as a little bout of motion sickness set in. Luckily, the mints were within arms reach.

I took two more.

The remainder of the flight went without a hitch. We flew over Maury and Williamson counties on about a 30-minute trip. Getting over the nausea allowed me to enjoy the ride and the beautiful Tennessee landscape.

As the journey was coming to an end, I saw Maury County Park out the window, which looks much different from 1,000 feet in the air. Its long, winding roads now appeared like little gray ant trails.

We descended onto the landing pad, and Love’s words about being chopped up by the tail rotor echoed in my head. I quickly exited to the front, as instructed.

I was reunited with terra firma once again and signaled my elation with a thumbs up to Pilot Love, who returned the gesture. And with that, he was off into the wild blue yonder.

Somehow, I wanted to be back in the flying machine.

I now know why the caged bird longs to fly free.

Comments posted below are from readers. In no way do they represent the view of Stephens Media LLC or this newspaper. This is a public forum.

Comments may be monitored for inappropriate content but the newspaper is under no obligation to do so.  Comment posters are solely responsible under the Communications Decency Act for comments posted on this Web site. Stephens Media LLC is not liable for messages from third parties.

Obscene, explicit, or racist language.

Copyrighted materials of any sort without the express permission of the copyright holder.

Personal attacks, insults or threats.

The use of another person's real name to disguise your identity.

Comments unrelated to the story.
