
The  most recent  Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change reports have got  lots of media coverage , and a team of researchers from Exeter University has been studying it. Presenting their results lead author Dr Saffron O'Neill said that of the main UK television channels, the BBC was most likely to present climate science as contested. ITV did in part, while Channel 4 stuck to reflecting the weight of scientific opinion on climate change, she said.

The findings are part of a research project identifying how different communications models or frames dominated print and broadcast media coverage of the new IPCC report.

The research also discovered less used frames, like morality and ethics, security, and disaster. O'Neill suggests that the way the media talk about climate science helps set which policy options become acceptable and which are marginalised, shaping how the public and policymakers imagine and act on climate change.

The researchers drilled down to discover the groups and individuals tweeting about the report in different countries and across different communities, mapping their interactions. It divides the tweets into three classifications: supportive of the IPCC, unsupportive and neutral. Most tweets were supportive: around half. A quarter each were either unsupportive or neutral.

"Twitter users were manually coded according to the content of their tweets and Twitter biography within the population of tweets analyzed. Each node represents a Twitter user. Size of nodes is correlated with that user's number of conversational connections. Climate change unsupportives, purple; climate change supportive, red; climate change neutral, green; did not tweet, light blue."

Australian tweeters are located in the top right, and deserve a mention of their own. Despite its smaller population, Australian tweeters managed to tweet more than even the United States. Pearce suggests this is because climate change is so politicised in Australia.

"There is a small, active, community of UK tweeters who have a rich, but robust conversation about climate change despite having a very wide range of views. These are not just people who are shouting loudly without anyone listening, but participants in interesting, and often enlightening, conversations about climate science and policy."

The majority of studies investigating trends in media coverage focus on the written word in the mainstream press. So pushing new boundaries doesn't just mean adding so-called new media like Twitter and the blogging community into the mix. It also involves gaining a greater understanding of climate discourse on television, a medium you'd be hard-pushed to describe as new.

 At the same time, charting the progression of the climate story in the print media is vital for communication researchers. As the field of climate change communication research gets more complex, so too does it capture more of the conversation.
