
Pakistan on Monday said it was looking forward to a visit by Narendra Modi as Indian Prime Minister and hoped that the two countries would resolve “differences and disputes” through an early dialogue.

“We are ready to host Narendra Modi when he decides to visit Pakistan. Our Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif has already extended an invitation to him,” Pakistan’s High Commissioner to India Abdul Basit said in an interaction with members of Pres Club of India here.

Basit said people in both the countries longed for peace and prosperity and it was, therefore, mutually incumbent to spare no effort towards resolving all the “bilateral differences and disputes”.

He said Pakistan leadership was committed to a result- oriented dialogue process and hoped that comprehensive bilateral engagement would resume sooner than later.

“Now the two democratic countries have to decide whether we will bury the hatchet or will continue to be at daggers drawn indefinitely. The two countries and the people cannot afford to move in wrong direction and to be on the wrong side of the history,” he said.

Basit said the new Government in Pakistan strongly realises that for pursuing the national and regional potential, peace is essential.

“In the vision of our foreign policy, it is the top-most priority. Peace is in our mutual interest and peace can be achieved only through peaceful process, that is through dialogue process. In the past, we have seen pre-conditions did not work, nor they can work in the future,” he said.

“We have to leave the use of acrimony and hostility. We have to engage with each other. We have to talk to each other and talk to each other comprehensively, meaningfully and for our mutual interests and reciprocity,” he said.

Basit said Pakistan and India have to look for peace rather than create an atmosphere where there is no engagement and Islamabad is willing to engage in dialogue and go out for development agenda and can go beyond narrative.

He also stressed that much had been achieved within the dialogue process and that it would be essential to build on the past work and take irreversible steps forward.

Please read our terms of use before posting comments.

TERMS OF USE: The views, opinions and comments posted are your, and are not endorsed by this website. You shall be solely responsible for the comment posted here. The website reserves the right to delete, reject, or otherwise remove any views, opinions and comments posted or part thereof. You shall ensure that the comment is not inflammatory, abusive, derogatory, defamatory &/or obscene, or contain pornographic matter and/or does not constitute hate mail, or violate privacy of any person (s) or breach confidentiality or otherwise is illegal, immoral or contrary to public policy. Nor should it contain anything infringing copyright &/or intellectual property rights of any person(s).

NaMo would know better but my 0.00002 cents would be – Look past this failed nation. We may be at the top of their foreign policy but we dont have to drag ourselves down to their level… the level of a dump that calls itself a nation! We must assert ourselves in a manner that the world no more will equate us with them. Yes, we have to “deal” with them, but don’t give them undue value which the congies have always given. There can be many ways to “deal” with them, get it over with quickly without much fanfare and move on to better things. There are many challenges in front of NaMo and these people are not worth much of his time, so don’t waste too much on them.
