
Debbie Egan-Chin/New York Daily News Many small businesses put a lot of time and effort into their social channels but do so with no established direction.

The Money Pros are standing by to take your questions.

Q. I already promote my business on social media, but I'm having a hard time seeing results.

A. I see many small businesses put a lot of time and effort into their social channels but do so with no established direction.

You need to have a solid social media strategy that details your short and long-term goals and what recurring tasks you will perform to achieve them.

You must niche to get rich.

Every day you should talk to the same customer. If your target customer is a single mother, 30+ who has children under 10, your content should speak to her about her issues and then speak to her about solutions.

Some suggestions on tactics to help grow your audience include offering coupons/deals, contests, polls, opportunities for your audience to feature their work, etc.

On Twitter, another good way to increase your audience is to conduct or join a Twitter chat.

The amount of time you interact with your audience determines your level of engagement.

This can be tracked weekly and includes the number of likes, shares, and comments on Facebook and the number of retweets, mentions, and direct messages on Twitter.

The key to success lies in establishing and committing to a structure and routine.

Set goals for increasing or maintaining your online engagement.

Decide what kind of content you can develop consistently. If you are not a writer, consider producing how-to videos, photos or podcast interviews.

To create quality content, take a look at your target audience's pain points. Develop a list of content topics that will add value and solve a problem for your customer.

In reference to your second question, better time management skills will definitely help you see the worth of your efforts.

When managing your social media accounts, use a management tool that allows you to schedule your messages in advance. This will help you build an editorial calendar and create more targeted messaging.

My three favorite tools include Hootsuite (which offers a free version), Sprout Social and Spredfast.

Not only can the use of these tools dramatically cut down on the time spent developing messaging, but they also help track how your social channels are performing against your established goals.

Consider using a virtual assistant that can take over your daily social media marketing.

Overall, social media is a great asset and necessity for all small business owners.

The key to success, however, lies in establishing and committing to a structure and routine. Once this is done, you will see the time spent managing your social media accounts will greatly diminish.

© Copyright 2014 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.
