
'Armed' robber was shot dead by his workmate: Slain bandit who tried to steal money from Queensland pub was a disgruntled former security guard with 'inside knowledge'

A man armed with a fake gun was shot dead by a former colleague after he tried to rob the security firm he was laid off from using inside knowledge.

Shameem Rahman, a 46-year-old married father of five from Upper Coomera on the Gold Coast, jumped the armed guard after he exited his van about 7.40am on Monday morning to make a cash delivery to the Highland Park Tavern.

The two men wrestled to the ground and during the scuffle three shots were fired by the security guard leaving the assailant dead.

Rahman worked at Border Security but was laid off earlier this year and it is believed he was trying to use his knowledge of the firm's security procedures to rob the guard, 47, as he delivered the pub's daily float, The Courier-Mail reported.

It was only after police removed the helmet that the guard found out he had killed a former colleague.

The security guard's lawyer Jason Jacobson said the man was emotionally and physically injured.

'He's still in a very bad way today,' Mr Jacobson told MailOnline on Tuesday.

'He's getting the appropriate support from medical professionals to deal with the trauma of what he dealt with yesterday.'

Mr Jacobson said the man was bashed to the head with the offender's gun and was involved in a violent struggle.

He added that his client was licensed to carry a gun and said he did not expect the man to be charged.

Rahman was unemployed and had not been charged with a criminal offence in over 15 years.

Police believe he was acting alone.

Border Security general manager Leanne Walsh said the company's wishes were with all persons involved and their families.

'We are able to report that whilst our guard was visibly upset and traumatised by yesterday’s incident, he has our full and unconditional support and is receiving counselling and assistance to get through this difficult time,' Ms Walsh said in a statement on Tuesday.

'Border Security continues to assist police with the investigation and as such, we are unable to comment any further on the incident.'

One witness said he heard 'three gun shots' and a 'couple of shouts' while he was walking nearby.

Streets were earlier shut down and the doors locked on a childcare centre with up to 30 children housed inside.

Neighbours who first raised the alarm said they saw a man run out of the tavern yelling 'Call the police' and then saw a security guard 'standing there pointing a gun at the bush'.

The comments below have been moderated in advance.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
