
We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. By continuing to browse our site, you are giving your consent for us to set cookies.

However, if you would like to, you can change your cookie settings at any time. Read our cookie policy .

Any views expressed in this article are those of the author and not of Thomson Reuters Foundation.

OSLO, Norway (May 19, 2014)  – As the world’s donors and governments gather in Olso, Norway today and tomorrow to discuss how best to respond to the conflict and looming food crisis in South Sudan, CARE International warns of a wave of sexual violence that is worsening as the emergency in the country deepens.

With the onset of the conflict, the situation has deteriorated dangerously: more women and even girls are engaging in transactional sex to gain access to food or water for their families; parents are encouraging their daughters to marry early in order to gain access to bride price, reduce the number of mouths to feed and as a means of protection for their girls in a conflict situation; and rape and sexual assault has become a weapon of war.

CARE, which is providing food, water and health care to some of those left homeless by the conflict in South Sudan and who have fled across the border to neighbouring Uganda, is calling for donors to help find a lasting political solution to the crisis and an end to the violence, and for immediate funding commitments from the international community to meet the immense humanitarian needs in South Sudan. US$1.27 billion is needed now to prevent the worst, but barely more than a third of that has been raised. If action is not taken now, the United Nations warns of a famine in parts of the country. Many states are already facing severe food shortages, with CARE staff reporting people near starvation.

While and end to the violence and funding to prevent a widespread food crisis is a priority, “The Girl Has No Rights” report urges donors to immediately address the issue of sexual violence. It calls for donors to fully fund the South Sudan Gender-based Violence sub-cluster’s response plan and increase investment in and support for more effective service delivery to prevent sexual violence and support survivors, including training health professionals, social workers, and educators and community to identify and respond to sexual violence survivors with medical assistance, psychological support, and or referral services, all of which are currently in short supply in South Sudan.

We welcome comments that advance the story through relevant opinion, anecdotes, links and data. If you see a comment that you believe is irrelevant or inappropriate, you can flag it to our editors by using the report abuse links. Views expressed in the comments do not represent those of the Thomson Reuters Foundation. For more information see our Acceptable Use Policy .
