
WHYY Senior Health Writer Taunya English tracks government policies and community efforts to overhaul the places where people live, work and play.

She's a contributor to The Pulse, WHYY's weekly radio show on health, science and innovation news.

Taunya created the series "Designs on Health" with support from the Dennis A. Hunt Fund for Health Journalism. It's a look at the ways zoning and neighborhood influence wellbeing.

Taunya is a member of "Health Care in the States," a journalism collaborative between National Public Radio and Kaiser Health News, which works to expand reporting on the implementation of the Affordable Care Act.

Taunya produced the series "In the Gap." Across 12 installments of news and conversation, WHYY partnered with WURD to explore the divide that separates African Americans from better health.

Taunya's radio work airs during Morning Edition, All Things Considered and NewsWorks Tonight. Her television stories appear on Delaware's newsmagazine, First.

Before joining WHYY, Taunya led statehouse news coverage for Public Radio Capitol News in Harrisburg, Pa. For three years, she worked as a freelance health reporter for Baltimore's National Public Radio affiliate, WYPR.

Taunya began her journalism career as a newspaper reporter in Northern California, then moved on to become a science writer in Washington, DC. She holds a master's degree from Northwestern University's Medill School of Journalism.

Talks seem to be stalled over the proposed mega-merger, which could impact thousand of workers in the Philadelphia region. AstraZeneca employs 2,600 workers in Delaware, according to the state's economic development office.

George Chressanthis, professor of health care management and marketing at Temple University's Fox School of Business, said he thinks the delicate dance between the pharmaceutical giants is over — for now.

"Pfizer has said that they are not going to do a hostile takeover without AZ-board approval," Chressanthis said.

AstraZeneca is a British company with its U.S. headquarters in Wilmington. Pfizer is based New York. It has a large facility in Collegeville, Pa.

Chressanthis said Pfizer has faced criticism that its merger talks are largely motivated by a desire to limit its U.S. tax burden.

"I think Pfizer doesn't want to ruffle these feathers any further, which could have implications down the road with other things that require good will from both the U.K. and U.S. political authorities," Chressanthis said.

AstraZeneca said 'no' Pfizer's latest — and supposedly final offer — of $119 billion. Pfizer said via press release it will not try to sidestep the AstraZeneca board and take its pitch directly to shareholders.

Many locals in the region may be relieved. State officials in Delaware have voiced concern that a Pfizer takeover would lead to deep job cuts at AstraZeneca's sites in the First State.

Alan Levin, Delaware's economic development director, is among those who've closely followed the merger talks.

Your browser is out-of-date!
