
You must be registered to comment and vote on comments.

The nasal strip worn by California Chrome is made by Flair, a company based in Delano and founded by equine veterinarians.

Officials of a Twin Cities company are breathing  easier Monday now that racing officials in New York state have cleared  California Chrome to wear a stamina-improving nasal strip as the horse  pursues racing immortality — the Triple Crown — next month in the  grueling Belmont Stakes.

The $10.50 nasal strip  worn by California Chrome is made by Flair, a company based in Delano  and founded by two equine veterinarians.

Flair’s  website notes that up until Monday its strips have been approved  throughout North America with the exception of thoroughbred racing in  New York, where tracks have a rule prohibiting any equipment not  specifically approved by stewards. The strip was not on the list.

On  Sunday, trainer Art Sherman had raised the possibility his horse  wouldn’t run in the Belmont if barred from using the strip. The next  day, Belmont Park stewards cleared the horse to use the strip he wore  while winning the shorter Kentucky Derby and Preakness races.

The strips  were invented in the late 1990s by Blach, of Monument, Colo., and fellow  equine veterinarian James R. Chiapetta, who lives in Delano and once  was a vet at Canterbury Park.

Bach said the  intense and short-lived debate over the strip has fueled “a global  discussion on all forms of media. … We are grateful for the [financial]  benefits of having that conversation” continue about the strip and the  company, which he said is growing and making sales around the globe.

Flair  began as part of Bloomington -based CNS Inc., long famous for bringing  jockeys and other humans — athletes or not — the Breathe Right nasal  strip. Some chronic snorers have also been silenced the strip.

The  vets said they came up with the idea after noticing that working horses  experienced collapsed nasal passages during exercise. Complicating  matters: Unlike humans, horses only breathe through their nostrils.

The  strips, which weigh less than an ounce and sit about 1 1/2 inches above  the nostrils, first hit the big-time competitive horse world during the  1999 Breeder’s Cup races. Several Kentucky Derby entrants wore them in  2000.

In 2012, I’ll Have Another wore the strip  while winning the Derby and Preakness, and his handlers were told he  couldn’t wear them in the Belmont. But the horse ended up scratching  because of a leg injury.

Staff writer Rachel Blount and the Associated Press contributed to this report.

You are now subscribed.
