
Newly-departed New York Times executive editor Jill Abramson, center, with former executive editor Bill Keller at right and Abramson’s replacement as executive editor, Dean Baquet at left.

As with any such upheaval, there’s a history behind it. Several weeks ago, I’m told, Abramson discovered that her pay and her pension benefits as both executive editor and, before that, as managing editor were considerably less than the pay and pension benefits of Bill Keller, the male editor whom she replaced in both jobs. “She confronted the top brass,” one close associate said, and this may have fed into the management’s narrative that she was “pushy,” a characterization that, for many, has an inescapably gendered aspect.

That scoop resulted from an agility with which the New Yorker isn’t often associated. Auletta tells the Erik Wemple Blog that he was as stunned as anyone else by the news of Abramson’s ouster. He quickly reached out to friends and associates of Abramson’s. “I went to them and it wasn’t easy,” says Auletta, noting that he had not even an “inkling” of what had been afoot in the executive recesses of the New York Times. Obstacles notwithstanding, he cranked out the pay story, which also featured other details on Abramson’s break from the paper’s brass.

Did the New York Times have a chance to rebut the allegations about pay? “No,” says New York Times spokeswoman Eileen Murphy. Though she’s quoted in what appears to be the first version of the story as saying that Abramson’s compensation was “directly comparable” to that of predecessor Bill Keller, Murphy insists she didn’t have access to the relevant information, on demand on a Wednesday evening.

That mistake Auletta owns, conceding that the person he’d initially identified as a subordinate of Abramson’s was in fact an equal. As to why this correction is labeled an “update,” Auletta says, “That’s a stylistic thing that they do,” he says, referring to the Web side of the New Yorker.

My, how a post by Ken Auletta on the New Yorker brings out the labor lawyer in our country. Overnight, everyone was talking about sexism, gender equity and all the rest. One outlet addressed the possibility that Abramson might just have a retaliation cause of action on her hands .

It is simply not true that Jill’s compensation was significantly less than her predecessors. Her pay is comparable to that of earlier executive editors. In fact, in 2013, her last full year in the role, her total compensation package was more than 10% higher than that of her predecessor, Bill Keller, in his last full year as Executive Editor, which was 2010. It was also higher than his total compensation in any previous year.

As executive editor, Abramson’s starting salary in 2011 was $475,000, compared to Keller’s salary that year, $559,000. Her salary was raised to $503,000, and—only after she protested—was raised again to $525,000. She learned that her salary as managing editor, $398,000, was less than that of the male managing editor for news operations, John Geddes. She also learned that her salary as Washington bureau chief, from 2000 to 2003, was a hundred thousand dollars less than that of her successor in that position, Phil Taubman.

Auletta won’t assign conclusive meaning to the newspaper’s characterization of relative compensation. He says he has asked for a breakdown of the total compensation package in percentages for salary, bonus and various incentives. Until all those are on the table for both Abramson and her predecessor, there’s no way of telling whether Abramson’s gripe had any merit. “They declined,” says Auletta about the response to his deep-dive request.

The Times’s Murphy lays the whole thing a bit closer to Auletta’s digital trail: “Ken’s original story is what started the narrative” of pay equity, she says. “We had to then correct the record more directly.” She says she has “given up reading” Auletta’s coverage, which has to be a rhetorical point.

In his coverage, Auletta mangled the fact about Abramson’s managing editor pay-equity situation, as well as another one about whether Phil Taubman preceded or succeeded Abramson as the Washington bureau chief (he succeeded her). Where were the vaunted New Yorker fact-checkers for those slip-ups? Auletta says that Web-only copy is indeed fact-checked at the New Yorker, “but not as extensively, obviously,” as print copy. “You get into problem of speed — there will be more mistakes because of that,” says Auletta.

Spurred on by an earlier story on Saturday by Politico’s Dylan Byers , Auletta yesterday zeroed in on the proximate cause for Abramson’s dismissal . Both reporters reached the same conclusion about another hazy matter central to the Abramson-Sulzberger alienation: That Abramson had kept Managing Editor Dean Baquet in the dark about her idea to place a co-managing editor alongside Baquet to handle the burgeoning digital portfolio at the Times. Specifically, sources in both stories say that Abramson didn’t fully apprise Baquet of the job description envisioned for the Guardian’s Janine Gibson, who was interviewing for the position — and that Abramson deceived Sulzberger when she told him that Baquet was fully looped in on the proceedings. The prevailing story is that Baquet didn’t know that Gibson was up for a job with authorities equivalent to his own until he had lunch with the candidate. He then complained to Sulzberger, and that was pretty much the end of things.

So, when pressed for general explanations for the sacking of the executive editor, the paper’s leadership speaks strongly. When pressed for specific explanations, it runs for the hills.

Erik Wemple writes the Erik Wemple blog, where he reports and opines on media organizations of all sorts.

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
