
“This  is a continuing initiative that takes a deliberate presence,” ADM Jonathan W. Greenert  told to an audience May 19 at the Center for Strategic and International  Studies. The Navy has a “presence mandate” to be “where it matters, when it matters” to further the nation’s interests.

Greenert,  who was departing later in the week to visit several nations in the Western  Pacific, pointed out that the current 289-ship U.S. Navy has 104 ships  deployed, approximately the same amount as 20 years ago when there were more  than 400 ships in the fleet. He said he expects the Navy will maintain a  58-ship presence in the Asia-Pacific region in 2015 and increase that to 67 by  2020. Of those figures, the number of ships forward-deployed on a  non-rotational basis will be 43 and 45, respectively.

Greenert  used the occasion to stress the importance of naval allies in the region — Japan,  South Korea, Australia, Thailand and the Philippines — noting that “Japan is  pretty much the key to stability in Northeast Asia.

“They  [Japan and South Korea] bring us a quantum capability,” he said, particularly  in ballistic missile defense and anti-submarine warfare.

Malaysia  is opening opportunities in wake of the Navy P-3 and P-8 maritime patrol aircraft  staging there to search for the missing Malaysian Airlines Flight MH370. Greenert  also is pressing for a stronger strategic partnership with India.

“[We  need] to get back to where we were in the mid-2000s,” he said, referring to the  Malabar exercises in the Indian Ocean.

He  said the U.S. and Indian navies need to improve communications and  interoperability.

Not  ignoring the elephant in the room, Greenert addressed engagement with China and  stressed the need to build a constructive relationship with China’s improving  navy, including with personnel exchanges and with ship-to-ship exercises.

“Talking  is good, exercising is better,” he said, noting that China will be one of 23  nations participating in this summer’s Rim of the Pacific exercise.

Greenert  said his relationship with the head of the People’s Liberation Army Navy (PLAN),  Adm. Wu Shengli, is such that on one occasion a PLAN ship intervened on behalf  of a U.S. Navy ship when it was being harassed by a Chinese coast guard ship.  Coast guards are not covered by a recently concluded revision of The Code for Unplanned Encounters at Sea,  which 21 member states ratified at the 14th Western Pacific Naval Symposium  held April 22 in Tsingtao, China.

Greenert  said the Navy sends its most modern platforms to the Western Pacific, most  recently the P-8A Poseidon. The service also is adding a fourth attack  submarine in Guam and, to Japan, two more destroyers capable of ballistic missile  defense. Four littoral combat ships will be staged to Singapore.
