
Law enforcement hopes to avoid future uncertainty.

Independent oversight is necessary for accountability in police departments.

MANCHESTER • The De Soto softball team picked up right where it left off while finishing third in Class 3 last season.

In case you missed it, Foreign Policy magazine last week publicized an unclassified U.S. Strategic Command document entitled: “CONOP 8888-11, Counter-Zombie Dominance."

The document was part of a 2011 exercise in creating military contingency plans — the contingency, in this case, being an attack by flesh-eating undead hordes.

"Zombies are horribly dangerous to human life and zombie infections have the potential to seriously undermine national security and economic activities that sustain our way of life," explains the document. "Therefore having a population that is not composed of zombies or at risk from their malign influence is vital to U.S. and Allied national interests."

No, they haven't lost their minds at the Pentagon. They aren't really expecting the dead to start rising and overrun us. But the document isn't a hoax, either.

"This plan was not actually designed as a joke," begins the 31-page document. It explains that "the hyperbole" of a "zombie survival plan" actually is "a very useful and effective training tool," in part because it avoids some potentially serious "political fallout" if the plan were instead arranged around hypothetical conflicts with actual countries.

To avoid that, says the document, "we elected to use a completely-impossible scenario that could never be mistaken as a real plan."

The state "purpose" here, for example, is to "establish and maintain a vigilant defensive condition aimed at protecting humankind from zombies," and "if necessary, conduct operations that will, if directed, eradicate zombie threats to human safety."

It also seeks to "aid civil authorities in maintaining law and order and maintaining basic services during an after a zombie attack."

The “deterrent options” are limited. “Zombies cannot be deterred,” states the document.

The document also addresses the “Law of Armed Conflict,” or LOAC, which is a branch of international law that requires military personnel to prevent human suffering as much as possible during battle.

“LOAC will not apply to zombies,” states the document.

The document mentions at several points that martial law will likely be necessary in the event of a large-scale zombie attack.

Copyright 2014 stltoday.com. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site consitutes agreement to it's user agreement & privacy policy.

Username & Password Required!
