
Encounter is on between security forces and LeT terrorists in Budgam district of Jammu & Kashmir.

Earlier, an Army jawan was killed and two others were injured when terrorists triggered an IED explosion targetting a patrol team along the LoC in Akhnoor area of Jammu district, a senior Army officlal said on May 19.

One jawan was killed and two others suffered injuries when a patrol party was targetted by terrorists with an Improvised Explosive Device along Jogwan forward belt in Akhnoor border area of Jammu district on Sunday, the Army official said.

The deceased has been identified as Sepoy Bhikale. The injured jawans — head constable Vinod Kumar and Lance Naik Amol Kumar — have been admitted to the military hospital, Northern Command for treatment.

The terrorists had planted an IED near a track and triggered the blast to target the troops, the official said, adding that the matter is being investigated. Pakistani troops later resorted to brief firing on the forward border belt in Nathu Tibba area, triggering panic among the villagers. The firing came to end last night, police officials said.

An attempt by three Pakistani terrorists to sneak into Indian territory was on Sunday foiled by the Army, which also defused an IEDs planted by the infiltrators near a forward post in Bhimbher Gali belt of Rajouri district.

Troops guarding the borderline fired on the infiltrating terrorists and they fled to Pakistan occupied Kashmir (PoK), a Defence spokesman said.

This was the third infiltration bid by Pakistan terrorists along LoC. On May 10, two terrorists were killed when Army troops foiled an infiltration bid along Line of Control (LoC) in Kalsia belt of Poonch district.

One jawan had suffered injuries in the firing. On May 3, troops foiled an infiltration bid along LoC in Sawjian belt of Poonch district.

Army officials said the ceasefire violations and firing by Pakistani troops were aimed at helping terrorists infiltrate into Jammu & Kashmir from the “launching pads” along LoC, where they are waiting to crossover.

There are also inputs that bids to engineer attacks by Pakistan’s Border Action Team (BAT) on Indian forward posts and patrolling parties are being planned from across the border, they said.

Please read our terms of use before posting comments.

TERMS OF USE: The views, opinions and comments posted are your, and are not endorsed by this website. You shall be solely responsible for the comment posted here. The website reserves the right to delete, reject, or otherwise remove any views, opinions and comments posted or part thereof. You shall ensure that the comment is not inflammatory, abusive, derogatory, defamatory &/or obscene, or contain pornographic matter and/or does not constitute hate mail, or violate privacy of any person (s) or breach confidentiality or otherwise is illegal, immoral or contrary to public policy. Nor should it contain anything infringing copyright &/or intellectual property rights of any person(s).
