
Sign up now for our News Alert emails and the latest breaking news plus new features.

PHUKET:  Three more arrests have been made of photo touts abusing slow lorises and iguanas with Patong police saying they aim to end the abuse of animals on Phuket's streets.

Suchai Jaleranbhu and Boonso Kentao, 34. Officers confiscated the animals and will pass them on to carers at a Phuket sanctuary.

''The fine is only 500 baht but for now it's the best we can do,'' said Lieutenant Colonel Suthichai Thianpho, Investigations Inspector at Kathu Police Station, which oversees Patong.

''We intend to continue to make arrests because tourists often complain about the mistreatment of these animals. Tourists are not impressed and this reflects badly on Phuket's reputation. These animals are best left in their natural state.''

Animal rights advocates are urging an increase in the maximum penalties so that repeat abusers are driven off the streets of Phuket for good.

The touts usually surprise tourists out for a stroll and insist on being paid 100 baht or 200 baht for the tourists to pose with the animals for a souvenir photograph.

Want an avatar for your comments? Register with Gravatar .

Do not enter anything in this text box otherwise your message will not be sent!

Well done, the more the merrier, the more they round up the better.

I just wish tourists would realise that these animals are not comfortable out of there environment, its so sad for them..

''We intend to continue to make arrests because tourists often complain about the mistreatment of these animals. Tourists are not impressed and this reflects badly on Phuket's reputation. These animals are best left in their natural state.''

Exactly right but it also reflects badly on Thailand. Arrest them everyday until they get the message.

''The fine is only 500 baht but for now it's the best we can do,''

Please press the authorities to increase the fine 10-fold. Surely it could be made a local bye-law? Make the punishment exceed the profit. Only way to stop it.

This is a surprise. I have not seen the loris or iguana touts on Bangla for some time. I had heard they had been finally eradicated. Guess not.

I do wish they would stop treating the iguana touts the same as the loris touts. The green iguana is a common, farmed, legal house pet considered a pest in some parts of the world. The loris is a a rare, endangered species. It's a primate same as us, 92% genetically identical to humans. They are capable of emotion and suffering. In order to capture a loris, their parents are killed by poachers, then the teeth and poison glands are torn from them with no anesthetic so they can be used as photo props with tourists. A rescued loris requires lifetime captive care as it can never survive in the wild after going through this process. If the police wanted to, they could charge the touts with violating environmental protection laws which carry a a much stiffer fine than 500B.
