
Posted: Monday, May 19, 2014 12:37 a.m.

SALISBURY — The Missing in America Project will conduct its first ceremony in North Carolina at the Salisbury National Cemetery honoring 15 veterans whose unclaimed cremated remains have been in the care of a Greenville mortuary.

Services will be conducted with full military honors at 11 a.m. Saturday, June 14.

The purpose of the Missing in America Project is to locate, identify and inter the unclaimed cremated remains of veterans through the joint efforts of private, state and federal organizations, and to provide honor and respect to those who have served this country, by securing a final resting place for them. For more information, visit www.miap.us.

The cremated remains will be escorted by members of the Missing in America Project, Veteran’s Recovery Program, with American flags flying on motorcycles and vehicles to Salisbury National Cemetery. All veterans organizations and any member of the public who would like to attend via motorcycle or vehicle are welcome to be a part of the escort.

• Start of Dignified Transfer: 6:30 a.m. June 14, Walmart Shopping Center,  4600 East 10th St., Greenville.

• Staging area to pick up more riders and vehicles: 8:30 a.m., Pilot Flying J, 1043 Jimmie Kerr Road, Graham.

• Service details: Interment at Salisbury National Cemetery, 501 Statesville Blvd., 11 a.m. June 14. Government officials, the public and media are invited to attend.

Salisburypost.com is pleased to offer readers the ability to comment on stories. We expect our readers to engage in lively, yet civil discourse. Salisburypost.com cannot promise that readers will not occasionally find offensive or inaccurate comments posted in the comments area. Responsibility for the statements posted lies with the person submitting the comment, not Salisburypost.com. If you find a comment that is objectionable, please click "report abuse" and we will review it for possible removal. Please be reminded, however, that in accordance with our Terms of Use and federal law, we are under no obligation to remove any third party comments posted on our website. Full terms and conditions can be read here .

Potentially libelous statements or damaging innuendo.

Obscene, explicit, or racist language.

Personal attacks, insults or threats.

The use of another person's real name to disguise your identity.

Comments unrelated to the story.

© 2014, Salisbury Post, All rights reserved.
