
Success of Hindutva India politics: BJP comes to power by riding over anti-Congress wave!

A grand poll plan and its efficient execution by the BJP with the help and the support of Indian big business and the corporate media played important role in making Modi shine for the time being.

So effective was the media gimmicks, the BJP even managed a simple majority oon its own in the parliament for the first time in its political history from Jana Sangh to Janata Party to now BJP.

The BJP now has 282 seats in the incoming 16th Lok Sabha—the first time in 30 years any single party has secured a majority in the 545-member lower house of India’s parliament. The BJP’s NDA government will have the support of at least 336 Lok Sabha MPs including 54 seats won by allies.

Billions of dollars have poured into India’s money markets in recent weeks in anticipation of a BJP victory, and already anti-people media lords are asking India’s new rulers to be more strategic and ruthless than the Congress rulers. They want BJP commitment to “fiscal prudence”—i.e., massive social spending cuts—and “structural reform” to make the poor poorer as it is happening in Europe.

Indeed, it was not a Modi or BJP wave; it is an anti-corruption wave, anti-Congress wave.  In reality, the BJP’s real base of support is extremely narrow. Benefiting from the mass anger at the Congress and the complicity of the leftists and others, and shamelessly lying about its “development” program, the BJP won 171.5 million votes which is a 31 percent share of the popular vote, in a country of 1.2 billion people.

For sure, the Modi-led government will be a regime of extreme crisis.

Hindutva fanaticism takes fascist proportions when it has majority. With the BJP enjoying for the first time ever a parliamentary majority, sections of the Hindu right will invariably begin agitating for it to enact some of its longstanding communally-charged pledges—repeated in its current election manifesto—such as abolishing the unique status of Jammu and Kashmir and building a temple to the Hindu god Ram on the site of the razed Babri Mosque.

But whether Modi would use his RSS mode of operation or opt for Indian secular legacy remains to be seen.

Also, if Modi would also resort to rank communal appeals directed at scapegoating Muslims and other minorities- also remains to be seen.

The limping Indian welfare state under the Congress era is already under attack from IMF to transform India into a hub of cheap-labor production for world capitalism.  But now BJP’s capitalist and Zionist enthusiasm under the arch-communalist thug Modi underscores that it is turning to authoritarian methods of rule to realize some of fascist ambitions that could not be implemented in its earlier rule.

India, for its own reasons, has chosen Narendra Modi to lead the people though he is notorious for his role in instigating the 2002 Gujarat anti-Muslim pogrom. How will he treat the Muslims remains to be seen.

The NDA/BJP ruling elite will use the BJP’s strong parliamentary majority to try to intimidate the common people and justify state repression, while their media as usual would shield the state wrongs and crimes. .

Whether or not the BJP will deliver on its election campaign promises of jobs and development, work of the poor and  underprivileged or  promote the  favorite corperates and others who financed the BJP-Congress electioneering, remains to be seen.

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
