
Have an opinion? Express it and get the Wordsmith badge for posting relevant comments on articles and photos.

Make Timesofindia.com your news hotspot. Visit the site regularly earn this badge.

Your opinion matters! Get the influencer badge when other people Recommend or Agree with your comments on Timesofindia.com.

Top Headlines in your inbox!  Subscribe to the TimesofIndia.com. newsletters and become an Inboxer.

Members are registered users on Timesofindia.com. Only they are qualified to earn badges and points for their activities. So register and get a badge right away!

Grow your network; get people to follow you to earn the Networker badge on Timesofindia.com.

Share and recommend the articles, photos and videos you like on Timesofindia.com; earn the Sharekhaan badge!

You can earn the Well Connected badge by linking your Facebook and Twitter accounts to your Times profile. Remember to add both your ids to get the badge!

Watch a movie and become a critic! Review and rate a movie on TimesofIndia.com to earn a Movie Buff Badge!

NEW DELHI: After reduced free check-in baggage weight, domestic flyers will now be able to carry less as cabin or hand baggage inside the aircraft. Low cost carrier GoAir which currently allows 10 kg as hand baggage will reduce this to seven kg from June 1. Incidentally the Wadia Group company was among the few Indian airlines to offer 10 kg free hand baggage as other desi carriers like IndiGo and Jet allow only seven kg.

Air India (domestic) does not have weight restriction on hand baggage but, like all airlines, it limits the size of bag allowed on board aircraft. "The sum of the hand bag's length, breadth and height should not be more than 115 cm. The idea is to limit this weight to seven to eight kg but there is no formal weight limitation for cabin baggage," said an AI official, adding that in addition most airlines allow a "reasonable size" ladies hand bag, laptop bag and other small items like reading material and infant food.

Air travellers globally use the 'generous' hand baggage allowance to transfer stuff from their heavy check-in bags to cabin bags and avoid paying hefty charges. But airlines are now systematically reducing the weight allowed free of charge in both these items. Most desi airlines recently reduced free check-in baggage weight for domestic flyers from 20 kg to 15 kg. And now, free hand bag allowance is also being reduced.

Air India is also learnt to be tightening its hand baggage norms after many pilots complained to the management of alleged malpractices in this department, especially on flights to India from the Gulf.

"Pilots have complained that the airport staff in the Gulf allows passengers to carry more than the allowed size of bags on flights to India. This goes against the interest of flight safety. The aircraft's take off weight is calculated on certain assumptions, including the estimated weight of hand bag depending on number of passengers on a flight. The total aircraft weight is used for calculating fuel requirement. Some pilots have complained about malpractices in the hand baggage department on Gulf-India sector flights," said an AI official.

The AI management is learnt to be examining these complaints and will take action if the complaints of malpractice are found to be true, said a source.

Non logged-in comments will go through a                                                                                                         verification process for security reasons.

Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community. Help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive. Let's work together to keep the conversation civil.

We encourage you to register/login and proceed.

However, if you choose to remain                                                                                     non-loggedin, you are required to fill up the form below and verify                                                                                     your email address before we can publish your comment.

That way, we                                                                                     can verify that the email address doesn't belong to someone else.

We encourage you to register/login and proceed.

However, if you choose to remain                                                                                     non-loggedin, you are required to fill up the form below and verify                                                                                     your email address before we can publish your comment.

That way, we                                                                                     can verify that the email address doesn't belong to someone else.

Low cost carrier GoAir which currently allows 10 kg as hand baggage will reduce this to seven kg from June 1.

Your Reason has been Submitted to the admin.
