
Gul Panag is a famous celebrity of the Indian film industry and is acknowledged for her brilliant roles in Bollywood flicks, such as Dor, Manorama Six Feet Under and Dhoop. Interestingly, this actress-turned-politician is standing up as the AAP candidate from Chandigarh Constituency. She was chosen by the party high-commands to represent her home-town Chandigarh for the 2014 Indian General Elections. The star lady is standing against another renowned celebrity of India, Kirron Kher – a Bhartiya Janata Party candidate. Gul Panag has been an active socialist during her career and has been associated with a number of NGOs from around the country. Her entry into politics was greeted with anxiety as well as elation by her followers from all over the nation.

Many people might be aware of the fact that Gul Panag is an auto aficionado and owns a number of vehicles. Her love for automotive can be described from the fact the she has been a jury member for a number of car and bike awards held by various automobile organisations. The lady is an off-roading enthusiast and keeps a customised Mahindra Scorpio 4X4 for the same purpose. Among the other cars parked in her garage are Audi, Toyota Innova , a Hero Honda bike and a TVS moped. Notably, the lady is also a huge fan of cruiser bikes and is a proud owner of Royal Enfield Bullet, which she uses to venture on a number of biking expeditions.

Recently, Gul Panag was in news for using a number of exclusive methods to publicise herself and the AAP party. She had carried on her convoy in state transport buses as well as her Bullet. The lady also used the social media as a mode of communicating to the Indian citizens and making them aware of the party plans for the country. The 2014 Lok Sabha Election results are on their way and Gul Panag's followers must be dearly praying for her to win from the Chandigarh zone. It will be too early to specify anything but her win is certainly going to be a boost for the newly-launched party and its Prime Minister candidate Arvind Kejriwal.

Lakhs of Auto Enthusiasts are already part of the CarTrade Family.
