
Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.) isn't budging from his refusal to say whether he has ever smoked marijuana.

In an interview with ABC News and Yahoo News published Monday, Rubio reiterated his darned-if-you-do-darned-if-you-don't reason for not addressing the question and cited a conversation he had with a concerned parent as justification for his posture.

"Someone came up to me and said, ‘You know, I enjoyed your book, but I want you to know, my son came up to me and said he doesn't have to get good grades in high school because look at Marco Rubio, he didn't do well in high school and look how successful he's been.' And that impacted me," Rubio said.

That's the downside of saying you have smoked marijuana, he argued — that people will think it's no big deal. He made the same argument at a February National Journal event .

On the other hand, if you tell people you didn't some pot, Rubio said, "they won't believe you."

The "bottom line," the Florida Republican said, "I don't think people should smoke marijuana."

Sean Sullivan has covered national politics for The Washington Post since 2012.

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
