
A group of journalists from VGTRK led by Ksenia Kibkalo are returning to Russia on the Ukrainian authorities' demand to leave Ukraine.

"Indeed, a group of journalists led by Ksenia Kibkalo have been asked to leave the territory of Ukraine, which they are now in the process of doing," the VGTRK press service told Interfax on Monday.

The source said the journalists are expected to arrive in Moscow at 6:00 p.m. local time on Monday.

The press service also said it has not received any information that similar demands have been made to other VGTRK journalists.

"Some of our journalists now continue working on the territory of Ukraine," the press service said. Kibkalo, a special correspondent with VGTRK, earlier said on Rossiya 24 television she and her colleagues and been asked to leave Ukraine by the Ukrainian police.

The Ukrainian authorities have ordered a team of Russia’s VGTRK journalists to leave Ukraine until May 19 and threatened to bring criminal charges against them if they refuse, the RIA Novosti news agency reports.

VGTRK special correspondent Ksenia Kibkalo told the Rossiya-24 television by telephone that several men dressed in uniforms came to her apartment in Uzhgorod as part of what they said was a police inquiry into allegations that she involved in a severe crime.

They gave no further explanations but took her to a police department where she was questioned about the purpose of her stay in Uzhgorod and what other places she had visited while in Ukraine.

"Then they offered me to sign some document saying that I am suspected of instigating ethnic feud, assisting separatism and destabilizing the situation in Ukraine. I was recommended to leave the country until May 19," the journalist said.

They threatened to forcibly deport her if she refused to leave voluntarily.

After the interrogation, a "man dressed in civilian clothes came up to us said that all our things have been confiscated", Kibkalo said.

They confiscated all the equipment - a camera, a laptop computer and two flash memory cards – promising to return everything in the morning.

When the team got their equipment back, they found that part of the materials they had filmed was missing.

All rights reserved.
