
Denver parking enforcement agents this week will give a break to drivers who park too far from the curb, park too close to driveways or fire hydrants, or don't move their cars more than 100 feet when two hours is up.

The city's outreach effort — during  National Public Works Week — will result in drivers getting warnings on the windshield for those and other non-posted parking laws, instead of tickets.

Parking officials stress that drivers still will get tickets for parking meter violations and a slew of other posted parking restrictions. They include street-sweeping zones, two-hour parking limits, handicap parking and resident parking, plus license plate violations.

Those violations make up the bulk of the hundreds of thousands of tickets given every year. Last week, The Denver Post reported that parking citations and penalties totaled $30.5 million last year , an annual take that's risen 53 percent since 2009.

Public Works spokeswoman Nancy Kuhn said this week's softer approach to the lesser-known parking violations was planned before The Post published results of its analysis.

Tina Scardina, Denver's director of permitting and parking enforcement, said she hoped the use of warnings this week, from Monday through Friday, results in fewer tickets.

"I really hope that this effort will keep the conversation going and get the word out there," Scardina said Monday morning on Hooker Street, off West 23rd Avenue. A parking agent was demonstrating enforcement techniques in his jeep for the media.

Denver parking agents issue an estimated 400 to 500 tickets a week for the violations covered by this week's outreach push. Those would total $10,000 to $12,000.

• Parking against  the flow of traffic or obstructing traffic flow.

• Parking on the sidewalk or the sidewalk area.

• Parking less than 20 feet away from  a crosswalk or stop sign.

• Parking in alleys or blocking movement of traffic through alleys.

We reserve the right to remove any comment we feel is spammy, NSFW, defamatory, rude, or reckless to the community.

We expect everyone to be respectful of other commenters. It's fine to have differences of opinion, but there's no need to act like a jerk.

Use your own words (don't copy and paste from elsewhere), be honest and don't pretend to be someone (or something) you're not.
