
Your favorite Japanese anime is back and Sailor Moon 2014 will reach North America through Viz Media. The anime distributor announced that they snatched a deal for the Sailor Moon franchise. They were lucky to get the film, streaming, and digital licenses for releasing 200 episodes (five television series), three films, and tie-in specials.

Viz Media will also release the Sailor Moon Sailor Stars in North America. This series has two arcs and our favorite heroine battles Nehelenia, who does everything to destroy Sailor Moon. After defeating the enemy, the Sailor Starlights appear who pose as a threat to Usagi.

Fans shouldn't worry about the quality of the popular Jap anime because Viz offers original and uncropped (4:3 aspect ratio) versions of the Sailor Moon franchise. You will see the same story elements, original Japanese names, and even the relationships. They are also producing an uncut English dub, but with a new voice cast.

Get ready for the Sailor Moon franchise this summer as Viz releases the franchise in digital form and with English subtitles. The series with English dub will be released during the latter part of 2014. There will also be Blu-ray and DVD releases of the half-season sets this fall.

You can watch the first four TV episodes of Sailor Moon 2014 with English subtitles on NeonAlley.com and every Monday on Hulu Plus service. Make sure to mark your calendar every Monday as two new episodes launches on what Viz calls "Moon Day".

Speaking of Moon Day, Viz has decided to celebrate "Sailor Moon Day" on July 5 at Anime Expo. That's also the same day that the Pretty Guardian Sailor Moon Crystal will launch worldwide. This is your chance to join the panel discussion and find out who will be included in the new dub cast. Original creator Naoko Takeuchi has even approved the new dub cast.

Viz Media expects Sailor Moon Day to be the largest cosplay gathering of the classic Japanese anime. So make sure to check out the latest costumes in Sailor Moon 2014 so you can dress up like your favorite character.

Copyright ⓒ 2014 KDramaStars.com All rights reserved. Do not reproduce without permission.

Copyright ⓒ 2014 kdramastars.com All rights reserved.
