
Gander Mountain, an outdoor recreation retailer, has 138 stores in 25 states.

Gander Mountain, an outdoor retailer akin to Bass Pro Shops and Cabela's, is on its way to North Charleston.

The St. Paul, Minn.-based chain will open its first South Carolina store this fall in a 40,000-square-foot space between Once Upon A Child and Anna's Linens in the Promenade at Northwoods shopping center at 7800 Rivers Ave. The parcel most recently was occupied by Marshalls, which moved this year to the Corner at Wescott Shopping Center on Dorchester Road.

Gander Mountain spokesman Jess Myers said the retailer looks forward to competing for business.

"We always welcome healthy competition, and we've found that when people compare our selection, prices and level of expertise, they continue to shop Gander Mountain stores," he said.

The North Charleston store is one of 36 locations the company has opened or begun construction on in the past 18 months. Of those stores, 23 are located in the Southeast. The nearest store to Charleston is in Monroe N.C., and others are in the works for Augusta and Charlotte,

"This region of the country is a place where folks clearly have a passion for the outdoors, and family traditions like hunting, fishing, hiking, camping and boating are passed down from generation to generation," Myers said.

North Charleston Mayor Keith Summey agreed.

"I think South Carolina as a whole is a great place for hunters, fishermen, all the outdoor sports," he said."There are so many more people moving into the area, and I think we're just being discovered as more than just a tourism draw but for our sporting draw as well."

Summey added that the outdoor retailer, unlike Bass Pro Shops, wouldn't qualify for any state tax incentives because it doesn't meet the investment requirements.

Gander said in statement its North Charleston store will employ about 70 workers.

The chain specializes in equipment and apparel for fishing, hunting, camping, boating and archery. It said its Rivers Avenue store will have "one of the largest selections of new and used firearms in South Carolina."

The Post and Courier is pleased to offer readers the enhanced ability to comment on stories. Some of the comments may be reprinted elsewhere in the site or in the newspaper. We ask that you refrain from profanity, hate speech, personal comments and remarks that are off point.

We do not edit user submitted statements and we cannot promise that readers will not occasionally find offensive or inaccurate comments posted in the comments area. If you find a comment that is objectionable, please click the X that appears in the upper right corner when you hover over a comment. This will send the comment to Facebook for review. Please be reminded, however, that in accordance with our Terms of Use and federal law, we are under no obligation to remove any third party comments posted on our website. Read our full terms and conditions .

© 2014, The Post and Courier, an Evening Post Industries company.

All Rights Reserved.
