
Share This Story!

Our recent series about local government salaries appears to have grabbed your interest.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Our recent "Public PayCHECK" series about local government salaries appears to have grabbed your interest. Judging from some of the website traffic, many of you have spent quite a bit of time looking through the salary databases posted at News-Leader.com.

The series sparked a number of questions and ideas for future stories, as well.

"Thank you for the extensive research and fact finding revealed in the article," reader David Evans wrote in  a May 14 email. "When this series is finished, maybe a series on nonprofit enterprises such as hospitals, humanitarian relief agencies, etc. which rely on the donations of others to provide them with a comfortable lifestyle."

Given the large role nonprofits play in Springfield's economy, it's an interesting topic — and potentially difficult one, as well. Unlike public employee paychecks, the salaries paid to individual nonprofit workers often are not public record.

A recent report from Drury University's Center for Nonprofit Communication is a good place to start, however. Staff at the center spent about 18 months collecting information from tax forms, a local salary survey and federal employment data for the Nonprofit Impact Study 2014, which is available free online at www.drury.edu/nonprofit/ . The center also sells a more detailed salary and benefit report for $45.

The free study includes some basic information on local nonprofit salaries, including the average annual salaries for executives and non-executives in various nonprofit categories. As noted in the Public PayCHECK series, the average annual salary for a local nonprofit worker in 2013 was $55,584, noticeably higher than the average for all workers in the Springfield metro area, which was $36,837.

For CEOs and executive directors, the average was as low as $33,600 for nonprofits devoted to the environment, or as high as $158,655 for those at organizations related to health care.

The report doesn't list individual earnings, but high-level salaries often are available on the Form 990s nonprofits must file with the Internal Revenue Service.

Using the free search at Guidestar.org , I was able to quickly find Form 990s for Mercy and CoxHealth, two of the largest local nonprofits — and the two largest employers in the metro area. Each of the forms lists the compensation paid to dozens of top executives and board members, although the information typically is a couple of years old. In this case, the most recent reports covered the organizations' 2011-12 fiscal years.

Jon Swope, who was CEO of Mercy's Springfield operation at the time, had reportable compensation of $682,281 plus other compensation valued at $243,717, according to one report. Former CoxHealth CEO Robert Bezanson had base compensation of $965,814, bonus and incentive pay of $106,533 and other compensation of $608,915.

Another place to look for salary comparisons is the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics website, www.bls.gov . By searching for "Occupational Employment Statistics," users can look up average rates of pay for jobs in dozens of categories. Averages for the nation, each state and individual cities are available.

The list of jobs isn't all-encompassing, but the variety is impressive. When reader Rene Dooley emailed a request for a "comparison pay scale for healthcare, particularly MRI technologists," I figured I'd be stumped.

But what do you know? "Magnetic Resonance Imaging Technologists" is one of the job categories included in the survey. The average annual pay in Springfield was $53,330 as of May 2013, near the Missouri average of $55,440 but noticeably lower than the national average, $65,960.

Checking up on readers' questions has led to some surprising answers. This one stems from a call I received a few weeks ago from a reader in Willow Springs. The caller, who didn't give her name, wanted to know why one local convenience store charged sales tax when she bought the News-Leader but another didn't.

The caller thought newspapers were exempt from sales tax. That's true in some states, but Missouri, as it turns out, isn't one of them.

• If you buy the paper from a retailer,  it is responsible for collecting and paying sales tax to the state.

"We discount the price to them," Rinker said. "They're making a profit on it, and they're also supposed to pay sales tax."

It's possible the store the caller mentioned was absorbing that cost, rather than charging customers, or  it might be selling tax-free newspapers in error.

• If you buy the paper directly from the News-Leader, either through a subscription or a vending machine, tax already is included in the sale price, Rinker said. "We're the retailer in that situation, so we have to pay sales tax."
