
JINDO, South Korea, May 19 (Yonhap) -- One more body was recovered from the sunken ferry Sewol on Monday, raising the death toll to 287 and lowering the number of those missing to 17, more than a month after the ship sank off South Korea's southwest coast.

A joint team of government and civilian divers retrieved the body of a woman wearing a blue long-sleeved hooded shirt and khaki sweatpants from a kitchen on the third deck, officials said.

Search operations were halted earlier in the day after a wire connecting an anchor chain to a barge mobilized in the recovery efforts was found to be damaged.

The search resumed late in the afternoon after the wire was repaired.

The 6,825-ton ferry Sewol sank off the southwestern island of Jindo on April 16, carrying an estimated 476 people on board. Most of those dead or missing were students from a high school near Seoul on a school field trip to the southern resort island of Jeju. The ferry, which departed from Incheon, west of Seoul, sank about two hours away from the resort island.

A period of weaker currents has raised hopes for progress in the search for the missing, but concerns have also grown that parts of the hull may collapse, officials said.

Despite President Park Geun-hye's pledge to dismantle the Coast Guard, the agency said it is committed to the rescue job until all the missing people are found.

"We will humbly accept the president's will and do our best until we find everyone still missing," Coast Guard chief Kim Suk-Kyoon told a briefing.

Vowing to further strengthen its capacity for the search mission, the head said he will hire more civilian divers while paying extra care for health conditions of rescuers.

In a nationally televised address earlier in the day, President Park offered a fresh apology over the tragedy and unveiled a package of measures for overhauling the national safety management system, including dismantling the Coast Guard.

Family members of the missing vented outrage over Park's plan to abolish the maritime police agency, saying it could have a negative impact on the ongoing rescue operation.

"Despite the plan, not a single officer should be taken out from search operations. The Coast Guard should be at the scene until the end, and the government should strive to help divers commit themselves to the rescue work," a representative of the families said in a news conference.

Copyright Yonhap News Agency, 2014. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.
