
Your resource for exclusive content and insights from Social Media Today, and opportunities to reach our community of professionals.

Maybe you have a blog site that generates some attraction through SEO and brings in a small sparkle of business and registered subscribers.

So where do you place your blog posting then?  Here is a suggestion: place it up as a guest post on a website that already gets a ton of traffic and has a ton of subscribers.

 There are tons of blog sites on the internet today that allow guest posts.  Once you have a guest post up, you can then link back to your own website within the “written by” section of the post.

So now you may be wondering where you can find a blog site that is related to your niche that allows guest posting.  In fact, maybe you have a very specific niche and you simply can’t find any other blog sites that are related that have a large amount of traffic.  I will provide you with a couple of suggestions on what you can do for that next.

While you can find these blog sites by doing a Google search, I also recommend searching www.alltop.com .  This website was developed by Guy Kawasaki, and he provides a very good list of the largest blogs in the market that you can browse by subject and search through the site.

If your blog topic is in a niche market, it doesn’t mean you have to find similar websites to blog post for, especially if they are not generating the amount of suggested readers and subscribers.  However, as an alternative, you can always brainstorm ideas about where your target audience is reading blogs at, and then try to write a blog post on that blog. For instance, if you have an accounting blog, you could do a post on an entrepreneur’s website with a headline like “The CPA experts’ Advice for Entrepreneur Success.”  Since many know CPAs are professional experts that work with a wide-range of business industries, this would definitely be something an entrepreneur would be interested in reading.

But before you can do that, you need to learn what you need to write about that will make your readers excited.  This requires researching what the top bloggers in your niche are writing about, as well as read the comments to see what the readers are saying about the blog postings as well.

My suggestion is to find at least 4 to 5 of the largest blog sites that you can write for in your niche.  Once you have located these, you want to begin reading the top articles that have the most tweets, Facebook likes, and other social media sharing methods used.  Make sure you read the article, learn how it was constructed, learn why the readers loved the article so much, and read all the comments, tweets, and other social media sharing messages to find out how they are sharing it with others.  Once you do this, you will begin to learn how you can make your next blog posting just as popular.

My recommendation is to spend a full 1 to 2 hours of writing out as many different creative headlines you can come up with.  I know this isn’t easy, but you wanted to learn how to create a killer blog posting that generates a buzz right? Unfortunately this takes a lot of time and effort on your part.  However, in the end, it will be worth it.

After developing a killer headline. Then next most important thing to consider is the first four sentences of your blog posting.  Since your headline already caught their attention, your next step is to “reel them in” even deeper by increasing their curiosity.  Make the readers feel like they simply have to read it—like it almost feels like you know exactly what they need to know, and you are going to give it to them.  You should already understand what really attracts your readers since you have been reading their comments on the large blog sites and know which articles they already love to read.

Finally, you want to deliver what you promised, provide them the information they are dying to learn, and don’t let back.  Provide them with the biggest tips and suggestions you can give them.  Give them everything they want to read and more.

My final recommendation is to always give them something they can apply right away.  You want to provide them something that they can immediately apply and get results.  If you do this, your readers will absolutely love you for it!

Josh Elizetxe is the founder and President of Foresold . He is a passionate digital marketing professional and an accomplished scholar. On his free time, Josh enjoys exotic cars and trying out new foods.
