
Share This Story!

Two National Guard units were awarded for their service in Iraq and Afghanistan.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

First Sgt. James K. Jennings attaches the Valorous Unit Award streamer to the flag of Company C, 890th Engineer Battalion, Mississippi Army National Guard, during a ceremony at Camp Shelby.

As the American flag and military banners flew overhead at Camp Shelby, National Guard units from Columbia and Picayune stood proudly as they received recognition Sunday morning for their service in Iraq and Afghanistan.

Past and present members of Columbia's Company C, Special Troops Battalion, 155th Armored Brigade Combat Team who served in Al Anbar, Iraq, from April to September 2003 were awarded the Valorous Unit Award — one of the highest military awards.

At the time of its service, the unit was known as Company C, 890th Engineer Battalion. The unit has since been reorganized as the 155th.

Maj. Robert Enochs said the unit's award says a lot about the approximately 140 soldiers who served in the 890th in Iraq during 2003.

"It means a lot," said Enochs, who was the company's executive officer in 2003. "This award is the equivalent to the Silver Star, and the Silver Star is the third-highest war medal you can give to a soldier, so being awarded to a unit, that says a lot about the unit."

Gen. Janson Boyles, Commander of the 184th Expeditionary Sustainment Command, said the 890th has become one of the few units in the state's history to receive such a high award.

"They earned this award back in 2003," he said. "All these soldiers have been deploying for 10 years, and to be able to bring these folks back to recognize them for an award that only three Mississippi units have received as a result of their deployments is a big deal."

Boyles said the award is a testament to the challenges each soldier faced while protecting his or her country, and shows that each member of the 890th showcased heroism and skill during wartime.

"This award is an award that they have received as a unit for really having a lot of enemy contact," he said. "That's why they are being recognized. They performed in a way that was very positive in reaction to those activities."

Approximately 13 members of the 890th represented their fellow unit members as they received their award for their combat and heroism during some of the earliest days of Operation Iraqi Freedom.

"For years, we've been in National Guard training one weekend a month and two weeks a year, so none of them really had any operational experience," Enochs said. "It was definitely a challenge when we hit the ground. We grew close together as a family and pulled together and did our missions tremendously. We're diverse types of soldiers because everybody comes from their fields."

Enochs said each soldier's military occupational specialty training ensured that his unit's members were experts at the jobs they faced each day.

After a brief intermission, members of Picayune's 857th Engineer Company took to the parade field to receive a Meritorious Unit Commendation for the work they did in Afghanistan from July 2012 to May 2013.

While serving during Operation Enduring Freedom, the 857th acted in support of the International Security Assistance Force's effort to develop Afghan National Army Engineer capacity. Through its efforts, the unit worked to help establish the government of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan.

After receiving the commendation from the Secretary of the Army, Lt. Col. Rick Weaver, commander of the 890th Engineer Battalion, addressed members of the 857th.

"Outstanding job, (857th,) but also outstanding job for every one of the warriors that are here," he said. " ... I'm very proud of the (857th,) and I'm very proud of the rest of the battalion."
