
Undoubtedly, it was a highly polarised election preceded by a highly polarised discourse that has lasted for more than 10 years in India as well as abroad. I may seem like repeating myself, but this is the reality that needs to be highlighted as many times as possible – in India, in order to prove to the world that you are secular, you need to disparage the majority, you need to lament the lack of justice for the Gujarat 2002 victims and you have to show your frustration at the meteoric rise of Narendra Modi and on his back, the BJP.

Danish Khan from Niticentral asked me for his web radio programme, is the media and the secular-libs going to give the secular-communal diatribe a break, especially after the overwhelming results of the recently held general election where the BJP has got absolute majority and the Congress and its ilk has been totally routed? I was in a highly distracted state due to various reasons so, I don’t think I clearly articulated my thoughts on this. The answer would be yes, and no.

Somehow, being alarmist and “taking on” the majority community seems heroic and noble to them. If there is nobody to defend, the withdrawal symptoms that they go through will be unbearable for them. So they will keep the torch of the secular fight aflame as long as possible. They will be outcasts if they don’t indulge in such rhetoric. Now, we come to the professionals. For them, secularism is not an emotional issue but a politico-ideological tool to polarise societies and constantly point an accusing finger at a political entity that talks of national pride and unity. They may do this for their political bosses, for their political parties, or for millions of dollars of donations that they often get from various foreign funding agencies to keep Indians embroiled in one controversy after another. They’re going to milk this cow as long as they can draw the milk. The recent results must have given them some sort of indication that they’re not going to get this milk for a long time unless something really drastic happens, but so much has been invested in this line of propaganda that they are not going to give it up easily, especially when it has been paying dividends with little effort. Expecting them to come up with something new would be too much to expect.

Now the “yes” part.

I feel very positive about the current output, especially in Uttar Pradesh where the BJP got 71 out of the total of 80 seats with just five seats going to the Samajwadi party and that too because all the seat belonged to the family members of the patriarch Mulayam Singh. What does it tell you? Muslims must have voted for the so-called communal, the so-called divisive, the so-called bane of secularism party, the BJP. According to the various, reliable statistics coming out, a great percentage of Muslims have voted for the BJP and this is certainly going to put a dent into the rhetoric of “Muslims are in danger”. People are getting fed up of this paranoia bordering on insanity. People who constantly harp about how the secular fabric of the country needs to be protected perpetually aren’t being taken seriously and this is proven by the fact that the BJP has received a mandate of historic proportions. Not even Congress, even during its “full majority” heydays ever received such an approval from the Indian public.

Please read our terms of use before posting comments.

TERMS OF USE: The views, opinions and comments posted are your, and are not endorsed by this website. You shall be solely responsible for the comment posted here. The website reserves the right to delete, reject, or otherwise remove any views, opinions and comments posted or part thereof. You shall ensure that the comment is not inflammatory, abusive, derogatory, defamatory &/or obscene, or contain pornographic matter and/or does not constitute hate mail, or violate privacy of any person (s) or breach confidentiality or otherwise is illegal, immoral or contrary to public policy. Nor should it contain anything infringing copyright &/or intellectual property rights of any person(s).

I too will answer the question as the author, with a ‘no’ and an ‘yes’ for slightly different reasons..  In practice, India’s ‘secularism’ is, POLITICAL – it was forged solely to support the rule of the Nehru Dynasty. It was spread by courtiers of that Dynasty, who were also, BENEFICIARIES of the Dynasty, with a lot of wealth and comforts coming to them from the Dynasty.  Sadly, our MSM has many such courtiers – an important reason for the perpetuation of this ‘pseudo-secularism’.  Our MSM continues to be dominated by these courtiers.  The chatteratti, the likes of Prof. Amartya Sen, who keep silent on the plight of Hindus and Buddhists in B’desh ( a country from which he and his family ran away, fearing the Muslim majority) will continue to hound Modi and BJP with alarmist shouting about the death of ‘secularism’.

BUT, the AAM AADHMIS in India are beginning to see this picture – of the MANIPULATION OF SECULARISM by Indian and foreign elites to keep Hindus in subjugation for EVER.  Please Read Rajiv Malhotra’s books for detailed PROOF. His painstaking research will amaze you.

Amritji, Its time to take Niticentral to the next level. While the MSM is still involved in sensationalism and sending subliminal and sometimes over tones of anti-modi and Anti-BJP messages, I think Niticentral needs to ramp it up.I will be pleased to be the part of it.
