
"Oh! How I Hate to Get Up in the Morning," written by U.S. Army Sgt. Irving Berlin in 1918 for the fundraising revue "Yip-Yip-Yaphank" at Camp Upton in Yaphank, New York, became one of the legendary composer's best known songs.

Berlin, who was born Israel Isidore Baline in Belarus, Russia and immigrated to the United States with his family (to New York), typified the Jewish immigrants who served in the U.S. Armed Forces in World War I.

"They were very eager to demonstrate their patriotism," Marcia Jo Zerivitz, retired founding executive director of the Jewish Museum of Florida in Miami Beach said in a phone conversation from her home in St. Pete Beach. "They wanted to show that they were not draft dodgers or cowards. They learned to hold their new identity as Americans and Jews."

Jews served in a higher proportion than the general public (more than seven percent compared to more than four percent) and made up almost six percent of the U.S. Armed Forces, Zerivitz said.

And they served with distinction in a brutal conflict that killed 10 million people and wounded 20 million.

Three Jews received the Congressional Medal of Honor: Army 1st Sgt. Sydney Gumpertz in Bois-de-Furges, France; Army 1st Sgt. Benjamin Kaufman in France's Argonne Forest; and Army Sgt. William Sawelson, who died in battle.

Jews from Florida or who later settled in the state were among those who served in the U.S. military.

Army Pvt. William Wolfson, who was born in Key West, served in the Quartermasters Corps at Camp Jackson, South Carolina. His younger brother, Mitchell Wolfson, served in World War II.

Abraham M. Sonnabend enlisted in the U.S. Naval Flying Corps after graduating from Harvard University. Sonnabend completed flight training in Miami and Pensacola. After the armistice Sonnabend served as a flight instructor in Miami. He later founded the Sonesta Hotels chain and the Sonesta Beach Resort Key Biscayne.

Army Sgt. Herman Adelstein, who served in the artillery, earned the Citation Star in 1919 for bravery and conduct while fighting in France. But an anti-Semitic commanding officer would not allow the award to be given to Adelstein.

Almost 60 years passed before Adelstein, living in Fort Lauderdale, received the Silver Star from U.S. Sen. Richard Stone in 1977.

World War I had a "profound impact on world Jewry," Eli Barnavi, a professor of Jewish history at Tel Aviv University, has written. "Unprecedented numbers of Jews enlisted in the armies of belligerent nations."

In Germany, about 100,000 Jews served in the army, with two-thirds fighting on the front lines, said Michael Geheran, a Ph.D. candidate at Clark University's Strassler Center for Holocaust and Genocide Studies. About 35,000 were decorated, 12,000 killed in action and 2,000 Jews promoted to the rank of officer, Geheran said in a phone call from his home in Nadick, Mass. A memorial in Berlin recognizes their service, he said.

"Nationalistic and highly anti-Semitic post-war veterans looked at Jews very differently from an ordinary Jew who hadn't been in the military," Geheran said. "Slowly and gradually these exceptions were lifted."

Ultimately, even their service to the Fatherland didn't save them.
