
JOINT BASE ELMENDORF-RICHARDSON, Alaska – The Last Frontier welcomed a new equipment delivery system as elements of the Spartan Brigade conducted a drop of simulated supplies onto Malemute Drop Zone, here, using a one-time use parachute Friday, May 16.

The 4th Quartermaster Company, assigned to the 725th Brigade Support Battalion, 4th Infantry Brigade Combat Team (Airborne), 25th Infantry Division, used the Low Cost Low Velocity parachute, or LCLV. The parachute is made of recycled materials and is used to drop supplies for troops in remote locations or when conventional parachutes are not available – they are not used to drop personnel.

The parachutes are pre-packaged by the manufacturer and only require military parachute riggers to affix them to supply pallets before being loaded aboard aircraft. The parachute system can safely drop a supply pallet weighing up to and including 2,200 pounds. Used to date exclusively and extensively in Afghanistan, Friday’s operation marked the first use of the parachute in Alaska and the Asia-Pacific.

There are three different types of parachutes currently being packed, shipped, and maintained including the High Velocity, or HCHV, parachute, the Low Velocity, or LCLV, parachute, and the Cross parachute. These parachutes are used for in‐theater drops of materiel that cannot be delivered via truck or alternative transportation due to difficult terrain in places like Afghanistan. Each parachute uses a Low Cost Air Delivery System, or LCADS, to deliver materiel.

As the war in Afghanistan has begun to wind down, so have deployments and needed equipment, such as the LCLV parachute system. Ramosbarbosa, who was recently deployed to Afghanistan and served as the theatre airdrop advisor, designed the plan to bring the remaining 45,000 bundles of LCLV parachutes back from Afghanistan and distribute them across the Army.

“There was an excess of air delivery equipment of this type of parachute. I developed a plan to make it feasible for the Army to bring parachutes out of […] [Afghanistan] and free issue it to all of the rigging facilities in the Army,” said Ramosbarbosa.

Select locations like Alaska, Japan and Germany were among the few chosen to support this endeavor due to their respective locations and ability to respond rapidly in the event of a natural disaster.

For many riggers, this was their first time handling the LCLV and learning its procedures. The majority of the Army’s training for aerial delivery has been the packing procedures for the G-12 Cargo Parachute Assembly, which has a 64-foot canopy and has to be recovered and turned back in to the Army supply system.

Sgt. York Peters, a rigger with the Spartan Brigade, enjoyed his first time experience with the LCLV and appreciated the simplicity of the system.

This work, The Last Frontier welcomes new delivery system, by SGT Eric-James Estrada , identified by DVIDS , is free of known copyright restrictions under U.S. copyright law.
