
Michigan GOP Rep. Kerry Bentivolio's campaign manager recently left his campaign, his spokesman told Post Politics, a fresh sign of potential turmoil for a congressman facing a well-heeled primary challenger.

David Wolkinson ​left the campaign within the last week, said Bentivolio spokesman Matt Chisholm. Chisholm said the campaign will soon make an announcement about a new campaign manager. He declined to comment on the specifics of Wolkinson's departure.

Wolkinson, who did not immediately respond to a voice mail, was hired by Bentivolio last fall. He was a top policy aide on Republican Gov. Rick Snyder's 2010 campaign.

Bentivolio is facing a primary challenge from David Trott, an attorney backed by the Michigan Chamber of Commerce who put $800,000 of his own money into his campaign through the end of March and had more than a $1 million in the bank. Bentivolio has struggled to raise money; he had only about $129,000 in his campaign account.

The congressman's unlikely path to Capitol Hill started in 2012 after then-Rep. Thad McCotter (R-Mich.) failed to qualify for the ballot, suddenly leaving Bentovolio, regarded as a minor opponent, with the inside track. He defeated a write-in GOP candidate and then a Democrat in the general election.

Bentivolio's 2012 campaign manager Robert Dindoffer ​ sued the congressman earlier this year over money he said he is owed.

The primary is Aug. 5.

Sean Sullivan has covered national politics for The Washington Post since 2012.

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
