
The days of asking a friend to rub suncream on your back or waiting for your    lotion to "sink in" to avoid a sandy situation could be numbered,    as a US skincare company claim to have created a drinkable suncream.

Osmosis Skincare claim their product, named Harmonised H20 UV protection, can    provide sun protection up to factor 30. Those who make the product, which is    available to buy, claim that once the elixir is ingested, molecules of the    product vibrate on the skin to cancel out 97 per cent of UVA and UVB rays.

The website of the company, which was founded by Ben Johnson, advises people    to take 2ml of the liquid every four hours while in the sun, preferably with    water, to achieve the full protection. The website unsurprisingly lists many    testimonials but the product is yet to be endorsed by official dermatologist    bodies.

The product retails at $30 (£17) for a 100ml bottle and it comes in two forms    - "tanning" and "non tanning", the former, the website    claims, allowing users to achieve a tan while being protected from harmful    sun rays.

Further examination of the claims however reveals that there is no science to    back them up, which is worrying, as the product encourages people to stop    using sunscreen and instead put their trust in an unproven alternative.

Professor Antony Young, of the St John’s Institute of Dermatology, at Kings    College said it was unlikely that anything that could be ingested which    would give an SPF protection of Factor 30, as claimed by the manufacturers.

“It’s just a gimmick, “ said Dr Rang Singh, “We know that ingestible sun    products aren’t that good. To say they have changed the frequency of water    molecules, well I just don’t understand how they could have done that.

“Everything in our body vibrates at it’s own frequency anyway and, as far as I    know, nobody has found a way to change that.

The British Skin Foundation has also urged extreme caution.

Drinkable cosmestics are a new frontier for the beauty industry, following a    surge in edible products in recent years. Recently developed products    include skin enhancing gummy bears. Skincare supplement company Imedeen    already offer a Tan Optimizer Capsule, promising to enhance tan, although    without SPF protection. Sue Devitt, a make up artist to stars including    Sarah Jessica Parker, was one of the first to develop a drinkable beauty    elixir.
