
Iran Air 655 provided motive for bombing of Pan Am 103 "by people still unknown"

A second mystery around the disappearance of Flight MH370 has largely gone unnoticed: why hasn't the United States been in the forefront of providing information about it? The implications of this question are massive.

America has a fleet of the most sophisticated spy satellites, called "keyhole" satellites, covering the earth's surface daily with imaging systems comparable to those of the Hubble Space Telescope, but instead of data from any of these, we read of data from China and France. One can understand that the CIA does not want others to understand fully the capabilities of its satellites, but surely the lives of more than two hundred people are cause for some information, however indirectly supplied.

Then again, the American military has some of most sophisticated radars on earth, and there is, without a doubt, an installation of the highest capability at the secret base on Diego Garcia in the Indian Ocean. How could there not be? But we have read of no data from them, only from others less capable of telling us what happened.

There would be nothing unprecedented in such an act: on at least 3 occasions, regrettably, America's military has shot down civilian airliners, only admitting eventually to the one they could not hide. They are also indirectly responsible for a fourth.

Iran Air Flight 655 was stupidly shot down in 1988 by the USS Vincennes in Iranian waters during the Iraq-Iran War, not only killing 290 people including 66 children, but there was a long period afterwards in which the US admitted no wrong-doing, offered no apology, and no compensation to its victims (only 8 years later was a quiet settlement made).

It was a quite vicious set of circumstances and the injustice of it led unquestionably to the motive for bombing Pan Am Flight 103, killing 259 people and 11 on the ground, later the same year by people still unknown.

"Could it be that the United States shot down Flight MH370, either accidentally or deliberately, and now wants to keep it secret?"

I am not myself in general in the 'deliberately' camp (with the Vincenness-disaster as a possible exception). There is hardly a good reason. If you want to get rid of a few selected people, there are, from any rational point of view, less troublesome ways.

But mistakes do happen.

In any case, in that matter, USA invariably behaves like the worst bully in the class, who wouldn't dream about admitting anything if lies possibly could cover up. And if not, inventing and constructing mitigating circumstances as-needed. Finally, if matters are revealed xx years later, saying "Ah, yes, way back then, I shouldn't have done that. Isn't that an interesting historical fact?" Nobody is held responsible, unless, of course, the crime was made against, God forbid, Americans.

Maybe that will be the outcome of the Lockerbie-trial scandal too? The word is clearly out there.

Thank you Aku and sorry to say I've made the same mistake before, but just looked at Iran Air 655 in headline and put IA655 in message.

"If for the sake of argument, Iran was responsible for Lockerbie as revenge for IA655, is it likely the US would have settled in court over IA655 with or without an admission from Iran about 103?"

I was once told by a UK friend, that when police at times stopped young people they suspected to be under influence of drugs, they would, among the usual questions, ask tricky and confusing ones without definite answers.

"Clean" people would immediately see which questions made no sense and not try to answer those, but instead ask for clarification etc.

But drugged people could not distinguish and so would try to answer all questions. They would involve themselves in long answers which made even less sense than the question - and so the police would know who to arrest for further testing.

Anyway, if your question actually does make any sense, I may have found out why my room-service ordered evening coffee tasted a bit funny. I better quit right here, lock the door and go to bed.

I think your confusing ‘tricky’ questions to assist administrative targets with effective policing.

Standard policing would normally involve a mix of looking in their eyes, detecting a certain aroma or difficulty in walking!

For anyone wishing quickly to familiarize him/herself with the Lockerbie case, perhaps the best way to start is by reading the blogposts to be found here and here .

Robert Black QC FRSE is now Professor Emeritus of Scots Law in the University of Edinburgh. He has been an Advocate since 1972 and a QC since 1987. He has taken a close interest in the Lockerbie affair since 1993, not least because he was born and brought up in the town, and has published a substantial number of articles on the topic in the United Kingdom and overseas. He is often referred to as the architect of the Lockerbie trial at Camp Zeist in the Netherlands.

Readers are invited to comment on blog posts.   All comments require to be pre-moderated by me, and I shall reject all (a) that are not related to the Lockerbie disaster or (b) that fail to meet my -- perhaps  idiosyncratic -- standards of courtesy towards other contributors.  Comments will not be rejected simply because I disagree with them or because I, or other contributors, find them irritating. But comments will be rejected if they are defamatory or if they risk embroiling me, as publisher, in defamation proceedings. I am perfectly relaxed about being sued in respect of material which I personally have posted -- but not in respect of material that others wish to post as comments and which, in any case, I often strongly disagree with.

Particularly during my sojourns in South Africa, it may not be possible for me to perform the moderation function speedily.  I regret the necessity of moderation but it has been rendered inevitable by the behaviour of a particular commentator whose contributions will always and without exception be rejected.

No correspondence will be entered into regarding moderation decisions.

Simple template. Powered by Blogger .
