
LOBAMBA – Under Secretary in the Ministry of Defence Dorcas Dlamini says soldiers are not civil servants.

Dlamini made this known before the Public Accounts Committee (PAC) yesterday after it had been revealed that one of their officers went for training at the Swaziland College of Technology (SCOT) and continued to get his full salary.

Dlamini, who was accompanied by other high ranking army officers who spoke on her behalf, informed the PAC the rules that governed the army were different from those which other civil servants followed.

“The Umbutfo Swaziland Defence Force (USDF) has regulations or a policy which states that whether an officer is sent to any other form of training, be it locally or outside the country they continue to draw their full salary,” said one of the colonels.

The colonel went on to add that any training or other duty which an officer carried out was considered a continuation of their duties.

Dlamini said soldiers were governed by what was called a King’s Order in Council.

The colonel further stated that in a majority of cases, it was the army which decided whether an officer could be released for training or to further their studies.

“Even if that officer shows any form of initiative in the decision to allow him to go to school or pursue other aspirations, it is the army that has the final say and if the army refuses to release you that is still within its rights,” he said.

The colonel further stated that the army has strict measures in place and if an officer decided to leave the army then there were serious financial implications or measures taken before that person was allowed to leave.

The officer in question received a pre-service scholarship from government, which Dlamini acknowledged was not in order as he was supposed to have received an in-service scholarship as he was already employed.

“If they want to discontinue military service then there are definitely penalties,” continued the officer.

Deputy Chairperson of the PAC, Matsanjeni North MP Phila Buthelezi, was, however, not satisfied with the response the committee was given.

Buthelezi said it was really worrying that soldiers were treated differently from other civil servants, stating that in some instances, unlike other government employees, they received food parcels. “However, maybe that can be excused for today because some work in very harsh conditions,” said Buthelezi.

“If there is a law that says the army should  receive their full salaries then we should know about it,” he said.

However, Chairperson of the PAC Thuli Dladla said there was hardly anything which could be done on the issue as it was clearly an army policy that they continued to get paid.

She advised that the Ministry of Public Service and the office of the Auditor General be furnished with this army policy so that such queries were not a problem in the future.

Meanwhile, Mafutseni MP Christopher Gamedze said the matter touched on issues of security and, therefore, they should not dwell on it.

On another note, Dladla informed the sitting that the substantive Principal Secretary Andreas Mathabela was on sick leave.
