
AT&T Inc. signage is displayed outside of a store in New York, U.S., on Monday, Jan. 27, 2014. AT&T announced Sunday it will purchase satellite TV provider DirectTV.

While you were out enjoying the sunshine this weekend, mammoth telecom and tech companies were busy in the boardroom, finalizing billion-dollar acquisition deals.

News came Sunday that both AT&T and DirectTV agreed to a $67.1 billion deal that will transform the Dallas-based telecom company, the second-biggest wireless phone company in the U.S., into the second-largest pay TV operator.

AT&T will acquire the California-based satellite TV provider in a stock-and-cash transaction for $95 per share .

The deal will give AT&T a television subscription base of nearly 26 million customers. DirectTV has 20 million customers in the U.S., while AT&T has 5.7 million customers for its U-Verse TV service in 22 states. AT&T will also obtain DirectTV's 18 million subscribers in Latin America.

The deal comes as large telecom companies are moving to consolidate to satisfy changing customer content habits. The FCC is examining the proposed $45 billion merger between Comcast and Time Warner Cable , a regulatory process that AT&T-DirectTV deal will also be subject to.

As part of the deal, AT&T agreed to abide by the FCC's 2010 net neturality rules for at least three years after the deal closes, despite the fact that changes to those rules are currently open for public comment.

A little more than an hour later Sunday, Google announced it was close to a deal for Twitch.tv, a streaming media site that allows users to watch people play video games live.

According to Variety , Google will buy Twitch for $1.65 billion in cash, similar to the deal search giant made for YouTube in 2006 (and watching other people play video games online is a huge subset of YouTube viewers).  The San Francisco-based Twitch claims to have 45 million users who upload more than 1 million videos every month. In March, Twitch accounted for 1.35 percent of all downstream bandwidth on North American fixed-access broadband networks.

If you are commenting using a Facebook account, your profile information may be displayed with your comment depending on your privacy settings. By leaving the 'Post to Facebook' box selected, your comment will be published to your Facebook profile in addition to the space below.

Stay on top of the latest tech news from Washington and beyond.
