
Mahathir Mohamad, the former prime minister of Malaysia, made the dramatic claims on his personal blog. ‘The plane is somewhere,’ he said. ‘Someone is hiding something. It is not fair that MAS and Malaysia should take blame.’ So far, the White House and the State Department have not commented on the former pol’s accusations.

Former Malaysian Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad claims the CIA and Boeing are hiding the missing Malaysia Airlines plane.

A post on Mahathir’s personal blog claimed the CIA ‘remotely by radio or satellite links’ controlled the plan and have it hidden.

“The plane is somewhere, maybe without MAS (Malaysia Airlines) markings,” wrote on his blog.

He claimed the plane was equipped so that it could be taken over “remotely by radio or satellite links by government agencies like the Central Intelligence Agency” if terrorists attempted to breach the flight deck.

Searchers continue to look off the coast of Australia for the missing plane.

The search has not only been by sea, but by air. Here, a plane scours the ocean below for signs of the missing plane.

There was no immediate response to Mahathir’s post from the White House or the State Department.

Mahathir, 88, Malaysia’s prime minister from 1981 to 2003, is known for his wild accusations. He once claimed the 9/11 terrorist attacks were an excuse to strike against the Muslim world and declared Jews ran the world by proxy.

The Malaysia Airlines flight vanished without a trace on March 8 while en route from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing.

A multi-country search party has spent millions of dollars probing the Indian Ocean off Australia, where debris believed to be from the plane was spotted but never recovered.

Kyodo News/AP A Malaysia Airlines Boeing 777 went missing in March.

“It is a waste of time and money to look for debris or oil slick or to listen for pings from the black box,” Mahathir wrote on his blog.

He also aimed his suspicions at Boeing, writing that the company built the aircraft and installed its communications and GPS equipment.

© Copyright 2014 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.
