
Datuk Seri Hishammuddin Hussein says MH370 was deemed commercial and not a hostile object by the military. – The Malaysian Insider file pic, May 19, 2014.Datuk Seri Hishammuddin Hussein has defended the military’s failure to scramble a fighter jet after Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 disappeared from civilian radar on March 8, saying "it was not deemed a hostile object and pointless if you are not going to shoot it down".

The Australian Broadcasting Corp reported today that the defence and acting transport minister, who was interviewed on the ABC’s “Four Corners” programme tonight, had said “the plane was deemed commercial and not hostile”.

Flight 370 disappeared from civilian radar when its transponder stopped transmitting during a flight from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing around 1.21am.

The military radar tracked it after it turned in a westerly direction across the peninsula.

"If you're not going to shoot it down, what's the point of sending it (a fighter) up?" Hishammuddin was quoted as asking on the show.

Delays in pinpointing the Boeing 777-200ER’s location led to days of searching in the South China Sea before analysis from British satellite firm, Inmarsat, pointed its likely course as the Indian Ocean.

Hishammuddin had defended the military and was quoted as saying that had the jet been shot down with 239 passengers and crew on board, "I'd be in a worse position, probably".

He said he was informed of the military radar detection two hours later and relayed it to Prime Minister Datuk Seri Najib Razak, who then ordered a search in the Strait of Malacca.

The other guest on tonight’s “Four Corners” was Asuad Khan, the brother-in-law of missing pilot Captain Zaharie Ahmad Shah .

Asuad told the Australian news network that the 53-year-old had been the subject of rumours and inaccurate reporting since the day the jetliner disappeared on March 8.

“From what I can see, a lot of people are saying a lot of things about him which are untrue,” he was quoted as saying, speaking on behalf of Zaharie's wife, Faizah Khan.

ABC News also quoted Asuad as saying the allegations levelled against Zaharie regarding his personal life and professional activities were untrue.

Asuad also denied that the captain could have been a rogue pilot on a suicide mission and said the authorities might be using Zaharie as a scapegoat.

Some 26 countries were initially involved in the search for the missing jetliner.

The search has is now focused underwater.

In a statement issued by Australia's Joint Agency Coordination Centre today, Chinese, Australian and Malaysian authorities agreed that the Chinese ship Zhu Kezhen will conduct a bathymetric survey of the Indian Ocean floor as directed by Australian air crash investigators.

The ship will sail for the survey area on Wednesday, weather permitting.

After an initial air and seabed search failed to find any trace of the plane, authorities this month announced a new phase of the search would be conducted over a vastly expanded area of seabed measuring 60,000 sq km.

The new phase also involves mapping the seabed, where depths and topography are often unknown. – May 19, 2014.
