
Former Malaysian PM Dr Mahathir says airplanes like MH370 'don't just disappear'

If the plane failed or have been disabled then 'Boeing must know'

The air-sea search out of Perth for debris is a 'waste of time and money'

Missing Flight MH370 did not crash and its current whereabouts may be know to the Central Intelligence Agency and the Boeing aircraft company, Malaysia's influential former prime minister Mahathir Mohamad has claimed.

Dr Mahathir said the plane could have been switched onto autopilot remotely by the CIA if it had been hijacked.

'Remotely by radio or satellite links by government agencies like the Central Intelligence Agency, if terrorists attempt to gain control of the flight deck,' he wrote in an entry entitled 'What goes up must come down' on his blog, chedet.

Someone's hiding something: Ex Malaysian PM Dr Mahathir (above, left) said the missing plane may have had its MAS airline markings removed and the Australian co-ordinated search out of Perth for debris was 'a waste of time and money'

'Airplanes don’t just disappear,' he said. 'Certainly not these days with all the powerful communication systems, radio and satellite tracking and filmless cameras which operate almost indefinitely and possess huge storage capacities.'

'The plane is somewhere, maybe without MAS [Malaysia Airlines] markings,' he said, reports the Sydney Morning Herald .

'It is a waste of time and money to look for debris or oil slick or to listen for pings from the black box.

“For some reason, the media will not print anything that involves Boeing or the CIA,' he said.

Dr Mahathir, 88, who was Malaysia's prime minister between 1981 and 2003, said the missing flight's communication system 'must have been disabled'.

'Or else the flight of MH370 would have been tracked by satellites which normally provide data on all commercial flights, inclusive of data on location, kind of aircraft, flight number, departure airport and destination.

'But the data seems unavailable. The plane just disappeared seemingly from all screens.

'MH370 is a Boeing 777 aircraft. It was built and equipped by Boeing.

'All the communications and GPS equipment must have been installed by Boeing. If they failed or have been disabled Boeing must know how it can be done.

'Surely Boeing would ensure that they cannot be easily disabled as they are vital to the safety and operation of the plane.'

Dr Mahathir's blog posts come after the current Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak described the location by satellite of purported MH370 debris in the Indian Ocean as 'bizarre' and 'hard to believe'.

Mr Najib told CNN he did not believe it when he first heard about the critical satellite data on which the current search in the Indian Ocean is based on.

'To be honest, I found it hard to believe,' said the Prime Minister.

'It's a bizarre scenario which none of us could have contemplated so that's why when I met the team...of foremost experts in aviation industry I asked them again and again "are you sure?"'

'And their answer to me was we are as sure as we can possibly be.'

Malaysian, Australian and Chinese authorities met last weekend to discuss the latest stages of the MH370 by ships staged in the Southern Ocean.

Chinese navy survey ship Zhu Kezhen will start mapping the seabed off the west Australian coast this week as part of the latest phase in the search, Australia's Joint Agency Coordination Center said.

The comments below have not been moderated.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
