
After annexation of Sikkim on 26th April 1975, the then Indian Prime Minister Indira Gandhi had passed orders to intelligence agents under her direct command to devise strategies to gobble Nepal's Tarai region into the Indian union.

The operation to split Tarai region of Nepal to finally merge it into the Indian union was given to the then founder Chief of RAW (Research and Analysis Wing) Rameshwar Nath Kao, so writes former RAW functionary RK Yadav in his recently released book entitled "Mission RAW".

The RAW is India’s notorious intelligence agency mainly involved in creating unrest in the neighboring countries, more so in Nepal.

In the recent years, the RAW has become extra active in Nepali matters, micro management included.

"The operation got foiled due to internal political wrangling in India," writes Yadav in his freshly published book.

Though the plot to split Nepal could not succeed during the days of Indira Gandhi and her siblings as revealed by the high RAW functionary, the design in effect still remains valid, claim experts in Nepal.

Prior to annexation of Sikkim-a sovereign nation in South Asia saw similar Indian penetration and for India's Indira a single Lendhup Dorje was enough to smear the identity of a thriving independent nation and thus the fate of Nepal is for all to see with several Lendhup Dorjes’ more than willing to extend their support to the heinous acts of the Indian RAW.

TERMS OF USE:The views, opinions and comments posted are your, and are not endorsed by                          this website. You shall be solely responsible for the comment posted here. The website reserves the right to delete, reject,                          or otherwise remove any views, opinions and comments posted or part thereof. You shall ensure that the comment is not                          inflammatory, abusive, derogatory, defamatory &/or obscene, or contain pornographic matter and/or does not constitute hate                           mail, or violate privacy of any persons) or breach confidentiality or otherwise is illegal, immoral or contrary to public                            policy. Nor should it contain anything infringing copyright &/or intellectual property rights of any person(s).

no use of posting this news. traitor politicians have already sold Nepal. Nepal's madhesh now has more indian biharis than indigenous Terai Nepalese.
