
Cisco Systems' chief executive officer has written a letter to US President Barack Obama urging him to curtail government surveillance after evidence circulated showing the National Security Agency had intercepted Cisco equipment.

In a letter dated May 15, John Chambers, chief executive officer and chairman of the networking equipment giant, warned of an erosion of confidence in the US technology industry and called for new "standards of conduct" in how the NSA conducts its surveillance.

"We simply cannot operate this way, our customers trust us to be able to deliver to their doorsteps products that meet the highest standards of integrity and security," Chambers said in the letter.

The letter follows the circulation of pictures online showing NSA staff opening boxes of Cisco gear , along with allegations the NSA intercepted IT equipment in transit to monitor and gain information on surveillance targets.

The allegations stem from early reporting from Guardian journalist Glenn Greenwald, who has written about a number of NSA documents that were provided by former NSA contractor Edward Snowden.

In the letter, Chambers said if the allegations were true, "these actions will undermine confidence in our industry and in the ability of technology companies to deliver products globally."

In a separate blog post on Cisco's site dated May 13, the company's general counsel, Mark Chandler, said "we ought to be able to count on the government to ... not interfere with the lawful delivery of our products in the form in which we have manufactured them."

Cisco was among a number of large technology vendors whose products had been compromised by the National Security Agency, according to documents leaked in December.

You must be a registered member of iTnews to post a comment.

Your use of this website constitutes acceptance of nextmedia's Privacy Policy and Terms & Conditions .

Take part in discussions with comments on blogs, news and reviews; receive all the latest industry news directly to your inbox and tailor make your information specifically to your interests. Join now for free.

Delivered daily, iTnewswire delivers the most important IT news from Australia and around the world.

iTnews will keep you up to date with special offers, promotions, competitions and new products.

At no time will your email be provided to any other company.

Delivered weekly.

iTnews will keep you up to date with special offers, promotions, competitions and new products for Information Security Professionals.

At no time will your email be provided to any other company.

This process can take up to a minute to complete.

A confirmation email has been sent to your email address - SUPPLIED GOES EMAIL HERE. Please click on the link in the email to verify your email address. You need to verify your email before you can start posting.
