
Ricky's Lucky Nuts launches its 6th flavor, this time looking to an all-American culinary tradition for inspiration. What sets Ricky's BBQ snack peanuts apart from the rest is that they keep it all natural, with short, gmo-free ingredients. These snack nuts are flavorful and a little addictive, but no need to feel guilty, this is a healthy snack choice.

We knew we wanted to launch a barbeque peanut, but that is no easy task.

On the heels of the April relaunch of its entire brand, Ricky’s Lucky Nuts is already releasing the newest flavor in the their extraordinary lineup: Sweet & Smoky BBQ Peanuts.

President and Chief Peanut Maker, Paul Gelose says the name says it all.  “We knew we wanted to launch a barbeque flavor, but that is no easy task. The United States is known for great barbeque, but it comes in so many different forms; deciding which regional barbeque we wanted to take cues from was very challenging.  There’s the Carolina vinegar-based sauces, the Kansas-City sweet molasses sauces, the smoky Texas sauces, not to mention Memphis, St. Louis and a whole lot of others.  Ultimately, we chose a flavor profile that is sweet first, then a hint smoky with a touch of tomato for acidity,” says Gelose.

Ricky’s joins a long line of brands offering a barbeque-flavored snack but what sets Ricky’s apart is that they have managed to keep their ingredient list short and all natural. Deciding which style of barbeque to develop was challenging enough, keeping it flavorful and all natural was equally challenging. "Consumers have gotten accustomed to overly-seasoned barbeque chips and nuts that are coated in ingredients created in a chemistry lab. In the Ricky's kitchen, our goal is to create really flavorful peanuts without all that junk, " says Gelose. They have definitely achieved their goals with the new Sweet & Smoky BBQ Peanuts.

Ricky’s Lucky Nuts proves once again to be a leader in product innovation. The Sweet & Smoky BBQ joins the current lineup: Real Coffee, Spicy Chile Chipotle, Black Pepper & Sea Salt, Sweet Chai and Thai Red Curry.  All flavors are sold in 1.75 ounce grab-n-go bags packed 12 to a case.  Not only are they delicious and frankly, a little addictive, Ricky’s Lucky Nuts are all natural and a healthy snack choice.  Peanuts are naturally high in fiber, protein, healthy fats and a host of vitamins and minerals.  At Ricky’s, they only add cane sugar, salt and pure spices to perfect the peanut. Ricky’s Lucky Nuts are made in the USA and GMO-free.

Ricky’s will be showcasing all their fantastic flavors at the Sweets and Snacks Expo in Chicago May 20 – 22. Come meet Paul Gelose and the team at Booth 2194.
