
Share This Story!

Hit the dance floor with First Coast News and the Florida Theatre.  First Coast News is giving away tickets all this week to MOVE: Live On Tour, a dance show featuring superstar siblings Derek and Julianne Hough, both featured on the ABC show "Dancing with the Stars."

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

MOVE: Live On Tour incorporates all types of dance in one big stage production, headlined by "Dancing with the Stars" alums Derek and Julianne Hough.

JACKSONVILLE, Fla. -- Hit the dance floor with First Coast News and the Florida Theatre.

First Coast News is giving away tickets all this week to MOVE: Live On Tour, a dance show featuring superstar siblings Derek and Julianne Hough, both from the ABC hit show "Dancing with the Stars."

MOVE: Live On Tour features all types of dance from ballroom and tap to salsa and hip-hop. The tour is making its way to the Florida Theatre on Thursday, June 12th.

One grand prize winner will get two front-row tickets to the show and a meet and greet with the stars, Derek and Julianne Hough. Four other daily winners will each get two tickets to the show.

1. NO PURCHASE NECESSARY TO ENTER OR TO WIN.  A PURCHASE WILL NOT INCREASE YOUR ODDS OF WINNING.  SUBJECT TO APPLICABLE FEDERAL, STATE, LOCAL AND MUNICIPAL LAWS AND REGULATIONS.  VOID WHERE PROHIBITED.

2. Eligibility.  Subject to the additional restrictions below, the "Move: Live On Tour" Ticket Sweepstakes (the "Sweepstakes") is open to legal U.S. residents (excluding Puerto Rico) of the State of Florida who are 18 years or older at the time of entry.  Employees and contractors of WTLV/WJXX("Sponsor"), Gannett Co., Inc., Florida Theatre and each of their respective affiliated companies, and advertising and promotional agencies, and the immediate family members of, and any persons domiciled with, any such employees or contractors, are not eligible to enter or to win.

3. How To Enter.  The Sweepstakes will begin at 10:00 a.m. (E.T.) on Monday, May 19, 2014 and end at 5:00 p.m. (E.T.) on Friday, May 23, 2014 (the "Sweepstakes Period").  Enter by visiting https://www.facebook.com/FirstCoastNews., completing all of the required information (name, email address, and phone number), and following all posted instructions. Complete the entry form and any other required fields and then submit your entry by clicking on the "SEND" button. Entries limited to only one (1) entry daily per person. Your computer must accept cookies, or any successor or similar technology, which may be used for the purpose of entry tracking. Ad blocking software on your computer needs to be disabled so that it doesn't interfere with processing your entry.

Multiple entrants are not permitted to share the same email address or Facebook ID. The authorized account holder of the e-mail address submitted at time of entry will be considered the entrant. An "authorized account holder" shall mean the natural person assigned to such e-mail account by the Internet access provider, online service provider, or other organization responsible for assigning e-mail addresses for the domain associated with such e-mail account. A potential winner may be requested to provide proof that he or she is the authorized account holder of the e-mail address associated with a winning entry. Sponsor will not be responsible for incomplete, lost, late, misdirected or illegible entries.  All entries become property of Sponsor and none will be returned.  By entering, you agree to the terms of these Official Rules and to receive e-mails from Sponsor or those directed by Sponsor.  You can opt-out of the receipt of such e-mails by following the directions on the Sponsor's website or in any email received from Sponsor.

4. Winner Selection.

Daily Winners.  Each weekday during the Sweepstakes Period after 5:00 p.m. (E.T.) one (1) Daily Winner will be selected in a random drawing from all eligible entries that entered that day, subject to verification of eligibility.  There will be one (1) Daily Winner per day, for a total of five (5) Daily Winners during the Sweepstakes Period.

One (1) Grand Prize Winner will be selected in a random drawing from among all eligible entries that entered the drawing on Friday May 23, 2014 after 5:00 p.m. on or about May 23, 2014.

5. Prizes and Odds.

Each of the daily winners will receive two tickets to "Move: Live On Tour", for the Thursday, June 12, 2014 performance, held at the Florida Theatre (128th E. Forsyth St. Jacksonville, FL 32205). (ARV: $117).

Odds of winning depend on the number of eligible entries received.

6. Winner Notification and Acceptance.  Each Daily Prize Winner will be notified by email at the time and date they are selected and identified. The Grand Prize Winner will be notified by email on or about May 23, 2014 at the email address provided. All winners must respond to the notification within forty‐eight (48) hours. Return of email prize notification as undeliverable or failure of winner to respond to notification may result in disqualification and an alternate winner may be selected from among all remaining eligible entries. To claim prize, each winner must personally visit Sponsor's offices at First Coast News, 1070 East Adams St., Jacksonville, FL 32202 within five (5) business days after notification (office visits must be between the hours of 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. weekdays).  Valid photo identification may be required by Sponsor in each case.  Winners may waive their right to receive prizes.  Prizes are nonassignable and nontransferable.  No substitutions allowed by winner.  Prizes and individual components of prize packages are subject to availability and Sponsor reserves the right to substitute prizes of equal or greater value.  Winners are solely responsible for reporting and payment of any taxes on prizes.  Winners may be required to complete an affidavit of eligibility/liability and publicity release (except where prohibited by law) which must be returned as instructed by Sponsor.  Failure to sign and return the affidavit or release, or to comply with any term or condition of these Official Rules, may result in a winner's disqualification, the forfeiture of his or her interest in the prize, and the award of the prize to a substitute winner.  Except where prohibited, acceptance of any prize constitutes winner's consent to the publication of his or her name, biographical information and likeness in any media for any commercial or promotional purpose, without limitation the Internet, or further compensation.  Prizes not won and claimed by eligible winners in accordance with these Official Rules will not be awarded and will remain the property of Sponsor.

7. Participation.  By participating, entrants agree to be bound by these Official Rules and the decisions of Sponsor.  Sponsor reserves the right to disqualify persons found tampering with or otherwise abusing any aspect of this Sweepstakes as solely determined by Sponsor.  In the event the Sweepstakes is compromised by a virus, non-authorized human intervention, tampering or other causes beyond the reasonable control of Sponsor which corrupts or impairs the administration, security, fairness or proper operation of the Sweepstakes, Sponsor reserves the right in its sole discretion to suspend, modify or terminate the Sweepstakes.  Should the Sweepstakes be terminated prior to the stated expiration date, Sponsor reserves the right to award prizes based on the entries received before the termination date.  Sponsors will not be responsible for incomplete, lost, late, postage-due, misdirected or illegible entries, or for failure to receive entries or votes or other electronic communications due to transmission failures or technical failures of any kind, including, without limitation, malfunctioning of any network, hardware or software, whether originating with sender or Sponsor.  In the event of a dispute, all online entries will be deemed to have been submitted by the owner of the ISP account from which they were sent.  For these purposes, an ISP account holder shall mean the natural person assigned to such ISP account by the Internet access provider, online service provider or other organization responsible for assigning ISP addresses for the domain associated with such ISP account.  Any questions regarding the number of entries or votes submitted by the owner of an ISP account shall be determined by Sponsor in its sole discretion, and Sponsor reserves the right to disqualify any entries, or votes by persons determined to be tampering with or abusing any aspect of the Sweepstakes. By participating in this Sweepstakes, each entrant agrees to fully release, forever discharge and hold harmless Sponsor and Facebook from and against all claims, costs, liabilities, losses, injuries, and damages arising out of the Sweepstakes, including, but not limited to, any claims for personal injury, death or damage to or loss of property or any other harm arising out of entrant's participation in the Sweepstakes, the receipt, use, or misuse of any prize, or any travel or activity that is related to the Sweepstakes or any prize. This Sweepstakes is in no way sponsored, endorsed or administered by, or associated with Facebook.

8. Construction. The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of these rules shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision.  In the event that any such provision is determined to be invalid or otherwise unenforceable, these rules shall be construed in accordance with their terms as if the invalid or unenforceable provision was not contained therein.
