
To Armando Occena,  father of Imee, who was among the victims of massacre in Brgy. Kapitan Ramon,  Silay City more than three years ago, not even the life of ex-barangay captain  Noel Ayalin can pay for what he did to his daughter and entire family.

Ayalin, escorted by  intelligence operatives of the Negros Occidental Police Provincial Office,  arrived at the Bacolod-Silay airport Saturday night and is now temporarily  detained at the Silay police jail, pending his presentation today to the court,  that had issued the arrest warrant for him.

Occena, who had  pooled resources with massacre survivor, Kapitan Ramon barangay captain Ramon  Celebre, and the families of other victims in looking for Ayalin in various  areas of the country, admitted that he had to restrain himself from harming the  assailant of his daughter, during the arrest of the fugitive in Iba, Zambales.

Imee, 16, was the  chairwoman of the Kapitan Ramon Sangguniang Kabataan, when she was killed on  March 6, 2011. Three other barangay officials also died in the bloodbath that  also caused injuries to three others.

The Silay police  barred families of the victims of the Kapitan Ramon massacre from visiting  Ayalin at the police jail, for security reasons.

Supt. Jacob  Crisostomo, Silay police chief, enjoined the families of the victims to remain  calm, as the suspect is now under police custody.

“Let the court  decide on what to do with him,” Crisostomo said.

Occena said he  cannot forgive Ayalin for what he did to his young and innocent daughter. He,  however, said that he will abide with whatever is the decision of the court on  Ayalin.

Ayalin, who is  facing a string of murder and frustrated murder cases, has a bounty of P800,000  on his head offered by the provincial government of Negros Occidental and the city  government of Silay, for his arrest.

Occena thanked Rep.  Alfredo Benitez and Gov. Alfredo Marañon, among others, for their support and  effort, that led to the arrest of Ayalin, more than three years after the  shooting rampage.
