
No decision yet but some call proposal 'peanuts'

LAS CRUCES &GT;&GT; The Las Cruces City Council took up talks Monday on a proposal by Councilors Miguel Silva and Ceil Levatino to increase the city's minimum wage from $7.50 to $8 an hour by July 1, 2015, and to $8.50 by Jan. 1, 2016.

A decision on that possible hike may come at a June 2 meeting, when council members formally consider adoption of a wage ordinance. The council met Monday to hear a first reading of the proposed increase , which was prompted by a referendum effort to increase the minimum wage in Las Cruces to $10.10 an hour by 2017. Critics of the new proposal showed their scorn by giving council members bags of peanuts.

"We think we deserve more than the peanuts being offered now," said Sarah Nolan, director of New Mexico CAFé, an organization sponsoring the referendum. "This (proposed increase by the city) leaves a lot to be desired."

The city's proposal would increase the minimum wage from $7.50 an hour — what it is now — to $8 an hour on July 1, 2015. Another hike, to $8.50 an hour, would go into effect on Jan. 1, 2016, and annual cost of living adjustments would be made on Jan. 1 of every succeeding year.

The minimum wage for tipped employees would remain $2.13 an hour, and if tips combined with the $2.13 an hour wage didn't equal the proposed new minimum wage of $8 an hour, and later $8.50 an hour, the employer would have to make up the difference.

The city's proposal also included a provision that if employers provided annual health care or child care benefits of at least $2,500, they could pay a minimum wage of $7 an hour on July 1, 2015, and $7.50 on Jan. 1, 2016. The legality of paying less than the federal minimum wage of $7.25 was not discussed.

Some council members are already hinting they may not be ready to make a decision on June 2.

"I'm always open to conversation and more information," Councilor Gill Sorg said. "...We need more conversation, more accurate information."

But Councilor Levatino, who helped draft the proposed ordinance that will be considered by the council, said the time has come for the council to make a decision — one way or another.

"We've had ample opportunity over the last few months to work through this," Levatino said. "We've talked and talked and talked as much as we can on this."

Several community meetings to discuss the merits and disadvantages of a minimum wage hike have been conducted. In April, New Mexico CAFé submitted an ordinance proposal to have a minimum wage referendum question placed on the November ballot for voters to decide.

However, the initiative was rejected by city officials.

"The city attorney has expressed concerns with it being legal and fitting within the city charter and New Mexico statutes when read together," said City Manager Robert Garza, of CAFé's proposal. "As written, (City Attorney Harry "Pete" Connelly) has informed me that it is simply unenforceable. CAFé has continued to take parts of ordinances from other communities in New Mexico, such as Santa Fe and Albuquerque, and try to impose the same actions here. The city legal staff have written a legal compliance review and provided it to me which summarizes specific issues of concern."

Garza added he has contacted CAFé to collaborate on a possible solution.

"I shared the list with CAFé and asked that they get their attorney to work with the city attorney to resolve and refine their proposal so that it would be enforceable if put into action. ... To date, I am not sure CAFé has had their attorney work with the city attorney to address the concerns. Rather, in response, CAFé has changed their previous draft and resubmitted it earlier (Monday)," Garza said.

"They have also contacted me to see if we have reviewed and approved it yet, which is obviously not possible. From initial review, it does not appear they have made any changes to their ordinance. As city manager, I hear every member of the City Council affirming their belief that the minimum wage should be addressed and increased. There are simply differences in opinion about the appropriate amount and the timing to undertake the overall change."

Steve Ramirez can be reached at 575-541-5452.
