
Share This Story!

How do you describe the sound of 3,028 duck calls, all quacking at once? Loud — very, very loud.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

The Robertson family of Duck Dynasty fame appears on stage at a Salvation Army fundraiser in Florida.

Loud — very, very loud.

That deafening, record-breaking quack reverberated for two minutes through Germain Arena on Sunday night. The sound filled the arena and perhaps startled some real ducks that happened to be flying past the building.

Willie showed up onstage wearing a military-style hat over his signature red, white and blue bandana.

The night’s festivities included live bands, a duck-call demonstration from Jase, a few Robertson Family musical performances, prayer, and The Robertson Family’s first-ever attempt to set a Guinness World Record for the most people blowing duck calls at once. The approximately 4,000 people in the audience all got Duck Commander duck calls — the same brand the Robertsons make on their A&E reality show.

The crowd easily set that world record, said a Guinness representative on hand — coincidentally named Phil Robertson, the same name as the Robertson Family’s patriarch (who didn’t appear at the event).

The new Guinness category needed 250 calls to set a record (there are no previous record holders). Guinness counters logged 3,028 people blowing duck calls, Phil Robertson said.

After it had sustained the duck call for two minutes (including breaths), the crowd erupted into cheers.

Aside from breaking a world record, The Robertsons also chatted with the audience about their lives, their hit show and their deep Christian faith.

Uncle Si got a suitably wacky introduction to the enthusiastic audience. Onstage, The Robertsons pretended to be looking for him at the beginning of the event, and suddenly Uncle Si showed up making his way through the audience carrying a blue drinking cup and an “Uncle Si Cam” on a pole. The camera projected his face on a pair of jumbo TV screens.

“I had to get my teeth!” Si explained as he shook hands with ecstatic audience members and slowly wandered up to the stage.
