
A Thai soldier takes up a position in front of the Royal Thai Police Sports Club in Bangkok.

BANGKOK — Thailand’s armed forces declared martial law in a surprise predawn move Tuesday, but said it wasn’t staging a coup d’état to end the country’s sometimes violent political conflicts.

Army chief Gen. Prayuth Chan-ocha issued a pair of statements at 3 a.m. and later appeared on television to say that martial law was necessary across the country to address the worsening security situation. Thailand is bitterly divided between supporters of its populist government and its conservative opponents who have been massing on the streets for over half a year in a bid to topple the administration.

Chinese hackers shamed by U.S.

Before Gen. Prayuth went on air, army-run television station Channel 5 ran a ticker message across the bottom of its screen urging the public not to panic.

The network also broadcast a series of patriotic ballads — in some cases with English subtitles — featuring scenes of soldiers doing good deeds or declaring their love for their country, as troops stepped up their presence in the city. Soldiers appeared at key intersections and mobilized outside some television stations.

Over 24 people have been killed in political violence since the current wave of protests began in November, deepening the fissures in a country where the memory of the coup that removed former leader Thaksin Shinawatra from power in 2006 remains vivid.

Copyright ©2014 MarketWatch, Inc.  All rights reserved.

Intraday Data provided by SIX Financial Information and subject to terms of use .                 Historical and current end-of-day data provided by SIX Financial Information. Intraday data                 delayed per exchange requirements. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones & Company, Inc.                 All quotes are in local exchange time. Real time last sale data provided by NASDAQ. More                 information on NASDAQ traded symbols and their current financial status. Intraday                 data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, and 20 minutes for other exchanges. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM)                 from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. SEHK intraday data is provided by SIX Financial Information and is                 at least 60-minutes delayed. All quotes are in local exchange time.
