
QUETTA: A seven year old child was killed and another 12 people were injured in rain-related incidents in suburbs of Quetta on Sunday.

Torrential rains played havoc in Zehri Town located in south-west of Quetta.

More than 30 mud-walled houses collapsed in Zehri Town, leaving hundreds of people homeless.

"A seven year old child died as a house collapsed in the area," Imran Qureshi, the Superintendent of Police Sariab road told Dawn.com.

Dozens of mud-walled houses were inundated as a result of torrential rains in the outskirts of Quetta, the capital of Balochistan province.

"Rain destroyed my house," 56 year old Obaidullah, a daily wage labourer wearing white-turban told Dawn.com.

Obaidullah was one of the labourers whose house was inundated after heavy rainfall in the area.

Zehri Town houses most of the down-trodden class and is close to Hazar Ganji, the famous fruit mandi area of Quetta.

"I am worried, how will I reconstruct my house," Obaidullah, whose voice was laced with depression, said.

Despite repeated appeals to the concerned quarters, there was no one to support the rain-affected people in Zehri Town.

Heavy rainfall also damaged dozens of mud-walls in Pashtoonabad, Qambrani road and other poor-neighborhoods of Quetta.

"Rainy water entered into my PCO," 23 year-old, Abdul Nasir told Dawn.com. Rainfall also paralyzed routine lives of the people in suburbs of Quetta.

Provincial Disaster Management Authority (PDMA) in its messages to the media claimed to have dispatched tents, blankets and food to the affected areas.

However, the plight of affectees in Zehri Town negated their claims.

Rain water also entered into shops and houses of people in commercial areas of Quetta.

Recent rainfall has badly exposed the sewerage system of the city.

The streets of Quetta were inundated with water thus creating obstacles for pedestrians and causing traffic-related problems.

ReliefWeb has been the leading online source for reliable and timely humanitarian information on global crises and disasters since 1996.

Location Maps - Country maps for your reports and presentations.

Humanitarian Icons - Ready-to-use symbols and icons. Free download.

RSS - Subscribe to information finely tuned to your needs.
