
SEOUL, May 19 (Yonhap) -- Journalists of leading TV broadcaster KBS began a one-day strike Monday demanding the resignation of the company president for allegedly hurting the independence and fairness of journalism.

Television producers and some news anchors of the broadcaster vowed to join the strike if the president refuses to resign within the day. Also in a bid to press the president to step down, news editors in the company's regional stations voluntarily quit their posts following similar moves by editors in the Seoul station last week.

Gil Hwan-young, president of the broadcaster, has been under pressure to resign from the company's journalists after his former subordinate disclosed on Friday that the presidential office of Cheong Wa Dae and Gil unduly intervened in the TV network's coverage of political and social news.

He, however, refused to step down during a news conference hosted by the journalists on Monday, arguing that much of his remarks were exaggerated and distorted.

"I don't cling to my position but think it's inappropriate to speak of that (resignation) in this situation," he said. "I think it's more urgent to swiftly tackle problems with the KBS, which currently is in crisis."

The former reporting bureau director claimed that a senior presidential official had made several phone calls to the newsroom to make various demands related to reporting. Gil also directed him to remove news reports critical of the Park Geun-hye administration and increase positive news about her, the former director said. KBS reported during a news program on Saturday that Gil denied such allegations.

Four members of the KBS board representing the main opposition party submitted a request to the board to oust Gil.

"Gil has frequently meddled in the broadcaster's reporting, undermining fairness and autonomy of the broadcasting journalism," the members said.

The board said it will hold a meeting on Wednesday to decide whether to put the request up for discussion.

On Monday morning, KBS unionists clashed with company security guards as they attempted to block the president from going to work at the company headquarters in southern Seoul in protest. The front window of Gil's car was broken, with some protesters lightly injured in the clash. The president eventually had to leave the scene eight minutes after his arrival.

Meanwhile, nearly 98 percent of workers voted against Gil in a confidence poll conducted by one of the broadcaster's two unions last week. The union said about 90 percent of its 1,224 members took part in the poll.

Copyright Yonhap News Agency, 2014. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.
