
Two things everyone on the planet needs to know. We have had a system of ‘legal’ fiction imposed upon us called maritime law. It is a fiction. There is no such thing except aboard a ship at sea.

Second, those in the United States, please recall that each of the fifty states is sovereign. That has never ever been dissolved, never would be, and the states had collectively agreed to act as a body for certain purposes. That body and the states within it, are being illegally managed by the separate corporation that is Washington DC.

There are three such corporations: Washington DC, The City of London, and Vatican City.

Next time you see anything visual… a photo or a news report or a video or even a film that includes a courtroom or perhaps a political press conference, have a good look at the flags flying in the picture. No matter what country is represented by such flag, if it bears a gold braid border it is a signal that this entity is under “maritime law.” That means that a courthouse is a ship, essentially, and the judge is the captain of the ship in the wheelhouse.

The gold fringe is not part of the American flag known as the Stars and Stripes, but it is a legal symbol indicating that the court, government building, school or soldier is operating under British Maritime Law and the Uniform Commercial Code; military and merchant law.

Global financial and political powers have been able to accomplish this, inflicting an artificial legal system upon humanity, by creating a system in which each child is registered essentially as cargo via the document known as a birth (berth) certificate, having been ‘delivered’ in a ‘ward’. Just as a ship comes into a port and needs to file a ‘manifest’ listing its contents, you come out of your mother’s ‘water’ when you are born. You dock in a berth.

Each berth certificate, upon which all personal data is spelled out in capital letters indicating that it is, in fact, cargo, has upon it somewhere a serial number. This number is your berth certificate number, which indicates you are owned by a corporation and it allows the cargo registered (you) to be traded on the New York Stock Exchange. And, believe me, we are traded and traded and traded some more.

Corporate Washington DC agreed to this in 1933 when the USA, bankrupt to its core, borrowed money from the Rothschild banks and consigned each and every citizen from that time forward be held as collateral against the loan. We are truly ‘human resources.’ The complete picture of this is beyond the scope of this article, however the facts are readily available.

There has been an over-riding movement, called the Freeman Movement, which has taken up the cause of undoing the spell. However, I contend that the unprecedented abuses taken upon the inhabitants of the United States throughout the 20th century and until today, those perpetrated at an exponentially rapid rate by every administration since Lyndon Johnson (with emphasis on Bushes, Clinton, and Obama) have set the scene for a true remembering of sovereignty by each and every state.

Let us then for the sake of humanity, state that there is a false legal system laid upon us, like a thick blanket that chains us, binds us, and keeps us from feeling the sweet sun on our backs.

Is there then a bona fide legal system? Is there a state of being in which humanity has sole ownership of its sovereign self? Yes. It is Natural or Common Law. This truly is the legitimate law of the land.

Essentially the current system of maritime law courts treat each person who appears before the judge (captain) therein as the corporate fiction invented for the purposes of trading berth certificates on the stock exchange. You need never accept that this fiction is you because it isn’t. Each court sets a verbal trap and unwary or unsure persons before the captain of that ship may walk right into an invitation to concede that you are, in fact, the Strawman they created, responsible in ways that are unnatural, inhuman, and illegal.

Ultimately when you walk into a court of law, you are being governed by the bylaws of a Corporation and not by your Constitution. There are courts that decide if a matter is Constitutional or Unconstitutional, but they are merely looking out of their legal domain and into ours, for we the people, are the only body or group that considers itself under the Constitution.

3) any lands reserved or acquired for the use of the United States, and under the exclusive or concurrent jurisdiction thereof, or any place purchased or otherwise acquired by the United States by consent of the legislature of the state. In other words, mainland America.

This is as unconstitutional as it is possible to be and thoroughly illegal.

Forty-eight states have joined this critical project. If a state accepts this system, as have the above 11 so far, all counties are under Common Law jurisdiction. In order to get hold intellectually and spiritually of what that means, remember that in the US, county sheriffs actually have more power than the President. Our country was set up this way as a safeguard and we need it now more than ever.

However, this vital information has been kept from the US citizenry for long enough that it is in danger of being forgotten despite it being the true law of the land.

- If anyone’s unalienable rights have been violated, or removed, without a legal sentence of their peers, from their lands, home, liberties or lawful right, we [the twenty-five] shall straightway restore them. And if a dispute shall arise concerning this matter it shall be settled according to the judgment of the twenty-five Grand Jurors, the sureties of the peace.

The questions are then, why is maritime law a bad thing and what can a common law court do about it? Neither I nor my children nor anyone I know has agreed to become this ‘corporate strawman’ and abide by the Uniform Commercial Code, based on Roman Canon Law, of Maritime Law.

Trading me on the New York Stock Exchange would suggest that I am owned, that I am property. In fact, that is not the case. I am a natural human being and so are you. My actions as I go through this life will not be judged and dictated by the Universal Commercial Code, for I am not cargo.

I am a natural human. The reality, the law of the land, the spiritual truth, is just under the surface. If, in fact, 48 US sovereign states elect to establish these Grand Juries, then the very nature of the classification of what a misdeed is will change drastically. Much of our freedom will be restored as a matter of course. We can expect massive crackdowns.

However, it remains that, true to the original intent of the original Bill of Rights, the states are absolutely sovereign. It was intended to be that way and it will be that way again.

0 Reads,                        Filed under Civil Liberties and Freedom , Editor , Politics .      You can follow any responses to this entry through the RSS 2.0 .           Both comments and pings are currently closed.

To post, we ask that you login using Facebook, Yahoo, AOL, or Hotmail in the box below.

Don't have a social network account? Register and Login direct with VT and post.

12 States have constituted the Administration of the Common Law Jury in all counties.

Liberty requires everyone to understand natural law, the constitution, and the illicit form of government led by lawyers for so long now.  Thank you Cara for continuing to link the truth vs the facts.  That should smack some of them in the cortex.

Look where the NWO is heading once people don’t believe they have rights.  They are softpeddling the English comedians socialist concept (of which he doesn’t know why or where it came from- Russell Brand).

You may find this an interesting take on new developments.  It was first put out as zeitgeist here in US.  They have all the same players.

good job welcome aboard (ok bad pun). I recognized Jordan Maxwell’s stuff right out the gate and its absolutely correct. when FEDS go raiding pot farms and medicinal dispensaries in California, the local Sherriff’s should be arresting the mofo’s by whatever means necessary. if a “judge” lets the feds go he should be arrested for aiding criminals, as a simple basic example of things that should start immediately.

federal taxes, I’m NOT a corporation or a corporate fiction, therefore I am EXEMPT.

on YouTube, check out “TheAntiterrorist” for info about your rights and how to stand in court.

Curiously, the cities of Chicago and New York City are BOTH Port Authorities, and therefore make claims to Admiralty Law when convenient. Both cities are the sites of huge skyscrapers which were loaded with nuclear based demolition systems during construction. No other cities in the U.S. are in the record as featuring such potential and already initiated weapons of mass destruction. The World Trade Centers I, II, and 7 were set off with murderous and chaotic results from which the world still continues to fall victim.

The purchaser of the NYC WTCs in 2001, Lordy Silverfish, then purchased the Chicago Sears & Roebuck(now Willis) Tower in 2004, but sold it a few months later to a rabbi friend after its name was changed to the Willis Tower. If British Admiralty Law instituted in Chicago is what Raum Emmanuel and the management of the Willis Tower hide behind to occlude the presence of the nuke based demolition system in the Willis Tower, we should kick their Limey ass across the pond ASAP and disable the set up.

How this F-A-C-T FACT has escaped the attention of conscientious scholars and fools alike since day 1, I am puzzled. I guess leaving the larval stage of humanity known as ‘sheeple’ came later for some. I would think a pack of racist awholes loading buildings with nuke based demolition systems and lording the fact over the rest of us would incur someone else’s wrath as much as it did mine.

Thanks for laying it out, people need to see this a few times before it sinks in.

Eustace Mullins had this all figured out also and tied it directly to the Bankers.

say that at least 30 years ago.

I think a Constitutional convention is in order.

There are traitors running rampant who have the levers of power in their hands.

A restoration of the Bill of rights is called a Revolution.

Jefferson is rooting us on here, you don’t fix abomination, you destroy it.

The Central Bankers are the Enemy of mankind.

Everyone can agree on that.

Part of Roman Canon law, upon which Admiralty law is based according to this article, is the wretched doctrine “qui tacet consentire videtur” or “He that is silent is taken to consent.” So TPTB could and will argue that because no one objected in a timely fashion, the law stands.  Moreover, even if all fifty states form Common Law courts, the federal government’s reaction is likely to be like that of President Jackson when the Marshall Court found in favor of the Indians after reviewing the Indian Removal Act, “Marshall has made his decision, now let him enforce it.” US military power is in the hands of the Federal Government, and state governments / county sherrifs are in no position to challenge that power.

Alternative media on the internet have done a great job of shining light on the dark places, acts, and policies the power “elite” would prefer had remained hidden, yet “we the people” are too divided, too apathetic, or too concerned with the problems and distractions of daily life to do much more than wish it was not so.  It is very difficult to see how this miserable state of affairs can end happily, but I’d concur with Jack Heart and other commenters that between here and the possibility of a better world lies a great deal of bloodshed, and most of us probably won’t survive to find out what happens.

Think positive dude! Wanta is about to get his funds. Money (lots of it) in the right hands can perform some “temporal” miracles. Remember, this guy is supposed to be dead. Since his resurrection, he has put “insurance” in place, that in the event of his real death, the entire world will know his story, and where ALL the bodies are buried within 24 to 72 hours. This is not his preferred choice. It will cause quite a shock to system, and will engender some upheaval. Better to do this gradually, to minimize bloodshed. Check with Barnewall for further details.

It has been said, that Wanta has a security detail equal to and possibly exceeding GHWB. Wanta stands to own quite a few banks, and some (if not all) of those “too big to fail ones.” History records that events like this has happen before. Once in 1522 and in 1215. I’m not sure if we can count 1776 among these, because that was an Illuminati effort more than not. Certainly 1787.

2- Here in California no one has direct access to either state or federal Grand Juries. THey are fully under control of courts & district attorneys or U.S. attorneys. So them being independent is just on paper.

4- We probably need to start “Bundy Ranching” all over the country.

Sigmund Freud in self congratulation to himself and his jewish friends – with regard to the so called ‘sexual revolution’, bogus ‘psychoanalysis’ – and of course its sister initiative; politically correct mindset enforcement. The common theme of this very deliberate satanic possession of our lands and people – is that it is ALWAYS introduced as a ‘good deed’ to fool the people. The poison and the fraud is always disguised as ‘fairness’ and egalitarianism – thus providing the authority to foist it on us ‘for our own good’.

Today we see the phenomena of ordinary (and otherwise good and decent) people in profound despair – suddenly butchering their own wives and beautiful children in their own homes – before killing themselves. The ultimate achievement of Freud and the satanic apparatus around our necks – the same apparatus now built into and integral to the modern western state. satanic possession by order of the state.

The legal system is only what we make it.

It’s encouraging to see VT run this information, as previously it has been all over the internet but not on as prestigious of sites. I’d like the answers to the above questions before I become too jake giddy. Cara writes some interesting things, but could take a page from Jonas Alexis’ Book of Citations and References.

I always wondered why the German identity card (Personalausweis) is in capital letters.

Not that this will matter after reading the below.  When I was first told about the scam taking American taxpayers for a never-ending ride, I was in disbelief.

To read this is amazing.  My son already has a copy in his notebook.  It is nice to know “it will be that way again,” and I hope I am alive to see it.  At least I can educate my children so they know the scam.

But, maybe it’s not all bad.  We cows are free to go wherever we want inside these fences.  And the Farmer, he takes good care of us!

Ms. St. Louis provides an excellent analysis, but a few points should be made clear.

1) No person ever agreed to the shenanigans of the “Organic Act” of 1871, which illegally nullified the genuine US Constitution, and installed a corporate state, without the real 13th amendment. Look it up, if you dare. Of course, we all know there are several lazy commentators here who don’t look up anything that conflicts with their indoctrinations, so I am addressing those yet uncorrupted.

2) Because no one who was shuttled into corporate status agreed, or even knew that this was the case, a condition required of the preexisting legal framework, any attempt by the corporate state to assume corporate power over individuals is inherently without legitimate authority.

3) The corporate state realizes its an illegitimate creation, but refuses to admit to the sleight of hand that created this artifice, instead propagating various illusions among the populace.

4) The corporatization of LIFE is directly responsible for poisoning your world, your mind, your food, and your DNA.

For those who wish to do more than shriek “no evidence” like drunken Banshees, Jack is actually right. The purveyors of the Magna Carta were able to force the King to accept their demands because they held the power of the SWORD.

the Battlefield,               about by passing attorneys and going pro si.  He knew a lot about the law.

is an Enemy Spy” is baseball with umpires that admire Stalin!

English has been formed from a number of languages, and Old Norse is important in this article.. The list of ships (ambassador through workman) have derived from different words. Old Norse has given us; the noun skip = ship; the verb skapa = shape (create); and the noun skap = mood or temper. It has also given us frændi = male relative, which is similar to Old English froend, and Old Frisian friund and German freund all of which mean friend or lover. Over a thousand years ago, Old English, Old Frisian, and old Old Norse were virtually the same language. Old English, already infused with Latin from Roman times, blended with Gaelic and Old French. Vowels changed and words took on new meanings.

Thus “ship” in English when used in a compound form can be; a ship; a shape; or a mood. No one would argue that battle ship or warship are anything but ships. However, friendship is a mood, and workmanship is a shape. The word shipshape demonstrates this.

The misinformation on the history of these words takes away from extremely important points on the perversion of our legal system that this article makes.

jglassel.

Is it time to bend over and kiss our asses good bye? Perhaps it is time to just let go.

It hit me as I read a portion of one of Roland’s latest. Allen was recalling a near death experience as a young fighter pilot. It was not until he “bent over to kiss his ass goodbye” that he was able to grasp the fact that he had not retracted his landing gear. Consequently, “letting go” extended his life.

All that exists is the Entirety, consciousness.

Seeking to experience itself, consciousness created man, mini consciousness, as it were.

Admitting the mistake, consciousness sought to return everything to the one, but mini consciousness rebelled, preferring the individuality of the self.

In that sense, we are all Lucifer, fallen beings. Many of us are tired of the rebellion and seek rest, yet our masters hold us here, forcing us to share the pain in that they may retain the pleasure.

John Lash maintains that Sophia may terminate the human experiment. And for good cause, the human species could just as easily have been guppies.

The words of the Phoster are pretty clear.

The state of humanity is punitive. Wishing for peace is all right and good, but without basis to reality.

Of course, many ignorant slaves will seize upon the Jesus name and project all sorts of nonsense stemming from their indoctrination, drooling and rolling their eyes, forgetting all along that it was the christians who stole Jesus from the Telestai, and hid their crime with genocide.

jglassel.

Christ as the Great Balancer. The world became unbalanced due to evil, greed and violence, an unnatural manipulation of the matrix. No doubt, correction will be equally violent.

Without a doubt, the top 1% of Western Society, both corporate and government would need to be sequestered. 3.3 million people in the US could feasibly be incarcerated, but to what end? These people are child sacrificing mass murderers.

Wal Mart admits, much of its profit is a direct result of the Food Stamp program. Many of its employees, the working poor receive government assistance. So, in a roundabout way, taxpayers have donated most of that 1.5 trillion.

I am not sure that is what the founder, Sam Walton had in mind.

Anyway, the biggest problem facing the “purge” is that we are not psychopathic killers.

JG,

So, the elite worships the ephemeral, and confuses it for the eternal. Just as they commit everything to total domination they are leaving their flanks unguarded.

We shall see.

John Kirby : There is a bottomless pit of justified hatred for Israel in the hearts of Paletinians. The harm has been done.

Yes, Very Happy!
