
The Veterans Affairs has been caught with its pants down.  Veterans Affairs medical centers all across the country are under investigation, a scandal that should not have happened.  More than 40 veterans died while waiting  up to 21 months to be seen by specialist doctors for various life threatening  illness' at the Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Phoenix, Arizona.

More deaths are also reported at other Veterans Affairs medical centers nationwide. This is blatant mismanagement if not criminal under the supposedly watchful eye of Veterans Affairs Secretary Eric Shinseki. Military veterans organization are calling for the secretary to be fired and prosecuted for mismanagement and answer for these untimely deaths.

Likewise, Under Secretary of Health  Dr. Robert Petzel and Under Secretary for benefits Allison Hickey should resign or be immediately fired.  The Inspector General of the United States has been directed to conduct an investigation into the allegations' brought upon Veterans Affairs.

Paul E. Travis, a retired U.S. Air Force master sergeant and veterans advocate said, "it's time that all veterans unite to stop the mismanagement atrocity known as Veterans Affairs from further harming veterans."  Travis is well know amongst the veteran population.

John Paul Rossie, executive director, Blue Water Navy Vietnam Veterans Association is speaking out to urge Congress to conduct a congressional investigation into the Veterans Affairs scandal.

Veterans are treated like a piece of meat,  Often they are handed pills, narcotics for pain and antidepressants to calm them down and shoved out the door. Medically this sort of action solves nothing.  Is this proper care for our veterans at Veterans Affairs hospitals?  I think not.

The American people should demand our Congress to step in and stop the atrocities that takes place at Veterans Affairs medical centers. Demand that our veterans be properly cared for; they gave their all for our country, we now need to give our all to them.

Media. Pa.

To comment you must first create a profile and sign-in with a verified DISQUS account or social network ID. Sign up here.
