
FORT WORTH — Police and U.S. Postal Service officials are investigating a complaint by a Meadowbrook area couple that a mail carrier fatally injured their Yorkshire terrier by hitting him with a rock.

The 5-year-old dog named Maxwell wandered across the street from his owners’ residence in the 3600 block of Hazeline Road about 11 a.m. Saturday, Maxwell’s owner, Lawrence Brown, said Monday.

Brown, 46, said he was in the garage and didn’t realize Maxwell was across the street when he heard a dog yelping in pain.

“He said, ‘I got me one,’ ” Brown said.

That’s when Brown realized that the injured dog was Maxwell.

“I asked him why he hit my wife’s dog with a rock, and he said, ‘I did what I had to do,’ ” Brown said.

A veterinarian at an emergency clinic told the Browns that Maxwell had a shattered skull and severe spinal cord injury and couldn’t be saved, so the dog was euthanized, Lawrence Brown said.

A Fort Worth police officer “responded to an animal cruelty report call” about 2:15 p.m. Saturday from the Browns’ address, said officer Daniel Segura, a police spokesman. “The victim told officers that the possible suspect was the mail carrier,” Segura said.

Police have talked to a U.S. Postal Service letter carrier’s supervisor, Segura said.

Police are not releasing the letter carrier’s name, and no arrest has been made, Segura said.

The postal service is investigating the Browns’ complaint, said Arlene Sanchez, a Postal Service spokeswoman for the Dallas-Fort Worth area.

“The postal service takes the issue of dog bite prevention very seriously,” Sanchez said by email. “We are saddened at the loss of the customer’s pet.

Lawrence Brown said he believes Maxwell got outside the yard by crawling through holes dug by dogs next door. Maxwell was playful, never aggressive and friendly with people of all ages in the neighborhood, he said.

The mail carrier has worked in the neighborhood for years, Brown said, and he was even friendly with him because they had a mutual interest in cars. Maxwell was never aggressive toward the mail carrier, Brown said.

Asked in an interview if mail carriers were trained to use deadly force to protect themselves, Sanchez declined to comment until the investigation is completed.

Maxwell’s death coincides with “National Dog Bite Prevention Week, May 18-24,” which is co-sponsored by the U.S. Postal Service. Other sponsors include the American Humane Association and the American Veterinary Medical Association.

As part of that effort, the postal service released rankings for 2013 on dog attacks on mail carriers by city.

Fort Worth ranked 16th of 30 cities on the list, tying with Cincinnati and San Jose, Calif. The three cities had 26 reported dog attacks, according to the postal service.

Topping the list was Houston with 63 attacks; Dallas was seventh with 45.

The postal service reported that 5,581 employees were attacked last year, according to a news release about National Dog Bite Prevention Week.

Brown, who works on the assembly line at the Arlington General Motors plant, said a neighbor helped him with the injured Maxwell as the mail carrier continued down the street.

But Maxwell was still breathing when Taiesha Brown reached him. She held him as Lawrence Brown drove to an animal hospital on Hulen Street.

Taiesha Brown, who works for the Internal Revenue Service, said the loss hit her hard.

This report includes information from WFAA/Channel 8 TV.

Maxwell Brown was a 5-year-old Yorkshire terrier who was put to sleep Saturday due to severe injuries.

Maxwell Brown was a 5-year-old Yorkshire terrier who was put to sleep Saturday due to severe injuries.

Maxwell Brown was a 5-year-old Yorkshire terrier who was put down Saturday due to severe injuries.

We welcome your comments on this story, but please be civil. Do not use profanity, hate speech, threats, personal abuse, images, internet links or any device to draw undue attention. Our policy requires those wishing to post here to use their real identity.
