
The Securities and Exchange Commission of Pakistan (SECP) has issued a circular outlining detailed procedure to be followed by insurers to ensure timely payment of unclaimed insurance benefits.

Currently, a significant amount of money is lying with insurers on account of unclaimed benefits. The large chunk relates to unclaimed life insurance maturity benefits.

The circular requires the insurers to disclose the unclaimed benefits in their financial statements separately. It also requires that as a matter of accounting policy no insurer can write back – i.e. remove its liabilities on account of unclaimed benefits. A format for the regulatory reporting has also been introduced to ensure that the insurers hand down benefits in a timely manner.

In addition, the SECP has required the insurers to carry out a search process for the unclaimed maturity benefits due under a life insurance policy. For this purpose, an insurer may establish and subsequently use a procedure to utilise NADRA’s database to get up-to-date information about policyholders and their beneficiaries. Similar requirements have been placed in respect of unclaimed death and other benefits.

In order to enhance awareness of policyholders and their beneficiaries, the circular requires the insurers to place on their websites an updated list of all policyholders’ names, who have not claimed their benefits. Furthermore, all the insurers will place on their websites the names of officers who can provide information pertaining to the existence/status of an insurance policy to the insured or their legal heirs.

The circular also requires the insurers to place periodic advertisements in two national newspapers about these benefits.

Published in The Express Tribune, May 20th, 2014.

Like  Business on Facebook , follow @TribuneBiz  on Twitter to stay informed and join in the conversation.

Your comments may appear in The Express Tribune paper. For this reason we encourage you to provide your city. The Express Tribune does not bear any responsibility for user comments.

Comments are moderated and generally will be posted if they are on-topic and not abusive. For more information, please see our Comments FAQ .

Notify me of new posts by email.

Unless otherwise stated, all content is copyrighted © 2014 The Express Tribune News Network.
