
Some old favourites are worth watching all over again…and again. Fun family time can be made more enjoyable with amusing movies. A brief glimpse of what is in store.

Wish for something and it might just come true. For starters, here’s a movie wish list. Holidays are always fun when we can talk about the endless hours of watching our favourite movie with friends and cousins, popcorn, juices and snacks.

Here’s to the joys of the silver screen.

The Jungle Book: Sample this: You don’t look like them, yet you have a wolf as a mother, bear as a teacher and Bagheera for a friend. You life will be nothing short of adventure even if means having to guard your life from Sher Khan. Knowing everything there is to surviving in the jungle, Mowgli puts his best foot forward in this game of survival.

The Sound of Music: They say music heals, and oh! Yes! It’s true. Watch Sound of Music, a musical that features a stern father and his seven children better known as the Von Trapp family. They fall in line when Maria sings. She not only teaches them to love, but also unites them as a family.

The Lion King: We look up to our parents and Simba is just like us. But when his father dies due to his adventurous and reckless behaviour, Simba is suddenly reminded that he needs to take charge. Faced with unknown enemies and an army who will stand by him forever he has to avenge his dad’s death and secure his clan.

Toy Story: Ever wondered what happens to all the toys that you once played with when you were young. Andy wants to play with his new Space Ranger. His old favourite, Woody, a cowboy, is not happy and in a twist of events he he has to find his way home with only Buzz, the astronaut for company.

Chitty Chitty Bang Bang: A flying car, two delightful kids, one inventor, and a gorgeous lady. Enough ingredients to make a movie? You bet! The story of two kids who want to buy a car and a father who invents something to earn some money to buy the car. And the car in question? Chitty Chitty Bang Bang, named for the noise it makes.

Finding Nemo: Nemo has lost his mom and his dad keeps a keen eye on him, all the time. Little Nemo wants to obey his dad but curiosity takes over and he gets caught only to be thrown into an aquarium far away in Sydney. Nemo’s dad Marlin and his friend Dory begin to search for Nemo. Obstacles, unsure sea path, clueless location, dangers of staying alive are just few of the hitches.

Shrek: Life for an ogre is not easy. He’s possessive about his home. Yeah! Even if it’s on the marsh. He hates it when he has to share it with the many animals that have been banished by the cruel king Farquaad. Determined to get it back he embarks on a journey to rescue Princess Fiona — to wed Farquaad.

ET the Extra-Terrestrial: Anything we don’t know usually scares us except in this case. When ET lands on earth quite accidentally, he changes the lives of many including Elliott (the Protagonist). The movie is about Elliott and his siblings. However, they have to take heed as they have to keep ET under wraps from their mother and the government officials who have sensed something funny happening in their neighbourhood.
