
DEAR AMY: I am a 37-year-old mother of two. My youngest child is 6. His father and I were never really a couple, and we never had a plan for a future together. He is just a big kid who has never really grown up and taken responsibility financially to help me with our son.

He also hasn’t put his name on our son’s birth certificate, for fear that child support services will garnish his wages.

When we went to court, they came up with a good-faith figure of $180 a month for child support. In the six years of our son’s life, he has given me about $15 to $30 every two weeks, which is quite short of the amount he’s supposed to pay.

My family and friends keep telling me to go down to child support services, start a case and play hardball because he’s taking advantage of my kindness.

We get along — my son has never seen us fight and we’ve even taken family vacations together as friends. I am scared that will change as soon as his wages get garnished.

DEAR MOM: Surely when you deal with your own children you expect them to take responsibility for their actions and face consequences. You should expect at least as much from the father of your son.

Officially acknowledging that he is the father of this child is necessary. This is not for you or for him, but for your son.

You two have been to court before and have managed to keep things friendly (this speaks well of both of you). Obviously, he needs to pay child support, but you still have matters to negotiate, and if you do so successfully you will not need to play hardball.

Ask the court to assign a mediator to work with you. The matters on the table at this point are his requirement to acknowledge paternity and the amount of child support he realistically can/will provide. Reducing the amount from $180 to $125, for instance, might encourage him to actually make his payments in full.

Otherwise, if he is able to pay but is refusing to pay, or if he is forgetting to make this very modest support payment, then he is both a deadbeat dad and a baby, and he should have his wages garnished.

DEAR SAD: You are not overreacting. These questions are insensitive. However, this is definitely a connection people are very curious about.

You might be inferring a judgment on the part of people that because a smoker’s behavior contributes to their lung cancer risk they somehow “deserve” cancer, but it is a simple fact that most people are just unable to suppress their own curiosity about the connection between smoking and lung cancer. It is the sort of question that thoughtlessly flies out before a person takes the time to be judicious.

The American Cancer Society offers help and support for caregivers, friends and families of those with cancer: cancer.org .

DEAR AMY: Here’s a solution for “Wedding-Tug-of-War,” who wanted to have a private destination wedding and not include family.

They should secretly have their dream beach ceremony, and then invite everyone to celebrate locally, wear the dress again and have the ceremony re-enacted. Let everyone think it is the “real” wedding.

DEAR READER: Lying about your wedding seems like the ultimate performance.

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
