
THIS month marks the 10th anniversary of my move to Malaysia, and in honour of the occasion, I thought I would pen an ode to you, my beloved adopted country.

I know it may not seem like much — this lousy love letter typed with one hand (the other is covered in Dorrito dust and is being used to dislodge a stubborn nugget from my ear canal) — but hey, it’s more than I did for my 10th wedding anniversary (my wife and I went to Pizza Hut — extravagant, I know, but I had a 2-for-1 coupon).

Hard to believe that I have lived in you, Malaysia, for 10 years — nearly a quarter of my existence (blush, I just revealed my age).

To put it in perspective, that is roughly the same amount of time it took me to achieve some of my life’s greatest feats: graduating from kindergarten, learning how to whistle and inventing a cure for insomnia (my articles).

I still remember the very first time I set foot on your sweet soil, Malaysia, 13 years ago — before I decided to take the plunge and move here.

I will admit that, like most Americans, I did not know the first thing about you (or the rest of the world for that matter).

I did, however, once know a girl named “Malaysia” and she had sisters named “Fantasia”, “Danasia” and “Jacquasia” — I think maybe her parents liked that “Asia” theme.

When I met my Malaysian girlfriend (later to be Mrs) in New York City at the salad bar at a Pizza Hut (where else?) and she told me she hailed from a place called “Batu Caves”, I took that literally, assuming that people here in fact dwelled in primitive, claustrophobic darkness.

So when I first landed here, the thing that struck me about you, Malaysia, was your openness.

I still remember driving on the highway from KLIA with my then Malaysian girlfriend on that first magical morning, gazing at the endless expanse of palm and rubber tree plantations stretching out to meet the perfect blue sky.

Looking at that landscape, I could feel that openness, the mystery and opportunity of the East, blossoming inside me.

Anything was possible on that luminous Malaysian morning, I believed that I could leave behind my miserable life in the US, with a crippling addiction to Skittles and betting on amateur turtle-racing, and start afresh here with you.

It was a morning I will never forget; it was love at first sight — like that fateful encounter at the Pizza Hut salad bar.

Anyway, as we drove down that immaculate highway (your highways are so clean, Malaysia. I could eat off them), I saw the Kuala Lumpur cityscape rising before me, literally being built before my very eyes.

At that moment, I knew that I could move here and build a future here for myself — and I did.

Ten years later I am still here.

Malaysia, you have given me so much — three sons (well, technically speaking, that is the now Malaysian Mrs who did that), worldwide fame (at least in my own mind) and chronic heat rash and gastroenteritis. And all you ask from me is that I pay my taxes — that is what I call selfless love.

I have changed and you have changed, Malaysia.

We have “developed” over the years, but I want to tell you that the feeling inside me is still the same.

I still love you as much as the first day I saw you and nothing will ever come between us (unless the Immigration Department decides to deport me).

True, I have complained about you (that’s what expats do, after all — sit around and moan about the weather, and how hard it is to get “good cheese”) and I have cheated on you (that one weekend in Thailand), but I have never stopped loving you, Malaysia.

Sometimes, I wake up in the pre-dawn darkness and don’t know where I am. I grope for my glasses and my semi-automatic handgun and then I remember — I’m not in Kansas anymore, I’m here with you, Malaysia.

So I lie back down and wait for your brilliant fingers to claw their way through the curtains, and when the lights comes, my heart feels exactly the same as it did on that first, fateful morning drive down that concrete artery straight into your heart, Kuala Lumpur.

For me, Malaysia, you are always entirely new and entirely home.

Thank you for 10 great years, Malaysia.

Editor of books and magazines, lover of black coffee, electric toothbrushes and endangered species, daddy, dreamer, LRT commuter, international man of mystery, William Citrin has published a book titled ‘Education Destination Malaysia’.

Columnist pens an ode to a country he now calls home.
