
Mick Jagger 's family is expanding in an unusual way: His first great-grandchild and his fifth grandchild are arriving within weeks of each other. On May 18, 2014, Hello! magazine reported that Mick's 21-year-old granddaughter Assisi Jackson recently gave birth to a daughter. More details about the birth have not yet been publicly announced. However, Jackson and her 25-year-old chef boyfriend Alex Key (the father of the child) plan to have a society magazine do a family photo shoot with the baby, according to the Daily Mail . The magazine doing the photo shoot has also not yet been revealed.

Meanwhile, Assisi Jackson's mother, Jade (who is Mick's second child), is due to give birth to her third child within weeks. Jade's other child is daughter Amba. Jade's third child will be in an unusual position of being an aunt or uncle who is younger than Assisi's daughter. Amba and Assisi's father is Jade's ex-boyfriend Piers Jackson, who is an artist. Jade's third child is the first child she has with her husband, Adrian Fillary, who is a DJ. The couple got married in 2012 .

Karis (born in 1970), whose mother is Mick's ex-girlfriend Marsha Hunt. Karis is married with two children.

Jade (born in 1971), whose mother is Mick's ex-wife Bianca. Jade has two children and is expecting her third child in mid-2014.

Elizabeth, also known as Lizzy (born in 1984), whose mother is Jerry Hall.

James (born in 1985), whose mother is Jerry Hall.

Georgia May (born in 1992), whose mother is Jerry Hall.

Gabriel (born in 1997), whose mother is Jerry Hall.

Lucas (born in 1999), whose mother is Mick's ex-lover Luciana Morad.

However, in a 2013 interview with Hello!, Assisi said, "The women in our family just tend to have children young, it runs in the genes. I grew up quite quickly and wouldn't have considered having a child if I was doing what my friends are doing at this stage, messing around. I don't drink, I don't smoke and I'm very settled.

In the same Hello! article, Jade said of Assisi: "She'll be a perfect mum. Assisi is a level-headed, sweet girl and I think it will give them both a lot of pleasure. It gives you an amazing purpose in life, to fulfill nature's destiny."

As for Mick's reaction to becoming a great-grandfather, Assisi commented in the same article: "I imagine it's nice to be a great-grandad, although I'm not sure he likes the idea of getting old, or being called one. I call him Mick. I wouldn't start calling him Grandpa."

The Rolling Stones , who launched their "14 on Fire" tour in February 2014, are scheduled to perform in Oslo, Norway, on May 26, 2014. It will be the band's first concert since the tragic suicide of fashion designer L'Wren Scott, who was Mick's girlfriend since 2001. Scott was found hanged from a doorknob in her New York City apartment on March 17, 2014.

After her death, the Rolling Stones rescheduled several concerts in Australia and New Zealand that were originally scheduled to take place in March and April 2014. The concerts were postponed to October and November 2014 .
