
The group is claiming responsibility for taking down Sony's Playstation Network and diverting an American Airlines jet carrying a Sony executive.

UCF football team head coach George O'Leary gives his take on what the eruption of the Iceland volcano means for the Knights' season opener.

Falling energy prices means good investments in oil services and manufacturing – and more jobs, too.

Nick Cannon has confirmed he and wife Mariah Carey have been living apart for months. USA Today’s Erin Jensen looks at possible reasons why the couple is no longer living under one roof.

Bank of America has agreed to pay $16.65B, $7B of which will be for consumer relief. On USA NOW, Carly Mallenbam reviews what the money is going toward, and how this settlement compares to other recent Department of Justice agreements.

USA TODAY’s TV critic Robert Bianco tells Carly Mallenbaum why this year’s award winners are more unpredictable than usual, and shares his picks for best drama, comedy and mini-series.

'Madden NFL 15' boasts stunning looks, impressive depth and mostly consistent action on the field.

With growing concerns and calls for peace in Ferguson, one man who says he is here for peace, is being asked to leave.

President Obama called the beheading of American journalist James Foley "an act of violence that shocks the conscience of the entire world."

‘Sin City: A Dame to Kill For’ picks up where the 2005 movie, ‘Sin City,’ left off. Sorta. USA TODAY’s Carly Mallenbaum and Brian Truitt explain why certain characters who died in the first movie are back, and how new characters are getting involved.

Yes, it's for a good cause, but the Ice Bucket Challenge has officially jumped the shark. USA TODAY's Arienne Thompson seriously can't watch another water-wasting clip. Seriously.

The Attorney General is going to Ferguson, Missouri to check on the investigation into Michael Brown's shooting, Obama announced Monday.

Christina Aguilera continues the trend of unique celebrity baby names, giving her daughter a name that could sound like a weather forecast.

The convenience store Michael Brown is accused of stealing from was just one of the Ferguson businesses looted as protests once again turned violent overnight.

Violent protests and looting returned to Ferguson, Missouri overnight, prompting officers to fire tear gas at the crowds. Earlier in the day, police released the name of the officer who killed unarmed teenager Michael Brown.

Oscar winner Reese Witherspoon is a great actress, but when it comes to dancing? Um, not so much. USA TODAY's Arienne Thompson breaks down her awkward moves and suggests a dance coach.

Ferguson Police Chief Thomas Jackson named Darren Wilson as the police officer accused of shooting and killing 18-year-old Michael Brown. The death of the unarmed teen sparked days of riots in the small Missouri town.
