
A Stafford County man is accused of striking a county deputy’s cruiser early Sunday on Interstate 95 and then driving off, police said.

Deputy Greg Haney was parked in the southbound right travel lane about 2 miles north of the Garrisonville Road exit shortly after 4 a.m., Sheriff’s spokesman Bill Kennedy said.

He was out of his cruiser assisting a motorist who had broken down and the deputy had his emergency lights flashing.

Kennedy said the disabled vehicle was unable to move to the shoulder of the road because of construction equipment for the I–95 express lanes project.

While Haney was talking to the woman whose vehicle had broken down, a southbound car struck his cruiser. Because of the noise in the area, Haney didn’t hear the collision but the tow-truck driver there informed him about what had happened.

Haney broadcast a lookout for the vehicle and about 20 minutes later a resident who was at the 7–Eleven on Onville Road reported a vehicle with front-end damage and an intoxicated driver.

The caller got the vehicle’s tag number but the driver left before the deputy arrived.

Police tracked the car to Stafford Mews Lane and spoke with a suspect, Kennedy said. The man was initially reluctant to say who had been driving the vehicle, but later said he had driven the car to a nightclub in Washington. He said he saw the deputy’s cruiser as he headed back home, but kept going because he thought he had hit a construction cone.

Tony Fuller, 34, of Stafford Mews Lane was charged with felony hit-and-run and driving while intoxicated.

He was placed in the Rappahannock Regional Jail under a $1,500 bond.

To contact all other newspaper departments, please click here or call 540-374-5000.

If you have commercial printing or offset printing needs in Virginia or anywhere on the East Coast, visit our printing company, Print Innovators.

Main Switchboard: 540-374-5000, Advertising: 540-374-5460, Classifieds: 540-374-5001, Subscriber Services: 540-374-5002,
