
Paula Pant launched her own business at age 27, traveled to 30 countries by age 30, and hates cubicles with a passion. Her blog, Afford Anything , is dedicated to becoming money-savvy, crushing limits, and maximizing life. AffordAnything.com is the new gathering spot for a tribe of people who refuse to say, “I’d love to do that ... but I can’t afford it.” Her message is that anyone can build wealth, create financial freedom and quit the corporate grind (if they choose).

Frugality is a great thing. It can pave the way to financial freedom, security and even wealth. But it can also pave the way to madness, if you take it too far. Here are some signs you might be taking things to the extreme -- and what you should be doing instead.

The internet is full of people who like to brag about the crazy measures they take to save money.

They rinse out Ziploc baggies so they can reuse them.

They spend hours each week clipping and organizing coupons to save a few extra cents on a can of soup that they don't even particularly like.

They dissect nearly empty toothpaste tubes so they can scrape out the last bits of toothpaste.

They spend far too much time, in other words, for not nearly enough return.

Creativity and a do-it-yourself spirit is one thing, but if you find yourself devoting hours of your life to shaving off a few cents here and there, it's time to reconsider your savings strategy.

At some point, you need to recognize that your time has a value, too, and wasting it on extreme savings strategies isn't always the best way to spend it. I advise people to be frugal with their time, not just their money .

If you've ever re-used dirty bathtub water, or if you use rags as "reusable toilet paper," you're pushing frugality too far.

There are certain things in life that are worth paying a little more for.

Sometimes it's worth spending on an item that costs a little more but gives you better (or more hygienic) quality. Trimming your water bill by taking shorter showers is fine; trimming your water bill by only showering once a month is just plain filthy.

There are certain things in life that are worth paying a little more for, whether they'll last longer, save you down the road or give you an overall better experience. Next time you consider doing something extreme to save a buck or two, ask yourself if that buck is really "worth" it in the grand scheme of things. Consider the true "value" of your money .

As Ebenezer Scrooge can attest to, simply saving lots of money doesn't equal happiness. Money is meant to be a tool for living our best lives, rather than an end in itself.

Sacrificing some things (like regularly dining out) in order to pay down debt or build up savings is one thing. Never eating out, ever, even for your parents' 40th wedding anniversary dinner, is another.

Your money is a tool you can use to maximize your life, and as such, you can and should prioritize the things that make you happy.

If you adore good food, have a nice meal out each week -- maybe you can cut back in another area you don't care about as much. If you love to travel, investing in a once-in-a-lifetime journey can be "worth" just as much as some extra dollars in your bank account that you never let yourself touch.

Be smart with your money, and you can walk a happy line between financial responsibility and enjoying yourself once in a while.

And please, ditch the reusable toilet paper. That's just not good for anyone.

Paula Pant ditched her 9-to-5 job in 2008. She's traveled to 30 countries, owns six rental units and runs a business from her laptop. Her blog, Afford Anything , is a gathering spot for rebels who refuse to say, "I can't afford it." Visit Afford Anything to learn how to shatter limits and live life on your own terms.

Recently, I bought new range...and I don't even cook a lot; however, the state tax amounted to $82.00, ad has awakened e ! I think 'tax' when I think about shopping, and it curbs my desire.

Most people eat out so they don't have to cook and do dishes. About 50% of the guests I prepared dishes for really didn't care what was on their plate long as it was hot and not spoiled.

Most of them didn't even know what they ate if you asked them the next day.

For those people you could open cans with a can opener and nuke it.

They were happy long as they didn't have to cook, set the table, or do dishes.

and dont forget, they are two ply, to extend use pull apart and use the reverse sides of each, that will allow one to quadruple the use.

You wrote this article!
