
MEDFORD, WI--(Marketwired - May 19, 2014) -  Cool water blue, battleship gray, and rich earthy red tones are coming to a window near you. After looking at its recent custom order trends, listening to customer feedback and scouting the latest in home décor, Hurd Windows & Doors developed its new Trends Color Palette. Available May 2014, seven new colors add inspired detail to any design scheme.

The new colors: Silver Ice, Gray Velvet, Battleship Gray, Copper Sun, Cadet Blue, Hampton Blue and Oceanside Blue join Hurd's 15 standard colors, five anodized finishes and unlimited custom colors to make a bold statement or provide a neutral undertone. Hurd's Trends Color Palette is offered at its standard color pricing with only a minimal setup fee.

"This palette is researched extensively through thousands of custom color match-ups and tightly edited to what our customers have told us they want now," said Vice President of Products and Services Stuart Brown. "The Trends Color Palette adds energy, and streamlines the design and ordering process."

To learn more, homeowners, architects and designers can order a full color palette fan at www.hurd.com or stop by one of Hurd's 400 distributors located in the U.S. and Canada.

With the best wood protection in the business and a varied selection of sizes, colors and design styles, Hurd offers homeowners and professionals the window and door options they want. Hurd offers the most energy-efficient glazing in the window industry and the longest wood window warranty available. Hurd cladding is at least twice as thick as its competitors' roll-form cladding. Hurd uses only heavy-duty extruded aluminum, which is at a minimum 0.05" thick, and, where needed, up to 0.065" thick.

 HWD Acquisition, Inc. is headquartered in Medford, Wisconsin. The company markets products under the Hurd and Superseal brands and is recognized for its 90-plus year tradition of building custom wood windows and doors to the highest standards of excellence and quality. Hurd products are sold exclusively through more than 400 distributors in the United States and Canada, and in 20 countries worldwide. With factories in Medford and Merrill, Wisconsin, Hurd products are manufactured in 600,000 square feet of production space. For more information and Hurd reviews, visit www.hurd.com . Toll free: 1-800-433-4873.

© Copyright Marketwire L.P. All rights reserved.
