
Two Army jawans have been killed and five others injured in two different attacks launched by suspected militants in Jammu and Kashmir.

Fresh attacks came at a time when New Delhi is gearing up for the swearing-in ceremony of the new government.

According to Army authorities, a soldier was killed and two others injured when militants attacked an Army patrol party in Akhnoor Sector - around 30km northwest of Jammu city - on Sunday.

Another soldier then succumbed to bullet injuries during an encounter in Chadoora - 20km southwest of Srinagar - on Monday.

Though  the Army suspects that the patrol team was attacked by militants in the  Akhnoor Sector, the role of the Pakistan Army's notorious Border Action  Team is not being ruled out.

"On Sunday, unidentified armed personnel  targeted a patrol of the Army by mines and small arms. Our troops  returned fire effectively and the armed group fled to a Pakistan Army  post... Search of the area yielded Pakistan-made mines, and other  equipment which suggests involvement of Pakistan and militants from  across the line of control," Lt. Col. Manish Mehta, a Jammu-based Army  spokesman told Mail Today on Monday.

Talking about Monday's encounter in the Chadoora area, Srinagar-based Defence spokesman Colonel N.N Joshi said that based on specific intelligence inputs, the Army and elite anti-insurgency force of the Jammu and Kashmir Police launched an operation in the area to nail the suspected militants.

He said the hiding militants opened fire on the troops injuring four Army troopers.

"One of them later succumbed to injuries," he said.

Col. Joshi also said the operation was still in progress. However, a police officer claimed the militants have fled the area. There have been 26 violations of the ceasefire on the LoC this year.

In May, the Pakistan Army had opened fire on seven occasions. The violations has come down steadily since last year, which was the worst in recent years in terms of violence on the LoC.

Last year saw 248 incidents of ceasefire violations. Sources said 40 attempts have been made by the militants to infiltrate into India.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
