
AUSTIN, TX, May 19, 2014 (Marketwired via COMTEX) -- Shelfbucks Inc., the leading iBeacon promotion platform for retail stores, today announced that it has appointed retail industry veteran Bill Martin, founder of ShopperTrak, as chairman of its board of directors.

Mr. Martin, 65, will draw on his extensive industry expertise to oversee Shelfbucks' growth in the retail sector, guiding the company's strategic planning, operations and marketing efforts. Having successfully brought traffic management and analytics to the forefront of the retail industry over the past three decades, he will now help retailers and brands gain maximum value from the next generation of physical store technology -- beacon-based solutions.

"Twenty years ago Bill Martin transformed the retail landscape by delivering an emerging technology to pioneer new ways for retailers to measure performance, create the best shopping experience and achieve new growth," said Erik McMillan, CEO of Shelfbucks. "He introduced retailers to the concept of 'conversion rate.' With beacon technology now moving to the forefront of retail innovation, there is no person more qualified to help steer Shelfbucks through the hurdles of disrupting a market as we transform the in-store promotion industry."

Shelfbucks uses unique beacon devices, installed on retailers' store shelves, to provide an enhanced shopping experience for customers. A shopper browsing a product area interacts with Shelfbucks beacons using a smartphone, and can immediately access expert content, promotional offers, ratings and reviews, and relevant data on nearby products. Shelfbucks helps eliminate the need for additional online research and showrooming, while saving shoppers time and delivering a superior shopping experience.

"In my 30 years in the retail industry, I've seen thousands of ideas and companies try to enter the marketplace, and when a product like Shelfbucks comes along with all the right components to truly change the industry for the better, it's a winner," said Mr. Martin. "This is a new horizon for retail, and Shelfbucks provides tremendous potential for retailers and brands to better leverage their most valuable asset -- shoppers."

Mr. Martin will continue to serve as executive vice president of Chicago-based ShopperTrak, which he founded 1995, and will remain actively engaged in that company's day-to-day operations, strategic planning and marketing processes.

Mr. Martin assumes the chairman position from Brett Hurt, founder of Bazaarvoice BV, -0.68% and Coremetrics. Mr. Hurt is an early Shelfbucks investor and will continue to serve Shelfbucks in a key strategic advisory role on the Shelfbucks Advisory Board.

Founded in 2013, Shelfbucks garnered national attention as winner of the 2013 DEMO Conference in the enterprise solutions category. The company was named to Austin's "A-List" of 2013 startups with the greatest growth potential, as well as Capital Factory's "Top 10 Startups to Watch" at the 2014 SXSW conference. Shelfbucks is currently in discussions with multiple leading retailers about its beacon platform and solutions.

About Shelfbucks Shelfbucks is the leading in-store beacon promotion platform which allows shoppers to interact with products on store shelves from their smartphone via iBeacon, BLE and Bluetooth Smart Beacons. Shelfbucks enables retailers and brands to measure real-time in-store shopper demand and deliver personalized special offers, coupons and expert content to shoppers' iPhone or Android smartphones to impact purchase decisions. Shelfbucks helps retailers and brands build a loyal relationship with in-store shoppers, while increasing incremental category sales, profit, and return visits. Shelfbucks is the first platform to allow retailers and brands to build a relationship with the growing number of GenY shoppers, who aren't reading print newspaper circulars, reading direct mail, or clipping paper coupons. Shelfbucks also helps retailers reduce price matching and showrooming to increase in-store sales opportunities. Additional information on Shelfbucks is available at www.shelfbucks.com . Watch industry leaders speak on digital coming to the in-store experience @ www.shelfbucks.com/faqs .

Copyright ©2014 MarketWatch, Inc.  All rights reserved.

Intraday Data provided by SIX Financial Information and subject to terms of use .                 Historical and current end-of-day data provided by SIX Financial Information. Intraday data                 delayed per exchange requirements. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones & Company, Inc.                 All quotes are in local exchange time. Real time last sale data provided by NASDAQ. More                 information on NASDAQ traded symbols and their current financial status. Intraday                 data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, and 20 minutes for other exchanges. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM)                 from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. SEHK intraday data is provided by SIX Financial Information and is                 at least 60-minutes delayed. All quotes are in local exchange time.
