
A woman who asked for a refund on a holiday after her husband was diagnosed with terminal cancer was told: "Take someone else with you."

Chris Quick, 58, and her husband Keith, 61, were due to go to Benidorm to celebrate their 38th wedding anniversary when they were given devastating news.

Keith went to see his GP about a persistent cough and was told he had terminal lung cancer.

The couple's daughter Kelly contacted travel operator Thomson on her mum's behalf to cancel the holiday but was stunned by the response.

"There was no empathy to my dad's situation.

"Instead they suggested my mum should go on holiday with someone else.

"He didn't want this to happen.

"Mum and dad have used Thomson for the past four years and thought they would show more compassion."

Keith and Chris, who have been visiting in Benidorm for years, are distraught he won't be able to say goodbye to friends in the resort.

Keith, from Southsea, near Portsmouth, said: "I'm so disgusted we have been treated this way.

"I never expected to get cancer, yet this isn't an exceptional circumstance for them.

"All of this has been so emotional and hasn't helped at all.

"I wanted to say goodbye to my friends one last time, and I won't be able to."

Chris, who worked at a women's refuge before she retired, said: "We go out to Benidorm about four times a year every year to see our friends out there.

"I am so angry about this.

"It's not about the money as we are sorting it with our insurance.

"I want an apology for the way we have been spoken to.

"This has been a very emotional time for us.

"When we got given this terrible news I told my daughter to ring Thomson to cancel the holiday for us."

Thomson have so far agreed to pay back £538 for one holiday booked in June, which cost £1,900.

A refund for another holiday, booked for October, has not yet been arranged.

A spokesman said: "Thomson is very sorry to hear that Mr and Mrs Quick were unhappy with the service they received when cancelling their holiday.

"We sympathise with their situation and understand this must be a very difficult time.

"Our customer service and retail teams always aim to offer the best possible service to all customers and this includes providing them with details of all the options available to them.

"We would like to reassure the couple that we never intended to cause offence or undue upset by providing this information.

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).
