
At least nine serving Generals in the Nigerian Army and other senior military officers are currently being investigated for allegedly supplying arms to members of the Boko Haram sect.

According to a report by Nigerian Pilot newspaper, the Nigerian military authorities would soon unveil the affected officers to the general public as soon as it concludes its internal checks.

However, it was gathered that their arraignment was only being delayed at the moment because of the current battle to free the abducted Chibok schoolgirls.

The paper quoted a source who said that some detained Boko Haram suspects allegedly named the Generals and other military officers as part of those supplying arms to the group.

An insider disclosed that the Nigerian Army, headed by the Chief of Army Staff, Lt-Gen. Kenneth Minimah, alongside other top military officers were working tirelessly to sanitise the armed forces and fish out collaborators with insurgents.

He hinted that the Army Chief had been briefed on the Generals’ arms deals with the insurgents, adding that “he (Army Chief) is currently carrying out a secret and independent investigation on the matter”.

In a quick reaction, the Defence Headquarters described the allegations as grave and promised to investigate the claims.

The outcome of the probe as well as the names of those involved in the act is yet to be made public by the authorities.

This is a progressive work. It is about time to reveal this crazy heartless human beings and and put them to trial immediately. Fish them out we want peace,  we want to behappy and build one nation under love not hate because this is too much.

Gr8t one…..it’s high time we seperate the grain from the chaff and i belive that Nigeria shall be great again.

where are all the PROPHETS in Nigeria,have they lost their sight or can’t hear from God anylonger? To tell us where the Chibok school missing girls are kept. In my opinion I will say let them speak or forever remain silent and stop giving false prophesies that do over heats the Nigerian polity.

Ojuka, You can be one of the prophets. If the foundation destroyed, what can the righteous do? Sin is a reproach to any people. We all need to repent. God has not changed, only that we have estranged ourselves from Him.

A very good one, wish they will do this quick as a way of reducing the strength of BH, while trying to block other supply lines to the blood thirsty killers.

How are we sure that this would not go to limbo like other cases. Hmm Naija my country.

I wish they will really fish them out, I have always known that they were insiders in the military. Only God will save this country from these blood suking demons.

The security personels and civilians aiding boko haram should be made PUBLIC and treated as boko haram themselves.

These so called army generals may not just be supplying arms to the group, but may be strong pillars and members of the group as well. Though, I am afraid because the Nigerian Army may likely not let the people be known since so many of them might be implicated in the deal. It is not surprising while this group has held the country to ransom for so long a time. In any case, the president of the country has said earlier that he knows members of book haram, but his weakness cannot allow him act as the Commander-in-Chief. His kinsman, Asari Dokubo described him as a disgrace to the ijaws since for fear to be killed, over 12,000 Nigerians have been killed. In an ideal nation, he should have resigned his appointment as the president, but rather, he wants 18 months extension of his tenure. The truth is that the blood of those innocent Nigerians whom he took an oath to protect and have allowed them to be killed will all be on him. On the last day, he will explain to the Supreme Being his actions as regards those killed by boko haram.

I thought u would ‘ve said those killed by Gej.If Boko harams,that are ur brothers killed those innocent souls,y must dia blood be required from his head.Because u ‘ve access 2 internet ,u think u can just open ur mouth & say anything u like.Y can’t u make use of ur brain.

Sorry to burst your ball but I have seen this type of story and thend too. Does it not sound familiar? This shitty story sounds like deception to me; to instill second guessing and confussion and I wonder why people are swallowing hook and sinker.

Sorry to burst your balls, but I sware, I have seen this story before and the end too. Does it not sound familiar? This shitty story sounds like deception to me; to instill second guessing and confussion and I wonder why people are swallowing it hook and sinker.

I would suggest Jonathan hands over to Asari Dokubor with immediate effect since Asari seems to know what to do and also fearless.

The honest truth concerning this bokoharam matter is that, our president has swallowed so many nonsense. Is IBB, not part of  bokoharam . The insecurity in our nation is everybody’s responsibility. Someone is saying where are the pastors or prophets.  What of the chiefs, the southern of sokoto and the others. If military officers have been found amongst this sect, bring them out to the public, lets publicly execute them, kill them. This will put fear other people’s  hearts. The way out of this insurgency is the action plan of killing any suspected individual who ever the person is, wither Buhari ,Atiku, or IBB.

On 12 January 2012 President Jonathan made a statement that jolted and shook the nation to its very foundation when uncharacteristically he announced to the whole world that boko haram has inflitrated every aspects of Nigeria’s vital institutions.  Paraphrasing the president here he said “boko haram are everywhere they sit with you they eat with you, they drink with you, they are in your back yard but you do not know when they will stab you in the back.  I will take this statement a step further as I have done on several occassion.

President Jonathan’s statement may have been prompted by what at that time have the earmark of a dangerous war with the capacity of consuming the entire states of northern Nigeria but nevertheless trivialised by the so called northern nigeria leaders.  For all the ridiculous statements made by various northern Nigeria leaders starting from the very lowly ignoramous officials to the Emirs, the Sardauns, the turban mrnarchs, and the half baked university educated blind elites, Jonathan seems to know better.

To the uninformed, what Jonathan was saying when he made the aforemention statements is very clear.  He is euphemistically announcing to the north and its leaders that they have by incidiously creating and supporting boko haram they have created a monster with the potential of consuming all of the north unless quickly tamed.

The ramification of President Jonathan’s statement I am sure can not be too soon lost in the memory of those who unreasonably came out gun blazing after his statement.  But how sweet it is!  The cheekens have come home to roost.  After more than five decades (50) years of unabated killings, maiming. ethnic cleasing, plundering willful distruction of properties of innocent men and women of other riligious denomination, clearly, the northerns have now turned the sword against themselves.

by Nyanko’s hilarious statements.  As though every northern Nigeria leaders and their sudanese almajiri educated followers are packed in a coocon, any sneeze, cough, diarrhea or any slight head aches suffered by them and their siblings is an affliction caused by Jonathan.  Just the other day a white folk who follows Nigeria’s political intrigues mused but how did the so called colonial masters in all their heralded administrative ingenuity deem it fit to merge the north and the south together in 1914?  He concluded by saying this is a monumental mistake.

It is crystal clear that northern Nigeria leaders and their minions in the south are worried as they begin to lose their grips on power in Nigeria.  For a very long time they have the instrument of power at their disposal. They dictate, maipulate, the system as they deem fit. They did so unchallenged. The consequence of their blind and corrupt rule has left Nigeria hanging on a life saving machine.

The mere thought that the current incumbent refuses to be their bed mate for corruption has irked them.  Jonathan has refused to be used.  He has quietly and deplomatically rejected the dictates of the arm chair velvet cushioned corrupt commandos.  He has stood on the path of righteousness.  He has stood with Nigeria’s proletariats.  He has stood with the common man and woman in Nigeria.  He has done so with unannounced vigor.  He has done so without beign braggadocious.

The book written by a fromer U.S ambassador to Nigeria and its wide world publicised prediction that Nigeria will disintegrate in 2015 was wrriten based on the extraordinary events and the unprecedented militarisms of the northerners.  The various vile and antagonistic statements and the various killings and pervasive ethnic cleansing in the north lay bare the background upon which the statement was made. It can no longer be disputed that Nigeria is on its way to disintegration.  The various events preceding Jonathan’s administration till date supports this claim.  The anarchical tendencies in northern Nigeria coupled with the undiminished militaristic statements made by northern Nigeria leaders have all created and encouraged some members of the Nigeria armed forces to begin to plan for seizure of power. The published insubodination of the army generals exhibited towards the Nigerian minister of defence and the recent mutiny and attempted assassination of an army general in the war front against boko haram are all pointers to the fact that President Jonathan’s statement that boko haram has long inflitrated every government apparatus as well as the democratically elected members of the house of representatives and the senate.  Jonathan is absolutely correct.  According to him no one knows when they will stab you in the back.  That back is a figure of speech.  It is another way of saying no one knows when they will struck and stage a coup d’etat.  History is just about to repeat itself.  Will northerners ever abandon this craziness?  Fifty (50) years after independence Nigeria is in a dilemma.

Thank you. It’s a good one.

Your absolutely right sir.

I do not believe what the are saying. This is their own way of nursing our itching nerves. What we should be asking for now are names,pictures address etc. Suspect a common man and he will be in custody immediately with all these facts about him exposed. Now its time to apply the same measure to whoever no matter how highly placed. After all apology will be rendered just like the common man will receive. If he ever gets one to begin with.

I do not believe what they are saying. This is their own way of nursing our itching nerves. What we should be asking for now are names,pictures address etc. Suspect a common man and he will be in custody immediately with all these facts about him exposed. Now its time to apply the same standard to whoever no matter how highly placed. After all apology will be rendered just like the common man will receive. If he ever gets one to begin with.

@Mike King Good bless Yu So Much For Dis 1derful Comment…As Well-Meaning Nigerians We know d truth!

Stop the weapons deliveries. Cut off the ammo, and you essentially cut off the heads of these terrorist groups. There’s only so many homemade bombs they can make. But as long as someone somewhere is selling out for financial gain, and these groups keep getting guns and military style vehicles, they will continue to appear and threaten peace.

Jonathan is not a weak president as many discribed him. l sees him as born leader.the end shall tell. I foresee a situation where people refer to him as massiah.

Notify me of follow-up comments by email.

Notify me of new posts by email.
