
But from the perspective of catalysing a proportionate political and public response to climate change, the reports have had limited impact.

Despite all the rebuttals of sceptics' arguments, and the "myth busting", public opinion is no further advanced than it was when the IPCC first started producing its reports . In the UK, where policymakers have accepted the IPCC's conclusions and recommendations for more than a decade, public engagement with climate change has regressed since the mid-2000s and the political consensus has begun to unravel .

In a report released yesterday by the Climate Outreach & Information Network, we argue that although the IPCC is succeeding in its aim of presenting facts about climate change to policy makers, this role reflects an outdated model of how science is incorporated into society, and how social change occurs. Catalysing a proportionate political and public response to climate change means rethinking how climate change is communicated: from science to human stories.

Based on interviews with 16 leading climate change communicators from the media and NGOs in the UK, the report makes a seven recommendations for transforming the role of the IPCC.

Our central argument is that IPCC outputs must be coupled with human stories and powerful narratives which can bring the science to life. In a recent piece for the New Statesman magazine, the Sarah Ditum argued that "the left is addicted to 'smartarse debunking.' But arguments are won by telling human stories." A similar argument could be made about climate science communicators.

Stories are the means by which people make sense of the world, learn values, form beliefs, and give shape to their lives. Stories are everywhere; in myth, comedy, and stained glass windows. But for the most part, they are absent from climate change communication.

If the IPCC was structured in order to catalyse a proportionate public and political response to climate change, the assessment reports would be turned on their head and would start from the needs of their audiences. These audiences would be defined by their capacity to bring about rapid social, technological and economic change. This would likely involve policymakers, but it would certainly not be limited to this group.

These changes would not be easy to implement. But if they seem like a considerable undertaking, then it is worth reflecting on how many person-hours have been poured into the IPCC process over almost a quarter of a century, and how lacklustre the political and public response has been. The terms of the IPCC are ultimately set by the governments that comprise the UN. This means that they can be changed by putting pressure on those who jointly oversee the funding and procedure of the organisation.

By working with a range of partners whose stories can lend cultural credibility to the scientific consensus – voices and groups from across the social and political spectrum – the science of the IPCC can be brought to life.

The sustainable living hub is funded by Unilever. All content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled advertisement feature. Find out more here .

Our editors' picks for the day's top news and commentary delivered to your inbox each morning.

Guardian Professional Networks are community-focused sites, where we bring together advice, best practice and insight from a wide range of professional communities.
