
Mike Alvarado strikes Juan Manuel Marquez during their welterweight bout Satur- day. But overall, Alvarado said, "it was a bad experience."

INGLEWOOD, Calif. — Shut out and frustrated by a combo-throwing technician, Mike Alvarado got caught by a punch in the eighth round  Saturday night that tied his legs in a knot and sent him tumbling under the ropes and nearly out of the ring.

Only then did he find his footing. But what comes next for the Denver boxer  remains a question.

Juan Manuel Marquez, a 40-year-old Mexican icon who flashed late-career strength by knocking out Manny Pacquiao just 18 months ago, powered up again against Alvarado. He capped a dominating performance with that near-knockout en route to a unanimous-decision victory by scores of 117-109, 117-109 and 119-108 in a 143-pound welterweight bout that drew  12,090 fight fans to The Forum.

"It was a bad experience being in there with a legend," Alvarado said. "I was warming up a little bit too much before  I started getting off. That's on me."

Alvarado, though, created a fight for himself by rallying from the knockdown, which occurred after Marquez feinted twice, then landed a hard right hand  with only six seconds remaining in the eighth round. Alvarado used the ropes to climb to his feet and dodge a knockout.

Then  he nearly climbed back into the fight. In the ninth round, a right cross clipped Marquez on the chin and knocked him down. Alvarado finally had won a round. But needing a dramatic knockout to completely rally back, Alvarado (34-3) couldn't catch up to Marquez (56-7-1) late in their 12-round showdown.

"Like I have said before, age doesn't matter," Marquez said afterward. "I always said that Mike Alvarado is a strong man and fast and worthy, and that's the fight I expected."

Marquez looked nothing like his age — he outpunched the 33-year-old Alvarado in 11 of the 12 rounds. Marquez connected on 57 percent of his power punches, nearly doubling Alvarado's amount (163 to 85).

"He just started slow," said Shann Vilhauer, Alvarado's trainer. "If he'd have fought the first six rounds like he did the last six, he'd have been fine."

Alvarado, a former WBO junior welterweight champion, moved up in weight for the first time in his career but likely took a hit to his future prospects.

Alvarado's promoter, Bob Arum of Top Rank, said he could face Brandon Rios in the third fight of their so-far even rivalry. Alvarado came back from the first loss of his career, in 2012, by beating Rios for the WBO title six months later in a rematch. Arum said Alvarado might also be matched against Tim Bradley, who lost his welterweight title to Pacquiao in April.

But Bradley, when asked about that prospect, said: "I just got done fighting Pac- quiao. Does that make sense to you (fighting Alvarado)? I'm at a different level."

Marquez, by beating Alvarado, earned mandatory challenger status for a title fight against Pacquiao. It would be the fifth meeting between the longtime rivals — if they fight in the fall, it would be more than a decade after their first meeting.

But Marquez wavered some Saturday about that idea. "We'll relax," he said. "I don't know at the moment (about Pac- quiao), but any decision we make will be good for me, good for my family and good for the Mexican fans."

If Marquez passes on Pacquiao or retires, Alvarado likely won't take his place. Arum said Pacquiao could fight Ruslan Provodnikov, who holds  the junior welterweight title he took from Alvarado last fall. Or, Pacquiao could face a fighter from Oscar De La Hoya's Golden Boy stable — if an agreement is reached between Top Rank and its rival promotional company, Arum said.

"Mike didn't embarrass himself at all. They both gave a great account of themselves," Arum said. "Mike is there to fight any of the top guys."

We reserve the right to remove any comment we feel is spammy, NSFW, defamatory, rude, or reckless to the community.

We expect everyone to be respectful of other commenters. It's fine to have differences of opinion, but there's no need to act like a jerk.

Use your own words (don't copy and paste from elsewhere), be honest and don't pretend to be someone (or something) you're not.
