
Talkwalker customers can now streamline social media efforts, track the performance & ROI of marketing campaigns and save time reporting with Talkwalker’s new unified enterprise social media analytics suite.

Today, Talkwalker is excited to launch Talkwalker v2.0- a product update which brings together the power of Talkwalker’s social media monitoring solution and marries it with a best-in-class analytics suite - delivering a ground-breaking, social media monitoring & analytics product that gives clients more of the insights that really matter.

As of today, Talkwalker customers will be able to leverage the new enterprise social media analytics to streamline their social media efforts, monitor their brand reputation, gain competitive intelligence, track ROI, campaign performance and even save time reporting – all from one centralised social intelligence hub.

“Big Data is in Talkwalker’s DNA. The new and improved Talkwalker has been specially crafted to demonstrate the full power of what a social search & analytics engine can really offer to sophisticated marketers – without compromising on usability,” says Christophe Folschette, Talkwalker Co-Founder.

With Talkwalker 2.0, marketing professionals, public relations, customer service and sales are all empowered to work hand-in-hand and integrate social media intelligence into their workflows for the first time. By leveraging Talkwalker’s intuitive, customizable dashboards and reporting – it is now easier than ever for internal stakeholders to integrate social media monitoring, track their individual department’s performance, enhance their workflows and ultimately, extend their impact.

More Analytics: Introducing key performance metrics for monitoring social media activity – easily track real-time and historical campaign performance, brand reputation, reach, engagement rate, response rate, followership and much more.

Competitive Benchmarking: The ultimate way to track campaigns in real-time and compare social media performance against industry benchmarks or the competition.

Tracking of Owned & Earned Media: Talkwalker clients can now discover winning organic content, track the effectiveness of their advertising efforts and amplify their campaign reach.

Ground-breaking Visualisations: Visualise the global reach of campaigns and communications with Talkwalker’s interactive world-map and leverage the flexibility of the new performance metrics to categorize results by language, sentiment or even media type.

Fully flexible Dashboards: With Talkwalker’s flexible, intuitive and fully customizable dashboards, internal stakeholders can easily keep track of their department’s most important KPIs, information and insights.

Talkwalker is an incredibly powerful and easy-to-use social media monitoring and analytics engine, delivering high value and quickly curated insights into a user-friendly dashboard which has been recommended by agencies and brands worldwide. Talkwalker was rated one of the top 5 best social media monitoring tools and online reputation management tools globally by Goldbach in 2013.

Talkwalker is a privately held and rapidly growing company founded in 2009, with headquarters based in the European capital city of Luxembourg.

To find out more about Talkwalker v2.0, please contact one of Talkwalker’s product specialists directly on contact(at)talkwalker(dot)com or tel: +352 20 33 35 3 43.
