
U.S. Coast Guard have stopped their search for a man who was seen struggling in the water near the Daytona Beach Pier, according to Coast Guard officials.

Officials said the search was called off at 3 p.m. Monday.

The Coast Guard said the Volusia County Sheriff's Office contacted them Sunday evening after a lifeguard reported seeing the man in the water about 300 yards offshore in front of the Hilton Daytona Beach Resort.

"He could still be out there and could still be treading water, but if  he's not a good swimmer then he could be in some serious trouble," said David Carrig with the U.S. Coast Guard.

ffice and Volusia County Beach Safety officials in the search.

Authorities said there are currently no reports of missing swimmers in the Daytona Beach area. Initially, the lifeguard said he recognized the man as a homeless person who frequents the area, but officials said they aren't certain who the struggling swimmer was.

“If there’s anybody that’s aware of somebody missing that was potentially at the beach yesterday and they can get us that information and share that information it would be much appreciated,” said Carrig.

On Monday a Coast Guard cutter, another Coast Guard vessel and two helicopters were looking for the swimmer, but the search efforts have since been called off.

Anyone who has information on the missing swimmer or believes to know who the swimmer might be is urged to contact the Coast Guard sector Jacksonville Command center at (904) 564-7511.

Thank you for registering!

We have sent you a confirmation email. Please check your email and click on the link to activate your account.

Thank you for registering!

We look forward to seeing you frequently. Visit us and sign in to update your profile, receive the latest news and keep up to date with mobile alerts.

Don't worry, it happens. We'll send you a link to create a new password.

We have sent you an email with a link to change your password.

We've sent an email with instructions to create a new password. Your existing password has not been changed.

To sign in you must verify your email address. Fill out the form below and we'll send you an email to verify.

Check your email for a link to verify your email address.
