
Bezgluten, a European based supplier of high quality gluten-free and GMO-free food announces the launch of their new website, appropriately timed with their expansion of distribution in the North American market.

The level of website customization provided by Idea Marketing will allow our customers to more quickly and efficiently find the products that are right for them.

Bezgluten is a family owned and operated company founded in Europe over a decade ago. Bezgluten USA, based in Oswego, IL is now the distribution hub of a European favorite gluten free food.  Starting with fresh baked breads for a family friend with Celiac disease, Bezgluten grew into a company providing a full line of products including cereals, pasta, baking mixes, cookies, potato crisps, soup mixes and always expanding to include more.

While showcasing gluten-free products at several key industry trade shows, Bezgluten quickly learned that people which a wheat (gluten) allergy often have additional food allergies. To accommodate the growing customer base, Bezgluten implemented a food allergy search function within the website so customers can select their food allergies and automatically see products that are free of their food allergies.

With expansion of their distribution into the United States by the same family, Bezgluten USA is currently expanding distribution around the United States, Mexico and Canada. Bezgluten products will be available for purchase this summer at both health food stores and international grocery stores across the Chicagoland market. For a listing of store locations, to buy their products directly, or for distribution information, please visit their website.

Bezgluten brought in Idea Marketing Group to custom create their website. Idea created a design that built off of the existing international brand, keeping an American audience in mind. The website is built on the Wordpress platform, maximized with strong SEO components and is mobile-friendly. The customized website includes features that allow Bezgluten to manage their eCommerce store with SSL security as well as features to keep the customer updated on order status.

“The level of website customization provided by Idea Marketing will allow our customers to more quickly and efficiently find the products that are right for them,” says Brandon Hatley, President of Bezgluten USA.
