
, the world’s largest company dedicated to industrial automation and information, announced it will be holding its fourth Jakarta-based Rockwell Automation on the Move (RAOTM) event on 20 May at The Ritz-Carlton, Jakarta, Mega Kuningan.

As the industry’s premier one-day event focused on innovative smart, safe and sustainable solutions, Rockwell Automation’s RAOTM events offer a plethora of educational and networking opportunities that demonstrate cutting-edge process and discrete control technologies. In conjunction with Rockwell Automation’s 111 years of Allen-Bradley brand equity, this year’s event will enable customers to see how to improve business productivity and profitability, optimise plants and supply-chain management, and make operations cleaner, safer, securer and more energy efficient.

Delegates from across Indonesia will have the opportunity to view state-of-the-art power, control, process and sustainable-production solutions at the extensive exhibits, staffed by Rockwell Automation and their partners’ experts. They can also participate in a variety of technical sessions featuring presentations on key industry issues and developments, experience Rockwell Automation products and technologies at hands-on labs, as well as network with industry, application and technology experts.

Rockwell Automation and its best-in-class suppliers in its PartnerNetwork™ programme will collaborate to discuss the latest industry trends, consult on standards and requirements, provide interactive demonstrations of leading automation technology, and present solutions for daily challenges in manufacturing automation and machine performance. These system integrators, strategic alliance partners, Encompass-referenced products and distributors will showcase products and services designed to work with Rockwell Automation to ensure that customers receive the best value for their automation investment. Together, they have extensive experience in a wide range of industry sectors including Oil and Gas, Consumer Packaged Goods, Mining and Cement, Automotive and Tyres.

“Our RAOTM events uniquely bring Rockwell Automation staff, partners and customers together in one venue, so the leaders in our ecosystem witness how closely wework together – overcoming vital industrial automation challenges, by leveraging technology and industry insights to help our customers grow and prosper,” said Bob Buttermore, Regional Director, Southeast Asia, Rockwell Automation.

Rockwell Automation, Inc.(NYSE: ROK), the world’s largest company dedicated to industrial automation and information, makes its customers more productive and the world more sustainable. Headquartered inMilwaukee, Wisconsin,Rockwell Automationemploys about 22,000 people serving customers in more than 80 countries.

Become a WhaTech member and share your news with us.
