
San Bernardino’s City Council will soon decide whether a vital charter reform measure should appear on the November ballot. Last week, a citizen’s committee passed a nonbinding resolution recommending the council give voters the decision to repeal the charter section governing pay and benefits for police and firefighters.

Mayor Carey Davis, just a few months into his tenure, has made charter reform a top priority. It’s an ambitious goal — but a necessary one for the city’s long-term fiscal health. Even as the city tries to work itself out of bankruptcy, no court-approved solvency plan can touch the compensation formula enshrined in the city’s governing document. Only voters can do that.

So the issue is clear: either Section 186 of the city charter goes, or the city goes the way of Detroit.

Right now, police and firefighter salaries consume nearly two-thirds of the city budget. Section 186 (and foolish votes by union-backed city council members) is largely the reason why. The charter requires that public-safety workers’ wages and benefits align with the average salaries of their peers in 10 similarly-sized cities.

Trouble is, most of these cities — including Pasadena, Huntington Beach, Irvine and Thousand Oaks — have per-capita incomes double or more than San Bernardino’s. The city’s median household income in 2012 was $39,097, compared with $68,310 in Pasadena and $81,849 in Huntington Beach, according to U.S. Census data. One-third of San Bernardino’s residents live below the poverty line. Meanwhile, a San Bernardino police sergeant can expect to make around $115,000, before overtime.

The disparity is obvious — and untenable. A bankrupt city cannot sustain such levels of compensation. The tax base simply doesn’t exist. In the past few years, residents have watched as the City Council has slashed services, cut staff, closed libraries, community centers and parks.

Yet in the midst of insolvency last year, the City Council had no choice but to approve two raises nearing $2 million for public-safety workers. The reason? Section 186.

The city’s century-old charter should be rewritten top to bottom. The citizen’s committee didn’t do that. Instead, the group — which consisted of a member appointed from each of the city’s seven wards plus two mayoral appointees — focused on a few areas crying out for change. Section 186 is by far the most important and contentious of these.

San Bernardino’s powerful public-employee unions are already arguing that repealing Section 186 won’t make city residents any safer, as police and firefighters leave for better paying opportunities elsewhere. But residents aren’t especially safe right now — the city has seen a sharp increase in violent and property crime since filing for Chapter 9 bankruptcy nearly two years ago.

Things may very well get worse before they get better. Let the unions howl. The irony, of course, is they will spend hundreds of thousands of dollars to convince voters into preserving the status quo.

A 2012 reform effort collapsed under similar union opposition.

What’s the difference between 2012 and today? Two years of austerity.

Clearly, austerity won’t save San Bernardino — only painful, fundamental reforms can put the city back on a sustainable course toward solvency and economic development. Section 186 must go.

Keep it civil and stay on topic. No profanity, vulgarity, racial slurs or personal attacks. People who harass others or joke about tragedies will be blocked. By posting your comment, you agree to allow Freedom Communications, Inc. the right to republish your name and comment in additional Freedom publications without any notification or payment.
