
Share This Story!

Defense spending should be about troop preparedness, not tobacco, weapon systems, campaign contributions.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

If anyone has been wondering what effect Big Money has on the federal budget, this month's House Armed Service Committee's proposed 2015 Defense Department Budget is an object lesson.

The Committee started with the cuts to Defense mandated by Congress's own federal sequester of 2012. Committee members, in spite of complaining about cuts to our men and women in uniform, amended the Department of Defense's budget request by sparing military hardware, air force bases, certain personnel benefits, and tobacco sales on base, and cutting readiness for combat.

Closing excess military bases has been identified again and again as the most obvious way to cut defense department — and federal — spending. Nevertheless, every state with a military base wants their base to be spared, and is ready to fight to keep it. So there go the "easy" cuts.

Another logical cut to defense spending would be to stop production of weapons systems and other military hardware that either do not work as promised, are outdated, or are so very expensive that they are not worth what DOD spends on them. This, however, turns out to be another non-starter — although several provisions to cut weapons systems were included in the original DOD budget. The companies that make and sell these weapons put on a full-court press, complete with plenty of campaign contributions all around, to retain their contracts. And retain them they did.

Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel and Pentagon staff also asked to slow the growth of military wages and benefits. This proposal was not aimed at the "boots on the ground" level of the military, but on non-active, retired and upper-level military personnel. Army General Martin Dempsey, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, urged adoption of the new compensation proposals, saying that doing so would "help us remain the world's best trained, best-led, and best equipped military." Nevertheless, that budget-saving proposal was also nixed.

Probably the worst change to the Defense budget by the House Committee — with the possible exception of protecting tobacco sales in base commissaries — were the cuts to the military hardware maintenance budget. Committee amendments took money for spare parts and equipment repair and replacement and used it to restore the cuts committee members did not like. Surely the early days of the Iraq War are not so long ago that Congressional representatives have forgotten the havoc resulting when weapons and other equipment failed and there were no spare parts to fix them.

Just in case there is any question that the US is behind in military spending compared to other countries around the world, USA Today reported last week that the US spent $640 billion on military arms in 2013, or about 35 percent of all military arms spending across the world. The next biggest spender was China at $188 billion — less than 30 percent of US spending.

Our active duty men and women in uniform deserve all our support and respect for the job they do, but that should mean that the Defense Department budget's first priority should be military readiness, not tobacco sales on base, big weapons systems, and campaign contributions from the companies that make them. Our current campaign finance system, made even more like the Wild West by the Citizens United and McCutcheon decisions of the US Supreme Court, rewards our elected representatives for decisions made not in the public-at-large's best interests, but in the interests of those with enough money to persuade elected officials to see things their way.

Lynn Evans is a past Jackson Public School Board member and a regularly contributing columnist.
