
The U.S. Congressman from Iowa’s Fourth District is saying wacky stuff again, this time about the Iowa Secretary of State race where Brad Anderson faces off with a former SOS in a closely watched race.

In a fundraising letter, Rep. Steve King wrote , that by electing Anderson as Iowa secretary of state, Democrats had a master plan to deprive U.S. Senator Chuck Grassley of votes needed to win re-election in 2016.

“You don’t have to be a rocket scientist to see what they are up to,” wrote the congressman. I’m glad he is not a rocket scientist, as Armageddon would already have arrived.

Of course he seeks to fire up his base and garner political campaign contributions by his outrageous statements. However, here’s where he got the Democratic strategy wrong.

The struggle isn’t about 2016, it’s about 2020 and who controls the state legislature, not only in Iowa, but across the country.

Iowa is repeatedly credited with a fair re-districting process after each decennial U.S. census. Brad Anderson has emphasized an equitable approach to serving as secretary of state should he be elected. Minutiae matters more in close elections, and naturally Democrats want a fair person like Anderson to hold that office.

Anderson’s issues are increasing voter turnout, making it easier to start a business, caucus integrity, and military and overseas voting. Leave it to Iowa’s fourth district representative to miss the obvious and divert attention to chimeras and charlatans.

If you haven’t learned about Brad Anderson and his ideas to serve Iowa as secretary of state, it’s time to study up. Check out his web site here .

Contribute to Anderson for Iowa here .

As the fall campaign begins, remember to budget some time to help elect Democrats. That’s our master plan, and thank goodness King doesn’t read Blog for Iowa, because we don’t want him to know we are busy organizing midst his blustering.

Paul,

There was a national story on the Iowa Secretary of State’s race a couple months ago where the reporter pointed out: “There’s nothing glamorous about running for secretary of state.” As Lisa can attest, I’ve never been one for glamor.

Over the past few weeks I’ve put thousands of miles on my pretty unglamorous Chevy Sonic (and even a few new dents) while traveling the state to meet with voters and volunteers. Every step of the way I’ve been inspired the people I’ve met and and the passion Iowans have for protecting our right to vote and electing a new Secretary of State.

I’ve always been a numbers guy.  Now that the election is 78 days away, I want to take a moment to thank you for your continued support and update you on the status of the campaign over the past few weeks, by the numbers (of course).

3,886 - Postcards handwritten by our volunteers.

2,867 - Miles driven.

354 - Supporters at the first annual AndersonFest picnic (I say “first annual” because we are going to do it again next year after we win).

12 - Iowa towns visited.

8 - Subways visited on the road.

2 – New policy ideas proposed to create an Iowa veteran business registry and increase access to Iowa military voters serving overseas.

When I announced our campaign for Secretary of State, I made a promise to you that we will run a substantive campaign focused on the issues at stake, and we will never be outworked.

Over the next 78 days we will continue to travel across the state talking about these important issues and building the grassroots network we need to win. I look forward to seeing you out there on the trail.

Iowa Public Television hosted the first gubernatorial debate between Senator Jack Hatch and the incumbent yesterday at the State Fair. It is 60 minutes of time worth spending if one cares about Iowa politics and the future of our state. The link is below. Both candidates seemed engaged and combative in the debate. Hatch won by a distance, but decide for yourself.

Here’s what Senator Hatch said when asked why people should support his campaign for Iowa governor.

A full transcript of the event is available on the Iowa Public Television website by clicking here .

Contribute financially to Jack Hatch’s campaign for Iowa governor by clicking here .

Greg Sargent of the Washington Post wrote about Joni Ernst’s criticism of President Obama in the withdrawal of troops from Iraq.

Saying something would likely have been impossible, or at least not doable at the time, Ernst said, “what I would have supported is leaving additional troops in Iraq longer,”  or a Status of Forces Agreement.

It looks like the Iraq war is moving up in importance in the Iowa U.S. Senate race.

Read Sargent’s entire article on the race by clicking here .

Here is a short linkfest of articles in the corporate media about the U.S. Senate race.

While you are at it, listen to Bruce Braley’s soap box speech last week at the Iowa State Fair. Link courtesy of Radio Iowa is here .

Donate to the Braley campaign by clicking here .

2016 presidential candidate.

Think back to 2006, and the exploratory presidential campaign of non-rock star candidate Senator Evan Bayh. He was seen all across the state at party events, during some of which he handed out checks from his PAC to local candidates far down the ticket. He ultimately decided not to run for president, but helped a lot of Iowa Democrats while he figured it out in a serious effort to understand the politics of the Hawkeye state.

In October 2006, we hosted a fundraiser for former State Representative Ro Foege in the City of Solon. Our headliner was John Edwards, second place finisher in the then yet to be 2008 caucuses, who contributed to one of our most successful fund raisers ever. Edwards had just returned from Uganda . Granted that Foege was good friends with the late Elizabeth Edwards, but John Edwards basically put his chips on the table and lived in Iowa in 2007, and helped a lot of candidates along the way.

The same could be said for the rest of the pack that appeared at the 2007 Harkin Steak Fry with a notable exception.

A Ready for Hillary meeting was held at a public library last night and I intended to go.

Because of her rock-star status, H. Clinton won’t be coming to Iowa any time soon, at least that’s a safe prediction.

Trish Nelson wrote about being not ready for Hillary in the Prairie Progressive last December. She sums up the situation, and if you missed it, BFIA cross posted the article here .

There was other press coverage of the events last night, I think there was. What the heck, here’s James Q. Lynch’s coverage of the event from the Sioux City Journal to satisfy the unending appetite for the elusive Hillary candidacy. Something we don’t share at BFIA, but sometimes feel compelled to cover.

At BFIA we keep calm and help progressive Democrats win elections.

Sweet corn is in, first tomatoes are being harvested, and RAGBRAI just finished. We are in the summer doldrums of this midterm election campaign, where the real action is going with statewide canvasses by the Democratic coordinated campaign. Republicans are still playing catch up.

Despite tremendous corporate and social media clamor, there doesn’t appear to be much going in the Bruce Braley-Joni Ernst race to replace U.S. Senator Tom Harkin when he retires at the end of this term. Campaign and political operatives might argue otherwise, but that’s what they do.

Speaking of Harkin, he is doing what he normally does, and made a surprise appearance on Saturday at a Kevin Kinney fund raiser in Senate District 39. At the county fair last Thursday, I was asking Kinney where was Harkin? Question answered. There are some things that are consistent about Iowa politics, and we will miss Tom Harkin when he retires.

Ben Jacobs at The Daily Beast, but he wrote an interesting article titled, “The Bruce Braley-Joni Ernst Race Is Iowa’s Ugliest Senate Campaign Ever.” Read it here if you have the stomach for it.

This race has always been neck and neck from the grassroots view, and Haberman’s copy’s ideological bent has been typical of corporate media. Of course the Republicans assert Ernst has already won the race. Poppycock, and they know it.

Whether it’s poll-tested or not, it makes a weary day to constantly hear about how much money the Koch Brothers are pouring into the election, so a reprieve from that, though unlikely, would be welcome with the Braley staff changes.

If you haven’t, read the BFIA piece about the Braley-Ernst race here .

The real work of the campaign won’t make the corporate or social media, in fact, little will be heard about it unless one is on the list of Democratic volunteers. Grassroots organizing has been the Democratic advantage, and while RPI chair Jeff Kaufmann believes he can catch up, it remains to be seen. They have been playing catch up since the 2006 midterms.

Summer is a time for county fairs, time at a beach, and harvesting the garden. A lot is going on in the Democratic campaign that you’ll never hear about on social media. It is important to remember that, and get involved with the campaign as summer turns to fall and school begins in three or four weeks.

If you can, donate to Bruce Braley’s campaign here .

There are three arguments toward a resolution to this situation: stop creating new veterans, assimilate the nine out of ten who left the service without serious injury, and, as a society, provide medical and psychiatric care to combat veterans. Easy to say, but harder to do.

How would one stop creating new veterans? Avoid senseless wars.

“About a third (33 percent) of all injured veterans served during the Vietnam era (1964-1973),” according to the Pew study. “In comparison, 18 percent have served in the post-9/11 era, about the same as the share of surviving veterans of World War II and Korean War. About a quarter (26 percent) served between 1974 and Sept. 11, 2001, a period that includes the 1990-1991 Gulf War.” What if there would have been no Vietnam, second Iraq war or Afghanistan? One outcome would have been fewer seriously injured veterans.

Harvard University posted the top ten reasons not to invade Iraq from human rights organization The Global Exchange . The list is familiar: lack of truthful justification for the war, the deaths of tens of thousands of people, the absence of a clear victory, diversion of resources from domestic priorities, and the idea the U.S. should not engage in war for oil. The U.S. engaged in this war and is unwilling to pay the consequences in the form of proper treatment for veterans with combat injuries.

Before writing about the Veterans Administration (VA), it is important to emphasize that nine out of ten returning veterans had no combat related injury, according to Pew. The author falls into this category, and like most of my friends who served, I value my military experiences and was ready to get on with life as soon as I turned my service revolver in to the arms room.

My experience in the post-Vietnam era military was a combination of dealing with crime in our mechanized infantry unit: a prostitution ring, drug dealing, money laundering, black marketing and the like, and working on projects that affected national policy as the military geared up for a war for oil in the Middle East. Military leaders, including folks I know, had a lot to do with cleaning up the problems with the troops, even if we seemed predestined for war in the Middle East. The Norman Schwartzkopf -led first Gulf War military was the external manifestation of these changes from the Vietnam era.

As a member of the 90 percent who were unscathed by military service, I don’t think much about my veteran status. Many of us don’t wear our service on our sleeve, and expect to live in society without calling constant attention to how we spent that part of our lives. We just want to go on living.

The VA has been a political whipping post for our country’s failures in providing treatment to combat veterans.

“Part of that bureaucracy is failing our veterans, and the stories we’ve heard about the failures of the VA are heartbreaking,” said Republican U.S. Senate Candidate Joni Ernst on July 12. “As an active member of the Iowa National Guard and the wife of a retired U.S. Army ranger, I believe this isn’t a partisan issue. It’s an American problem that must be solved.” Everyone who believes the problems at the VA aren’t partisan please stand on your head. What is the Ernst solution? She didn’t say.

The National Journal provided some detailed information on the challenges in the VA health care system in a three-part article here . Read it if you are so inclined, but the VA is not the problem with regard to treatment of combat-injured veterans.

The country’s failure to join the modern world by instituting a national health care system is a core part of the problem with the VA. There is a need for specialized treatment centers for combat-related injuries, but why should veterans have to travel to the VA for common medical problems? They shouldn’t.

The country’s recent bite of the health care apple (Obamacare) fell far short of what’s needed, which is a national, single payer health care system that includes everyone. Nonetheless, as BFIA reported , the Affordable Care and Patient Protection Act appears to be working. Obamacare isn’t politicized? Please.

Here are some Blog for Iowa thoughts on the subject of political giving.

Bruce Braley’s race for U.S. Senate is at the top of the ticket, and retaining Democratic control of the upper chamber is a high priority for progressives. One might feel a small donation would get lost in the millions that will be spent on this race, but as they say, every contribution helps. Donate to Team Braley here .

The challenge for Iowa’s four U.S. Congress seats is retaining what we have and picking up one or two more. Donate to your district’s candidate by clicking on their names. Pat Murphy (IA01), Dave Loebsack (IA02), Staci Appel (IA03) and Jim Mowrer (IA04). Each race has its challenges, and every candidate would welcome another small donation.

Jack Hatch and Monica Vernon seek to give Iowa a fresh start as governor and lieutenant governor. The incumbent has a substantial campaign treasury, and your donation would be put to smart use by Hatch-Vernon. Contribute to Hatch-Vernon for Iowa here .

If one hasn’t picked a spot for that $25 donation yet, there are plenty of other options. In addition to the races above, the Iowa Democratic Party features three additional choices on their candidate web page . Brad Anderson is running for Secretary of State in an open seat. John Neiderbach for state auditor, and Sherrie Taha for Secretary of Agriculture. These lower profile candidates would welcome a small contribution.

Don’t have an extra $25? Don’t worry. Seek out the local campaign and volunteer. The Iowa Democratic Party website has a volunteer page . Reach out to your favorite candidate, or to the county party to get involved. The summer canvass has started and it’s time to roll up our sleeves and get to work.

That work included leadership on legislation like Iowa’s statewide smoking ban, preschool for every four year old and championing the bill making Iowa the first state in the nation to require equal pay for equal work.

Despite Staci’s accomplishments in the Senate, she too fell victim to the giant Tea Party wave of 2010, losing to a Tea Party darling. But in 2014, Staci will take her long-standing record of doing what’s right for Iowa and turn the third congressional district seat blue in November.

As a mother of six, Staci Appel knows that Washington is broken and that partisan bickering is preventing even basic things from getting done. Staci is a former financial consultant who helped Iowans save for college and their retirement, she’ll put Iowa middle class families ahead of partisanship to help grow Iowa’s economy, support public education and keep the promise of Social Security and Medicare. In the State Senate, Staci eliminated waste, with her government reorganization bill that helped save taxpayers millions. And she did it by bringing people together to solve problems.

As the first woman from Iowa to serve in Congress, she will protect reproductive freedom so that women can make their own health care decisions and fight to ensure that women’s health care gains are not rolled back. Staci is proud to have the endorsement of EMILY’s List, Women’s Campaign Fund and the Planned Parenthood Action Fund and is steadfast in her support of women’s right to privacy and access to preventative care.

In Iowa, Staci helped lead the way to expand pre-school education to every 4-year old. In Washington, Staci will support Head Start programs and fight to keep college accessible and affordable with Pell Grants and Stafford Loans that are the best tools to give our kids the chance to compete for the 21st century jobs. Staci will stand firm against attacks on public education by opposing private school vouchers and other attempts to undermine public school funding.

Staci knows the challenges Iowa’s farmers are facing maintaining our place as the breadbasket to the world. Unfortunately, Congress has lost track of the importance of Agriculture – by dragging its feet and playing partisan games with key legislation, like the Farm Bill. She will also fight to ensure that Iowa farmers continue to have equal access to markets so they can deliver the products the world have come to depend on.

For 12 years, Staci worked as a financial consultant, where she helped families plan for their children’s education and retirement and knows how important it is to support our job creators in Iowa, and will cut red tape, regulations and create a climate that allows small businesses to create jobs.

Appel supports free and fair trade. She believes we have to hold our foreign trade partners accountable for human rights, environmental and treaty violations, because only when we do, will our manufacturers, small factories and American workers have a level playing field to compete and win in the global marketplace.

Iowa has long been a model for the nation and the world for innovation in production and development of wind turbines as well as bio fuels like ethanol. Staci believes in providing tax credits to small businesses that harness our wind, solar and other resources to continue supporting Iowa’s national leadership in alternative energy. She’ll also stand with Iowa’s corn growers, fighting against attempts to roll back the ethanol blend requirements for gasoline.

Reversing the damage created by climate change will take generations, and elected officials have a moral responsibility to do everything within their power to not only reduce carbon pollution, but to leave our children a world safer from extreme weather conditions. That’s why Staci will fight for an “all of the above”, bipartisan approach to combating climate change that includes revenue neutral, market-based solutions to reduce carbon pollution as well as new recycling initiatives, improved fuel efficiency standards, and old growth forest protection.

Check out Staci Appel’s campaign website here: appelforiowa.com/ . Volunteer to help here . Donate to the campaign here .

The lessons for Democrats Howard Dean found in Eric Cantor’s primary loss are nothing if not a reminder of what grassroots politics is, and the importance of being engaged if we want to effect change in government.

Read the full article here .

1. Competing in every state and district remains vital.

2. Americans are so fed up with Congress that even the TEA party wants to kick it out.

3. Organization and shoe leather can beat big money.

4. Base support wins elections— unless it drives you outside the mainstream.

5. Anything can happen in 2014.

please take a look and get involved.

That said, the Iowa Democratic Party (IDP) has scheduled it’s 2014 convention on Saturday, June 21, and made their convention booklet available online . The convention will showcase the IDP and inside the booklet is the party platform, along with logistics information for the day. Here’s party chair Scott Brennan’s welcome letter for delegates.

Dear Fellow Iowa Democrat,

Welcome to the 2014 Iowa Democratic Party State Convention!

This year’s State Convention gives Democrats the opportunity to come together and officially kick off the general election season as one unified party. With fantastic candidates like Bruce Braley and Jack Hatch at the top of the ticket and great statewide, legislative and county candidates, we are working together to ensure Democratic victories across the board in November. Your enthusiasm and support is crucial to our momentum, and I thank you for attending.

Over the next five months, we will need to work together to build one of the strongest grassroots campaigns this state has ever seen in a midterm election year. Our organizers and volunteers will be knocking on doors in every corner of the state to elect Democrats up and down the ticket– and we are counting on you to be a part of it. As a delegate to the State Convention you are already a leader helping to shape the future of our great Iowa Democratic Party; use today to network with other leaders, get ideas and inspiration and take them back to your local party.

At the end of the day, this party is about coming together with friends and neighbors from all different backgrounds to fight for the values that are important to our communities and moving Iowa forward.

Thank you for your commitment to the Iowa Democratic Party. Let’s make this another great year for Iowa Democrats!

Sincerely,

Whatever issues exist with Iowa Democratic party politics, this is a time to come together under the big tent, and organize for the 2014 midterms.

To learn more, click on the link to the IDP here .

by Dr. Alta Price of Bettendorf, Iowa.  All Rights Reserved.
