
Get Inquisitr's daily viral news by e-mail and never miss the internet's hottest stories!

At the event, over 3,000 fans were given Duck Commander duck calls and they all used them at the same time, setting off an extremely loud bunch of duck calls at once. Many joined the Robertsons in setting a world record, which was done with ease according to Guinness representative Phil Robertson (completely coincidental), who was at the event.

The Duck Dynasty fans actually set the record because there hadn’t been a previous record to break. They only needed 250 calls to sound at once, but Phil Robertson (of Guinness) recorded 3,028 people blowing duck calls at once — and that’s what was documented. The people in the crowd kept using their duck calls for two whole minutes and then they all “erupted into cheer,” clearly excited to have taken part in something so memorable.

According to Naples News, there were also vendors selling all kinds of Duck Dynasty memorabilia in the corridors, and the money raised was donated to The Salvation Army. All in all, the night was a huge success and was something very special for all of those who were in attendance.

Despite recent controversy surrounding the Robertsons, their fans still support them, and there are plenty of people who just want to be a part of their movement. As previously reported by The Inquisitr, the new season of Duck Dynasty will premiere June 11 on A&E. The network is hoping to put up high ratings this season after a dip in numbers at the end of season five.

I am a Christian & just wonder why  The Robertsons and other  Christians can not stand up for & speak what they believe especially when if comes straight from the Bible, God's word. Sin is sin no matter what. Bible calls Lying, Murder, Adultery sin no one really cries out about that but one mention of homosexuality being a sin in  the bible or someone getting upset cause we believe in one true living God.

Join Us!

Get Inquisitr's daily viral news by e-mail and never miss the internet's hottest stories!
