
Please register to gain free access to WSJ tools.

An account already exists for the email address entered.

The email address you have entered is already in use.

Please re-enter the email address.

A debate about learning English is re-emerging in China.

The discussion is resurfacing after a local newspaper reported that Gu Mingyuan, president of the Chinese Society of Education, told an education forum in Hangzhou over the weekend that English would be taken out of the national college-entrance exam, called the gaokao, in a new reform plan to be implemented in 2017.

Under the plan, English exams would be given by social institutions, and universities would consider those results when enrolling students, the newspaper cited Mr. Gu as saying. Currently, all students learn English in grade school, and it’s featured on the nation’s college-entrance exam.

Mr. Gao couldn’t be immediately reached for comment. A spokesman for the academic group told China Real Time that Mr. Gu, a professor at Beijing Normal University, is the organization’s former president and now serves as an honorary president. The spokesman said he hadn’t seen the local news report.

By Monday afternoon, about 55% of nearly 89,000 Weibo users said in a poll on the social media platform that they supported the idea of removing English from the official exam.

“The reason I support it is not because of English itself, but because the exams have turned English into a kind of grammar ‘formula.’ It has ruined generations,” one Weibo user wrote.

“Don’t forget we are Chinese. To learn foreign languages is to know the world better, but mastering our mother tongue is the most important skill to make a living,” wrote another.

A draft plan of the gaokao reform plan released late last year said that English tests conducted by social institutions would replace those on the gaokao by 2020, and that students would be able to choose when to take the tests, the official China Education Daily said in a report carried on the ministry’s website in December.

The debate about whether to exclude English from the gaokao exams is another sign that English may be losing its charm in China .

But not everybody believes reducing English training and examinations in China is a good idea.

Leaving English out of the national exam will create even more unfairness in terms of getting access to educational resources, as English learners will have to turn to more expensive private language-training schools, said He Jun, a researcher with Beijing Anbound Information, a private think tank.

“It will add to the existing educational injustice and doesn’t help to strengthen the Chinese language and culture,” Mr. He wrote in a note to clients and media.

Sign up for CRT’s daily newsletter to get the latest headlines by email.

An error has occured and your email has not been sent.

• Seperate multiple addresses with Commas.

• Must enter an email address.

• You must enter the verification code below to send.

• Invalid entry: Please type the verification code again.

An error has occured and your email has not been sent.

• Seperate multiple addresses with Commas.

• Must enter an email address.

• You must enter the verification code below to send.

• Invalid entry: Please type the verification code again.
