
Bearded wonders ZZ Top will bring their southern rock sound back to the Merriweather stage this summer (the band was already part of the Virgin Mobile Free Fest in 2012 ). In addition to the "Sharp Dressed Men" , guitar legend Jeff Beck will share the stage. This one-two punch of classic rock is a welcome addition to the Merriweather schedule.(And we do apologize for the bad "Sharped Dressed Man" comment).

Howard County government and developer Howard Hughes Corp. have agreed to a five-year, $19-million renovation plan for Columbia's Merriweather Post Pavilion, County Executive Ken Ulman announced Monday.

John DeWolf, senior vice president at Howard Hughes, said the developer is "excited about the agreement," and "sees it as a step in the right direction."

Debbie Ellinghaus, chairwoman of the commission, said in a statement that "this is a great day for arts in Howard County."

Some council members, most notably Mary Kay Sigaty, have stated their support for the plan.

Councilwoman Courtney Watson, who is the Democratic nominee vying to suceed Ulman as executive, said the plan is "promising," but that she's concerned with the timing.

The deal also establishes the framework for a "joint development agreement" between Howard Hughes and the commission that will allow the commission to approve both renovation plans and a purported long-term agreement with current venue operator It's My Amphitheater Inc.

It began earlier this year when Ulman, who was upset with a perceived lack of progress on renovations to the venue and other public improvements in downtown, introduced legislation that would've forced the developer to turn the pavilion over to the nonprofit later this year -- much earlier than originally agreed upon.

Ulman tabled the bill in April after announcing Howard Hughes and the county had made substantial progress on a deal.

We've upgraded our reader commenting system. Learn more about the new features.

The Baltimore Sun encourages civil dialogue related to our stories; you must register and log-in to our site in order to participate. We reserve the right to remove any user and to delete comments that violate our Terms of Service . By commenting, you agree to these terms. Please flag inappropriate comments.
