
At the delicious do-gooding event on May 22, “Hotel Guru” Robert Rauch will introduce five wines and Eclipse chocolatier William Gustwiller will discuss how their flavors pair with his exotic, all-natural chocolates.

And because man can’t live by chocolate and wine alone (oops, really?), the pairing kicks off with some sparkling, cheese and fruit.

Wine & Chocolate Tasting, Thursday, May 22, 6:30-8 p.m. Pantai Inn, 1003 Coast Blvd., La Jolla; (858) 224-7600. Tickets $25. Valet parking included.

Tijuana native Paulo Mendoza was recently named chef de cuisine at Venga Venga Cantina and Tequila Bar in Chula Vista.

Mendoza will work alongside global celebrity chef Richard Sandoval to execute Venga Venga’s creative, Latin-inspired fare.

“With roots in authentic Mexican cuisine and a flare for taking simple ingredients and subtly transforming them into exquisite dishes, he is the perfect fit for the restaurant,” Sandoval said of Mendoza.

Mendoza, who was inspired by his father’s home cooking to become a chef, was trained in classical French cuisine at the San Diego Culinary Institute.

At 21, he went to work for Chef Jevic Acain in Seattle, where he became besotted with Asian cuisine. Expect Mendoza to incorporate Japanese, Korean and Thai flavors and techniques into Venga Venga’s Mexican menu.

Venga Venga, 2015 Birch Rd, Suite 710, Chula Vista; (619) 397-0977.

• It’s Lobster Festival time again at King’s Fish House and that means Maine lobster rolls and other seasonal seafood dishes, including lobster bisque and New England-style fried clams. What you’ll really need to break out the bib and Wet-Nap for, however, is King’s gooey good salted caramel ice cream sandwich.

• My favorite time to visit Fleming’s Prime Steakhouse & Wine Bar is on Sunday nights, when they always seem to be offering special deals. Their latest is a three-course spring menu that starts with Southwest shrimp ceviche, served with a red radish slaw, followed by sliced Herb-Roasted Filet, with a cabernet-peppercorn reduction, and ends on a sweet note with a key lime mini tartlet. Sundays only, through June 15 for $40.95 per person.

• I haven’t been to an Outback Steakhouse since I found out how many calories and grams of fat I consumed eating their infamous blooming onion (it was awesome!), though this promotion might lure me back.

Starting on May 21, Outback will offer a limited time only Moonshine BBQ menu, made with real hooch. The menu includes Moonshine BBQ ribs, wood-fired grilled wings, chopped salad and skillet apple pie, plus moonshine-laced cocktails with names like Huckleberry Hooch and Watermelon Hunch Punch.

On May 21 and 22 only, you can get a free 1/2 order of the moonshine barbecue wings with the purchase of any entrée. But you need to say “Moonshine BBQ Wings” to your server. Dignity (and calories) be damned.

Upgrade your browsing experience with a paid subscription to the U-T.
