
The month of May has been designated by Congress as Military Appreciation Month – to coincide with Memorial Day. Although it would seem more fathomable to celebrate our military members each and every month, at least we are making advancements  toward recognizing the extreme efforts the men and women of the various branches of our military make each and every day to keep us free.

Congress made the designation in 1999. The thought behind the designation was to ensure that the United States citizens were given the opportunity to publicly demonstrate their appreciation for the sacrifices and successes put forth by service members – both past and present. Each year the current President of the United States makes a proclamation in order to remind Americans just how important these dedicated individuals are and have always been and will continue to be in the history of our country and its future development.

Besides the fact that Memorial Day is also celebrated in May, the month was chosen because it has the most day set aside for celebrating and commemorating our military’s achievements . Memorial Day is the only federal holiday celebrated though. The White House Commission on Remembrance asks that one minute of silence be given that day to honor fallen military comrade and to pay tribute to the living active military members and veterans; one whole minute for a lifetime of sacrifice which they volunteer to give. One minute!

Thankfully Congress recognized that our service men and women deserve more than just one minute each year so they devised National Military Appreciation Month fifteen years ago. The historical significance plays a big role during this month. It is also helps prove to our military personnel that we appreciate them and are willing to both remember and honor the fallen that have made the USA the strong solid nation that it still is today.

For the family members of our military personnel, this month goes to show that likewise their sacrifice does not go unnoticed. Although they would never volunteer their sons, daughters, grandchildren, nephews or nieces to take a fall, they display their charitable side by supporting their family members’ decisions.

So if you have not already thanked a past, present or future military member for their service, there is certainly still time to do so. May is not over yet. And even when this month of National Military Appreciation Month is over, there are still 11 other months in each year that we can take the time out to say thank you for their time and service. Keep up the great work!
