
Thailand is the 62nd country to get its own YouTube site on the Google-owned property.

Content providers big and small will also have another channel to earn or increase revenue for their Thailand businesses.

Google has planned to launch YouTube in Thailand for several years, but held off because it was concerned about censorship permitted under the Computer Crime Act 2007.

“The official launch of YouTube in Thailand will help to simulate growth in the market share of local digital advertising from just 1% in the past 18 months to 5% of total advertising spending this year,” said Ariya Banomyong, country head of Google Thailand.

YouTube will become one of the alternative media channels for brands and agencies.

TV Channels 3 and 7 have already signed up as content partners.

"The YouTube Thailand launch is the next big move for Google in Thailand, after it opened an office here a few years ago. It's also a big stepping stone for local video advertising,” said marketing head Pornthip Kongchun.

Tom Pickett, vice-president for content of YouTube in the US, said YouTube was the world's largest video community, with more than 100 hours of video uploaded every hour.

Globally, it attracts 1 billion viewers each month, 80% of them outside the US.

In Thailand, one third of the viewers use mobile devices. The majority of users are 18-34 years old.

Readers are urged not to submit comments that may cause legal dispute including slanderous, vulgar or violent language, incorrectly spelt names, discuss moderation action, quotes with no source or anything deemed critical of the monarchy. More information in our terms of use .

Please use our forum for more candid, lengthy, conversational and open discussion between one another.

Please be aware that all comments will be looked at by the web moderating team and we reserve the right to approve or reject comments at our discretion.

Please log in or sign up for an account to share your valuable thoughts to the world.
