
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .

If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .

Video will begin in 5 seconds.

CCTV footage of a man being punched unconscious outside Academy nightclub in Civic on April 24.

ACT Policing has defended the decision to wait nearly a month to publicise a king-hit outside the Academy Nightclub in Civic on April 21 , which left a man hospitalised with a fractured skull and bleeding on the brain.

Police – who revealed the attack on Monday morning – said alerting the public to the assault outside the popular Bunda Street venue would have only jeopardised their investigation into the violent incident.

An ACT Policing spokesman said “the information gathered at the time was regarded by police as sufficient to progress the investigation further and identify the offender”.

The four-week investigation reportedly involved interviews with key witnesses and an analysis of CCTV surveillance footage.

But despite the violent nature of the incident, the spokesman said fears for community safety were “allayed” because police did not believe the unidentified man was involved in other violent incidents that night.

The assault occured around 4.15am shortly after the victim had been talking to a security guard with a group of friends. The guard had asked one of the men to leave the premises.

While the group was speaking with the security guard, another unknown man intervened and led one of the men from the nightclub before attempting to incite a fight with the group outside the club.

Police say the group of men tried to walk away, but the unknown man struck one of them in the head. He fell to the ground, hit his head on the pavement, and became unconscious.

Police say the man suffered a fractured skull, bleeding on the brain and other serious complications as a result of the assault. He was taken to Canberra Hospital by ambulance officers a short time later and has since been discharged.

The police spokesman said police “have remained in contact with the victim’s family members, who have been updated as to the progress of the investigation”.

Police are yet to identify the offender and asked for public assistance in locating the man on Monday morning.

The man is described as being a Pacific Islander or Maori, aged in his 20s, between 185 and 188 centimetres tall with a solid build, short hair, dark beard, and with a tattoo on his neck.

Anyone with information can call Crime Stoppers on 1800 333 000.

Daredevil wingsuiters take on 'epic challenge'

Onlookers cheer as two Dutch wingsuiters jump from a helicopter and soar around the Euromast building in Rotterdam.
