
THE Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) on Monday honored the firefighters who fearlessly responded to the fire that hit the Philippine Army's (PA) armory some two weeks ago.

Army chief Major General Hernando Iriberri, in an awarding ceremony held at the Fort Bonifacio in Taguig City, awarded Military Civic Action Medal and Military Merit Medals to the 28 firefighters who obtained injuries while responding to a blaze in the Army's Explosives and Ordnance Division (EOD).

The Pasay City Fire Station, Valenzuela Fire Station, Old Parañaque Fire Volunteer Brigade Incorporated, Taguig City Fire Station, Pasig Brotherhood Fil-Chinese Fire Volunteers, Southern Police District and Makati City Fire Station also received plaques of appreciation from the PA.

Iriberri said the awardees went beyond in performing their duties and responsibilities by putting their own lives at risk for the sake of the majority.

"You have responded not only to prove your skills but also help the Philippine Army," he said.

"You have given honor to not only your respective institutions but also to the civil service," he added.

Iriberri said the institution is looking forward to broaden its relationship with the fire officers and volunteers who displayed extra-ordinary courage in responding to the situation.

The Army chief expects to receive the investigation report within this week.

"Actually finished na 'yung investigation, they are now in the process of comparing and collating the gathered information," he said.

Iriberri said they would impose proper sanctions should the investigation reveal that negligence had caused the blaze.

DISCLAIMER: Sun.Star website welcomes friendly debate, but comments posted on this site do not necessary reflect the views of the Sun.Star management and its affiliates. Sun.Star reserves the right to delete, reproduce or modify comments posted here without notice. Posts that are inappropriate will automatically be deleted.

Forum rules: Do not use obscenity. Some words have been banned. Stick to the topic. Do not veer away from the discussion. Be coherent and respectful. Do not shout or use CAPITAL LETTERS!
