
Words are slippery things, and perhaps the most slippery words on the planet at the moment are “comprehensive immigration reform.” I say slippery because while Democrats and their media allies have long been in favor of legalizing millions of illegal immigrants, Americans are now supposed to believe that conservatives in general, and tea party types in particular, are ready to hop on the reform bandwagon as well. Yet the devil as they say, is in the details. And the details suggest that the definition of comprehensive immigration is becoming as malleable as it gets, in order to skew survey results that make it appear a majority of Americans want some form of amnesty.

Take a poll  released  by the Partnership for a New American Economy, Americans for Tax Reform, and the Tea Party Express that ostensibly puts the number of tea-party aligned conservative voters who favor Congress taking action on immigration reform at 71 percent. Or another poll by Fox that also contends 60 percent of Republicans  favor  "amnesty" or a “pathway to citizenship” for illegals as well.

In the former poll, conservatives give reform a thumbs-up based on criteria that include improved border security measures and a pathway to citizenship, provided illegal aliens pay back taxes and penalties, pass criminal background checks, and go through standard naturalization education like basic English and American civics.

Regarding the latter poll, the Wall Street Journal, who many Americans many not realize has long favored comprehensive immigration reform, reaches a rather tenuous conclusion as a result. "The immigration views expressed by Renee Ellmers, Jeb Bush, John Boehner and others on the right may make them pariahs in the blogosphere, but it’s hard to argue that these politicians are out of step with rank-and-file Republican voters,” the paper states.

Pariahs in the “blogosphere?” Let me tell you what that little sobriquet, in all its implied contempt really means. It means the overwhelming majority of comments that follow virtually every article you read regarding comprehensive immigration are unambiguously negative. Not somewhat negative, not fifty-fifty negative versus positive, but more reliably and consistently negative than comments for any other issue on which rank-and-file Americans, as opposed to "experts,“ offer their opinions. And it doesn’t matter whether those comments appear after articles at conservative sites, such as the American Spectator, or liberal sites such as Politico.

For those who haven’t filed returns? No instructions are given. This bring up yet another question: do Americans believe more illegal aliens file returns, or work off the books for cash? As Heritage notes, because of the difficulty in assessing how much non-tax compliant illegal aliens owe, the likelihood is high that the Treasury Secretary would simply waive the requirement. They further note that this is because the IRS is too busy dealing with ObamaCare – and targeting potentially tax-exempt conservative groups for extra scrutiny.

Background checks? Last week's  revelation  that Immigrations and Customs Enforcement (ICE) released a whopping 36,007 convicted criminal aliens awaiting the outcome of their deportation proceedings – including 193 individuals convicted of murder, 426 convicted of sexual assault, 1,075 convicted of aggravated assault, and 303 convicted of kidnapping – should disabuse anyone of the notion that only well-behaved, law-abiding illegals will be allowed to remain in the country. And that’s before Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson releases his “modifications” of the Secure Communities program that allow ICE officials to run the prints of anyone booked for a local or state crime through the federal database. A program pro-immigration groups wish to jettison altogether.

Americans are being conned, and despite every effort on both sides of the ideological divide to willfully deceive them, they know it. They know theres’s a vast difference between those who come here legally and those who, along with their contemptible enablers, have the unmitigated gall to demand that we accommodate rampant contempt for the rule of law. The same rule of law that separates this nation from the Third World basket cases the ruling class and their allies apparently wish us to emulate.

That’s the real meaning behind the words “comprehensive immigration reform.” And this is one American proud to stand with his fellow “miscreants” in the blogosphere.
