
You have viewed free articles or blogs allowed within a 30-day period.  Receive FREE access by logging in to or creating your Spokesman.com account.

Log In to your Spokesman.com account for unlimited viewing and commenting access.

Don't have a Spokesman.com account? Create a Spokesman.com profile and register for FREE access.

SEOUL, South Korea – South Korea’s president announced plans today to disband the coast guard and root out corruption and collusion between regulators and shipping companies that furious citizens believe led to a ferry disaster last month that left more than 300 people dead or missing.

You have viewed 20 free articles or blogs allowed within a 30-day period.  FREE registration is now required for uninterrupted access.

log in to your Spokesman.com account for unlimited viewing and commenting access.

Don't have a Spokesman.com account? Create a Spokesman.com profile and register for FREE access.

SEOUL, South Korea – South Korea’s president announced plans today to disband the coast guard and root out corruption and collusion between regulators and shipping companies that furious citizens believe led to a ferry disaster last month that left more than 300 people dead or missing.

President Park Geun-hye’s first televised address to the nation since the April 16 sinking began with a deep bow and ended with her tearfully reading the names of passengers and crew who died trying to save others. With her approval ratings plummeting ahead of mayoral and governor elections in about two weeks, the speech sought to acknowledge widespread anger over government failures as well as chart a path forward.

Park has apologized before, but critics have called for her to formally address the nation and respond to claims that incompetence, corruption and bad leadership doomed the ferry and those trapped inside it. In today’s speech, Park decried the accumulation of “widespread abnormal practices” that she said triggered the sinking.

A focus was the coast guard, which has been under growing public criticism over allegations of poor coordination and slow search-and-rescue work during the initial stages of the sinking.

Park called the coast guard’s rescue operations a failure and said she would push for legislation that would transfer its responsibilities to the National Police Agency and a new government safety agency she plans to establish.

She said the new agency would also take over maritime traffic controlling responsibilities, currently held by the Ocean Ministry, and safety and security responsibilities, held by the Ministry of Security and Public Administration.

Park Kwang-on, a spokesman for the main opposition party, said the plan to disband the coast guard gives the impression that the government is shifting all the responsibility for the sinking to the coast guard.

“The diagnosis (of the problem) is insufficient and the remedy is inadequate,” he said.

Park said she would also push for separate legislation aimed at rooting out collusive and corrupt ties between bureaucrats and civilian sectors, something seen by many as a reason for the sinking. Park said retired officials have a tradition of working at the Korea Shipping Association, which oversees safety issues of ships.

The disaster has prompted soul-searching about the nation’s neglect of safety as it built Asia’s fourth-biggest economy from the ashes of the 1950-53 Korean War.

The tragedy exposed regulatory failures that appear to have allowed the ferry to set off with far more cargo than it could safely carry.

“Let’s see if she has the determination to see it through and push some serious prosecutions,” Kelly wrote in an email.

© Copyright 2014 Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.
