
Choose your favourite canvas Our canvases are original works of art created by artists around the world. Choose your favourite!

A woman whose husband has been diagnosed with terminal cancer has told how a travel operator suggested she take someone else on their planned holiday.

Chris Quick, 58, and her husband Keith, 61, from Portsmouth, had booked and paid for a trip to Benidorm next month to celebrate their 38th wedding anniversary.

But when Mr Quick went to the doctor about a persistent cough, he was told he was suffering with terminal lung cancer.

Mrs Quick asked her daughter, Kerry Holt, to call Thomson to cancel the trip, but she was reportedly asked by a travel operator if somebody else could go instead of her father.

Kerry told Portsmouth.co.uk : "The attitude of the person on the phone was appalling – I was told to "shut up" at one point.

"There was no empathy to my dad's situation – he didn't want this to happen.

"They have used Thomson for the past four years and thought they would show more compassion.

"Instead they suggested my mum should go on holiday with someone else."

Mrs Quick says the couple go to Benidorm about four times a year and that the couple have been left very angry after a very "emotional time".

Thomson has paid back £538 of the £1,900 the couple paid for the June holiday, but Mrs Quick said the issue was not about money.

Mr Quick added: 'I'm so disgusted we have been treated this way. I wanted to say goodbye to my friends one last time, and I won't be able to."

A Thomson spokesman said: "Thomson is very sorry to hear that Mr and Mrs Quick were unhappy with the service they received when cancelling their holiday.

"We sympathise with their situation and understand this must be a very difficult time.

"Our customer service and retail teams always aim to offer the best possible service to all customers and this includes providing them with details of all the options available to them.

"We would like to reassure the couple that we never intended to cause offence or undue upset by providing this information.

"As their holiday has now been cancelled we have advised the Mr and Mrs Quick to contact their insurance provider to settle their claim."

We encourage lively discussion at AOL. Please be aware when you leave a comment your user name, screen name and photo may be displayed with your comment, visible to everyone on the Internet. If you think a comment is inappropriate, you may select to report it to our monitors for review.

The key to this is having the right insurance, when booking a holiday it is important to make sure that your insurance policy covers you for things like cancellation costs in events such as these to cover the full amount paid for the holiday. Unfortunately as an insurance broker I find it very frustrating when talking to some client's that they just want the cheapest policy possible whether it covers their needs or not so quite often they are left with something that is not worth the paper it is written on, worse still giving them false peace of mind assuming they are covered for everything. The hoilday companies don't help themselves by selling insurance as a sideline pressurung staff to cross-sell other products (the same way banks do) with generally 'one size fits all' policies with the conter staff not being expert in the subject and not necessarily understanding the exclusions; they simply ask; "Do you want insurance?" with very little detail. I'm not saying this is the case with this couple but if they are insured then that would be the place to start and I wish them the very best.

The problem is that none of these companies would be able to continue if they ran on empathy.  They base their prices on forecast demands and if they had to refund to everyone who's plans had unexpectedly changed, no-one would be getting the kind of holiday deals they expect.  I think this was tactlessly handled, but I don't think Thompsons are wrong.

When things go right people are happy with Thomsons, just like this couple was for ALL those years. And the reason I never used them is to advice I heard from people that got f****d  over for being loyal, long term customers.

So I am going to go spend my £4000 honeymoon money with somebody that has good opinions and normal prices. Really Thomson is like T?co. Overcharging, fake discounts and zero customer empathy.

Good for them as you never know when life is taken away from you.

typical thompsons NONcustomer care, we had problems with them 3 years ago, they are not hepfull just robbing b*st*rds.

All well and good Thompson's saying "contact their insurance provider to settle their claim" DON'T you (Thompsons) not understand they might have MORE important things to do than chase an insurance company for a claim!  In circumstances like this it should be a given than you get the cash back in full without any hassle what so ever.

give them all the money back,( what a shower they have shown these poor people no remorse, take them to the cleaners as you must have suffered with stress as well ,good luck we are all behind you.
