
Editorial:NUP Foolish Act!

The journalists, who went to cover the press conference of National Umma Party (NUP) on Sunday in the wake of Al-Mahdi arrest over his negative remarks against the Rapid Support Forces (RSF), were subject to harassment and insults by the NUP cadres including accusing them as NISS and NCP elements.

Such behavior resulted to the pullout of the reporters who came to cover the event before the end of the press conference.

The journalists issued a statement condemning the conduct of the NUP cadres and demanded an official apology.

We believe that the NUP stance was unfortunate in dealing with the media considering the party as one of the biggest political parties in the country.

The NUP officials of the party did not consider the situation and their dealing with the media was miscalculated, because most, if not all, the reporters who came to cover the press conference were sympathizing with Al-Mahdi and they came to conduct what their code of ethics dictate.

Whatever justifications, we say that Al-Mahdi was arrested according to the law and he has the right to defend his case, so the issue should not be brought out of its context to be utilized in other issues.

NUP newly appointed Secretary-General, Sara Nugdallah, failed in managing the crisis in wisdom and according to the advice of Al-Mahdi which he sent from his custody to contain and absorb the state of rampage and anger.

As a matter of fact, Al-Mahdi erred in his calculations when he delivered his negative remarks against the Army and the RSF, and it is the right of the government to summon him to complete investigations over a criminal complaint filed by the NISS.

Al-Mahdi is the only loser in this issue because his stance against the army doesn’t qualify him to win.

He lost from the first kick he initiated without considering the bad conditions his party is facing.

Al-Mahdi was supposed to direct the compass towards the national interests and to express his stances accurately in full responsibility.

Some Opposition political forces attempted to fish in the troubled waters arguing that the government is not serious in the national dialogue and that is evidenced by arresting Al-Mahdi.

Till the dust of the current enticements settles, the RSF will continue its mission in the battlefields to sweep the insurgents.
