
Hover cursor over this ticker to pause.

"Go and vote!" shouts Dutch populist Geert Wilders, battling against European election apathy by getting voters to give his party a mandate to destroy the EU from within.

"This week's elections will be historic," the platinum-haired Wilders tells citizens in the main square of a Dutch town. "Eurosceptic parties will take many countries and we can work together to give citizens a real voice."

From Rotterdam to Scheveningen, the anti-Islam and anti-immigration Wilders is on a bus tour of the Netherlands, trying to get people to vote for his Party of Freedom in the European parliamentary elections on Thursday.

But he still has some way to go. According to a TNS-NIPO opinion poll published late last week, only a third of the Dutch "against" the EU say they will vote, and 65% of self-professed europhiles will head to the polls, notably for the centrist D66, campaigning under the slogan "A strong Netherlands, a strong Europe".

Wilders, who wants "less Europe", and his campaign team are handing out fake guilder banknotes featuring his face. The guilder is the pre-euro Dutch currency.

"I want the Netherlands to be like Switzerland, a country at the heart of Europe but outside the EU, with control over our currency and our borders," said Wilders, who is under 24-hour police protection because of his anti-Islam statements.

A young blonde woman pushing a pram shouts: "Geert! Geert! A photo!" She is one of many who want to shoot a "selfie" with the charismatic populist.

Just as the Dutch are more concerned about immigration than EU issues, voters are more interested in Wilders than in his European Parliament candidate, Marcel de Graaf.

"He's right, there are too many foreigners," said Aly, a 71-year-old grandmother packing her shopping into her bicycle bags.

"There's not enough work for the Dutch."

Another pensioner, Cees, 64, says: "Foreigners are the majority in poorer neighbourhoods and the Dutch are being chased away."

Aly and Cees say they will vote but many here say they will not, even though they posed for photographs with Wilders.

"I don't have any opinion," said one passer-by. "I'm not going to vote."

"I couldn't care less," said others questioned in the street.

Veiled Muslim women do their shopping regardless of Wilders, who faced an unprecedented storm after calling in March for "fewer Moroccans".

"I might go and vote" but not for the PVV, said Jonni, 53. "I agree with a few of his ideas but less then before."

According to the latest opinion poll, Wilders's PVV will win three or four MEP seats, compared with four to six for D66, of the 26 European parliament seats up for grabs in the Netherlands.

Such representation in the 751-seat parliament might seem small but the PVV has made an alliance with French far-right leader Marine le Pen's National Front and other European populist parties that will give it added clout in Brussels.

"We must work from inside as long as there's no majority in the Netherlands in support of leaving the EU," Wilders said.

If you have an opinion you would like to share on this article,                 please send us an e-mail to the Times LIVE iLIVE team. In the mean time, click here to view the Times LIVE iLIVE section.

© 2014 Times Media Group. All rights reserved.
