
Just like most of South Asia, and indeed a lot of the world, I looked at the elections results in India on May 16 with shock and awe. The election not only significantly changed the political landscape of India, it sent a number of political scientists back to the writing table. For the last few decades we had been hearing that the time of one-party majority in the Lok Sabha had gone, that coalitions were there to stay, that regionalisation had set in. However, the way in which the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its allies won across India shocked all these pundits. In Pakistan, Modi’s dramatic win sent shockwaves and unleashed the wrath of the right-wingers who had a field day with it. Allow me to make a few points.

First, Modi’s win is not a validation of the Two-Nation Theory , just as the Congress governments in the past were not a negation of it. The coming to power of a party known for Hindu nationalism does not mean that Muslims and other minorities will be summarily slaughtered. This assessment is way too simplistic and wishful thinking. A party’s idealistic views and the reality it formulates are never the same.

Secondly, it might seem counterintuitive, but Modi did win a sizeable percentage of the Muslim vote . Out of the 87 seats in the Lok Sabha with a large percentage of Muslim voters, the BJP won 45 seats. In the three Delhi seats of Chandni Chowk, North East Delhi and West Delhi, which have significant Muslim populations, the BJP candidate won thumping majorities — these victories would not have been possible without the shift in the Muslim vote, first from the Congress to the Aam Aadmi party and now to the BJP. Similarly, the BJP won all but one of the 27 seats in Uttar Pradesh with a large number of Muslim voters. In fact, BJP president Rajnath Singh won resoundingly in Lucknow where there are about 400,000 Muslim voters. The Muslims and other minorities who voted for the BJP did not vote for self-destruction, but made intelligent political decisions.

Thirdly, Modi’s win was primarily a vote for development. When veteran leader of the BJP LK Advani was asked the reason for the BJP’s resounding success, he said, “Bad governance, corruption and dynastic rules (of the Congress party) were the three main reasons why the BJP won this election”. While Modi’s personal charisma and PR machine had a part in the historic win, the above factors were the critical base. India has a burgeoning middle class and it needs jobs and development. Religion matters but it falls to second place when the question of jobs and well-being arises. In Pakistan, where the masses still have to free themselves from the clutches of feudalism, a vote for simply development is difficult to imagine. But India is now a different country. Modi himself famously said that he would make “toilets before temples”. People voted for him hoping that this pledge is kept.

Fourthly, Pakistan should wholeheartedly welcome the coming in of a strong and stable government in Delhi. Modi, the chief minister of Gujarat, and Modi, the prime minister of India, will not be the same person and so Pakistan will be dealing with someone who is more nuanced and development focused. With both Prime Minister Sharif and Modi big on investment and business, trade might just be the factor which brings the two countries together. Also, let us not forget that the last time contentious issues nearly got resolved was not under a Congress government but a BJP-led one. With a person so concerned about his legacy, we should expect Modi to try and resolve issues with Pakistan — not for our sake — but for the well-being of his own country. India cannot become a world power till it resolves its major issues with Pakistan, and Modi knows it. Therefore, sheer self-interest would guide him to improve relations.

Finally, Modi’s win might serve as a wake-up call for Indian Muslims. While there remains discrimination against Muslims in India, there are critical issues within the community such as resistance to broader social interaction, inward looking lives, etc, which stymie their progress. Modi’s win might shake them into action — I hope.

Published in The Express Tribune, May 20th, 2014.

Like Opinion & Editorial on Facebook , follow @ETOpEd on Twitter to receive all updates on all our daily pieces.

You are an enlighted soul. You are a modern day Maulana Azad and Ghaffar Khan. Continue the good work.

– thousands of Hindus and Muslims were put in preventive detention when he riot started.

– In subsequent 12 years, not only has there been no riot in Gujarat but not even a single day of curfew.

His face appears on Pakistan currency.

So what your are saying is even though Bangash is simply pointing out that Muslims have voted for Modi and BJP has won Muslim majority seats, he is biased.

Hard facts.

In ur opinion this is biased. People who simply claim Modi is a bad guy without evidence is, I’m sure, not biased for you.

@Aisha – its not imperative for everyone to see all development in world affairs through the same myopic prism that you are wearing. I feel sorry for the people in Pakistan, why are they so depressed. Pakistani people need to come out of the depression they need to have fun ,enjoy life and enjoy every bit of light moment. I know situation is not right these days in Pakistan, but the depression & negativity adds to this situation. 60 years of negative development, conspiracy theories and all that false propaganda by the establishment have made people very skeptical and have forgot to see the positive side. Guys u need to take it easy. Take a chill , be happy.

We feel aggrieved for losses of people in both of our states and are more concerned for them, Muslims in India do not fear hindus because we know how to coexist, probably Pakistan & Pakistanis need to learn this lesson , and the current situation in Pakistan is an apt evidence of this fact. We all now how Muslims are persecuting fellow muslims of other sects.

The author is simply on the wrong side of the history! India has no longer the future and will exist no more in the next, I see the world map without India and let this be the road map for the sub-continent.

I see the world map without India and let this be the road map for the sub-continent.

We’ve discussed your poor eye-sight before on this forum. I really feel that you should do something about it.

Very balanced…………worth reading.

Instead of joining the ‘ bash Modi congo line ‘ you correctly chose to give the benefit of the doubt to Modi with the assumption that his actual test will now start.

He has a PhD from Oxford I would not expect anything less.

Ah you need to change your crystal ball buddy. Seems its showing you wrong channel. What you should worry about whether Pakistan remains to be seen in current form in next 10 years.

This presupposes that :1. India is not now a world power and so must want to become a world power, 2. It wants it so desperately that it will make all the compromises to achieve that.

Here is what the author would be well-advised to consider;

1. India is already a world power. Look at its memberships of all powerful international bodies and groupings in all of which Pakistan does not have a presence. Look at its scientific and technological accomplishments not too different from the most developed powers of the world in a fraction of time the latter took to reach that, even with all the barbarism (of colonial and Islamic conquests) they put the world through.

2. India’s quest is for an increasingly responsible role in world affairs in which Pakistan does not count for much. India knows that such a role can come to it only when it is equal to that role. In other words, no external agency, least of all Pakistan, has any role in assuring India about its place in the world. India will earn it on its own.

3. I have said this before and I shall repeat it (because it is very necessary to underline this). Indians are a patient people and pretty fatalistic, too. “We will reach our manifest Destiny.” We measure Time in aeons. We have been here for ages and we will be here for millenia to come. No Pakistani, or even a Muslim, can claim that. We are in no special hurry.

It might be self-reassuring for Pakistanis to think that Indians have the same value system that they have. It simply is not true. So, they would be miscalculating grievously if they expect India’s behaviour patterns to mimic Pakistan’s.

And, nobody knows that better than Narendrabhai Modi! Ironically, quite like the pseudo-sickular government before him, he will insist on the exact same conditions that Pakistan must fulfill before India consents to talk to Pakistan.

I don’t think we should mind that wishful thinking on Rex Minor. Isn’t he reflecting the dream of every Pakistani? After 1971, every Pakistani dreams about how to break India. You see it baffles them that it is so hard for them to keep just 4 provinces together then how come 28 states of India can remain together. Any way, I already recommended Rex Minor to change his crystal ball.

sadyon raha hai dushman daur-e-zaman hamara”.

he forgot all modis crimes the way west dont see israeli crimes.

Pleasantry surprised to read a forwarding looking article from this author, who usually sees the state of Pakistan with JI filter. I hope this professor of History teaches and promotes reciprocal advice to his Muslim students vis-à-vis introspection and opening their minds to the true purpose and meaning of education and religion itself: the sanctity, respect, and defense of human rights.

Pleasantry surprised to read a forwarding looking article from this author, who usually sees the state of Pakistan with JI filter. I hope this professor of History teaches and promotes reciprocal advice to his Muslim students vis-à-vis introspection and opening their minds to the true purpose and meaning of education and religion itself: the sanctity, respect, and defense of human rights.

ET WHAT IS IN THIS NOTE TO NOT PUBLISH IT. PLEASE DON”T BE SO INSECURE.

If a constituency has a majority of Muslims and the BJP gets a majority of votes in that constituency, it automatically means that some Muslims did vote for the BJP. Its simple logic – no evidence required.

“Past performance etc.” – If 12 yrs of communal riot-free rule + development is not good for you, that’s your problem.

In J&K, BJP won 3 seats, out of 6. People of J&K have voted for BJP.

When talking about performance, Modi’s Gujarat is much more peaceful than other state for the past 12 years. No riots have happened after 2001. So, yeah, based on his performance, India has voted for him.

Mr Khan Bangash is apparently a very fine person, has expressed his reading of the situation together with his opinon and suggestions for Indian muslims. I have tried to express my opinion and was able to hear the cries of those who vanished on Mr Modis watch, and can reasonably forecast the future based on the educated guess and with the use of peculative logic. Those who disagree with my comments should not lament or cry foul, but to learn to respect the opinion of others and freedom of expression.

Your comments may appear in The Express Tribune paper. For this reason we encourage you to provide your city. The Express Tribune does not bear any responsibility for user comments.

Comments are moderated and generally will be posted if they are on-topic and not abusive. For more information, please see our Comments FAQ .

Notify me of new posts by email.

Unless otherwise stated, all content is copyrighted © 2014 The Express Tribune News Network.
