
It's a craze that's hit East Tennessee and it started with the Oak Ridge Fire Department.

Their goal is to raise money for the Wounded Warriors.

"It's a small sacrifice we can make, for all the things they do for us," says Fire Chief, Darryl Kerley.

The Cold Water Challenge has gone viral on social media.

"A fire chief from Virginia challenged one of our Chiefs, Josh, so Josh took the challenge. He named 5 of our firefighters in the challenge. From there it has gone viral throughout our department and viral throughout the East Tennessee region."

Here's how it works, once you've been challenged you have 24 hours to get into a cold body of water. Then you have to make a donation to your favorite charity.

Next, it's your turn to tag 5 people.

"You take 70 times 5 and you can see how quickly this multiplies," says Kerley.

The challenge has raised concern in other states, causing some pretty serious injuries because of extremely cold temperatures.

But, these guys say if you stay smart it's a great way to raise funds.

"Most of the water is safe this time of the year, it's not going to hurt you," says Kerley.

"If everyone just sends in 10 dollars, we already have raised several thousand dollars in the last 7 days."

Charities that benefit from this viral chain, say it helps them tremendously, not to mention, for some it can be a lot of fun.

So much fun, Local 8 News Reporter, Casey Wheeless jumped into the brisk West Side YMCA pool, she too will be donating to the Wounded Warriors.

Comments may be monitored for inappropriate  content, but the station is under no legal obligation to do so.

If you believe  a comment violates the above rules, please use the Flagging Tool to alert  a Moderator.

Flagging does not guarantee removal.

Multiple violations may result in account suspension.

Decisions to suspend or unsuspend accounts are made by Station Moderators.

Links require admin approval before posting.

Questions may be sent to webmaster@wvlt-tv.com .  Please provide detailed information.
