
Sorry, but your browser needs Javascript to use this site.

HARLEYSVILLE, PENNSYLVANIA – If man’s best friend is a dog, then who is a dog’s best friend? That would be Rover. Or Glow. Or Ivan or Raina.

The four canines recently donated precious pints of blood to their fellow pooches. And they did it without having to travel far from home: They visited an animal bloodmobile.

Similar to the Red Cross vehicles for humans, the University of Pennsylvania’s traveling veterinary lab goes to where the donors are to make it easier to give.

Officials at Penn’s School of Veterinary Medicine said they don’t know of any other animal bloodmobiles operating in the U.S. Theirs makes weekly rounds through suburban Philadelphia and New Jersey.

Dogs must have the correct blood type, weigh at least 25 kg and be younger than 8 years old. Owners volunteer their pet for the short procedure, which requires no sedation.

However, Marryott said it’s the dog that ultimately chooses to lie still and give.

About 150 dogs participate in the program. Each donates three or four pints a year, which can help animals suffering from illnesses including cancer or an accidental trauma such as being hit by a car. One pint can save up to three dogs.

Sandy Lucas brought her 7-year-old black German shepherd to the bloodmobile last week, when it was parked at a strip mall in Harleysville about 23 km from her home.

The Pottstown, Pennsylvania, resident said she wouldn’t have braved highway traffic and city parking problems to take the dog to Penn Vet’s animal hospital in downtown Philadelphia, which is twice as far. But the bloodmobile made it convenient to find out if Raina could donate, she said.

Just like people, the furry donors get a snack and a heart-shaped “U of P Blood Donor” sticker immediately after giving. In addition, they receive free blood screenings and dog food to take home.

While the bloodmobile helps solve Penn’s urban logistical challenges, not all donation centers have such issues. Traffic and parking aren’t big problems at North Carolina State University’s pet blood bank in Raleigh, where owners can easily drop off their dogs for donations spokesman Dave Green said.

But what about a catmobile? Perhaps not surprisingly, felines are bit less cooperative. They need to be sedated in order to give blood, so Penn does that only at its animal hospital.
