
The claim by the Boko Haram leader, Abubakar Shekau, that the schoolgirls abducted in Chibok have been converted from Christianity to Islam has continued to attract condemnations with the Abia State wing of the Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN) saying it should be treated as a war crime.

A video clip released by Boko Haram last week showed over 130 young girls all dressed in overflowing muslim hijab and reciting verses from the Koran with the Boko Haram leader claiming that they had been “liberated and converted to Islam”.

But the Christian body noted that conversion  by coercion was a sin both against humanity  and God, “ who has always given man the right to make choice".

"Kidnapping and converting Christians to Islam by force is an affront to Christianity which can not be accepted,” the PFN said, adding that the international community must stand up against the evil wind which could precipitate into a religious crisis in Nigeria if allowed to persist.

According to the PFN, the use of force to make the mostly Christian Chibok schoolgirls to embrace Islam against their own faith should be treated as war crime by the international community and the perpetrators of the heinous act must be brought to book.

“The abduction of the innocent school girls is a crime condemnable by all but more criminal is their forceful conversion to a strange religion contrary to their faith,” the statement read in part.

It argued that “even God does not compel anyone to repent (as) repentance has always been by choice, and anyone who claims God has commanded him to make converts by force is suffering from religious malady."

The Abia PFN expressed faith in the on-going efforts by the federal government and global partners to rescue the girls and called on Christians all over the country to persist in prayers until the girls regain their freedom.

While lamenting that Christians in the northern parts of the country have often been the main targets of Boko Haram terrorists, the Abia PFN assured the Christian brethren of the continued prayers of the church for divine intervention to disperse the evil cloud.

Please leave your comment below. Your name will appear next to your comment. We'll also keep you updated by email whenever someone else comments on this page. Your comment will appear on this page once it has been approved by a moderator.

Please enter some keywords that you'd like to search for. Your results will be displayed below.

THISDAYLIVE cares about you, help us to report better!
