
One of the protest signs at Bentley.

PETROLEUM exploration and production company Metgasco has engaged legal counsel to investigate the suspension of its drilling licence at its Rosella exploration well at Bentley on the Northern Rivers.

The company advised shareholders today it had made an "extensive submission" to the Office of Coal Seam Gas (OCSG) last Thursday, “demonstrating the company had fully complied with licence conditions relating to community consultation".

The company said the office could not confirm a date for its response so Metgasco had engaged specialist legal services to provide advice in relation to the suspension.

The company packed up shop at its Rosella E-01 drilling site in a move anti-coal seam gas (CSG) campaigners are heralding a landmark win for people power that has been observed around the world.

Protesters say their success at Bentley will pave the way for other NSW communities fighting to keep the gas industry out.

Despite the possibility the OCSG suspension placed on Metgasco's licence to drill Rosella late last week could be lifted, Metgasco has opted to cancel drilling rig and other service contracts and cut its losses.

The company pointed to the reallocation of police resources away from guaranteeing "a safe and lawful environment for drilling" as the reason for its decision to not to proceed "in the near term".

Eight hundred police officers were expected to converge on the tiny farming area of Bentley this week to allow drilling plants access in the face of a continually expanding community protest.

Since January, anti-CSG protesters have been camped on a beef property near the Rosella site, their numbers swelling to 3000 at times.

They claim up to 7000 people had indicated they would be at Bentley this week in a show of support for the anti-CSG movement.

It seems strange that Metgasco have put in a submission to say how good they are with community consultation. Give yourself a rap guys, no doubt that's what Mr Henderson has done. I feel the best judges in this messy affair would be the people you fibbed about, the farmers you called extremists, vigilantes and professional protesters. Unfortunately he spoke to Sydney media mostly, thinking we would never hear it or see it, Metgasco deserves to have their licence cancelled.

If Northern Rivers wants to go fully non fossil fuels then let them.  Stop electricity coming in on the poles and stop delivering petrol and diesel. Stop bottled gas also. Let them be as natural as they like.  They can start cooking dinner on wood fires and learn to walk and ride horses again.  But they shouldn't have it both ways - they want to live off the benefits of technology and energy (for their Iphones and internet) and then complain about it at the same time.  Hypocrites.

25 years ago, we were being told Australia has enough gas to supply every home, every vehicle for the next 200 years etc etc. So why are we selling most of it overseas ....  Corporate greed. Half the states are now covered in PELs - we do not need new wells drilled at the expense of agricultural land, water and health, just to supply countries overseas and leave our entire country ruined.

John Hine, you couldn't be further from the truth about the AWB single desk. It left for dead,
