
The federal government has said it would establish a maritime training institute at Obu-Ama in Degema Local Government of Rivers State to train ex-agitators in the government’s amnesty programme.

Special Adviser to the President on Niger Delta Affairs, Mr. Kingsley Kuku, told journalists last weekend when he visited the community to brief them on the project that the institute was in honour of leader of the Niger Delta Peoples Volunteer Force and former President of Ijaw Youth Council (IYC), Alhaji Asari Dokubo.

He said the project, which would cost about N2 billion would train 500 persons at a time and would be completed within one year.

Kuku said: “Today I am here as an Ijaw son representing the president in his transformation drive of developing the people and various lands in this country. We have come to meet the Obu-Ama community, his highness, Harry and his entire chiefs, community leaders, youths and women in our desire to site a maritime training institute at Obu-Ama.

“It is sited here in honour of one of the greatest minds of our struggle, Asari Dokubo. He has contributed his quota; he has struggled on behalf of the Niger Delta people. He has drawn the attention of government severally to the underdevelopment and poverty issues in the Niger Delta. Today, government has responded in its little way through the instrumentality of the presidential amnesty office in siting a maritime institute that will at a time take 500 delegates.

He said the presidency had defended the project before the National Assembly, adding that the Obu-Ama (also known as Harry’s Town) was chosen as a means of spreading development to coastal communities.

“Obu-Ama has been taken as a site because we really need to bring development to the coastal communities; the communities that need development. If you take Rivers state, Port Harcourt has a lot of projects that have been put there that are contributing to the development of Port Harcourt. So we need to spread to Bonny, Degema, Andoni and a few other communities. We need to go to these native communities that are demanding development and one of such is this old community that was founded in 1882 by the late Tom Harry,’ he said.

Speaking further on the project, Kuku said, “This project is going to cost no less than N2billion. Because of the rain and the period the budget was passed, it is going to be a project that will be completed within a year.

“When I talk about delegates, I am talking about the ex-agitators in our programme. It is meant to train them. The institute will be here to train all Nigerians and the delegates.

“We will no longer send people to South Africa and Barbados because it will be dealing with underwater diving and welding.

He noted that the community had already benefitted from the amnesty programme as two persons had been trained as pilots under the scheme and expressed satisfaction that instructors at the institute would be trained in the best maritime institutes in the world.

Please leave your comment below. Your name will appear next to your comment. We'll also keep you updated by email whenever someone else comments on this page. Your comment will appear on this page once it has been approved by a moderator.

Please enter some keywords that you'd like to search for. Your results will be displayed below.

THISDAYLIVE cares about you, help us to report better!
