
U.S.  Africa Command  has reached deal with the Nigerian military for sharing intelligence gleaned  from surveillance by American spy aircraft in the hunt for the schoolgirls  abducted by Boko Haram.

"We have finalized agreements with the Nigerians for sharing  intelligence with them, specifically related to the kidnapped girls," Army Col.  Steve Warren, a Pentagon spokesman, said Monday.

Pentagon officials also said that MC-12W Liberty spy  planes with a crew of four, and RQ-4 Global Hawk drones were  now flying round-the-clock over areas of northeastern Nigeria where Boko Haram  is suspected of kidnapping more than 200 schoolgirls on April 14 from the town  of Chibok.

The intelligence agreement had to skirt U.S. laws barring  cooperation with foreign militaries suspected of human rights abuses.

Amnesty International and other human rights organizations  have accused the Nigerian military of abusive tactics in thus-far failed efforts  to combat Boko Haram in mostly-Muslim northern Nigeria.

AFRICOM has sent 16 personnel to Nigeria to work on  intelligence and communications in the search effort. Army Gen.  David Rodriguez, who heads the command, was in Nigeria last week to negotiate  the intelligence pact.

At the White House Monday, President Barack Obama met for  lunch with several combatant commanders, but Rodriguez was not among them,  Pentagon officials said. Rodriguez also did not participate in the White House  meeting by video teleconference.

On Sunday, a bomb blast in a Christian  neighborhood of Kano, the largest city in northern Nigeria, killed at least  four people, Western news outlets reported. There were no immediate claims of  responsibility.

Over  the weekend at meetings in Paris, Nigeria and four neighboring countries  reached agreement on sharing intelligence and border surveillance in the search  for the missing girls. U.S. and Western allies agreed to provide technical  expertise and training for the new regional effort.

Under  the arrangement, Nigeria pledged to coordinate patrols and exchange  intelligence with Benin, Cameroon, Chad and Niger.

Cameroon  President Paul Biya, who has often been at odds with Nigerian President  Goodluck Jonathan, said, "We’re here to declare war on book Haram."

Jonathan claims to have mobilized 20,000 troops, plus aircraft and intelligence sources, in  northern Nigeria to search suspected Boko Haram hideouts.

More than 1,100  people have been killed in Boko Haram attacks this year, according to Nigerian  authorities, but the government claims to have pushed the terror group back  into hideouts and strongholds in the northeastern state of Borno bordering  Cameroon.

© Copyright 2014 Military.com. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
