
Business leaders attending the TMN Conference will pursue specific, pre-defined opportunities with decision makers at local and international companies in Mongolia and with relevant government officials. TMN has an exclusive partnership with the Business Council of Mongolia (BCM) and its 230+ members in various sectors that will enable this synergy.

Trade Mission Network (TMN) has announced its first business conference in Mongolia for September 2-7, 2014 and which is centered on the country’s annual Discover Mongolia Forum held this year in the capital city of Ulaanbaatar on September 4-5.

TMN builds on the experiences of founders Steve Powell and Al Hamman, who have worked on business transactions and trade missions in South America, Africa, the Middle East and Asia over the last two decades.

“After working in Mongolia for several years, we decided to introduce new clients to our business and political connections in this booming economy and help everyone capitalize on new opportunities,” said Powell.

Business leaders attending the TMN Conference will pursue specific, pre-defined opportunities with decision makers at local and international companies in Mongolia and with relevant government officials. TMN has an exclusive partnership with the Business Council of Mongolia (BCM) and its 230+ members in various sectors that will enable this synergy.

“The Business Council of Mongolia is pleased to be working with TMN and we all expect great results between their guests, our members and the Mongolian government,” said Jim Dwyer, Executive Director of BCM.

Discover Mongolia, a tourism company, and the Invest Mongolia Government Agency are also working with Trade Mission Network to maximize the TMN Conference results and effectiveness.

Beyond personalized meetings between TMN Conference attendees, BCM Members and relevant government officials and related seminars, TMN guests will have full access to the Discover Mongolia Forum and its sponsors, participants and guests. City and countryside tours, social events, trips to the Gobi Desert and visits to businesses, logistics and infrastructure systems, mining sites (such as Oyu Tolgoi) outside of Ulaanbaatar are also planned by TMN.
