
Prime minister-designate Narendra Modi has struck a chord with the masses when he said that his government would not discriminate against anyone, ensuring inclusive development. This will certainly go a long way in removing the misapprehensions among some people. Modi does not have to take too much trouble to ensure fairness in all government decisions. The founding fathers of the Constitution had envisaged dealing with all kinds of situations. It is a different matter that successive governments at the Centre have been manipulating the constitutional systems and institutions for their own narrow, selfish and political ends. All that Modi needs to do is to revive those systems and revitalise those institutions.

Take the case of Parliament, which was envisaged as the supreme debating forum where government programmes are thoroughly scrutinised and improved to serve the best interests of the people. Alas, it has ceased to be such a forum with members using it more to shout at one another and the government preferring to have its Bills guillotined. As a result, the quality of Bills passed by Parliament suffers and when they come into force, they are successfully challenged in courts of law. In the absence of debate, MPs are forced to give expression to their views either in TV studios or on the streets. This does not redound to the credit of the world’s largest democracy.

Unlike previous governments, which had difficulty in transacting business in Parliament because they weren’t sure if their allies were with them on every issue, the BJP enjoys a clear majority. This does not mean that the Opposition is irrelevant. The Congress, the biggest Opposition party, is only a caricature of its former self. However, the non-NDA parties constitute a sizeable number capable of keeping the government under check. The BJP should be willing not only to listen to the Opposition viewpoint but also consider it for incorporation in its Bills. On its part, the Opposition should cooperate with the government to transact its business.
