
KARACHI: At least six people, including a trustee of an Imambargah, were killed in different incidents of violence and targeted killing in the port city on Monday.

Imambargah caretaker Shaukat Sherazi, 45, and Qaiser Hussain, 50, were killed when unknown armed motorcyclists opened fire on them at Mithadar near Sherazia Imambargah in the Old City area.

The bodies were shifted to Civil Hospital Karachi for medico-legal formalities.

Superintendent Police (SP) City Sheraz Nazir said that Sherazi and Qaisar were sitting in an office at Mithadar near Sherazia Imambargah when attackers shot them dead.

According to sources, Shaukat Sherazi was also a member of Jaffaria Alliance Pakistan’s south wing. Situation in Mithadar, Gulistan-i-Jauhar, Malir and Abul Hassan Isphahani Road turned tense after the incident. Shops were closed in these areas.

The Majlis-e-Wahdatul Muslimeen (MWM) has announced that it would hold nationwide protest on Friday against the killing of Shaukat Sherazi.

A MWM spokesperson said that incidents of targeted killings were failure of the law enforcement agencies. The Shia organisation will also take out rallies across the country on Friday, the spokesperson said.

Separately, Farhan Afzal, 40, son of Afzal Ahmed, was gunned down by unidentified armed men in Mianwali Colony within the limits of Manghopir police station. The victim was owner of a marble factory. The body was shifted to Abbasi Shaheed Hospital.

Another person, Mohsin Agha, 50, was shot dead by unidentified gunmen near Dak Khana bus stop in Liaquatabad No 2.

Earlier, Sadaqat Begam, wife of Zainul Hassan, was gunned down by unidentified armed men in Keamari late Sunday night. The body was shifted to Civil Hospital for a postmortem examination.

Moreover, a teenage boy was killed by unidentified gunmen in North Karachi 5-C-4 near Baradari. The body was brought to Abbasi Shaheed Hospital for medico-legal formalities. The identity of the victim could not be ascertained as yet.

Meanwhile, ten suspected criminals were arrested by Rangers in Metroville SITE area. Weapons were also recovered from their possession, claimed the paramilitary force.

Police also claimed to have arrested seven suspected extortionists and targeted killers in raids conducted in different areas of the city.

Karachi, a city of 18 million people which contributes 42 per cent of Pakistan's GDP, is rife with murder and kidnappings and has been plagued for years by ethnic, sectarian and political violence.

Police along with Rangers are already carrying out operations against criminal groups to curb sectarian and political killings in the port city.

Do you have information you wish to share with Dawn.com? You can email our News Desk to share news tips, reports and general feedback.

You can also email the Blog Desk if you have an opinion or narrative to share, or reach out to the Special Projects Desk to send us your Photos , or Videos .

Is it really so hard to catch criminals who have vowed to attack the minorities? I doubt that because the way they do it neither is very sophisticated nor is their agenda very hidden.

We are led to believe the law enforcement agencies are doing everything to round up such criminals but the blatant repeated crimes being committed in broad daylight simply shows there is criminal negligence or all of this is being condoned by the powers that be.

I reject the notion, the police along with rangers and intelligence agencies can't catch them. That's simply next to impossible.

Let there be no religion. Just one nation under God.

I think we are fooling ourselves by saying that the law enforcing authorities have "failed" to control terrorism or to reduce crime ... the FACT is they have actually done NOTHING .. and i mean NOTHING AT ALL .. crime control is now a developed science that has techniques and ways to control it .. all civilised countries know how to do it .. and they do it ..and it has success in leaps .. people don't run around crazy killing others ..

This happens in Karachi not because its a failure to control.. its because it is ALLOWED .. by the state, government, by vested interests of feudals, power brokers etc etc.

There was yet another targeted killing, the same day, not reported in your report, that of, Sajjad Hussain, shot dead at his dry cleaning shop at Ayesha Manzil F.B.Area just as he returned from Zohr prayer. Not a single killer apprehended. Question of punishment is too far away.

Question is why no appropriate action taken against these killers and, why the life of common citizen made so vulnerable? No one in the government from top to bottom, no parliamentarian, no one in the senate moves. Interior ministry busy elsewhere. So is the Sindh government.

The DAWN MEDIA GROUP is not responsible for the content of external sites.

Tupernic Private Limited. ( www.tupernic.com ).Designed for Dawn .
