
As part of the world's leading portfolio of security and fire safety events and established as the region's pre-eminent authority on industrial security expertise and guidance, IFSEC Southeast Asia will once again provide the meeting point for the ASEAN security, fire and safety community at the Kuala Lumpur Convention Centre, Malaysia from September 3 - 5, 2014.

Packed with new features, innovation, product areas and educational content, this is the must attend event for any security, fire prevention or occupational safety & health professional responsible for securing or sourcing business in the region, making it an essential place to display your products, solutions and technologies and actively engage with a receptive audience of over 10,000 industry buyers and decision makers to build profitable business partnerships.

Join the movers and enablers from the Ministry of Home Affairs Malaysia, Ministry of Urban Wellbeing, Housing & Local Government, Royal Malaysia Police, Asian Professional Security Association, CyberSecurity Malaysia, British Security Industry Association, ASIS International (Malaysian Chapter) and many more as they lend their support and expertise in key highlighted areas during the show.

Find breath-taking innovation on the show floor, from the big launches from leading solutions providers including detection and alarm systems, enabled asset management programs, RFID anti-counterfeit devices, multiple hi-tech POS systems to truly never before seen technologies from over 350 global exhibiting companies.

Find networking in the dedicated networking areas, where you are able to meet the thought leaders in security, safety and fire.

Dedicated Cyber Security Pavilion to cater for the growing demand for cyber security solutions for government and private organisations.

An increase of international pavilions to enhance the multi-national offering of the event and provide a global outlook in a local market.

Learn from the experts to have a better understanding on how IFSECSEA 2014 strengthens your business.

"We had participated in the IFSEC Symposium in India and the UK through our partner REMSDAQ. IFSEC Southeast Asia edition was the first exhibition to be held in Kuala Lumpur in September 2013 and we were part of this prestigious event. As such, IFSEC has provided us a good brand platform in all the locations it was held and we are confident that the same would be evident in the 2014 edition. That was one of the reasons why we also co-sponsored the IFSEC Southeast Asia 2013 inaugural event. The exhibition basically helps link international security and fire safety solutions providers with government and commercial customers in the region," said SHAJI N.M, CHAIRMAN PRISMA BYTES.

This 2nd edition is expected to extend the reach to industry professionals from across the region and beyond as well as huge growth of global media partners to support and provide sound mileage that will surely bring new businesses and increase networking contacts for companies who wish to exhibit. Be part of IFSEC Southeast Asia 2014 for the opportunity to meet and connect with an international audience of security and fire buyers.

Owned by UBM plc listed on the London Stock Exchange, UBM Asia is Asia's leading exhibition organiser and the biggest commercial organiser in mainland China, India and Malaysia. Established with its headquarters in Hong Kong and subsidiary companies across Asia and in the US, UBM Asia has a strong global presence in 25 major cities with 30 offices and over 1,400 staff.

With a track record spanning over 30 years, UBM Asia operates in 21 market sectors with 160 dynamic face-to-face exhibitions, 75 high-level professional conferences, 28 targeted trade publications, 18 round-the-clock vertical portals and virtual event services for over 1,000,000 quality exhibitors, visitors, conference delegates, advertisers and subscribers from all over the world. We provide a one-stop diversified global service for high-value business matching, quality market news and online trading networks.

UBM Asia has extensive office networks in China, Southeast Asia and India, three of the world's fastest growing B2B events markets. UBM China has 11 offices in the major cities in mainland China, including Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, Hangzhou, Chengdu and Shenzhen, where we organise more than 70 exhibitions and conferences. In ASEAN, UBM Asia operates from its offices in Malaysia, Thailand, Indonesia, Singapore, Vietnam and the Philippines with over 50 events in this region. UBM India teams in Mumbai, New Delhi, Bangalore, Chennai and Hyderabad organise 20 exhibitions and 60 conferences every year across the country.

UBM plc is a leading global business media company. We inform markets and bring the world's buyers and sellers together at events via online and print providing them with the information they need to do business successfully. We focus on serving professional communities from doctors to game developers, journalists to jewellery traders, farmers to pharmacists. Our 6,500 staff members in more than 40 countries are organised into specialist teams that serve these communities, helping them do business and their markets to work effectively and efficiently.

A-8-1, Lvl 8,
