
The Protectors of Lagos’ Legacy, PLL, has come out in defence of the Oba of Lagos, Oba Rilwan Akiolu I of Lagos, over his endorsement of Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode as a worthy successor to the Governor of Lagos State, Babatunde Fashola (SAN).

This is coming on the heels of the criticism by an organization under the aegis of “Visioners For New Lagos”, which the group described as faceless.

In a statement at the weekend, signed by its Coordinator, Barr. Olatunji Williams, PLL declared VFNL leader, Bambo Akin Johnson as a non-existent name in Lagos, saying the latter insulted a highly revered traditional ruler like Oba of Lagos for exercising his constitutional right.

The group recalled that when the Oba of Benin endorsed Comrade Oshiomhole in the last governorship election in Edo State, nobody in Benin Kingdom and the entire Edo State insulted him.

It also cited instances where different traditional rulers in the country have endorsed the incumbent President, Dr. Goodluck Jonathan, without any name-calling.

“Oba Akiolu has only exercised his constitutional right as is the case all over the world. This should not attract butt of uncultured vituperation by some faceless people in the name of politics. The revered Oba only aired his opinion”, PLL noted.

“Oba Akiolu was following the footsteps of his ancestors when he stood boldly on the side of the people against the invasion of Yorubaland and the injustice against Late Chief M.K.O Abiola by the military junta for the annulment of the June 12 election adjudged the freest and fairest election in Nigeria till date”, they added.

The group recalled that the then Oba of Lagos at his palace, handed a letter of protest to Chief Ernest Shonekan, Head of the Interim Government and insisted Abiola and SDP won the election.

Continuing, PLL challenged VFNL to come out to address the world, instead of hiding behind a faceless organization to insult traditional rulers.

“Indeed, the endorsement of Ambode by the Oba of Lagos and other traditional rulers in the state has sent jitters down the spine of these political jobbers as he remains the most outstanding and qualified candidate for the job of building on the legacy of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and Mr. Babatunde Fashola and moving Lagos to the next level.

“Our resolution is that Lagos will continue to move forward and never be captured by unprogressive forces of darkness”, the statement concluded.

The Visioners For New Lagos, VFNL, had dismissed the endorsement of Ambode by the Oba of Lagos, saying “Lagos is not the property of any one person or group but a collective heritage that we will all protect with our very last”.

Insisting that it has no problem with anyone aspiring to be governor of the state, Bambo Akin Johnson said such should emerge through a credible process.

“Since Ambode merits the job because he is the best accountant they have ever seen, why not redeploy him to Alpha Beta, where he could help manage the extension of Lagos wealth which is being diverted, the group said.

“We will fight Lagos elders and put a final stop to their extremism. We would not honour them by offering a covering. At their level and status, they should be left to face the consequences of their greed”.

The Oba of Lagos spoke well ,but is right  as Oba is to Wellcome anybody thatched come for is blessing and not to endorse .

As a father, you fail in your responsibility  the day you show or embrace your love to a child among your children.

imagine a prominent non ‘ibile’ contesting against your son in the front of your palace for the post of assembly.thinking time.

Quicksilver, I know you are paid to patrol the internet to answer anyone that is gainst Ambode, good you are really earnning your salary!Of course Oba has the right to endorse anyone he wants, but this was supposed to be a book lunch, Ambode has not even declared his intention and to indirectly say that he would not allow Hamzat to contest because of indigenship and the same breath say all Nigerians are free to contest in Lagos is nothing but hypocracy when Ambode himself is not an indigene, yes he was born in Epe but his lenage is in Ondo State, as for me I do not subscribe to indigenship, but the Oba interjected it into his statement. And for you to say he is the best candidate is nothing but hogwash there are other better candidates. You said Oba prayed for other candidates as if he meant it when he already chose whom he wanted..I dey laugh O (Sorry Baba Obasanjo I just had to borrow your line)  The Oba has had his say, we the voters will have our way.

Pity.

Your oversight and whimsical attack on my persona is forgiven already.

Sir, I have a prescription for you though: two books – “BLINK” and “THE TIPPING POINT” both written by Malcolm Gladwell, after reading them, I believe your sense of judgement will possess more calm and your thought pattern, clarity.

The Oba and the likes should not play open politics with their seats pls.They are for every body in their domains.

I am in total support of quicksilver assertions and I see no reason why the oba ‘I believe is a man of integrity’ should play to the gallery by encouraging unworthy aspirants to vie for a position so sensitive as the Governor of lagos state that needs a qualified and seasoned technocrat to continue the legacy of brf. Pls, Akin. We have gone beyond the era of using place of origin to determine the worth of whom to rule. I am a disciple of “the best man for the job to rule to rule” so stop this tribalism and ethnic jingoism and concentrate on more resounding criteria or will you say one that has lived all his life in lagos and contributed his whole in the development of lagos as an outcast? Pls be real Akin.

Notify me of follow-up comments by email.

Notify me of new posts by email.
