
Somehow it reminded me of this “Pakcik” I used to meet on my morning jaunts in the park. He worried about his heart. Yet at 67, he could sweat it out on the concrete foot-reflexology pavement with his bare feet for a good 15 minutes in the early pre-dawn morning. Something that I, younger by more than a decade, can’t manage at all, for stepping over all those sharp, round, angled, rough, smooth, differently-sized pebbles, cobbles and stones was no easy feat; the pain was so excruciating I decided long ago I would stick to just my normal walk-n-jog routine, as I didn’t fancy subjecting myself to what was literally a patterned pathway of torture. That’s why I take my hats off to the bald, heavy-set “Pakcik” who gamely huffed and puffed his way round and round, up and down the foot-path.

I guess if Malaysia had a heart that could be examined under a doctor's microscope, it must look pretty bad ― sick to the core, probably punctured in a million pieces and leaking precious blood. What does a broken-hearted nation look like? Well, for one, all the shine of towering buildings and feel-good songs with catchy (politically correct) slogans like 1Malaysia won't hide the underlying ugliness of fissures in the fabric of its society. All the gloss can't cover up the distrust, resentment, prejudices and ill-will that surface up every time race or religion rears its head. What was it someone said, first world theory, third world mentality, or something like that. If a nation had a voice, I venture Malaysia would be a cacophony of loud noise filled with tones of condemnation and contention, like the shouting of bullies spoiling for a fight over who gets the bigger slice of cake.

It should be obvious the problem isn't race or religion, really, it's people, specifically people's hearts. The Bible does not mince words about the true condition of human hearts, “For it is from within, out of a person's heart, that evil thoughts come ― sexual immorality, theft, murder, adultery, greed, malice, deceit, lewdness, envy, slander, arrogance and folly" (Mark 7:21-22). The indictment applies to all mankind, irrespective of our individual skin-colour or belief system. All motives, good or bad, are birthed in the heart, whether or not the external act is manifested ultimately. Which is probably why Solomon, reputedly the wisest king in the ancient world, penned an apt warning, “Above all else, guard your heart, for everything you do flows from it” (Proverbs 4:23). Obviously he wasn't just talking about the physical organ that is no bigger than the size of 2 clenched fists situated under our ribs.

An old “Pakcik” knew the importance of a healthy heart; he was willing to sacrifice time, effort and energy to do something to keep his heart pumping strong. What about us? Whilst we are very quick to proclaim we are all Malaysians, show off our multi-cultural festivals and talk about the “good old days” when there seemingly was no such thing as racial disunity, are we willing to admit the ugliness of our own hearts? In all honesty, can we answer ourselves what's really in our hearts as we look at a Malay, Chinese, Indian or “Orang Asli”, through our own coloured lenses of perception and presumption? Is there perhaps just a twinge of resentment, or a measure of snobbery, mayhap a seed of prejudice buried deep inside our psyche which we aren't even aware of, that causes us to react instinctively to stereo-type those who are not in 'our gang'? Perhaps that's why we jump so quickly to assume, defend and justify what's fair and unfair, right or wrong according to our own pet definitions and in pursuit of our own vested self-interests.

Come on, if we are truly honest, we all have them. Go ahead, protest that I am wrong. I wish I was, but don't we all harbour certain attitudes about certain people? God forbid we ever have to confess out loud the secret feelings we keep under wraps about others. It's hard to look beyond our own hearts into another’s heart. We fail to understand, much less appreciate, the fundamental fact that in the dance of life, all our hearts can be beating to quite different rhythms, even though we may all be sharing the same floor space. That's probably why we often end up inevitably stepping on each other's toes, screaming bloody murder in the process.

And where there is “ours”, there's always a “them” thrown into the equation. The way I see it, at its deepest level, I need to answer this in my own heart ― Would I, can I, calling myself a Malaysian, give way to another Malaysian's welfare and happiness, sacrificing my own in the process? Especially when that “other” Malaysian is different from me. If I can't do it, what right do I have to expect that Malaysian to do the same for me? That's why the hard thing is actually the “heart” thing, as Jesus put it, to not just love God but to “love your neighbour as yourself” (Mark 12:31). No mention whatsoever that your neighbour must be of a particular skin-colour or belong to a certain political party, or pray to the same god as you, nor that you must like him or that he must be nice to you. Nothing whatsoever about him having to be mindful of and always respect “your rights” first. In fact, Jesus went 1 step (much) further, calling His followers to “…love your enemies, bless those who curse you, do good to those who hate you, and pray for those who spitefully use you and persecute you” (Matthew 5:44).

Real unity must mean all hearts ready and willing to do the same thing for and to one another, out of love, to build each other up, not tear each other down. Real unity isn’t being content with just getting along, live and let live. Real unity comes when we choose to love the “other”, irrespective of whether we agree or disagree.  That's radical and a tough call. It’s going to cost effort, energy, time ― and it’s going to be real painful. Just like “Pakcik” undertaking all that exercise, for the sake of his heart.

*This is the personal opinion of the writer and does not necessarily represent the views of The Malay Mail Online.
