
I am a senior editor at Forbes, covering legal affairs, corporate finance, macroeconomics and the occasional sailing story. I was the Southwest Bureau manager for Forbes in Houston from 1999 to 2003, when I returned home to Connecticut for a Knight fellowship at Yale Law School. Before that I worked for Bloomberg Business News in Houston and the late, great Dallas Times Herald and Houston Post. While I am a Chartered Financial Analyst and have a year of law school under my belt, most of what I know about financial journalism, I learned in Texas.

The U.S. Supreme Court split along unusual lines today as conservative Justices Antonin Scalia, Clarence Thomas and Samuel Alito joined in an opinion by liberal Ruth Bader Ginsburg , while Chief Justice John Roberts and Anthony Kennedy joined a dissent by equally liberal Stephen Breyer.

The case was Petrella v. MGM and involved the esoteric doctrine of laches, or unreasonable delay. An heir to the coauthor of a 1963 screenplay about the life of boxer Jake LaMotta waited until 2009 to sue MGM over director Martin Scorsese’s Oscar-winning 1980 film “Raging Bull,” just long enough for the critically acclaimed movie to finally start making money.

In a perhaps understandably pro-industry ruling that set it apart from other federal circuits, the Ninth Circuit  threw out Paula Petrella’s copyright suit, saying it was unfair to require MGM to defend itself over a film that had been released 19 years before. MGM argued Petrella had deliberately delayed her suit until the movie went into the black, and put the studio in the unfair position of dredging up decades-old records and witnesses to defend itself. The studio also argued such suits jeopardize the large investments companies make in copyright material by allowing plaintiffs to wait until those investments pay off before seeking their share of the proceeds.

The majority rejected those arguments, however, saying copyright law was clear in allowing lawsuits up to three years after an infringing act, setting up a rolling period for owners like Petrella to sue although they can only collect on profits earned during that three-year window.

The Supreme Court’s decision “brings certainty to this issue, which was unique in the Ninth Circuit,” said William Kane , a partner in the Chicago office of Baker Hostetler who represented the estate of Thunderball scriptwriter Kevin McClory in similar litigation over the James Bond films. That litigation was settled after the Ninth Circuit invoked laches to block suit over the Bond franchise in the U.S.

In those few and unusual cases where a plaintiff unreasonably delays in bringing suit and consequently causes inequitable harm to the defendant, the doctrine permits a court to bring about a fair result. I see no reason to erase the doctrine from copyright’s lexicon, not even in respect to limitations periods applicable to damages actions.

In her opinion, Ginsburg notes that copyright owners must be careful to avoid another judicial doctrine called estoppel, which would deny them all damages if the defendant can show they engaged in deception. The court’s ruling also leaves intact laches for so-called actions in equity, where plaintiffs seek a court injunction to block, say, the distribution of an infringing work. Film studios can also protect themselves by suing for declaratory judgments in cases where they suspect a copyright owner might sue them, Kane said.

The dissenters were distressed that the majority removed a powerful tool from the hands of judges to correct they see as abusive litigation. But Kane said the majority opinion says that when Congress sets up a detailed system for compensating copyright holders, including a statute of limitations, judges can’t inject their own opinions about whether a case is too old. Going forward, film studios must be more careful in conducting the equivalent of a title search on copyright material, he said, while artists and their heirs must also keep a close idea on what’s being done with their works in an environment where a box-office bomb could be reborn as a hit television series or viral video on the Internet.

This decision is an outlier, statistically speaking, for the arrangement of justices in a split decision. Thomas has only voted with Ginsburg in two non-unanimous decisions this session, or 25%, according to SCOTUSBlog’s Stat Pack ,  while Alito joined his liberal colleague in three. Scalia has been the very portrait of aisle-crossing, joining Ginsburg in half such decisions.

Kennedy has a similarly low percentage on voting with Breyer in split decisions at 38%, while Roberts has joined Breyer in 75% so far. Last year, Thomas ended the session in full or partial agreement with Ginsburg in only 20% of non-unanimous cases, Alito in 21%, and Scalia again in a slightly more collegial 38%.
