
Goldman Henry’s US50 Fund is not only a New Zealand success story but has proved to be a world beater.

It achieved +18.75% for the calendar year 2013 with average annual growth over the last eleven years of + 17.69%, well above the target of 12% to 14%.

The five year annualised return as at the end of last year was +16.91%, eclipsing any fund of its type in the world.

The top US domiciled fund could only manage +16.67% during the same period, according to the  Wall Street Journal Fund Score Card listing the top thirty eight funds across all categories.

The result is a tribute to the sound investment strategies of the US50 Fund’s founders, Alan Goldman and Brian Henry.

“It’s not bad when considering the US50 Fund is prohibited from using derivatives, hedging or leverage and has less scale than most US funds,” they say.

Robert Knox, US50 Fund chairman and former managing partner of BDO in Auckland, has congratulated the investment team, headed by Mr Goldman, on an exceptional result.

“Mr Goldman’s performance has placed the fund among the best of its type in the world.

“Alan rarely speaks about himself, preferring just to get on with the job, but I am told by his colleagues that the CEO of a major international bank last year labeled him Best of Breed for his work in international equities.

Mr Goldman and Mr Henry launched the US50 Fund in 2002 and it has consistently achieved outstanding results, on occasions completely outperforming Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathway “A” class shares.

All this despite operating in a highly competitive market and being buffeted by the global financial crisis.

“Our core belief is that US-listed equities represent an asset class that is more liquid than most, is more transparent in valuation, pricing and company performance, and over the long term will provide solid, consistent returns to the investor,” says Mr Goldman.

“Brian and I proclaimed from the inception that US50 Fund Ltd was targeting an average annual growth after fees, expenses and applicable tax of 12% to 14%.
