
The Pakistan Muslim League-Quaid from the opposition and the treasury benches got into a verbal tug-of-war over who would introduce a resolution in favour of the Pakistan Army at the Punjab Assembly session on Monday. Despite vehement protest by PML-Q leader Chaudhry Moonis Elahi, who wanted to submit a resolution on behalf of his party, the Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz presented and adopted its own resolution in this regard.

Elahi, who rarely attends Assembly sessions, arrived at the PA three hours before the session was scheduled to start. He raised a motion for a resolution in favour of the Pakistan Army and tried his best to have it passed during the two-and-a-half hour session. After failing to do so, the PML-Q announced a token boycott of the proceedings.

On Sunday, the PML-Q Punjab had announced that his party would move a resolution in favour of the army at the PA session.

Soon after the session began, Elahi requested Acting Speaker Sardar Sher Ali Khan Gorchani to allow him to read out his party’s resolution. The speaker refused.

When Elahi protested, members of the treasury stood up and shouted slogans against the Opposition. Elahi and members of the Opposition stood up in protest but the speaker still did not allow him to move a resolution. He said the resolution would be considered after the question hour.

Rana Sanaullah Khan, in response to Elahi’s motion, said the PML-Q’s resolution needed certain amendments after which it could be presented in the house for passage.

After the question hour, Elahi once again tried to move a resolution but the speaker once again denied him permission.

After the namaz interval, Sanaullah moved a resolution which the Opposition rejected and insisted that the assembly adopt their resolution. The speaker let Sanaullah read his resolution in favour of the Pakistan Army. The opposition boycotted the session in protest.

Sanaullah’s resolution read: “The house shows complete confidence and solidarity with Pakistan Army. The house appreciates the army’s role during war and peace. The nation stands behind the army in guarding our borders and fighting terrorists. The house opposes attempts that make institutions appear controversial and politicised. The house is determined to foil such attempts”.

Elahi rejected this resolution and demanded that the one he had proposed be adopted instead.

Talking to journalists outside the assembly, Elahi said the PML-N had forced their resolution through the house amid great pressure and protest from the Opposition.

He said that his party’s resolution should have been passed as it expressed solidarity with the army at a time when a controversial figure had come to power in India.

Elahi said the government appeared to be failing on all fronts. He said the leaders had accumulated so much debt that four generations would be shackled in loans. The government is about to complete one year in power and is yet to provide any relief to the people, he said. The speaker adjourned the session till Tuesday morning.

Published in The Express Tribune, May 20th, 2014.

Your comments may appear in The Express Tribune paper. For this reason we encourage you to provide your city. The Express Tribune does not bear any responsibility for user comments.

Comments are moderated and generally will be posted if they are on-topic and not abusive. For more information, please see our Comments FAQ .

Notify me of new posts by email.

Unless otherwise stated, all content is copyrighted © 2014 The Express Tribune News Network.
