
His Highness General Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, yesterday received Prime Minister of Malaysia, Mohammad Najib bin Tun Haji Abdul Razak, accompanied by his wife, Mrs. Rosmah Mansor, who on a three-day official visit to the country along with an accompanying delegation.

An official welcoming ceremony was rolled out for the Malaysian prime minister as he arrived at Al Mushrif Palace where he and H.H. Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed headed to the podium of honour, during which both national anthems of the UAE and Malaysia were played and a 21-gun salute was fired in honour of the guest of the State.

Sheikh Mohamed greeted the members of the official delegation accompanying the prime minister.

The national anthems of both countries were played followed by the firing of a 21-gun salute.

In their talks yesterday, H.H. Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed and Prime Minister Najib Razak discussed the cooperation, relations and friendship between UAE and Malaysia, as well as ways of supporting and promoting them in the service of the common interests of the two countries and their peoples.

Expressing his delight at the Malaysian prime minister's current visit, H.H. Sheikh Mohamed affirmed that such visits contribute to the strengthening of ties of cooperation between the two countries and their peoples.

Sheikh Mohamed emphasised that UAE, under the leadership of President His Highness Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan looks forward to increasing joint cooperation with all friendly countries in order to serve common interests. Making note of the deep relations with Malaysia, he called for increasing opportunities for cooperation between the two countries in all spheres in the service of the interests of their friendly peoples.

"The ongoing growth of our outstanding relations is in the service of our two friendly countries and peoples and will enable us to build a model relationship in the quest for expanded cooperation in different educational, economic and investment areas," said H.H. Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.

During the meeting, the two sides reviewed the progress of joint cooperation and ways of elevating it in order to increase cooperation between the two countries, in economic, industrial and investment areas in particular, as well as to increase trade, tourism and higher education exchange between the two countries.

On his part, the visiting Malaysian Prime Minister expressed his delight at visiting UAE and meeting H.H the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi within the framework of economic, investment and development cooperation between their two countries.
