
In a surprising move, a commencement speaker at Haverford College on Sunday used the celebratory occasion to deliver a sharp rebuke to students who had mounted a campaign against another speaker who had been scheduled to appear but withdrew amid the controversy.

William G. Bowen, former president of Princeton and a nationally respected higher education leader, called the student protestors’ approach both “immature” and “arrogant” and the subsequent withdrawal of Robert J. Birgeneau, former chancellor of the University of California Berkeley, a “defeat” for the Quaker college and its ideals.

A handful of students and faculty protested the invitation to Birgenau because of the police response to Occupy protesters in 2011. The police ended up using force, producing an iconic photograph of a woman getting a face full of pepper spray by riot police as they cracked down on the encampment. What the protesters likely omitted from their outrage this spring is that the Berkeley protest had already turned violent , with two reported sexual assaults and an attempt to attack the police station.

The awarding of an honorary degree is still a different issue, though. It’s one thing to defend an unpopular position in an open debate, which should be encouraged. An invitation from a college or university to someone with a heterodox view on an issue does not equate to an endorsement of that point of view. Awarding an honorary degree does carry that kind of implicit endorsement, and is a valid point of criticism when it comes to speaker invitations. Why, though, do universities insist on issuing these meaningless documents to their speakers? It’s an absurdity, especially for those who have already earned advanced degrees in their fields of expertise. Get rid of the phony degrees and maybe we can marginalize the phony elites even further.

Note from Hot Air management: This section is for comments from Hot Air's community of registered readers. Please don't assume that Hot Air management agrees with or otherwise endorses any particular comment just because we let it stand. A reminder: Anyone who fails to comply with our terms of use may lose their posting privilege.

If they are paying the ‘criminal’ tuition money for a college degree, they have a right to demand whoever they like.

Colleges respond to the ones who write the checks. It won’t be changing anytime soon.

Yeah, there’s a virtual pandemic of this disease nowadays.

These students were too busy earning their degrees to mount a counter protest to the gaggle of malcontents. But the malcontents got their way nonetheless.

America in microcosm.

If they are paying the ‘criminal’ tuition money for a college degree, they have a right to demand whoever they like.

2. Everyone has the right to demand, you know, anything, Dude. That doesn’t, like, mean that demands need to be met.

3. And, like, the speaker has a right to humiliate the people that protested the other speaker.  Got over yourself, Man.

If they are paying the ‘criminal’ tuition money for a college degree, they have a right to demand whoever they like.

Colleges respond to the ones who write the checks. It won’t be changing anytime soon.

You speak as if the loud, shrieking, exceedingly small minority of students and faculty who protested represent the views of every student paying that money.

The standing ovation is an indication that the view of the loud, shrieking, tiny minority was actually NOT the view of the majority of students who are also paying that money.

Careful, dude.  You’ll, like, harsh his mellow, man.

And don’t bogart the nachos.

So, the long knives are being set aside for Professor Bowen.  If a majority applauded him in the moment, they will be useless in sparing him when the campus Jacobins measure his neck size.

Kudos to Bowen for putting the protesters in their place.

Commencement speakers are supposed to be mature adults who can relate their own experience to inspire the new graduates to use their knowledge to do good in the working world, and it’s not up to knowitall students to decide who among those with double or triple their age and wisdom is suitable to address them.

If a graduating student doesn’t agree with the point of view of a commencement speaker, just ignore him/her quietly, take your diploma and show us what you can do in the real world.

If they are paying the ‘criminal’ tuition money for a college degree, they have a right to demand whoever they like.

Colleges respond to the ones who write the checks. It won’t be changing anytime soon.

At least the Haverford College Class of 2014 now has heard that commissar is not an entry-level job. That’s more than most people learn from a commencement address.

For the same reason that the speakers accept these meaningless documents.  Because academia has morphed into one big, meaningless joke.  Expensive but meaningless.

The way Philly allowed the Occupoopers to illegally camp out at City Hall for months should have earned both the poopers and much of the city government housing in city jails.  It was insane.  Meanwhile, if someone tried to set up a little cart on the streets of Philly – selling decent food, but without the required permits – they’d be shut down in no time and fined to high heaven.  but the Poopers were allowed to take over the center of the city and make it a hell for normal people.  They should have all been pepper sprayed until they were drowning in it and hauled off to jail.

They NEVER connect the dots.

I hope he used a “trigger warning” before he started his speech.

As I watch what is going on at universities throughout the country, I’m absolutely convinced we are screwed as a nation. Liberal academia has one the battle. Maybe when liberal is too far to the right (you read correctly) will they realize their folly.

That was won not one.

If they are paying the ‘criminal’ tuition money for a college degree, they have a right to demand whoever they like.

Colleges respond to the ones who write the checks. It won’t be changing anytime soon.

I suspect that parents, not the students, are paying in the overwhelming number of cases. Who do you think is co-signing all those loan documents? The Obama tooth fairy? The problem is that colleges have parents over a barrel. Parents have no idea what’s occurring on college campuses today. They graduated 20 to 30 years ago when campuses were somewhat sane. They started careers, got married, raised kids, worried about those matters, and didn’t pay attention to colleges. All the while, they held the belief that, as with them, a college education was the ticket to the American dream.

In the past 20 years or so, liberals on campuses have been able to pull off an incredible scam. Maybe it was apparent before then, but I have to say that I couldn’t tell you what ideology the profs who taught me intro to Western Civilization courses, political science courses, and three upper-level American history courses had. But they didn’t strike me as anti-Western, anti-American crackpots.

Indeed. The nine(!) conditions almost read like a parody…they may as well have said if you grovel before us on bended knee, only then can YOU have the honor of our presence.

Utterly ridiculous, but practice for for when these libs will go out and do the same thing with bigger targets that don’t hold the same views they do.

Best summary of this type situation I’ve seen.  Bravo!

Let’s nit forget that Birgenau blamed the Giffords shooting on the same Arizona political atmosphere that produced anti-illegal-immigration laws.  So maybe there’s common cause to be had here, or at least irony to be savored.

It’s amazing how two people can hear/read the same speech, yet come away with completely opposite interpretations.  But I guess you were there, right, so you were privy to all the subtleties and dog whistles which signalled Bowen’s lack of “bravery”? He seemed pretty straightforward to me– but I wasn’t there, so what do I know? Odd, though, that the audience gave him a standing O– just keeping it classy, I guess.

Haverford is so far Left of Berkeley(I grew up down the street), it had to cross the Pacific, the Eastern Hemisphere, and the Atlantic to find a place.

I see the concern about “triggers” as relating to the feminization of our culture. Teasing and bullying is more a problem for middle-school girls and homosexual boys than it is for boys. A synonym for “trigger” is “hurt feelings”. Sometimes words hurt. So, we need to monitor our words, and self-censor, and if we don’t self-censor, then someone else will censor us.

Time for all of us to stand up to the bullies.  And we know who they are.

Enough already.  They have shown their true colors and we are not impressed, not a smidgen.

…ha Ha!

Good choice, this generation does not deserve speakers like Birgenau. A new generation will come along and replace this one. One that respects and seeks out learned speakers. To their chagrin they will see, after the fact, how they were duped by their professors.

there is a reason Mao utilized young students in the cultural revolution witch hunts and purges. Young people have passion looking for an outlet.  Thoughtfullness and thinking of the future is beyond them. they live for the moment and the instant gratification of “something meaningful”.  with the perspective of time and experience things look different to normal people.  If you are a lib this means you never grow up.

This one is a loss for the leftists.

Next.

Because they weren’t the majority.  The problem isn’t the protesters, it’s the speakers who back down so easily under pressure from a bunch of whining children.  If you’re in that position, don’t let them have their way.  If the university is so worried about backlash, force them to disinvite you.

I kind of think Birgenau should’ve told them to f*ck off *AND* still shown up to give the address.

Like the Mozilla guy and an increasing number of spineless people that knuckle under when bullied, people have to stop bowing out, and *make* the companies/universities take the action of letting them go.

When you let the bully win without a fight, we’re just going to get more of it.  Stop letting the companies/universities off the hook by removing yourselves from the equation.

It would be fitting if the arrogant liberal narcissists (but I repeat myself) who protest these speeches be publicly humiliated.

The answer is; money. Money through donations from the new honoree and that persons associations as well as adding to the list of degreed “alumni” when asking for donations. It’s all about the money. Follow the money!

Awarding an honorary degree does carry that kind of implicit endorsement, and is a valid point of criticism when it comes to speaker invitations.

I’ll take the “only 75% uberliberal”, thank you very much.

Pay em for the pizza.

In my (limited) experience, the only reason a guy I worked with got an honorary doctorate was because we “donated” $5,000 to the school. This was back in the late 1990s/early 2000s, and to a small-ish university. I don’t know if that’s the case in all circumstances.

I have a wonderfully ornate piece of paper, signed by the then governor, making me a “Kentucky Colonel”. It’s worth about as much as an honorary degree from Harvard. I agree, let’s ditch the paper, and let the debate flow.

You must be logged in and have JavaScript enabled to post a comment.
