
The Academic Staff Union of Polytechnics (ASUP) has condemned what it described as the lethargic response of the federal government towards resolving the 10-month-old strike embarked upon by the union.

In a communique issued at the end of its annual capacity building workshop for its officers in Lafia, Nassarawa weekend, the union said it embarked on  the strike to make government urgently address issues in the technical education sector in Nigeria.

ASUP attributed the constant strikes in the education sector to the government’s penchant for always reneging on its agreements with the trade unions in the sector.

it said in the communique.

It also warned heads of institutions to desist from infringing on the rights of staff to unionise as well as undue interference in union activities and finances.

Citing the Trade Union Act, ASUP noted that memberships of the unions are voluntary.

It added that since the benefits of trade unions accrue to all benefiting workers, subscription should be for all with a proviso that subscription for dissenting members at any time be dedicated to charity in line with international norms.

Its Agreed to the need for leaders of the union to be more prudent, transparent and accountable in the management of union resources for the benefit of members and called for the standardisation of the financial reporting template of the union for  clarity and uniformity,” it read.

“...Resolved to deploy teamwork as well as undiluted adherence to the application of the national constitution of the union above personal and parochial interests. The participants also recommended the inclusion of chapter secretaries as statutory members of NEC in the union’s constitution,” the communique added.

The union also expressed worry at the state of insecurity in the country and encouraged government at all levels to close ranks and find lasting solutions to the security challenges in the country. It appealed to Nigerians to be security conscious thereby contributing their quota to national security.

Please leave your comment below. Your name will appear next to your comment. We'll also keep you updated by email whenever someone else comments on this page. Your comment will appear on this page once it has been approved by a moderator.

Please enter some keywords that you'd like to search for. Your results will be displayed below.

THISDAYLIVE cares about you, help us to report better!
