
North East offshore engineering, procurement and construction specialist OGN Group has secured a major contract from Kvaerner for the Shell-operated Nyhamma onshore Gas Plant project in Norway.

As part of the multi-million pound agreement, the Wallsend firm will fabricate a series of 18 Pre-Assembled Units (PAUs) and Pre-Assembled Racks (PARs) for the onshore plant, which provides gas supplies to the UK.

The plant is connected to the Ormen Lange gas field 120km off the west coast of Norway. Ormen Lange was developed as a subsea tie back to the Nyhamma Gas Plant where the gas is dehydrated, hydrocarbon dew-pointed and compressed through the Langeled Nord Pipeline to gas markets in the UK.

In total, around 4,000 tonnes of fabricated units will be delivered by OGN, with individual units weighing up to 670 tonnes.

The 13-month project, which begins in August, incorporates the project management and fabrication of the units, including installation of equipment, electrical and piping systems. OGN will also undertake mechanical completion and pre-commissioning works.

The project will help to maintain 600 jobs at OGN’s Hadrian Yard on the bank of the River Tyne by helping to provide a pipeline worth of work, alongside existing contracts being delivered by the company.

The 32 hectare Hadrian Yard has a 1,000m quay wall with reinforced load-out quays capable of loading out up to 13,000 tonnes.

Chief executive David Edwards said: “Winning this significant project highlights the momentum that we are building at OGN through the delivery of high-profile oil and gas fabrication projects.

“Following on from securing the EnQuest Producer FPSO project and the fabrication of an 800 tonne process module for the North Sea, we are proud to bring another important contract to the North East awarded by another highly respected international contractor.

What do you think about this story? Have your say by leaving your comments below.

Join us on social media.

For the latest local news straight to your Twitter, Facebook feed or e-mail inbox.

A key part of the region's business community The Journal has more ABC1 readers than any other quality regional morning newspaper on sale in the area.

The Journal has 99,273 average issue readers which increases to 209,957 weekly readers.

The average time spent reading The Journal is 33 minutes, which shows the length of time readers are engaging with editorial and advertising content.

23,291* copies of The Journal are sold on average each day, providing advertisers with extensive coverage of the region.

Audience figures from Omniture, monthly average (Jan-Dec 2012).

More than 1 in 3 Journal users have clicked through to an online advertisement, demonstrating that our users are responsive and receptive to Internet advertising messages.

TheJournal.co.uk reaches an internet-savvy audience, with 84% of users having purchased products or services online in the past 12 months.

Brian was appointed Editor of The Journal in December 2003, joining from Trinity Mirror's Liverpool base where he was Editorial Development Manager for the company's regional titles. He has also held senior positions at the Daily Record and the Evening Express, Aberdeen, as well as being a former Editor of the Lincolnshire Echo.
