
Alliance for Peace (AfP) Nepal is a non-profit, non-governmental independent organization working for a peaceful and democratic Nepal. It is a pioneer organization working on political party reforms through democratization amongst the students and youth wings of the political parties in Nepal. Our thematic areas of work include human rights, peace building and conflict transformation with gender as a cross-cutting issue. In 2002, we were a group of like-minded students and youths meeting in a coffee shop talking about the spiralling violence in the country when the genesis of establishing an organization came into being. Today, AfP consists of dedicated professionals, student political leaders and concerned youth.

Nepal, India, South Asia.

Nepal.

and several articles on Youth, Conflict, Peace and democracy which can be accessed online.

You need to be a member of Peace and Collaborative Development Network to add comments!

Hi,

At 4:57pm on February 4, 2009,

Violance,war,conflicts,sufferings my desire to see world in peace and non violance has motivated me to join this network."Vasudev kutukbkam" entire world as a family, this was a teaching of our culture and traditional.we created countries,boundries,religions,cast,race for a genuine reason or a false reasons for any reason.but this the time to realise that we are one and we naturaly interconected with each other ,which we can just realise by watching inhale and exhale of breaths the source is same ,without any descrimanation,religion,bonundries, equaly for all living life of universe .When we understand this simple thing then we must understand how our and other's life is equaly important,valuble ,respectable .we should follow the nature's rule ,non violance .peace ,god has given us a human life not for destruction but for lookafter the wellbeing of all living life.

At 6:22pm on November 20, 2007,

**new partnerships in countries speaking Arabic, English, French, Portuguese and Spanish!

Dear Dipendra,

I like your profile! I'd like you to join me on mepeace.org ,

a platform for peacemakers advancing Middle East peace.

Please consider  Paying What You Can to help PCDN grow. We encourage you to consider any amount from $1 and up. Read the SUPPORT page prior to making a payment to see PCDN's impact and how your payment will help.

By using this site you're agreeing to the terms of use as outlined in the community guidelines (in particular PCDN is an open network indexed by Google and users should review the privacy options). Please note individual requests for funding or jobs are NOT permitted on the network.
