
The Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries (MoAF) is planning to streamline the livestock sector in Muscat governorate by providing designated pens and pastures away from human settlements.

The move aims at conserving grazing grounds or pastures which are increasingly coming under threat because of rapid urbanisation witnessed throughout the governorate.

H E Dr Fuad bin Jaafar bin Mohammed al Sajwani, Minister of Agriculture and Fisheries, issued a ministerial decision recently forming a technical committee to determine locations for establishing livestocks pens and pastures in the wilayats of Muscat governorate.

Article two of the decision states that the committee will designate locations for establishing pens for livestock in different wilayats of the governorate far away from human population and urban centres.

In addition, the committee will determine places for pastures for livestock in mountainous areas and wadi streams and work on protecting them from human interference and urban development.

Article three of the ministerial decision states that the committee should meet at least once a month; the meeting will be valid only if two-thirds of the members are present.

Article four states that the committee should report its proposals to the undersecretary in MoAF every time it finishes allocating places for the pens or pastures so that the decision is communicated to the Ministry of Housing to issue title deeds in the name of MoAF.

The committee has been asked to submit a final report to MoAF by mid-2015.Meanwhile, MoAF continues to spread awareness about zoonotic diseases (contagious diseases spread between animals and humans) in livestock.

The ministry, represented by the Directorates of Agriculture and Livestock in North and South Sharqiyah, recently called livestock handlers to report any epidemic or zoonotic diseases. It also provided simplified information on methods of transmission of diseases from animals to humans and means of preventing and combating them.

This call came at a lecture by Dr Yahya al Mawali, head of the Department of Animal Health at the Directorate of Agriculture and Livestock in North and South Sharqiyah. Dr Mawali addressed the classification of zoonotic diseases such as Crimean Congo Hemorrhagic Fever (CCHF), rabies and Brucellosis and the importance of immediate reporting of any likely spread.
