
The argument over how to handle New Zealand's housing crisis continues, with Labour Leader David Cunliffe rejecting the Prime Minister's claims that the issue isn't as bad as it seems.

John Key yesterday denied claims that his party was failing to address the issue, saying that the Labour Party has a short memory when it comes to its own history with housing.

Mr Key also said that the issue of high housing prices is not exclusive to New Zealand, nor is it something the country hasn't seen before. He admitted that while more houses are needed, National is helping to solve the "long-term issue" by issuing more consents and certifying new sections.

He added that the rise in prices is actually a sign of strength in the economy, with people feeling more confident about their financial situation.

However, Mr Cunliffe told TV ONE's Breakfast this morning that an OECD report released yesterday shows that the Auckland housing market is about 70% overpriced, making it the least affordable housing market in the world.

"I don't know what planet Mr Key's living on but it sure is not New Zealand," he says.

"The Budget documents seem to be missing the whole chapter on housing. Somehow it must have fallen off the back of the book because there was nothing in housing at all."

Mr Cunliffe says while National's Budget has left Kiwis out in the cold, a Labour-led government would build 100,000 new homes, prevent non-resident foreigners from buying up properties, introduce a capital gains tax and stop the Reserve Bank from "applying loan-to-value ratios in an indiscriminate way in a market that doesn't need it."

Mr Cunliffe is also defending claims that the Government's new family-focussed Budget has 'stolen their thunder'.

Included in the Budget is an extension to paid parental leave and the family tax credit, as well as free healthcare for those under 13. Political analysts claim that National's social policy is creeping into Labour territory but Mr Cunliffe says this isn't true.

"The policies the Government announced for families were reprehensible," he says.

"They left out the poorest children in New Zealand. Fourteen thousand of them that would have been helped under Labour's family's package, are left to struggle in poverty.

"The situation is critical and I think it's disgusting frankly that the Government's bought in a pale imitation of Labour's policy and deliberately left out those in greatest need."
