
I am a senior editor at Forbes, covering legal affairs, corporate finance, macroeconomics and the occasional sailing story. I was the Southwest Bureau manager for Forbes in Houston from 1999 to 2003, when I returned home to Connecticut for a Knight fellowship at Yale Law School. Before that I worked for Bloomberg Business News in Houston and the late, great Dallas Times Herald and Houston Post. While I am a Chartered Financial Analyst and have a year of law school under my belt, most of what I know about financial journalism, I learned in Texas.

The struggle between corporate management and activist shareholders got a lot more interesting this month, after a Delaware court awarded Sotheby’s a victory over Daniel Loeb of Third Point LLC. The Delaware Chancery Court upheld Sotheby’s poison-pill plan, which contained a relatively new two-tiered trigger specifically designed to protect against the threat of increasing hedge fund activity in its stock.

The decision will almost certainly lead to the adoption of similar defensive measures by other companies facing attack from activist hedge funds. Perhaps more importantly, the subsequent settlement agreement may serve as a model that protects the interests of long-term investors and minority shareholders.

The two-tiered poison pill at issue in the Sotheby’s case caps stock ownership for activist shareholders at 10 percent of the outstanding stock, but permits passive investors – those who file Schedule 13G forms – to acquire up to 20 percent.

Traditionally, most poison pills had a single threshold of stock ownership, generally 15 or 20 percent, regardless of whether the stockholder was an active or passive investor. The old-style rights plan provided little practical protection against a creeping change of control when several activist hedge funds, purporting to act independently but with parallel investment plans, rapidly bought up the stock, wolf-pack style.

The new type of pill provides some relief, but it’s no wonder drug. In Sotheby’s case, for example, it did not prevent Loeb from launching a proxy fight to elect his short-slate of three directors.

However, the bifurcated pill accomplished its primary objective — preventing Mr. Loeb from acquiring outright ownership of a controlling block of stock without paying a premium.  The pill effectively limited Loeb and the two other activist hedge funds to acquiring a combined 19 percent of Sotheby’s stock. That left institutional investors and other independent stockholders in control of Sotheby’s destiny. Loeb’s proxy fight, if successful, would increase his influence but would not constitute a permanent change of control.

Much has been made in the press about the risk that new two-tier poison pills will entrench ineffectual management and chill potentially valuable activist shareholder activity in the future.  However, Daniel Loeb is no poster child for good corporate governance. In fact he has a proven penchant for launching personal attacks on management and boards as a means of seizing control. According to the Delaware court, in his public letter to Sotheby’s Loeb made several accusations without actual knowledge of their veracity as part of an “all out assault” meant to destabilize the company. In emails, Loeb described his letter as both part of a “holy jihad” intended to “make sure all the Sotheby’s infidels are made aware that there is only one true God” and as part of a “Special Operation on Sotheby’s” intended to “shock and awe” the company and “undermine the credibility” of the chief executive.

Loeb is frequently portrayed in the media as a champion of minority investor interests, but a briefing the Sotheby’s board received from its advisors suggests otherwise.  They reported on Loeb’s previous successes negotiating deals that arguably allowed him to obtain benefits not available to the other shareholders. For example he managed to get Yahoo! to repurchase 40 million of its shares from Loeb’s hedge fund. Harry Wilson, one of Loeb’s nominees for the Sotheby’s board, served on the board of Yahoo! from May 2012 until July 2013. Sotheby’s advisors also reported that in at least one case, Loeb made a takeover bid for a company in which he had invested.

It should come as no surprise that activist hedge funds sometimes prefer to be bought out for a quick profit after threatening to agitate against a company’s long-term strategy. The conundrum is how to capture the potential benefits from activist investor participation while protecting minority investors against the threat that activists will force drastic action that interferes with the hard work of creating long-term stockholder value.

Shortly after the Delaware court decision was announced, Sotheby’s and Loeb settled the proxy fight. The press inaccurately portrayed the settlement as a Loeb victory, where Sotheby’s gave Loeb most of what he wanted, including the election of all three of his board nominees. In fact, the Sotheby’s board, using the negotiating leverage of the new pill, achieved important protections for the company and its minority stockholders. Loeb agreed to limit his stock ownership to 15%, not to wage any further proxy fights and not to attempt a takeover without the board’s support. Loeb also agreed not to write any more poison-pen letters or otherwise disparage the company or its officers and directors in any SEC filing or to the press.

The upshot of the settlement is that the minority shareholders get the benefit of the fresh thinking from Loeb’s slate of directors without having to worry about Loeb pursuing a self-interested agenda or being publically disruptive.

The settlement between Sotheby’s and Loeb should serve as a prototype for resolving future contests between activist investors and companies. It wouldn’t have happened without the new two-tier pill.
