
Community activists have freed two contractors working for a Chinese company operating a copper mine in central Myanmar that is the subject of a long-running land dispute.

The two Chinese works were abducted on Sunday by a group calling  itself the "Student Network of Mandalay", which demanded that  Myanmar Wanbao, a unit of the Chinese weapons manufacturer China  North Industries Group Corp, halt its expansion work  on the mine.

"We are happy to advise that our two Chinese colleagues have  been released and they came back to camp at 7:15pm local time," said Cao Desheng, a spokesman for Myanmar Wanbao.

The Letpadaung mine in Monywa, about 100km west  of Mandalay, has faced protests from residents of the area who say thousands of acres of land were confiscated illegally to  allow it to expand.

In November 2012, riot police raided camps set up by  protesters, injuring more than 100 people including at least 67  monks.

The incident was a public relations disaster for the  quasi-civilian government that had taken over from a long-ruling  military junta in March 2011.

The government later renegotiated the original contract so that the state now takes 51 per cent of the profit, and set aside $US3 million for social projects.

Myanmar Wanbao gets 30 per cent of the profit and Union of Myanmar Economic Holdings Ltd (UMEHL), owned by Myanmar's military, 19 per cent.

Under the original contract, UMEHL got 45 per cent and Myanmar Wanbao 51 per cent.

Sporadic protests have continued despite Myanmar Wanbao's promises of community development.

Cao Desheng said the company had asked police not to launch  any rescue operation while village elders attempted to secure  the captives' release.

An activist who spoke on condition of anonymity said the workers were released after negotiations between the kidnappers and local authorities.

In return for their release, villagers will be allowed to graze cattle on land owned by the mine and will be compensated  for confiscated land, he said.
