
The Ohio River Valley Chapter of the American Red Cross is scheduled to host the 2014 Heroes Breakfast on Aug. 14, at the Southern Ohio Medical Center’s Friends Center.

The annual event is designed to present awards to local heroes who saved lives, exemplified the Red Cross mission or made significant, positive differences in their community in the areas of emergency response, disaster preparedness and prevention.

Smith said nominations are currently being sought in the Blood/Tissue/Organ Hero, CPR/AED/First Aid Hero,, Military/Veteran Hero, Fire/Preparedness Hero , Adult Good Samaritan, Workplace Hero, Wellness Hero , Youth Good Samaritan, Pike County Volunteer Hero, Scioto County Volunteer Hero, Jackson County Volunteer Hero and the Marcia Sanderlin Hero Award which is presented to a Red Cross volunteer or supporter that has gone above and beyond expectations either as a volunteer or financial supporter categories.

There are some conditions to nominating people which include, when nominating groups; at least one individual must reside in Jackson, Pike or Scioto Counties. The act of heroism must have occurred after July 1, 2013, or be ongoing. Nomination Forms are available at the Red Cross Chapter House, 1801 Robinson Avenue or at the Red Cross Facebook page https://www.facebook.com/ORVredcross.

All proceeds from this event will help support local disaster prevention, preparation and relief, the life-saving training of first aid, CPR/AED classes, collection and testing of blood and blood products, support to military members serving around the globe, the transportation program, and international programs provided by the American Red Cross.

For more information about the event visit the Ohio River Valley Chapter of the American Red Cross at www.redcross.org/oh/portsmouth, visit them on Facebook or call 740-354-3293. Tickets for the event are $10 per person or $25.00 for 2 Patron seats. Tickets will be available in June.

Wayne Allen can be reached at 740-353-3101, ext. 228 or on Twitter @WayneallenPDT.
