
Director of The Vanishing Act, a film about missing Malaysia Airlines flight    MH370, insists he is not exploiting the tragedy after viewers call trailer "disrespectful"

A director who plans to make a film about the missing Malaysian plane has    defended his decision, admitting the "controversy will help indirectly"    but insisting he is not cashing in on grief.

Rupesh Paul, the Indian film director, said the film will not affect the    families of missing passengers, and will not be based on "stupid things".

Arguing the public want to see a thriller rather than a documentary, he argued    he was not exploiting the tragedy and had already received interest from    Malaysian and Chinese buyers.

Paul is now at the Cannes Film Festival to publicise the film, which will be    entitled "The Vanishing Act".

A trailer of the film, uploaded onto YouTube, shows a Malaysian aircraft    traveling from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing in 2014.

The dramatised scenes show oblivious passengers sleeping as the clock counts    down, hinting at a love triangle among airline staff and someone on board    appearing to carry a gun.

The trailer has been viewed nearly 140,000 times already, with hundreds    registering their disgust and others accusing Paul of being a "sick",    "disrespectful" and "ruthless".

Paul has now defended his choice, telling Hollywood Reporter he is not cashing    in.

"Our movie is a thriller," he told the trade magazine. "It will not be based    on stupid things. There will not be a gun and there will not be any aliens.

"The controversy will help indirectly, but we are not cashing in on the    flight."

Saying no-one had complained directly to him yet, he added the film "will not    affect any passengers' families".

Paul, who is also promoting Kamasutra 3D in Cannes, is seeking  ushers for the    film, and claims to have had interest from Malaysian and Chinese companies.

Malaysia Airlines flight MH370, a Boeing 777, disappeared on March 8 shortly    after take-off with 239 passengers aboard.
