
LAHORE: Punjab Chief Minister Shahbaz Sharif on Sunday announced Rs 5 billion 'Ramazan Package' to provide essential items to masses at cheaper rates during the holy month of Ramazan.

A total of 360 Ramazan Bazaars will be set up in the province, converting all model bazaars, Sahulat bazaars, Juma and Etwar bazaars into Ramazan bazaars. Some 334 fair price shops will be established in Ramazan bazaars where daily-use items will be available at the wholesale price. Stalls of Utility Stores will also be established in the bazaars. Under the package, flour bag will be available to the people in Ramazan Bazaars as well as the open market at concessionary rate.

The chief minister told a meeting held to review the Ramazan Package that effective monitoring of Ramazan bazaars will be ensured for easy availability of quality items at cheaper rates and provincial ministers, elected representatives, secretaries, commissioners and district coordination officers will perform duties in this regard.

He said that nine provincial ministers and local assembly members of nine divisions of the province will perform their responsibilities in this regard on permanent basis. The chief minister said that provincial cabinet committee can use his aircraft and helicopter for visiting far-flung areas.

The chief minister said that no compromise will be made on the quality of vegetables, fruits and essential items being sold in Ramazan bazaars. He said political and administrative machinery will play an active role to ensure supply of quality items in abundance so that people could fully benefit from the Ramazan Package.

Shahbaz said that chicken and eggs will be available in Ramazan bazaars at Rs 15 less than the open market price. He said that 2000 Madni Dastarkhwan be set up in the province for providing facility of free Sehri and Iftari to the people. He said that philanthropists making arrangements for it will earn success in this world and the world hereafter. He said that Punjab government will extend all-out cooperation with regard to Madni Dastarkhwan.

The chief minister directed that a survey of cold storages be conducted in the province and details of the stored items be collected.

End.

 What do you think about the story ? Leave your comments!

Field marked(*) are mandatory.
