
In a mere three days, Morgan Tsvangirai communicated with Africa as a statesman but ended up two days later at a village in Domboshawa to commiserate with a bereaved family in an ordinary village under a tree.

In between, he had spoken on the national crisis to ordinary Zimbabweans in the dormitory town of Norton.

That has been the hallmark of Morgan Tsvangirai and his leadership style.

He can easily change in one instance from the revered international statesman he is to become an ordinary Zimbabwean interacting with ordinary people in very ordinary circumstances as he did in only three days over the weekend.

Many have asked what makes Mogan Tsvangirai tick and so revered by ordinary Zimbabweans in all spheres.

It is simply that uncanny ability to outflank his political opponents with unparalleled dexterity, at the same time exhibiting his natural leadership by being adept at fitting in every circumstance.

On Friday, he wrote to President Zuma congratulating him and the ANC for winning the election and running a largely-credible election.

An hour later, he wrote to the government of Nigeria, telling them that the MDC and the party’s entire leadership stood by the people of Nigeria in this dark hour of the abduction of over 200 innocent school girls.

Two days later on Sunday, he was in Norton, speaking to ordinary Zimbabweans of a possible implosion if the national crisis was not dealt with as a matter of urgency.

On Monday, he was in Domboshawa, joining me and my family at the burial of my late grandmother, Mbuya Martha Tamborenyoka Gombera, a 93-year-old woman who was close to my heart and who died in my house on Saturday, May 11, 2014 in Chitungwiza.

Addressing mourners at her  funeral in Domboshawa, president Tsvangirai spoke about the importance of  the aged in our communities, adding that what was more important was the legacy our old people live behind when they die; the memories they create and leave behind when they meet their destiny.

That is the hallmark of his leadership style, a leader who can find it easy to join his underling to mourn a relative  and spend a day  commiserating with ordinary Zimbabweans in a village.

Morgan Tsvangirai has always been a man of the people, away from the big ornate billiard tables associated with elitist conspirators plotting a hostile take-over, and away from a clueless Zanu PF government that has dismally failed to rig the economy.

It is Tsvangirai’s uncanny ability to be adept to every situation that has defined him and that has enabled him to outflank his political rivals.

His rivals have never had  that important political trait of having the dual competence of the boardroom and standing before a simple village audience in Muzarabani.

Morgan Tsvangirai has managed to redefine the meaning of leadership in Zimbabwean politics; from the fiery trade unionist who could shut down the country’s industry for a grave national concern to the ordinary Zimbabwean who beat Mugabe hands down in election in 2008.

He can morph from an international statesman who almost won the Nobel Peace Prize to the simple man in mourning with ordinary villagers at Tamborenyoka village in Domboshawa.

People want to see in leadership an ordinary person like them who understands what they go through every day.

He has been an ordinary mine worker at Trojan Mine in Bindura and therefore understands the rigours of honest, hard work.

He has experienced police brutality like other Zimbabweans, including being battered in a police cell and even spending time at a maximum security prison at one point on trumped up charges.

He is, and has been an opposition leader, within the constricted confines of a daring dictatorship that has never comprehended multi-party democracy.

He has been Prime Minister of the land and knows only too well the contours of government and how to use the arena of government authority to unleash positive change in the lives of the people.

He has seen it all and can still fit with ease and competence in all the arenas that fate always creates for him.

He has redefined leadership with his uncanny ability to exude his ordinary nature, even to the usual to the mammoth admiring and supportive crowds that always follow him; crowds which his opponents will never have the capacity to gather, even in a dozen lifetimes.

He has redefined leadership to mean honesty and humility, to mean having the same experience that ordinary people grapple with every day and even spending the day with ordinary villages anywhere anytime.

*Luke Tamborinyoka is the spokesperson to MDC leader Morgan Tsvangirai. He doubles up as the party’s acting director of Information and Publicity and writes here in his personal capacity.

Morgan Tsvangirai a “revered international statesman he is”! Poor Luke Tamborinyoka, you clearly wish you were the spokesperson of a revered international statesman only to find the reality is something else.

As the Prime Minister, Tsvangirai was thrust onto the international stage; with a few months of his being sworn in, he met US President Barack Obama and many Western Leaders. He had the opportunity to hear and learn from them and they listened to what he had to say. Sadly, he had nothing of note to say and he would not listen – a forte that was to spell his final downfall.

In June 2009, five months since his swearing in, Tsvangirai toured the major Western Capitals with the message that he had tamed Mugabe and Zimbabwe a democracy worthy of the international community’s support. It was all nonsense of course; indeed whilst Tsvangirai was saying all this Mugabe’s njambanja thugs who had earned their notoriety for the violent farm invasions continued with their work and the Police for their part did nothing to stop the madness as before. The Western leaders pointed this glaring reality to Tsvangirai but he was not one change direction.

There was nothing the West could do about knocking sense into Tsvangirai but the one thing they would not do was to bankroll the corrupt and lawless Mugabe dictatorship. They sent Tsvangirai back home with not even a dollar in his begging bowl.

failure to implement the reforms showed him in his full colours as a breathtakingly incompetent character.

It was Tsvangirai’s failure to implement the reforms that allowed Mugabe to blatantly rig the 2013 elections and marked the end of his time on the international stage. When he started wittering about Mugabe rigging the elections, the whole world dismissed him with contempt because they had warned him but he would not listen.

Even as PM, Tsvangirai had failed to impress and since his fall from office he has become a nobody; he was never a statesman much less a revered one.

Luke, as someone who has worked with Tsvangirai all these years you should know Tsvangirai is just a village idiot who was promoted way above his level of competence. If you can not see that by now clearly you never will. I would like to believe that you know Tsvangirai is incompetent, breathtakingly so, but you see it as you job to build him up.

My sympathy to you, Luke, and the Tamborinyoka family and friends on the passing away of your grandmother!

Yes I did want him to stop the war veterans and stop all the lawlessness in Zimbabwe. Indeed that is exactly what the nation wanted him to do, to end violence and bring democratic change! And whilst in the GNU he did have the opportunity to do just that. He did not even get one democratic reform implemented not because he did not have to do so but because he got distracted by the trappings of power plus the fact that he is breathtakingly incompetent.

It is people like you, Mukandabhutsu, Luke Tamboranyoka and many others who are hallucinating elevating an incompetent Tsvangirai to statesmanship even in the face of all his blunders! Who do you think you are fooling other than yourselves and the nation is paying dearly for your foolishness! By refusing to see Tsvangirai for the failed leader he is, you are holding the nation back when it desperately need to move on!

Why do you always blame one person when the rest of Zimbabwe is taking a back seat? You know as Zimbabweans you should be ashamed of yourself for wanting Tsvangirai single handedly go and fight the army and the police by himself just because he is a leader of an opposition movement.

You do not have foggiest idea what the democratic reforms were about and how they should have been implemented otherwise you would not be talking of “Tsvangirai single handedly go and fight the army and the police by himself”! Instead of listening to those who know you have shut your mind and would not see reason.

It does not matter whether it was Wilbert Mukori or Morgan Tsvangirai who was PM and is leader of the opposition, whoever it is then they must be held to account for what they did and failed to do. Holding public office means one accepts that they will be under public scrutiny.

Tsvangirai’s failure to implement the democratic reforms showed that he too did not have the foggiest idea what these reforms were about and his own breath-taking incompetence. He must take full responsibility for his shortcoming. As for MDC supporters like you who have followed leaders blindly like sheep; someone has to point out your folly!

I am sorry to correct you on this, I am not MDC or Zanu PF member. I am a Zimbabwean, real Zimbabwean. I judge things that are happening in Zimbabwe not becaz I am affiliated to any party but becaz I care that a proper person must lead the country. Though Tsvangirai might not be the best leader but he is the only one with the capacity to remove Mugabe or Zanu PF. The rest of the oppositions are just wannabees and people like you you should register that into your head. Ndapendza.

Tsvangirai had his best chance to remove Mugabe during the GNU; he had the majority in parliament, majority in cabinet, had SADC and the international community solidly behind democratic change and he had five years to implement the agreed reforms. He did not because he was breathtakingly incompetent.

The trouble with people like you is that you have your heads buried in the sand and simply refuse to see the reality before you. Tsvangirai is incompetent that is a historic fact. The blind loyalty to failed and tyrannical leaders is the root cause of Zimbabwe’s economic and political problems.

As long as we have people like you who have welded shut the shutters to their brains so that no light of reason can shine through; the country has no chance of ever getting out of the mess. None!

I think being a spokesperson is a different job brief than being a praise singer…but that’s just me.

It’s more like the ticks we used to find on Mugabe are on Morgan.
