
NEW ZEALAND. Auckland Airport’s 2014 Asia Summit on 16 May brought together an array of industry experts at the downtown Pullman Hotel to focus on high opportunity targets and actions in Asian markets.

Following positive feedback to last year’s inaugural Summit, Auckland Airport (AIAL) aimed to “move from thinking into action” with this year’s event, Auckland Airport Chief Executive Adrian Littlewood commented in his opening address.

AIAL is targeting +8.9% annual growth in Asian visitor numbers to 2025, with China, India, Indonesia, Malaysia and the Philippines tipped to lead the charge.

“As a country we can do more to capture tourism spending and unlock growth opportunities,” Littlewood said.

That morning AIAL had released its Ambition 2025 publication, which sets a target of 5.2 million international visitors by 2025 – with China featuring as the major source of growth.

China Southern Airlines announced on 15 May it would be increasing its summer peak season flights on the Guangzhou-Auckland route from 10 to 14 per week.

The changing profile of Auckland’s passenger traffic, with surging numbers from China and India, is an important factor for bidders eyeing up the airport’s ten-year duty free concession .

The airport is seeking Expressions of Interest for the concession this month.

Asia Summit facilitators Trevor Lee and Lilly Choi-Lee of TravConsult profiled the key source markets of China, India and South Korea, before leading panel discussions on traditional and alternative marketing approaches to overseas markets, and measures of success in China.

Lee chaired two entertaining debates, on the validity of a growth strategy for Japanese and Korean markets, and whether India was a better target than Indonesia for New Zealand tourism.

Presenters included leading airline and tourism executives, social media specialists and industry commentators.

While the mood of the summit was notably upbeat – New Zealand’s own buoyant economy adding to clear enthusiasm about growing links with Asia – keynote speaker Sharon Zollner, Senior Economist with ANZ Bank, cautioned against over-optimism.
