
Coordinated and well-designed efforts of the government and different stakeholders are required to boost the level of international remittances inflows in next few years, which will have emerging and dominating influence in the national economy on various fronts, he added.

He suggested the government should work with all stakeholders on short-term to long-term plans for accelerating the pace of remittances inflows that would ultimately strengthen economy in various ways against minimal expenses, unlike avenues such as exports and investments in which huge capital was required.

The expatriate remitted money comes homeland through sources like banks, exchange companies and hawala. They should be transferred to Pakistan’s inter-bank market through legal channels, he said.

In this regard, service providers including commercial banks, exchange companies and hawla operators should be converged into a pool to reflect the impact of inflows to the economy through a concrete strategy and national policy upon which all stakeholders should agree upon.

Remittances have crossed the level of $12 billion mark in the ten-month of current financial year setting to touch $15 billion benchmark by the end of 2013-14, showing growth of double digit in year-on-year terms, Shafi said.

But this is not the true potential being experienced by the country through banks and exchange companies. The real inflows could be surged to $25 billion per annum with quantum growth in remittances through tapping all means of money transfers and transactions to Pakistan, Shafi opined.

Hawala and hundi should be documented and regularised under a proper system to get benefit from this source with traditional deep roots and trust of customers.

As far as immediate measures are concerned, the government should take steps without any delay to resolve the deadlock of money that it committed to transfer to bank as subsidy, that is 25 riyals against $100, which now reached to the billion in rupees. However, it’s discontinuation is discouraging banks to facilitate customers with free service for bringing remittances to home against operational expenses.

The two steps under short-term measures will add billion of dollars in the remittances inflows of the country, he claimed.

Because when the banks play their part, the institutions will expedite their efforts visibly and truly.

Under the long-term measures, the government should continue to promote overseas employment to different countries and ensure the distribution of visa quota optimally to qualified professionals and skilled workers every year, Shafi added.

Quoting merely half of the visas are issued to Pakistanis against the quota of one million, which is not positive for people and economy alike.

He said the government should not only promote employment but to facilitate all aspirants seeking work overseas to get them groomed with skills and general language of that country hence a valuable manpower exports could promise a sustainable and growing foreign earnings through remittances.

Promoting employment in different foreign countries and ensuring placement of the jobs could be done by Pakistan’s embassies in different countries on perpetual basis.

With these long-term steps, “I estimate the remittances inflows could be enhanced to $30 to $35 billion in next five to seven years”, he ascertained.

Shafi said the expatriate Pakistanis should be facilitated besides exporting human resource and they would be honoured and appreciated for their contribution to the national economy.

In this regard, he suggested the government should issue a sort of honorary/ privilege card to overseas Pakistanis that could be utilised by them for various services during traveling into and from Pakistan.

He appreciated State Bank of Pakistan’s role for Pakistan Remittances Initiatives (PRI) measures that have been very fruitful for landing foreign inflows in the country, which have been contributing valuable part to macroeconomic indicators.

The State Bank should go ahead and join hands with commercial banks and exchange companies making sure all inflows should land into interbank market for enhancing the remittances manifolds, he added.

The persistent inflows have been supportive to economy and they would impact greatly in keeping the value of rupee stabilisation against dollar for long-term and sustainable basis, he said.

If the inflows of $1.5 billion helped rupee to recover its values substantially, it could be estimated how could the genuine inflows of $10 billion would make a difference for Pakistan’s economy including its position of foreign reserves, current and trade accounts.

MCB has been working extensively to bolster the channel of international inflows in Pakistan and it has become the third largest contributors in landing the overall annual remittance in the country. Even, the Bank has beaten many largest banks in the remittances market in the short span of time, he added.
