
Fiona Fullerton had trees felled despite neighbours calling it 'vandalism'

Former Bond girl Fiona Fullerton has defied her neighbours and cut down two 'iconic' trees outside her mansion - despite being warned felling them would be 'vandalism'.

The 57-year-old actress came under fire after she obtained a licence to fell the towering Cypress trees as part of a major renovation of her £900,000 home in Cheltenham, Gloucestershire.

Ms Fullerton says she is just following guidance from council officers who said the 70-year-old trees are unsafe.

But neighbours believe they should be saved and have accused the Strictly Come Dancing star of putting profit before the community. The huge trees have now been cut down.

Sarah Knightly Brown - who has lived alongside the star's home for 30 years - dubbed the trees 'iconic'.

'If you look at this road, the old trees are so important to the way it looks. Felling them will change the whole atmosphere.

'A lot of residents feel very strongly about this. We don't want these trees to go. They are iconic and have been there ever since I moved in.

'I think it is a shame for the area, it will look very different without those trees.

'We will notice it more in winter because they were evergreens which came into their own at that time of year.

After: Workmen have now cut down the trees, even though a neighbour called them 'iconic'

'I just hope they plant something else there in their place.'

Peter Swales, chairman of Cheltenham Bridge Club who also lives alongside the property, added: 'Felling these trees basically amounts to vandalism.

'It's just property developers making some cash without a care for the community.'

Miss Fullerton and husband Neil Shackell bought St John's Lodge, which had formerly been used as an architect's office, at Easter last year.

The Grade II listed property was marketed with an asking price of £895,000.

After  submitting plans to turn it back into a six-bed home they were visited  by a tree preservation officer who told them the trees were unsafe.

Fiona Fullerton's neighbour Sarah Knightly, pictured, called the trees 'iconic' and that 'the greenery of this area is what makes it so special'

'The  tree preservation officer actually asked us if we were going to take  down the trees because they were inappropriate for the area,' Ms  Fullerton said.

'We also took advice from three different tree surgeons and one of the trees is old and unsafe.

'We are just doing what we have been directed to do.

'The trees will be replaced with Holm oaks, fitting in with the ones across the road. If neighbours have any concerns we are happy to talk to them about it.'

The former Bond girl, who starred as a KGB spy in 1985 film A View to a Kill alongside Roger Moore, has released books on how to renovate properties to increase their value.

But she flatly denied this project was about making a quick buck.

She added: 'It's going to be our home. It has been used as offices for the last 60 years but we are bringing it back to residential use. It's a beautiful house.'

Lindsey Mulraine, tree officer at Cheltenham Borough Council, said the authority had decided the cypress trees were not worth keeping.

'It is a shame to lose these two trees, but it was felt they were not worthy of a preservation order,' she said.

'We did publicise the proposed works and no objections were received.

'It is felt the trees have reached the end of their useful life but we do hope the applicant continues with intentions to replace them with Holm oaks.'

The comments below have not been moderated.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
