
The Boy Scouts of America’s annual convention starts Wednesday in Nashville. And that can mean only one thing.

It’s time for the Gay Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation, or GLAAD, to mount its next high-profile demonstration against BSA’s controversial membership policy that denies membership to openly gay adult volunteers and paid staffers.

At its last big meeting a year ago, BSA scrapped its policy against openly gay youth being scouts. But that decision dissatisfied most people on both sides of the culture war. Gay/lesbian activists and their supporters are intent on getting rid of the adult portion of BSA’s ban on gays.

This time, the target is on-line marketing behemoth Amazon.com, which lists the Irving-based BSA among the charities eligible for funding through its AmazonSmile Foundation. AmazonSmile is a Web site much like the regular amazon.com The difference is that when you shop on AmazonSmile, the foundation will contribute .50 percent of the purchase price to the charity of your choice.

Read the GLAAD press release here  that describes its plan to deliver a petition to Amazon HQ in Seattle on Wednesday.

GLAAD says more than 120,000 people signed the petition on change.org, the site that runs all kinds of petition drives. Presumably, GLAAD’s presentation of the petitions outside Amazon HQ is timed to coincide with the start of BSA’s big annual confab in Nashville on Wednesday.

Ty Rogers, an Amazon spokesman in Seattle, sent us the following statement via email.

The statement did not answer any questions or address the planned delivery of petition signatures to Amazon on Wednesday.

Meanwhile, the big news out of Nashville will be Thursday’s election of Robert Gates as the new BSA president. This is a volunteer position, not a paid staff position at BSA HQ.

Gates, former U.S. Secretary of Defense and former CIA chief, is a respected public figure who bridges the cultural divide. He supported and orchestrated the Obama Administration’s elimination of “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” in the American military. So, speculation is rampant that he will engineer the demise of BSA’s version of DADT.

Local News columnists, reporters and editors invite you to join the discussion of the hot topics of the day. We encourage thoughtful reader contributions on any interesting subject in the news.
