
THE purpose of this article is to inform the nation about the in-depth regional profiles that were released by the Namibia Statistics Agency recently.

By now we should all be in agreement that statistics play a vital role in our lives. They are vital because they influence and guide our actions. More importantly, they also allow us to monitor and evaluate our progress. The detailed statistical regional profiles provide vital information to policy makers, ministries and agencies, as well as the private sector and individuals.

They contain a wide range of indicators on population characteristics, household and housing conditions. They further provide detailed information on age and sex composition, marital status, education, literacy, economic activity, orphan-hood, fertility and disability. They also provide information on household sizes, housing amenities, ownership and the quality of housing in our regions. All these indicators are provided from regional to constituency level.

As said before, the benefit of these profiles is that they contain information up to constituency level. For example, if we take the Otjozondjupa Region, we see that the total population of the region is 143 903. The population of the  Grootfontein constituency is estimated at 24 878, the Okahandja constituency at 24 451, Okakarara constituency 22 747, Omatako constituency 17 619, Otavi 12 488, Otjiwarongo Rural has 31 813 and the Tsumkwe constituency a total population of 9907. The literacy rate for the Otjozondjupa Region is 83 percent. The Grootfontein constituency has a literacy rate of 80 percent, Okahandja 91 percent, Okakarara 81 percent and Omatako constituency 84 percent. Comparing this to the Otavi, Otjiwarongo Rural and Tsumkwe constituencies shows us that the literacy rate is 73, 90 and 58 percent respectively. The same can be applied to all regions and constituencies in the country. With the release of these regional profiles we are more than certain that the NSA is playing its rightful role in providing statistics that are needed for relevant evidence-based planning. Get your own soft copy at www.nsa.org.na, whilst we disseminate hard copies throughout the country.

• Iipumbu Sakaria is the Deputy Director for Strategic Communications at the NSA.
