
The Dunedin City Council has agreed to provide $150,000     in the coming year's budget for investigations into a possible     council takeover of the city's bus service.

While it had originally decided the $300,000 needed to do the       work should come out of the Otago Regional Council's       transport reserve, yesterday it halved the amount on the       basis that a regional council ''in kind'' offer and possible       funding from the New Zealand Transport Agency would make up       the difference.

Last week the ORC turned down the city council's request to       use the reserve, saying it was for operational rather than       governance purposes and instead offered its experienced staff       to assist the city council.

DCC chief executive Sue Bidrose told councillors at       yesterday's annual plan deliberations the ''in kind'' offer       was worth about $100,000 and when added to $150,000 in       council funding plus any contribution from the transport       agency, it would cover the cost of the investigations and       early consultation.

If the agency turned the council down, it would look at       reallocating funds from within its transport portfolio, she       said.

The regional council had indicated it would not be using the       reserve to fund its contribution to the work either, she       said.

Cr David Benson-Pope criticised the regional council's       decision, calling its definition of operational as ''arcane''       and saying that supporting the $150,000 was the least       ''distasteful'' option.

Cr Neville Peat was also concerned the regional council       ''could not see its way to help us'' more than just with       staff time.

Cr Lee Vandervis said while he believed the city council       should take on the bus system, he did not think now was the       right time and it would only open the council up to more       costs.

Cr Kate Wilson said now was the best time to be doing the       work given it fitted in with next year's long-term plan and       road transport planning schedules.

While concerned about how the system would be rated for in       the future, the move would be for the betterment of the city.

''We need to at least explore this.''

Cr Vandervis asked for his objection to the motion to be       noted.
