
The deaths of Border Patrolmen due to the botched gun running scheme known as "Fast and Furious," Americans killed by drones, the Benghazi four and veterans who died waiting for treatment have been nearly overshadowed by the release of news about 36,000 criminals, who are also illegal immigrants, being set free to walk the streets of this nation.

The Daily Beast's Caitlin Dickson has tried to quell the fears and or the inaccuracies of reports coming from The Center for Immigration Studies by noting that some of those within that organization are anti-immigration to start with. That being little comfort to Americans now exposed to the dangers of criminals being dumped into their neighborhoods, Dickson offered the juvenile, 'everyone's doing it kind' of response in her article.

Quoting New York's Director of Migration Policy Institute, Muzaffar Chishti, Dickson seems delighted by Chisti's accommodating, howbeit, childish assurances. "Homicide is a very broad category," Chishti said. "You can have vehicular homicide. Not everyone is an ax murderer."

We are be warmed by the idea that the murderers amongst us are at least not – 'axe murderers' because it goes without saying that we would all much rather be mowed down by an illegal immigrant drunk driver than being chopped to bits by someone imitating the great Villisca axe murders of 1912.

With every word of her op-ed piece she is making the case against the Obama administration in spite of her leftist feet being solidly frozen in a bucket of liberal concrete as she and her article drown. Perhaps, in an attempt to actually be 'liberal' (not in a political way) she included links to articles she thought were hyping the whole report for political and right wing purposes. She effectively neutralizes her points the minute someone actually clicks the links she has provided – here is the list.

Long before I decided to write this article the citizens who died at the hands of these criminals and their respective families have already decried the nonsense in Dickson's article, even before it was published.

Aaron Klein is the author of "Impeachable Offences – A Case for Removing Barack Obama." Although this writer's website accepts neither advertisements nor press releases about new books we do offer a few book reports. Here is our two word book report on Klein's offering – get it.

Klein has just increased Ted Cruz's list of 76 impeachable abuses of power to 36,076 offenses and counting. If you are among those who have not yet been fully infested by leftist lousing you do want to read Klein's message.

Some reports have tried to soft pedal the facts by saying that many of those released may have committed only minor offences but the reality is much worse. Fox and most other sources have published the following list.

"The majority of the cases involved individuals convicted on lower-level or nonviolent offenses, like auto theft, drunk-driving and drug charges. But many were involved in more serious cases."

After six years of following this president down a winding path of failed domestic and foreign policy, we will not not to hold our breath waiting for his answer.

Suffice it to say that when the time comes to deal with it, we may see the White House spring into action with a twitter message, perhaps, # Please don't hurt, run over, rob or kill our citizens until we can give you amnesty.

What Mexican citizen who has reached the end of all their resources has not heard that the U.S. is giving out get out of jail free cards and we will pay you the $200.00 along with food stamps, welfare and a free ride for their kids all the way to college.

The final irony, is the stark comparison between the 33,000 troops sent to Afghanistan in 2009 for what was called the "surge and the release, since then, of 36,000 criminals which could rightly be labeled the "purge." Which army will be more effective – the surge or the purge? Actually, both are fated to fail. Afghanistan is plunging into civil war and America is in the throes of the greatest ideological civil war in its entire history.

My conclusions are forthwith. I have seen Christian groups forming to pray for the nation, some for our leaders, all of which is good. But let's cut to the chase, before any more citizens become victims of crimes committed by released criminals, and while we are waiting for a slow moving congress to actually do their jobs – here's a question.

The views expressed by RenewAmerica columnists are their own and do not necessarily reflect the position of RenewAmerica or its affiliates.

Rev. Michael Bresciani is a Christian author and a columnist for several online sites and magazines. His articles are now read in every country in the world. For articles and news from around the world, visit " The Website for Insight ."
