
Following a comprehensive audit of administrative documentation, medical practices, and facilities, the National Accreditation Alliance of Medical Transport Applications (NAAMTA) is awarding Aeromed (Traslados Medicos de Puerto Rico) accreditation for their rotor-wing program.

Jose A. Hernandez, II, Aeromed’s Program Director emphasized that 'NAAMTA is the first accreditation entity to set foot locally in the 20 years of air medical transport in Puerto Rico.'

Following a comprehensive audit of administrative documentation, medical practices, and facilities, the National Accreditation Alliance of Medical Transport Applications ( NAAMTA ) is awarding Aeromed (Traslados Medicos de Puerto Rico) accreditation for their rotor-wing program. We are excited to include them within the NAAMTA Alliance, and thus are privy to the benefits associated.

NAAMTA’s Alliance Members are held in high esteem for meeting stringent requirements that define and influence transport operational excellence. Aeromed has demonstrated compliance in each of the numerous standards, offering documentation on processes for safety, aviation, and medical practices. NAAMTA evaluates compliance through employee interviews, on-site evaluations, and process reviews, all of which was conducted using NAAMTA and ISO 9001:2008 auditing guidelines.

By attaining NAAMTA Accreditation, Aeromed’s industry professionals demonstrate the depth of their medical transport expertise through their dedication to improving patient care and cultivating an environment of safety.

NAAMTA is an accreditation standard-bearer for the medical transport industry, offering procedures that include guidelines for developing a quality management system focusing on transport safety, patient care, and continuous improvement. Since its inception in 2009, NAAMTA has worked diligently to be globally recognized, and has attained ISO 9001:2008 QMS certification.

NAAMTA has successfully made great strides in identifying key best practices to improve the standard of performance among EMS providers at a national and global level. Through a dynamic approach to auditing and a vast array of web-based reporting and learning tools for members, NAAMTA distinguishes itself as an accreditation source interested in the improvement of medical transport organizations.

Headquartered in San Juan, Puerto Rico, Traslados Medicos de Puerto Rico, Inc. is a fairly young company; however, AEROMED as a program is celebrating its 20th year Anniversary. They are highly endorsed by the hospital and medical services in their area. Ever-growing, Aeromed and its employees have demonstrated exuberance in providing the best of quality care to the people of Puerto Rico and the surrounding islands encompassing their service area.

Aeromed has great outreach and is recognized as true professionals throughout the island. There is a universal attitude throughout the organization which emulates a professional commitment to effective practices and safety as well as teamwork that is readily observable in their operations.
