
President Park Geun-hye proposed Monday the creation of a fact-finding committee consisting of members of the ruling and opposition parties and civilian experts for a joint investigation of the capsizing and sinking of the ferry Sewol.

During a televised news conference, Park called on politicians and experts to sit down together to discuss all issues related to the maritime tragedy that took hundreds of lives in seas off the southwestern island of Jindo.

Analysts say Park뭩 proposal of political parties teaming up with civilian experts to investigate the tragic incident was an inevitable move aimed at consoling angry citizens.

Negotiations for a National Assembly and separate independent counsel investigations are underway between the ruling Saenuri Party and the main opposition New Politics Alliance for Democracy (NPAD).

Bipartisan agreement on these issues remains to be seen as the two sides differ significantly over the details.

In a radio interview, Rep. Kim Jae-won of the ruling party proposed the passing of a special law as a first step that will define the composition of the fact-finding team and how it is going to operate.

But Rep. Kim Yong-rok of the NPAD called for an independent body that will not be influenced by the government.

밫he government is largely responsible for the maritime disaster and in a sense it is the offender,?he said.

The two sides were also poles apart over those to be investigated.

The main opposition NPAD called for the inclusion of former and sitting presidents to be questioned, alleging that the Sewol tragedy was the result of comprehensive malfunctioning of past and current governments.

But the Saenuri Party rejected the suggestion.

Rep. Kim of the ruling party claimed that the former and incumbent presidents were not associated with the sinking of the passenger ferry.

He criticized the opposition party for politicizing the tragedy in an effort to gain more votes in the June 4 local elections by holding President Park accountable.
