
Share This Story!

DMACC board approves a YMCA project that would be situated on the  Ankeny DMACC  campus. Construction is expected to begin early next year with completion slated for late 2016 or early 2017.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

YMCA of Greater Des Moines spokesman Dave Gieseke said the board has not yet discussed the future of Ankeny’s Northview YMCA branch.

Sometimes it's the folks in charge of city planning and development who make things happen in a growing community like Ankeny. Other times, things just fall in your lap.

Ankeny's mayor said the latter is the case when it comes to plans for a $23 million YMCA on Des Moines Area Community College's Ankeny campus.

"I heard about it on the radio," Mayor Gary Lorenz said. "The city was not involved with that at all. I had only heard rumors that (the YMCA) was thinking about expanding."

The DMACC board approved the YMCA project on May 12. Construction is expected to begin early next year with completion slated for late 2016 or early 2017. The YMCA board is expected to vote this summer on the DMACC proposal.

Preliminary plans show a 73,000-square-foot facility that will be open to the community as well as DMACC students, staff and faculty.

"It just gets back to how active this community is and how fortunate we are to have a great relationship with a place like DMACC within our city limits," Lorenz said.

YMCA of Greater Des Moines spokesman Dave Gieseke said the board has not yet discussed the future of Ankeny's Northview YMCA branch — which opened in 1989 and has about 8,500 members — and Ankeny school Superintendent Bruce Kimpston said the district had not yet taken a stance on how it would like the YMCA to proceed.

Swim teams from both of Ankeny's high schools use the YMCA pool at Northview, which previously served as Ankeny High School. The YMCA's contract with the school district allows either party to end the lease with advance notice.

Ankeny's second high school opened this fall and became the second new high school building to open since fall 2011. Although the matter of new swimming facilities was discussed during the extensive, multiyear planning process on the way to becoming a two high school district, neither of the new high schools ended up with a pool.

Although Kimpston said there are still as many questions as answers, he is confident of one thing.

"Ankeny is a community that could expand its swimming programs and is limited in doing so only because of pool capacity, for both high school and youth swimmers."
