
In the presence of His Highness General Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of UAE Armed Forces, and Prime Minister of Malaysia, Mohammad Najib Tun Haji Abdul Razak, and in recognition of the outstanding relations between the two countries, the UAE's General Authority of Islamic Affairs and Endowments, Awqaf, and 1Malaysia Development Berhad (1MBD), Malaysia's development fund, yesterday formalised an agreement to develop a mosque complex in Bandar Malaysia.

Under the agreement, the Malaysian fund, as the master developer of Bandar Malaysia, will provide a dedicated site for the project and the UAE's Awqaf will fund the development of its design and construction.

H.H. Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed and viewed mosque's design which is inspired by the Sheikh Zayed Grand Mosque in Abu Dhabi and will include a technologically-driven Islamic learning centre and a PERMATA centre for talented children.

On this occasion, Malaysian Prime Minister Mohammad Najib Tun Haji Abdul Razak said, "This is an inspiring gift as the Sheikh Zayed Grand Mosque promotes the concept of tolerance, love and mutual understanding towards positive interaction." "Indeed this is a testimony to the strong bond established between Malaysia and Abu Dhabi. It will go a long way to further cement the relationship between our peoples," added the Malaysian prime minister.

UAE Awqaf Chairman, Dr. Hamdan Musallam Al Mazrouei said, "This partnership underscores our mission to promote tolerance and awareness of the moderate teachings of Islam through the development of mosques and education centres. It is our intention to collaborate with 1MDB to create a centre that serves the needs of the community." The agreement was signed by Dr. Hamdan Musallam Al Mazrouei and 1MDB Chief Executive Officer Mohd Hazem Abd Rahman. Also present were members of 1MDB's board of directors, Chairman Tan Sri Dato' Seri Lodin Wok Kamaruddin and Dato' Paduka Ismee Ismail.

The Sheikh Zayed Grand Mosque was created from the cultural and national values preserved and nurtured by the late Sheikh Zayed Bin Sultan Al Nahyan (God rest his soul), which stress mutual respect, tolerance and coexistence among people.

PERMATA, meaning jewel or gem in the Malay language, symbolises the value of the young as treasured assets for the country, and strives for holistic human development from an early age.
