
We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. By continuing to browse our site, you are giving your consent for us to set cookies.

However, if you would like to, you can change your cookie settings at any time. Read our cookie policy .

Any views expressed in this article are those of the author and not of Thomson Reuters Foundation.

When the mountainside came crashing down on the village of Aab Bareek in northeastern Afghanistan on May 2nd, it destroyed everything in its wake and, along with it, Jamila’s childhood. Only recently a teenager, Jamila is now the head of her family, after the landslide killed both her mother and father. She is responsible for providing for her brothers and sisters—aged 12 years to nine months—in a country where the challenges of raising a family as a single woman, let alone at Jamila’s tender age, are next to impossible.

The landslide left Jamila and her brothers and sisters with nothing more than the clothes on their backs. The family’s ten sheep, two cows, plough, land, and home were all swallowed by the earth, along with her parents.  Her youngest sibling, Ayoub, nine months, constantly cries for their mother to feed him, and Jamila cradles him and feeds him biscuits and powdered milk, their only option.

Outsiders, hopeful of getting some of the aid being delivered to the affected families, are still lingering in Aab Bareek, though distributions have slowed. In the past two weeks, making sure aid reached the most vulnerable families was particularly difficult, especially for female-headed households.

Concern Worldwide was the first organization to identify genuinely affected families like Hawa’s and provide emergency shelters. Now, the 51 families living at the site have emergency latrines and bathing facilities as well as safe drinking water and waste management. Concern also created mechanisms to ensure that women who trust others to collect aid on their behalf actually receive what is allocated to them.

We welcome comments that advance the story through relevant opinion, anecdotes, links and data. If you see a comment that you believe is irrelevant or inappropriate, you can flag it to our editors by using the report abuse links. Views expressed in the comments do not represent those of the Thomson Reuters Foundation. For more information see our Acceptable Use Policy .
