
I hope you had a nice weekend.

Today's submission brings forth many of our previously explored problems with spam/scam emails (i.e. an alleged American serviceman sending an email from a British AOL account, numerous examples of tortured English and phrases no American would actually say/write (e.g. the sum of 16.2 million USD) and so many red flags (i.e. demands of privacy, wants to use the money for charity, etc.).

However, it's rare that I see something in these emails that I've never seen before. I have grown accustomed to much of the blather, it doesn't resonate with me any more and I'm frankly, getting a bit bored by many of these.

And then, I read, nestled into claims that the millions will be spent taking care of refugees in the Sudan and maybe, even "the displaced in India," that some of the money will go towards buying "stock fish from Norway to this refugees because based on my experience on battle ground in this places, they lack a lot of fish and meat to add to their meager and unpalatable meals which they get in little quantity just to keep them living until God knows when the problem ends. "

That's funny stuff. For those of you unfamiliar with stockfish (it's actually one word, but spelling often doesn't matter to spammers/scammers), it's unsalted fish (often cod) dried by the sun and wind in Norway and represents that country's oldest export, dating back to the 9th century.

Points for creativity even if this is a blatant spam/scam.

Please, just hit delete.

Hello,

I am Spc.Trevor Brown of the 1ST Battalion, 75th Regiment, currently Deployed in Afghanistan, after two  previous Deployment in Iraq.

Based on the United States plans to gradually withdraw troops from Afghanistan, in support of The U.S.-led coalition plans to formally hand over security responsibilities to the Afghan army and police, I have been Approved for withdrawal to your country before the end of first Quarter of this year, The  mission is to work with your countries finest military experts to help beef up terrorist targeted states, mostly the United States and the European Union on the war against terrorism.

But I wish to inform you that I have in my sight ,the sum of 16.2 million USD. Which was recovered from one of our raids battling insurgent attack, this people keep most of their money at home for evil activities which they normally get through illegal deals and donors.

Based on the suffering we undergo here some of us do meet such luck.

It happened that I went for this raid with the men in my unit and I decided to take it as my share for my suffering as a soldier here in this evil land filled with suicide bombers. I deposited this money with a Red Cross agent informing him that we are making contact for the real  owner of the money. It is under my power to approve whoever comes forth for this money.

I wish to use this money for charity purposes in Turkey, where we have high number of refugees and Sudan where we have currently the highest numbers of refugees displaced as a result of war. You need to visit such places.I am not forgetting the displaced in India.

I want to invest the money on stock fish from Norway to this refugees because based on my experience on battle ground in this places, they lack a lot of fish and meat to add to their meager and unpalatable meals which they get in little quantity just to keep them living until God knows when the problem ends. Instead of allowing this terrorist to get the money and spend it on purchasing arms illegally from Russia and China it is better channeled to saving the world.

I cannot move this money to the United States, so I need someone I could trust. If you accept, I will transfer the money to Europe where you will be the beneficiary because I am a uniformed personnel and i cannot be parading such an amount so i need to present someone as the beneficiary.

I am an American and a specialist officer for that so I have a 100% authentic means of transferring the money through diplomatic courier  service .I just need your acceptance and all is done. Please if you are interested in this transaction i will give to you the complete details  you need for us to carry out this transaction successfully.

I believe I can trust you. Where we are now we can only communicate through our military communication facilities which are secured so nobody can monitor our emails, then i can explain in details to you. I will only reach you through email, because our calls might be monitored, I just have to be sure whom I am dealing with.

If you are interested please send me your personal mobile number so i can call you for further enquiries when i am out of our military network. I am writing from a fresh email account.

So if you are not interested do not reply to this email  and please delete this message, if no response after 3 days i will then search for someone else. I am doing this on trust, you should understand and you should know that as a trained military expert I will always play safe in case you are the bad type, but I pray you are not. 16.2million USD is a lot of money which is the dream of anyone. I wait for your contact details so we can go on.

In less than 14 days this should be successfully finalized  and i will give you 30% of the sum, while 70% will be kept for my charity plans.

No email address was supplied by .                                 To complete your registration on this site, please supply an address.

Please confirm or modify the email address to which you will have subscription offers sent.

For a more personalized experience, please supply the following optional information.
