
Nigerian military's human rights record has forced U.S. to rethink cooperation in hunt for Boko Haram prisoners.

A new agreement between the U.S. military and its Nigerian counterparts, aimed squarely at saving nearly 300 kidnapped girls from Boko Haram and a likely fate of sexual enslavement, is as much a damning indictment of the local government’s shortcomings as it is a new glimmer of hope in the monthlong crisis.

The Pentagon announced Monday it had signed a formal set of protocols over the weekend for sharing processed intelligence with the Nigerian government. The U.S. military has until now remained reticent to turn over such information due to concerns of reported human rights abuses carried out by the Nigerian military against its own people.

Meanwhile, domestic and international fervor grows as President Goodluck Jonathan’s government has yet to present any tangible results in rescuing the 276 schoolgirls who remain captives of the terrorist group.

“We have finalized an agreement with the Nigerians to share intelligence with them, specifically intelligence related to the kidnapped girls,” Pentagon spokesman Army Col. Steve Warren said Monday.

The Nigerians will only see the analysis of the intelligence, he said, such as specific pictures or limited pieces of information directly relevant to finding the girls. They will not have access to “the raw intelligence” that flows through the U.S. team working out of the embassy in the capital Abuja.

“Sharing an image is one thing. There are other types of intelligence that we would not give,” he said, declining to offer further details. He did not know whether the team on the ground had already shared any information.

Nigeria considers itself to be the hegemony of West Africa and capable of operating militarily on its own. It is hesitant to openly admit its military is not capable of maintaining security, and experts say the local government is often resentful of the kind of financial accountability that, for example, Congress demands of the U.S. military. All of these have contributed to limited direct interaction between the two militaries before, and Jonathan's reluctance to accept U.S. help since the girls went missing.

Human rights groups have blasted the Nigerian forces’ subsequent tactics. A Human Rights Watch report from almost exactly a year ago documented one incident in which government forces attempting to quell Boko Haram reportedly killed almost 200 in the town of Baga and burned upward of 2,000 homes.

Despite any new steps toward cooperation, the U.S. has been and remains concerned that any information it hands over to the Nigerian government could be used to fuel these reported atrocities.

This weekend’s agreement sets a new precedent for the U.S. and Nigeria, he says, which could lead to further cooperation and reforms for how the Nigerian military acts within its borders.

Copyright 2014 © U.S. News & World Report LP.
