
Public health experts on Monday urged media persons to play their due role in highlighting the importance of new-born health and identifying actions for improving their survival, health and development. Media needs to raise the issue of new-born health properly to compel the government to allocate adequate budget funds for health sector aimed at providing appropriate health facilities to mother and new-born which is their fundamental rights, said health experts.

Speakers said that each year, globally, some three million newborns die around the world and, approximately 250,000 die in Pakistan. Addressing a media sensitisation workshop on ending new-born deaths in Pakistan, which was jointly organized by 'Save the Children' and 'World Vision', the speakers said that new-born deaths account for 50 percent of all deaths among children under five years in Pakistan, and this proportion is increasing.

Arshad Mahmood, Director Advocacy and Child Rights Governance, Save the Children, speaking on the occasion said that media persons need to highlight the importance of new-born health in order to bring awareness among parents, especially residing in the less developed areas of the country.

He said that in view of poor maternal and child health indicators government of Pakistan should endorse the Every New-born Action Plan (ENAP) and commit to a reduction in new-born mortality rates at a national and provincial level with allocation of adequate resources for delivery of commitments. The World Health Assembly (WHA) takes place annually and is attended by delegations from all 194 WHO Member States. This year, during 67th session of WHA, there will be a major focus on the ENAP which is likely to be adopted at the assembly, he said.

Dr Asma Badar of Save the Children said that government and print as well as electronic media to make efforts with regard to educate parents about new-born heath. There is dire need to bring awareness regarding family planning at government as well as community level, she said.

She said that the main objective of ENAP is to improve maternal and new-born health and to accelerate a global, harmonised response by linking new-born health initiatives to reproductive, maternal and child health program. Pakistan has made progress on MDGs 4 and 5, however, reductions in new-born mortality have been stagnant and new-born deaths account for a growing proportion of child deaths, she said.

Dr Maqsooda Kasi, said that maternal mortality ratio in Pakistan is 276 per 100,000 live births, higher than the South Asian average of 220, while the under-five mortality rate is 89 per1000 live births, according to the Pakistan Demographic and Health Survey 2012-13.
