
Malaysia Airlines has been described as “irresponsible” and “heartless” for abandoning families of the flight crew who had sought the help of a foreign law firm to safeguard their interests in the MH370 saga.

This latest salvo against the national carrier came from National Union of Flight Attendants (Nufam) president Ismail Nasaruddin who said MAS cannot cut itself off from the grieving families simply because they had sought legal advice.

“It is their obligation to care for the well-being of their employees and their families. Furthermore, MAS has not offered to make any payout to the families of the crew members,” Ismail said.

He hit out at MAS for not keeping its promise which was given to the families when the flight which was bound for Beijing went missing on March 8.

“MAS had initially promised the families many things. However they have ignored all of these obligations &lrm;towards the families in the last couple of weeks,” said Ismail.

Yesterday, families of the crew on board the lost MH370 said MAS had “abandoned” them because they sought the help of a foreign law firm, including stopping the services of the caregivers who had been there for them to provide emotional support.

Jacquita Gonzales, wife of inflight supervisor Patrick Francis Gomes, in a press conference at Holiday Villa Hotel yesterday said the caregivers were the families’ lifeline.

The families of seven of the 12 crew members said the national carrier sent an email to them two days ago asking them to get their lawyers to deal with the airlines legal team for all requests related to the missing passenger jet.

Jacquita said this happened after the airlines got wind that the families of the seven had hired a legal advisor.

“We do not know how they know and obtained the documents, but we only wanted advice when it came to things that we did not understand. I am a lay person. I do not understand legal jargon. I do not know how to read between the lines. I have my children to take care of. So the best person I can refer to is a lawyer,” he said.

Lamenting over MAS's cold-hearted actions, Ismail said that the national flag carrier should have not stopped supporting the family members of the crew.

“It is shameful to see how they can just wash their hands off and act as if nothing had happened. This is so irresponsible of MAS,” he said, adding that no assistance was extended to missing crew members' wife who would be delivering a baby tomorrow.

Ismail questionedMalaysia Airlines System Employees Union (Maseu) over its inaction and urged Putrajaya to intervene as the families have no one else to turn to.

“Where is their representative? What have they done to help the families in this time of need?” he said.

Nufam will be holding charity event called tribute to the crew of MH370 on June 7. All proceeds will go to the families of crew MH370. &ndash; May 19, 2014.

I hope all of you reading this will boycott MAS for good and write in to MAS for an explanation!Iam ready to donate money to all the family members of the crew anytime!

It's a shame all round & pitiful to say the least.  MAS has been receiving a lot of kicking & punching lately and its future is very uncertain.  It's also getting worried about legal actions which will be coming its way soon with financial claims to account for.  It has been giving assistance through the 'caregivers' who provided the needed feedback & information to the families & relatives of those missing in MH370.  But with all these difficulties to deal with, MAS developed cold feet as soon as it learned of lawyers being engaged by these families.  It perhaps is concerned if the feedback & information provided by the caregivers would later be used by the hired lawyers against the airline in the courts.  The caregivers are probably not legally trained to take care not to incriminate MAS inadvertently.  So, to be safe, whi**** fair enough, MAS WILL CONTINUE TO GIVE ITS ASSISTANCE TO THE FAMILIES & RELATIVES BUT THROUGH THE LAWYERS OF BOTH SIDES.

As for MAS it is sad to see how low they have stooped. MAS pick yourself up, the whole world is watching.

Please help us to maintain a healthy and vibrant community by reporting any illegal or inappropriate behavior. If you believe a message violates the Code of Conduct please use this form to notify the moderators. They will investigate your report and take appropriate action. If necessary, they report all illegal activity to the proper authorities.
