
Weluree "Fai" Ditsayabut, the newly crowned Miss Universe Thailand, issued a public apology Monday after her now-deleted Facebook posts criticizing the "red shirts" pro-government movement came to light.

Weluree "Fai" Ditsayabut , who was crowned Miss Universe Thailand on Saturday, called the demonstrators "dirty," "evil activists" who "should all be executed."

Her Facebook page has since been deleted.

In one of the now deleted posts, the 22 year-old reportedly wrote "I am not neutral. I am on the side of His Majesty the King... I'm so angry at these evil activists. They should all be executed."

Human Rights Watch's Asia Division Deputy Director Phil Robertson joined in the criticism, suggesting via Twitter that Weluree should instead be dubbed "Miss Politically Divided #Thailand."

The new Miss Universe Thailand issued a televised apology Monday on Thailand's Channel 3. "I was careless. I was young. I did it recklessly," adding "It won't happen again."

Anti-government protests, led by the People's Democratic Reform Committee, have been ongoing since November 2013 and are seeking the removal of the caretaker government, which it asserts remains under the influence of former Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra. Thaksin's sister, Yingluck Shinawatra, was removed from office last week. The anti-protesters are pushing for an unelected interim government.

© 2014 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Any reproduction, republication, redistribution and/or modification of any UPI content is expressly prohibited without UPI's prior written consent.

UPI licenses content directly to print outlets, online media and institutions of all types. In addition, UPI's distribution partners provide our content to thousands of businesses, policy groups and academic institutions worldwide. Our audience consists of millions of decision-makers who depend on UPI's insightful and analytical stories to make better business or policy decisions.

In the year of our 107th anniversary, our company strives to continue being a leading and trusted source for news, analysis and insight for readers around the world.

© 2014 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

UPI.com is your trusted source for world news, top news, science news, health news and current events.

We thank you for visiting us and we hope that we will be your daily stop for news updates.
