
OSLO: Norway is pledging $63 million to help alleviate the humanitarian crisis in South Sudan, the Norwegian government said on Monday, amid expectations the conflict in the world's youngest nation to worsen in the months ahead.

The Nordic country, one of South Sudan's main Western sponsors together with the United States and Britain, is hosting an international conference to raise humanitarian funds for South Sudan on May 19-20 in Oslo.

Violence broke out last December, pitting President Salva Kiir's Dinka people against the Nuer of his former deputy, Riek Machar, whom the president sacked in July 2013.

"The crisis is expected to escalate significantly in the months ahead. The Norwegian Government is therefore allocating a further $63 million to humanitarian efforts in South Sudan," said Norwegian Foreign Minister Boerge Brende.

"By making this substantial contribution,  Norway is sending a clear signal about the gravity of the situation," he said in a statement. The sum comes in addition to the $17 million Oslo has pledged in emergency aid to South  Sudan this year.

The United Nations has now increased the funding requirement for humanitarian assistance from $1.3 billion to $1.8 billion. So far, donors have provided $590 million.

South  Sudan became independent from  Sudan in 2011. The fighting has curbed oil production, vital for its economy.

Norway said its money would be distributed via humanitarian actors on the ground in South Sudan, including  United Nations agencies, the International Committee of the Red Cross and non-governmental organisations.

Your feedback is important to us!

We invite all our readers to share with us their views and comments about this article.

Disclaimer: Comments submitted by third parties on this site are the sole responsibility of the individual(s) whose content is submitted. The Daily Star accepts no responsibility for the content of comment(s), including, without limitation, any error, omission or inaccuracy therein. Please note that your email address will NOT appear on the site.

Norway is pledging $63 million to help alleviate the humanitarian crisis in South Sudan, the Norwegian government said on Monday, amid expectations the conflict in the world's youngest nation to worsen in the months ahead.

The Nordic country, one of South Sudan's main Western sponsors together with the United States and Britain, is hosting an international conference to raise humanitarian funds for South Sudan on May 19-20 in Oslo.

South Sudan became independent from Sudan in 2011 .
