
Register below to start posting comments, receive SMS news alerts and subscribe to our newsletter.

Prime Minister Joseph Muscat says government has ‘nothing to be ashamed of’ • challenges the leader of the Opposition ‘to bring it on’.

The Labour Party is dedicating its last days of campaigning to reach out to the undecided voters and Labour grassroots who feel that the government has not kept its word with them.

More specifically, Prime Minister Joseph Muscat is targeting the section of the electorate who plan on staying at home after the Nationalist Party pushed forward the call that the European Parliament elections should be about showing Muscat “the yellow card”.

“Simon Busuttil spent five weeks urging the electorate to show me the yellow card. He thought that I would argue these elections are not about me or the Labour government but about EU affairs. Instead, I say, bring it on,” Muscat said.

Addressing one of the most populated political activities organised by the Labour Party in Rabat this evening, Muscat said he wanted to be judged by the people.

He reiterated that next Saturday’s elections is an opportunity for the electorate to choose whether it agreed with the direction the Labour government is taking.

“On the other hand, Simon [Busuttil] is now saying that the choice shouldn’t be about me or him. Why is he politics if he doesn’t want to be judged? How can a person be credible if they ask the people to judge others but not yourself? This is pure shallowness” Muscat added.

The Labour Prime Minister said the PN was basing its campaign on a negative message, saying nothing about its vision.

Muscat went on to make reference to the Opposition’s abstention on the civil unions law, arguing that the PN wanted to judge two adults on how they aspire to live their lives.

The political activity was also addressed by finance minister Edward Scicluna, former Labour PM and candidate for EP elections Alfred Sant and incumbent Marlene Mizzi.

Like Muscat, Sant made an impassioned plea to reach out to the disgruntled electorate as he defended his successor’s role as the leader of the Labour government.

He insisted that not voting because a personal issue had not been resolved was not the solution.

“These are very important elections because what happens in the European institutions affect us. We only have six seats because we are a small country, but that representation is still important,” he said.

Sant said the electorate had to give the government credit for admitting its mistakes and correcting them. He also said the people should not forget that the PL was the party of the elderly, the workers and the youths.

According to Sant, the PN’s tactic while in Opposition is to start attacking a Labour government during its second year in power.
