
SOUTH Hobart residents and cable car proponent Adrian Bold have clashed over funding the controversial project.

Residents Opposed to the Cable Car spokesman Ted Cutlan said his group questioned whether financial backing had actually been secured, while Mr Bold repeated his declarations that the project was fully cashed up.

Mr Cutlan said research by the group – which includes members who have opposed previous Mt Wellington cable car proposals – showed three out of five companies listed as international backers for Mr Bold’s plan were linked to the same person, Steven Dale, who attended last month’s launch event.

The anti-cable car group also raised concerns that Bullwheel, a key international backer for the Mt Wellington project, had never built a cable car.

The group feared the project was “wasting the time and energy” of the city council, the Mt Wellington Trust, Cascade Brewery and residents.

But Mr Bold said investors had been secured. “The funding is coming from various ­investors who are looking for long-term capital investments,” he said.

Mr Bold said he did not have an update on the estimated cost of the Mt Wellington cable car. He has said he had “300 per cent” of funding needed for the project. “Most people ... understand a private sector project is a financial risk for us alone,” he said.

The project had a “built-in capital return” that would cover upgrades and the cost of dismantling the cable car if it failed to meet expectations.

Mr Bold acknowledged Bullwheel had not worked on a completed cable car project.

“Bullwheel is a brand new company. They were established only last year and essentially they are an umbrella company to all the experts who have built and developed cable cars,” Mr Bold said.

Bullwheel had a majority shareholding in the Mt Wellington Cableway Company.

“They bring the expertise and the finance (and) they’ll be paying for the DA (development application),” he said.

Mr Bold said Mr Dale had worked for international cable car supplier Dopplemayer. The Mt Wellington project team is working with Dopplemayer representatives in Austria.

Hobart City Council meets today to decide what information it needs from Mr Bold before considering whether to give landowner consent for the project. Glenorchy Council has already given support in principle to the plan.

Tourism industry figures support the concept but the State Government has refused to back it until it sees a development application.

Watch this 86 find its fate in an Armco fence.
