
KATHMANDU, MAY 17 -   With the Narendra Modi-led Bharatiya Janata Party all set to install a majority government in New Delhi, speculations are rife in Kathmandu about possible foreign policy changes in the neighbourhood in general and Nepal in particular.

Though foreign policy experts and India watchers say the change in guard in Delhi will likely influence Nepal’s political dynamics, they rule out return to the pre-2006 era and that such fundamental gains as republicanism and federalism are here to stay.

The BJP position on secularism in Nepal could however see some revision if major political forces—the Nepali Congress, the CPN-UML, the UCPN (Maoist) and Madhesi parties—start revisiting it.

The BJP manifesto unveiled during the election does not mention Nepal policies in explicit terms but it blames the outgoing UPA government for being apathetic towards India’s neighbours.

“The Congress-led UPA has failed to establish enduring friendly and cooperative relations with India’s neighbours. India’s relations with traditional allies have turned cold. India and its neighbours have drifted apart,” says the manifesto.

“Whenever there is a change of guard at 7-Race Course, its policy on Nepal changes but we need to see to what extent that will happen this time. It is perhaps too early to predict,” said former Foreign Minister Ramesh Nath Pandey.

The prime minister in waiting, Modi, is not on record saying anything of consequence about Nepal but BJP President Raj Nath Singh has time and again expressed reservations over Nepal’s shift from a Hindu state to a secular one. Singh is likely to get an important portfolio in the Modi Cabinet.

“Obviously, Singh’s will be an important voice on Nepal,” said Prashant Jha, a Delhi-based Nepali journalist.

and its clout in Nepal’s domestic politics to some extent.

“We don’t know who will be the foreign minister and the National Security Advisor, who are decisive in India’s policy to Nepal,” said Jha, a former columnist with The Kathmandu Post who currently is the Associate Editor with Hindustan Times, adding that changes like republicanism will not be reversed.

BJP has said it will fundamentally reboot and reorient the foreign policy goals, content and process, in a manner that locates India’s global strategic engagement in a new paradigm and on a wider canvass.

Two former ambassadors to India—Lok Raj Baral and Bhek Bahadur Thapa—agreed that no much fundamental change will happen on India’s policy towards Nepal but it is likely that high-level contacts between the two nations are likely to gain momentum as both the sides have expressed a desire to make visits more frequent.

» For all you tweety fans out there!

» Allows you to find only those news from any date you choose!
