
Ceramic tiles, sanitary wares, electrical switch boards and water heaters made in Oman are extensively used in KR's projects, Kumar explained.

"We utilise the services of SMEs and source from them in various projects including construction, painting and high voltage cable jointing projects as well as air conditioning services," he added, noting that all the workers representing Khimji Ramdas are provided with special training.

KR's chief executive officer  said that the company's footprint can be seen in a large number of projects that have been implemented to develop Oman's infrastructure.

"Oman has been growing by leaps and bounds, particularly in the last decade, and we have a role to play in the infrastructure development of the country," he added.

He noted that the solutions offered by the group for the industrial and home arenas range from  construction, building materials, air conditioning and refrigeration, paints and electrical products to home and office interiors, storage and warehousing solutions.

KR Infra partners with both individuals and companies, both in private and public sectors, Kumar said, adding that the group's services have been used in projects of many important organisations and institutions, including banks, the Ministry of Education, State Audit Institution and Oman's Majlis.

Bait Al Ahlam is the retail face of the Infrastructure Group, he added.

Kumar said that KR Infra also sources from other countries to make sure that it is providing its clients with best quality products. "We offer products made in Germany, Italy, Spain, France, the Netherlands, Sweden, China, Malaysia, Thailand, the United States, Canada and a number of other countries."

Commenting on KR Infra's new campus in Ghala which was launched recently, Kumar said that the decision was made in the light of efforts to transform the industrial area of Ghala into the city's commercial hub.

The new 9,400 square metre building on an 18,000 square metre plot was constructed by converting three of KR's large warehouses into a state-of-the-art office complex for the company's infrastructure business in a record 200 days.

The new campus combines three massive office blocks constructed on 7,500 square metres of floor space that will house 500 staff in an ergonomically planned layout.

The campus is designed to ensure employee well-being and to foster an environment of creative thinking and proactive learning. It includes a huge cafeteria that can seat 200 guests simultaneously.
