
Norway's central unit for fighting economic and environmental crimes has submitted a report concerning a corruption case involving a Sarawak state-owned energy firm to the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission (MACC), a Swiss-based advocacy group said today.

The Bruno Manser Fund (BMF) said in a statement that &Oslash;kokrim had approached the MACC over the case which involved Sarawak Energy Bhd and its Norwegian chief executive officer Datuk Torstein Dale Sj&oslash;tveit.

“The case concerns alleged involvement in corruption in Malaysia. &Oslash;kokrim has in that respect contacted the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission in January 2014 to inform them about your complaint,” the letter quoted Trond Eirik Schea, the director of &Oslash;kokrim, as saying.

The BMF had filed a complaint with &Oslash;kokrim last November as Sj&oslash;tveit granted contracts worth over US$200 million (RM642 million) to companies linked to Taib, the former Sarawak chief minister.

However, Norway's chief prosecutor for economic crime told the BMF that he was not in a position to initiate criminal proceedings against Sj&oslash;tveit as all the alleged crimes took place in Malaysia.

The BMF added that last week that Norwegian energy advisor Norconsult said it concluded its extensive consultancy contracts with the Sarawakian energy firm and found that it was free of any allegations of corruption or malpractice.

“Norconsult CEO John Nyheim defended the deals by saying that an evaluation of Sarawak Energy had shown &lsquo;that the company has not been convicted on any allegations of corruption or malpractice’,” The BMF said.

A group of indigenous activists from Sarawak are in Oslo to protest against Norway's role in the state government's controversial dam plans undertaken by Sarawak Energy Bhd.

Three activists from the Save Sarawak Rivers, the non-governmental rights organisation that is opposed to the state's plan to build a series of hydroelectric dams are now taking their case to European governments, the power companies involved in the dam project and civil society.

The activists are Save Sarawak Rivers chairman Peter Kallang and villagers Maria Ajang from Long Palai and Lah Jok from Long Liam &ndash; the two villages that would be affected by the planned Baram hydroelectric dam.

Their mission to Switzerland and Norway is to demand that companies from these countries stop their cooperation with the energy firm on its plan to build 12 mega-hydroelectric dams to generate the power the state projected it needed to transform itself into an industrialised state by the year 2030.

Sarawak Energy Bhd, linked to Sarawak governor Tan Sri Abdul Taib Mahmud, heavily relies on Norwegian expertise in hydropower for the dam projects, as Norway is a leading specialist in hydroelectric power.

BMF, which is one of Taib's fiercest critics over corruption allegations, had previously claimed Taib's family assets are estimated at $20 billion (RM66.7 billion) and that they also hold properties in Australia, Canada, Hong Kong, the United Kingdom and the United States.

However, a report in February said that the MACC probe into Taib's dealings had failed to find any evidence for alleged abuse of power over large tracts of land and logging areas which were given to his relatives as the approvals were made by two senior state ministers.

The MACC investigation papers were opened five years ago as Taib was said to have used his office and position for gratification. &ndash; May 20, 2014.
