
Housing and Works Federal Secretary Mohammad Younus Dhaga has said that the government is serious in encouraging construction activities in a bid to address housing problems in the country.

Dhaga was addressing representatives of the Association of Builders and Developers (ABAD) at the ABAD House.

Dhaga said that it will be his priority to bridge the gap among builders, developers and relevant government departments to effectively address the housing shortage in the country.

He assured his support to ABAD in order to resolve the issues that are confronted by builders and developers including providing housing finance to middle and lower middle income population and lifting up the moratorium on the new gas connections among others.

ABAD Chairman Mohsin Sheikhani said that most governments in the past did not pay due attention to the construction industry despite the sector having a crucial role in the revival of the economy.

Sheikhani added that the National Housing Policy 2001, on which ABAD and concerned government departments had worked, was never implemented in letter and spirit.

Availability of finances has always been a problem to the construction sector of the country, Sheikhani added, and house building finance corporation (HBFC) is unable to meet the demand of loans requests.

The ABAD chief said that out of the total population of Karachi more than 50% reside in slums and it was necessary to convert them to high-rise buildings to discourage any further development of illegal settlements in the city.

The rehabilitation and redevelopment of these slums will be instrumental in providing modern day facilities to the occupants including better health, education and recreational facilities.

He requested National Housing Authority director general to exercise his powers and announce the formation of a Ministry of Rehabilitation and Redevelopment slums.

ABAD Senior Vice Chairman Salim Patel said that construction of 500,000 houses, proposed by the government, will provide jobs to millions of skilled and unskilled labour.

Published in The Express Tribune, May 20th, 2014.

Like  Business on Facebook , follow @TribuneBiz  on Twitter to stay informed and join in the conversation.

Your comments may appear in The Express Tribune paper. For this reason we encourage you to provide your city. The Express Tribune does not bear any responsibility for user comments.

Comments are moderated and generally will be posted if they are on-topic and not abusive. For more information, please see our Comments FAQ .

Notify me of new posts by email.

Unless otherwise stated, all content is copyrighted © 2014 The Express Tribune News Network.
