
The scene of a suicide blast in the Sabon Gari neighbourhood in Kano, Nigeria, on May 18, 2014.

(CNN) -- A bomb blast in the northern Nigerian city of Kano killed at least four people late Sunday, according to local police.

The blast occurred at a busy intersection in a predominantly Christian area of the city and left several cars burning, Kano police spokesman Rabilu Ringim told CNN.

Police cordoned off the area and were searching for suspects and any additional bombs.

It was not immediately clear who was responsible for the attack, the spokesman said.

Terrorism in Nigeria has been in the global spotlight recently since more than 200 school girls were kidnapped by Boko Haram.

The terror group abducted an estimated 276 girls on April 14 from a boarding school in Chibok in northeastern Nigeria. Dozens escaped, but more than 200 girls are still missing.

Arwa Damon meets two young orphans, now in Niger, whose mother died years ago -- and whose father was killed in a Boko Haram attack in Nigeria.

A small river marks the border between Niger and Nigeria -- a shallow divide between security and the horrors of Boko Haram.

CNN's Arwa Damon reports that U.S. sources now believe Boko Haram insurgents may be hiding on the islands of Lake Chad.

Isha Sesay talks to journalist Aminu Abubakar who says approximately 500 people have been killed in northeastern Nigeria.

Police in Nigeria's capital Tuesday made a U-turn, saying a ban on protests in support of the more than 200 girls kidnapped in April does not exist.

A top Nigerian official claims to know where the missing schoolgirls are located, as Arwa Damon reports.

Arwa Damon reports on Nigerian schools sitting empty as residents live in fear of Boko Haram.

A large part of northern and central Nigeria is now at the mercy of intensified attacks by Boko Haram, and the group seems to be embarking on a new phase of its campaign.

It's one of the most important Nigerian stories to hit the big screen -- yet the director says Nigeria's bureaucracy is purposely preventing its release.

Opinion: The media turns Boko Haram into 'superstar monsters' -- which is exactly what they want.

CNN's Nima Elbagir speaks with the mothers of two missing Nigerian schoolgirls.

With fear in her eyes, a young woman tells CNN's Nima Elbagir, the first journalist to visit Chibok, how she fled gun-toting Islamic extremists.

Over the last 20 years, the narrative on the African continent has shifted from Afro-pessimism to Afro-optimism.

Women in repressive countries are fighting back against injustice, writes Frida Ghitis.

Biyi Bandele, who recently directed Oscar nominated Chiwetel Ejiofor in "Half of a Yellow Sun," discusses his remarkable journey.

From regular people to celebrities, here are some of the people participating in the movement.

Nigeria woke up to a brand new economy, apparently. But the country are suffering and its people responded with a hiss.

At 23, many people around the world are still at university -- at that age, Gossy Ukanwoke had already started one.

Oprah, if you're reading this, for goodness sake return this woman's calls.
