
Emily Ferbezar is a communication Intern for the United Way of Douglas County, which provides occasional features spotlighting local volunteers and charities supported by the United Way.

Rhonda Malcolm has volunteered for the Red Cross for six years. She meets privately with families after a disaster to discuss their immediate needs.

We live in an unpredictable world, and disaster can strike at any moment. But when members in the community face a crisis and need assistance, or even just a glimmer of hope, the American Red Cross is often the first to help.

Red Cross on-call volunteers like Rhonda Malcolm know that when their phones ring in the middle of the night, it’s time to get to work, responding to a disaster like a house fire, to bring comfort and support to the victims.

Malcolm, who has volunteered for the Red Cross for six years, meets privately with families after a disaster to discuss their immediate needs and provide financial assistance for lodging, if needed. Volunteers are equipped with comfort kits to supply basic toiletries and food to get families through the first couple of days.

“What we try to do is provide hope for our clients. When they have a place to sleep and some food in their stomachs and are away from the situation, it gives them time to regroup and refocus,” Malcolm said.

Malcolm was looking for a meaningful volunteer opportunity a few years ago when she became an empty-nester, and happened upon an article on the Red Cross in the Journal-World. A business teacher at Free State High School, she wanted a way to give back to the community and to use the skills she has honed during her 19 years as an educator. The Red Cross looked like a good fit.

Working with adolescents every day, Malcolm has mastered the art of dealing with unpredictable situations and strong emotions. She knows how to mediate tense situations by remaining calm, a skill she applies when she is working with victims of disaster through the Red Cross.

“There is a real correlation between my day job and what I do as a volunteer,” Malcolm said.

Malcolm knows we cannot always control what happens to us, but is happy to provide support and assistance through the Red Cross. “When people realize they are not alone, it’s reassuring,” Malcolm said.

Use the comment form below to begin a discussion about this content.

Commenting has been disabled for this item.
