
Please enter at least two characters in the Last Name field.

Be sure to include your name, daytime phone number, address, name and phone number of legal next-of-kin, method of payment, and the name of the funeral home/crematory to contact for verification of death.

For more information about placing obituaries, click here .

The Kansas Legislature voted to not allow deduction of gambling losses against winnings. I vote to not play in Kansas casinos.

I park my electric car at the gas pumps when I get my morning coffee. It reminds me daily that I am no longer giving $40 a week to the Saudis who attacked America on Sept. 11.

Columnist Trudy Rubin seems to be willing to make herself look like a fool in defending the Obama administration against the latest GOP attempt to get at the truth about Benghazi (May 16 Opinion). All the obvious lies and deception need to be owned up to, not glossed over.

If the attack on Benghazi had happened while Bush was president, Republicans wouldn’t have said a word. But just imagine how they would have howled if the attack on the twin towers had happened during the Obama administration.

Columnist Leonard Pitts’ comments concerning the damage that happens to the children and family when a father is absent cannot be overstated (May 12 Opinion). Men need to learn that really being a man means taking full responsibility for your actions, including fatherhood and marriage. Man up.

Pitts wrote that he was “gratified by the Occupy movement” (April 28 Opinion). I would have been gratified if the Occupy protesters had been rounded up and dropped off at the Nevada federal grazing lands.

Pitts’ dogmatic racist complaints wore thin even before we had a racist president.

I find Pitts’ columns to be highly reasoned and principled. Not once have I found myself in disagreement with his commentary. Thank you to The Eagle for continuing to publish his columns.

Congratulations to Andover High School’s Joel Schaefer, the Gilder Lehrman Institute’s Kansas History Teacher of the Year. He epitomizes the statement: “If you don’t know history, then you don’t know anything. You are a leaf that doesn’t know it is part of a tree.” What he knows, he shares passionately and effectively.

is pleased to provide this opportunity to share information, experiences and observations about what's in the news. Some of the comments may be reprinted elsewhere in the site or in the newspaper. We encourage lively, open debate on the issues of the day, and ask that you refrain from profanity, hate speech, personal comments and remarks that are off point. Thank you for taking the time to offer your thoughts.
