
Don't miss stories. Follow Vox!

"so the tired trope of imperialistic foreigners corrupting noble savages rears its head again"

John G. Stackhouse, Christian professor and journalist, thinks the analysis Williams' film offers is problematic, noting that homophobia was "already in the outlook of Ugandans when the recent wave of American evangelical extremists arrived. … So the tired trope of imperialistic foreigners corrupting the noble savages rears its head again and must once again be dispatched by a little careful thought."

Some film critics praised Williams' filmmaking abilities but questioned his conclusions. For instance, writing for Slate , Tim Wu admits the film does indeed paint a "damning" portrait of evangelical involvement with Uganda's homophobia, but thinks it's "worth asking whether the anti-gay views of the American church can be so clearly blamed for what is happening in a society where homophobia was already prevalent."

I recently had a phone conversation with Williams to talk with him about the film, the response, and some of the larger issues at play. The interview has been edited for clarity.

Roger Ross Williams: When I started hearing about Uganda early on I was interested in learning more.

I made a trip to Uganda in 2010 after [Ugandan Member of Parliament] David Bahati introduced the bill. The first person I met was  David Kato , who met me with four activists at my hotel. He started to tell me what was going on in Uganda. What Kato said was, the story not being told was the damage being done by American evangelicals.

There was an overwhelming avalanche of involvement of American evangelicals dating back to the '80s. I was shocked to learn that very prominent faith leaders — like Rick Warren, as well as faith-based politicians, like John Aschcroft, who were part of the Washington Family — that they have been involved in Uganda for a long time.

RWW: In many ways, they just found a fertile breeding ground in Uganda.

Uganda was perfect because of the perfect storm that was a combination of: HIV/AIDS , having the highest population on the continent, devastation from civil war, and the fall of Idi Amin . Also, Uganda has the youngest population on the planet , under age of 15. So Uganda was the perfect place for people from America to move in and help rebuild. [The Americans] did a lot of great work, but they also came in with a specific ideology of faith: that the Bible reigns supreme. So then politicians started to believe that they rule by the Bible.

RWW: The law is incredibly popular because the Ugandan public has been mislead to believe homosexuals and homosexuality are a threat to their life. But actually, homophobia is the real western import starting with the first missionary and sodomy laws.

RWW: Oh, definitely. Politicians in Uganda are using homosexuality as a scapegoat. The reason the president of Uganda throws a rally to celebrate passing of bill — he's using it to distract the Ugandan public from the real issue, which is corruption. So homosexuality is the scapegoat for Ugandans to put their frustrations toward. Museveni makes it seem like he's anti-colonialist, and fighting the west. He was in trouble, politically, in the country and on the international stage because he's been there in power too long.

RWW: An American Christian does not want to condone violence or hatred, no matter if they believe something is sin or not. But we need to keep hate out of the collection plate, and challenge pastors: you might think you're giving money to orphans, but make sure it's not funding homophobia! Religion is the biggest business in Africa. It's about exposing this to Americans so they can stop the flow of money to big, massive homophobic churches that throw hate rallies. This is the reality this is what it's like over there.

"well-meaning kids go to uganda and unleash harmful rhetoric. and things get bad."

RWW: I grew up in a Baptist church. I come from family of ministers. My uncle was the head of the church, my sister was a minister, my father was a head deacon. But the church was non-affirming, so I grew up singing in the gospel choir, and I was never accepted for my sexuality.

RWW: I wanted to show the ground game, to show what it's like on the ground with these kids who are well-meaning and naïve — not a bunch of people going over and preaching hate. The idea was: well-meaning kids from the heartland of America go to Uganda, and think they're doing good. But what they unleash is harmful rhetoric, and it's misinterpreted and things get bad.

As part of the new Vox launch, prior users will need to choose a permanent username, along with a new password.

Your username will be used to login to Vox going forward.

Please login to your Vox Media account.  This account will be linked to your previously existing Eater account.

As part of the new Vox launch, prior MT authors will need to choose a new username and password.

Your username will be used to login to Vox going forward.

We'll email you a reset link.

If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.

Almost done,

By becoming a registered user, you are also agreeing to our Terms and confirming that           you have read our Privacy Policy .

Great!

Choose an available username to complete sign up.

In order to provide our users with a better overall experience, we ask for more information from Facebook when using it to login so that we can learn more about our audience and provide you with the best possible experience. We do not store specific user data and the sharing of it is not required to login with Facebook.
