
(From left) Maria Elizabeth Nari, Calvin Sim, Melaine Antonio, Jacquita Gonzales during a press conference at the Holiday Villa hotel in Subang Jaya yesterday. Families of crew members on board MH370 said that Malaysia Airlines had 'abandoned' them because they have sought aid from a foreign law firm. – The Malaysian Insider pic by Shafiq Safiee, May 18, 2014.Malaysia Airlines has been described as “irresponsible” and “heartless” for abandoning families of the flight crew who had sought the help of a foreign law firm to safeguard their interests in the MH370 saga.

This latest salvo against the national carrier came from National Union of Flight Attendants (Nufam) president Ismail Nasaruddin who said MAS cannot cut itself off from the grieving families simply because they had sought legal advice.

“It is their obligation to care for the well-being of their employees and their families. Furthermore, MAS has not offered to make any payout to the families of the crew members,” Ismail said.

He hit out at MAS for not keeping its promise which was given to the families when the flight which was bound for Beijing went missing on March 8.

“MAS had initially promised the families many things. However they have ignored all of these obligations ‎towards the families in the last couple of weeks,” said Ismail.

Yesterday, families of the crew on board the lost MH370 said MAS had “abandoned” them because they sought the help of a foreign law firm, including stopping the services of the caregivers who had been there for them to provide emotional support.

Jacquita Gonzales, wife of inflight supervisor Patrick Francis Gomes, in a press conference at Holiday Villa Hotel yesterday said the caregivers were the families’ lifeline.

The families of seven of the 12 crew members said the national carrier sent an email to them two days ago asking them to get their lawyers to deal with the airlines legal team for all requests related to the missing passenger jet.

Jacquita said this happened after the airlines got wind that the families of the seven had hired a legal advisor.

“We do not know how they know and obtained the documents, but we only wanted advice when it came to things that we did not understand. I am a lay person. I do not understand legal jargon. I do not know how to read between the lines. I have my children to take care of.  So the best person I can refer to is a lawyer,” he said.

Lamenting over MAS's cold-hearted actions, Ismail said that the national flag carrier should have not stopped supporting the family members of the crew.

Ismail questioned Malaysia Airlines System Employees Union (Maseu) over its inaction and urged Putrajaya to intervene as the families have no one else to turn to.

Nufam will be holding charity event called tribute to the crew of MH370 on June 7. All proceeds will go to the families of crew MH370. – May 19, 2014.
