
Three Casper residents demonstrated for the legalization of medical marijuana and industrial hemp products Saturday, part of what they say will be regular demonstrations at Conwell Park.

The demonstrators are part of the new group Wyoming Cannabis Activists.

The organization had simultaneous demonstrations at the Cheyenne Depot in the capital city, at which 10 people showed up, and in Jackalope Square in Douglas, at which local resident and U.S. Senate Republican candidate Thomas Bleming demonstrated, said Marcia Stuelpnagel, co-founder of Wyoming Cannabis Activists.

Stuelpnagel, 37, was diagnosed with cancer while living in Wyoming, she said. Having seen the effects of chemotherapy and radiation on her mother, she moved to Vancouver, Washington, for two years and began legally using cannabis oil. It also helped with depression, post-traumatic stress disorder and bipolar disorder, she said.

Stuelpnagel would like to continue using cannabis in Wyoming, which is why she helped form Wyoming Cannabis Activists. The organization would like to get an initiative on the 2016 ballot to legalize the drug for medical use. Proponents also want industrial hemp products to be legal.

Their numbers were small in Casper, but demonstrator Kristine Nelson, who supports marijuana legalization for all purposes, said support is wide.

The group was in Conwell Park, across the street from the Wyoming Medical Center, which they said was perfect for their message of support for cannabis for medicinal purposes. They plan to demonstrate in the afternoon every other Saturday through October.

Wyoming Cannabis Activists is just one group that’s attempting to have marijuana legalized. Wyoming NORML is also working on an initiative for the 2016 ballot to legalize pot for all uses.

The organization has submitted a draft initiative to the Wyoming Secretary of State’s Office three times, attempting to make the language in the initiative conform with current laws.

Jackson resident Chris Christian, executive director of Wyoming NORML, said an attorney is working on the initiative so the group can submit it a fourth time.

Once the Secretary of State’s Office approves it, the organization must gather roughly 37,000 signatures — the exact number will be derived from votes in the 2014 election — for it to appear on the 2016 ballot, said Peggy Nighswonger, state elections director.

Copyright 2014 The Billings Gazette. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Hint: Enter a keyword that you are looking for like tires, pizza or doctors or browse the full business directory .

Username & Password Required!
