
Dunedin ratepayers face a 3% rates rise for the coming     financial year, after a last-minute bid to trim the increase     failed yesterday.

Councillors yesterday voted to endorse the increase, subject       to final approval next month, after six days of deliberations       on more than 1000 public submissions on its 2014-15 annual       plan.

The decision came after councillors were asked to choose       between extra debt repayment or a lower-than-expected rates       increase.

A tough-nosed approach to new spending since last Monday had       left councillors with a $345,000 surplus and a rates rise       which, if left unchanged, would have stood at 2.72%.

That would have been below the targeted rates increase of no       more than 3%, but councillors had to decide whether to take       the lower increase or use the surplus to repay debt, pushing       rates up.

Cr Hilary Calvert believed lower rates should be the       priority, and pushed for a 2.72% increase, saying it would       ''send a powerful message'' to ratepayers.

''It would be a powerful message that we are deciding to keep       rates down in Dunedin,'' she said.

She won support from Cr Lee Vandervis, but failed to convince       the majority of councillors, who instead favoured Mayor Dave       Cull's move to use the surplus to repay debt and accept a 3%       rates increase.

Cr Richard Thomson said it would be ''superficially       attractive'' to keep rates lower, but the saving would amount       to ''about 10c a week'' for the average ratepayer.

Accelerating debt repayment would reduce the burden on       ratepayers by ''far more'' in future years, and ''that to me       is the most important thing'', he said.

''I don't think the political kudos of reducing rates ...       warrants abandoning getting that debt down as fast as       possible,'' he said.

Others agreed, including deputy mayor Chris Staynes, who said       the council had worked hard to get into a position to retire       extra debt, and Cr Jinty MacTavish, who said it would be       ''remiss'' not to do so.

The decision came after councillors approved responses to       each of the 1119 public submissions received, and signed off       a list of final civic grants yesterday.

To complete the process, councillors had already been forced       to extend last week's deliberations into yesterday to deal       with the weight of public submissions.

Even so, they had to adjourn yesterday's proceedings to make       time for a full council meeting and public forum, before       swapping rooms again to resume their budget deliberations       later in the day.

Mr Cull said yesterday's decision was ''a choice between two       very good outcomes'', and praised councillors and council       staff for their hard work.

''I'm actually very proud of the fact we have achieved that       [3% rates rise] and I'm very proud of what staff have       achieved.''

Submitted by MikeStk on Wed, 21/05/2014 - 6:48am.

Steve: The councilors have seemed unable to find a way to not       raise rates above inflation for even a single year in the       past decade. They are continually growing the DCC's burden on       the rest of us with no end in sight.

It's time to put a limit on their spendthriftiness. I suggest       that we need a change to the city's constitution that binds       it to a 10 year rolling average - simply require that the 10       year rolling average of rates rises (after rates rebates from       CCOs)  should not increase above inflation.

To make it easier for the council we'll allow them 0       inflation adjusted increases for the next 5 years as the       rolling average kicks in, and we'll allow them to exempt       particular projects after a 60% vote of the citizens.

Peanuts. Won't even notice that out my pay packet.

Well said Steve, you are right on the money.

Submitted by Stevesone57 on Tue, 20/05/2014 - 4:39pm.

So Dave Cull is proud that the DCC has only lifted rates to       twice the rate of inflation. That little stroke of the pen       has just cost my business an additional $600 per annum on top       of the $20,000 in local and regional rates we already pay. On       top of that we pay for our water, rubbish removal. Council is       nothing to us but a parasite sucking the financial life blood       out of this city.

Council talks of getting business to come to Dunedin whilst       at the same time loading more and more costs on those       considering setting up here. At the same time they sit on the       side lines as their own ratepayers are forced to compete with       the non-ratepaying university competing unfairly against       local business without the impost of sky high rates.

Succesive councils have taken this city from having almost no       debt in 2009 to now carrying a consolidated debt of at least       $625 million and rising. Millions wasted, on a stadium, DVML,       Carisbrook, Chinese Gardens, and the non entry fee Settlers       Museum. They even spent a million dollars putting a train in       a glass cabinet. One financial disaster after another.

Submitted by Mrs C on Tue, 20/05/2014 - 2:24pm.

We are unable to find the money for this year's rates bill,       however, we are able to offer you 7 cents in the dollar as       long as you use stump up a few hundred thousand of your       other, paying, ratepayers'  money to cover our running       costs such as wages, hospitality and anything else we see fit       to spend it on.

Submitted by russandbev on Tue, 20/05/2014 - 11:23am.

Submitted by ej kerr on Tue, 20/05/2014 - 10:49am.

Submitted by MikeStk on Tue, 20/05/2014 - 9:07am.

The rates wouldn't be going up this year if the city didn't       continue to pass money to the financially incompetent DVML,       bailing them out year after year.

Submitted by Megs on Tue, 20/05/2014 - 7:09am.
