
Thailand's army have declared a state of emergency, "to restore law and order" after six months of anti-government protests.

Thai Army chief General Prayuth Chan-ocha said today that martial law will remain in place until "peace and order has been restored" in the country.

Thai Army chief General Prayuth Chan-ocha arrives to give a news conference at the Army Club in Bangkok today.

The Thai Army will deal with anyone who uses weapons and harms civilians, he told a news conference today, adding that opposing political groups should "talk to each other".

Pro-government "red shirt" supporters listen to their leader's speech inside their encampment in the suburbs of Bangkok today.

The army ordered the two groups to remain where they were and not march anywhere, in order to prevent clashes.

An anti-government protester holds Thai flags during a rally near the Government House in Bangkok today.

It is the 19th time in Thailand's history that the army has declared martial law.

The surprise move follows six months of street protests that have left the country without a proper functioning government, but the army denied that it was staging a military coup.

Anti-government protest leader Suthep Thaugsuban walks with other during a rally near the Government House in Bangkok today.

Thailand's justice minister Chaikasem Nitisiri said the army had not consulted the cabinet on their decision to impose martial law, but appeared to play down the move, saying it was "only taking over security" and it would not affect the cabinet.

The army took positions around Bangkok over night.

Protest leader Jatuporn Prompan said his group would accept the imposition of martial law, but "won't tolerate a coup or other non-constitutional means" to grab power.

The justice minister said the army had not consulted the cabinet, but appeared to play down the move.

In the shocking overnight announcement, the army declared they will be in charge of public security nationwide, after six months of anti-government protests.

Army chief General Prayuth Chan-ocha said the military was taking charge because of violent protests that had claimed lives and caused damage.

"We are concerned this violence could harm the country's security in general. Then, in order to restore law and order to the country, we have declared martial law.

"I'm asking all those activist groups to stop all activities and cooperate with us in seeking a way out of this crisis."

It is unclear whether a coup was underway.

Members of the Royal Thai Army pictured on January 18.
