
For a Camdenton family, the holidays will come with an extra present this year — a new home. Amanda and Chris Stoecklein along with their three children and family dog will have something else to be thankful for come November or December.

For a Camdenton family, the holidays will come with an extra present this year — a new home. Amanda and Chris Stoecklein along with their three children and family dog will have something else to be thankful for come November or December.

The family was chosen to be the recipient of this years Habitat for Humanity home in Camden County.

"We were in awe. It's something you just can't believe even when you have been told," Chris Stoecklein said while waiting for the official groundbreaking to kick off the construction of their new home on Mulberry Lane in Camdenton Saturday.

The couple was eager to share their excitement about their new home.

"We are very, very excited. We feel blessed and very happy. It will be great because the kids will have their own rooms now," Amanda said. "We are excited about building it too because we have always wanted to build our own home."

Chris echoed his wife's thoughts,"We are very excited. I think our prayers are answered."

This new home is nothing short than a dream come true for the Stoeckleins.

Currently, the five-person family resides in a two-bedroom, one-bath home. With three children at varying ages and maturity levels living in the same room, privacy is rarely an option.

The new house on Mulberry will be a four-bedroom, three-bath home with plenty of room for the entire family.

"I love to see the beginning of a new house, more so I love to see the end of a new house and see that very deserving family move in," Special Events Coordinator Kibbie Rolf said.

During the groundbreaking ceremony, Habitat for Humanity Board President Ann Walker welcomed the crowd, Rev. Ron Roberts read scripture and Father Dan Lueckenotte voiced a prayer over the home. Building Committee Chair Tom Reth spoke of the plans for the home before Rev. Marc Magana gave the invocation. Father Lueckenotte also blessed the building site with holy water.

Excavation is scheduled to begin this week. The construction manager, Tom Reth, hopes to have the family in their new abode by the 2014 holiday season.

Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.

Your privacy is important, read our privacy policy.

Original content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted.
