
Repsol SA, Spain's biggest oil producer, is drilling its first well offshore Namibia at block 1911 in the Walvis Basin , rekindling Namibia's hopes for a commercial discovery of crude oil.

Repsol has a 44 percent interest in offshore licence 0010 and is operator of the block on which the Welwitschia-1 well will be drilled.

London-listed Tower Resources Oil & Gas Exploration has a 30 percent interest in licence 0010 in the Walvis Basin, situated 200 kilometres north of Brazilian HRT's Wingat well, on which a sub-commercial discovery was announced in May 2013.

Block 1911 shows “some promise” and Repsol's drilling “will lead to a discovery”, Immanuel Mulunga, Namibia's petroleum commissioner, said in an interview.

"They are going to spend around US$95 million in drilling this well, it's a tremendous risk they are taking and one that raises hope for us, it's a risk worth undertaking, as we believe this block has oil," Mulunga said.

Momentum has been building for the drilling of Welwitschia-1 well with Tower Resources saying early this month that a Rowan Renaissance drillship, which arrived in Namibia on March 4, is expected to start operations on or around April 11, with the spud being approximately one week later.

"This new build drill ship will now undergo the scheduled preparation and final acceptance testing by Repsol, to whom it is being hired on a three-year contract.

It is still expected to commence its operations for the Welwitschia-1 well on or around April 11, with the spud being approximately one week later," Tower Resources said on March 5.

Namibia has no known commercial crude deposits but interest in oil and gas discoveries spiked up during the past years highlighted by the presence of international oil majors, which are active in the country's oil and gas exploration sector.

Shell Oil and Exploration's return to the country when it announced taking over exploration blocks 2913A and 2914B in the Orange Basin on February 17, has also stoked optimism for a commercially viable deposit.

International oil majors have kept Namibia in their sights despite 18 wells, which have been drilled so far, failing to come up with commercially viable deposits. BP Plc., Chariot Oil & Gas, Tullow Oil Plc, Total SA are active on Namibia's coastal shelf as they pursue Africa's Atlantic coastline following huge discoveries in Ghana, Sierra Leone, Ivory Coast, Gabon and Angola.

Namibia has also granted permission to US-based Murphy Oil Corporation to farm into blocks 2613A and 2613B in Lüderitz Basin, Mulunga said.

Murphy, which holds 40 percent in the blocks and is the operator, is expected to start 3D seismic surveys and drilling is expected in 2015 or 2016, Mulunga said.

"International companies still have faith in Namibia's oil potential. They also believe we are doing a good job in terms of regulating the industry," Mulunga said.

Namibia's only known discovery is the Kudu gas fields, offshore Southern Namibia, estimated to contain 1.3 trillion cubic feet, which is going to be pumped to fire a planned 800 mega-watt power plant in Oranjemund.

Located on the south west African coast, Namibia is the world's fourth largest uranium producer and the largest miner of highest-quality offshore diamonds.

Namibia's belief in oil potential stems from the fact that its coastal shelf likely mirrors that of Brazil, across the ocean and discoveries in Angola, its northern neighbour and Gabon, continues to feed national optimism, Mulunga said.

Investors are betting on Africa and Brazil's geological history and there is belief that the continent's coastal shelf mirrors Brazil across the Atlantic and that there are chances that exploration in Namibia might strike major finds such as those in neighbouring Angola.

US geological data also says that the water running along the west coast of Africa may hold 75 billion of crude oil.

"The fact that Brazil and Africa were once joined years ago, we have that expectation. On the African side there are discoveries in Angola, Gabon and we expect there is oil in Namibia's part of west Africa margin," Mulunga said.

Please sign-in to post a comment, or register for a free SmallCap Network account.

Copyright © 2001-2014 SmallCapNetwork.com. All Rights Reserved.

Attention, Small Cap Investors!

If you invest or trade small cap stocks or penny stocks, our site and daily newsletter is an absolute must.

Here's Just a Few of Our Most Recent Winners!

SCN Member Today. It's FREE!

To complete your registration, you must verify your email address. Don't worry, it's quick and easy!

Go to your inbox now.

Find the verification email from SmallCap Network (you might need to check your spam folder).

Click on the verification link provided in the email.

Start reaping the benefits of your free SCN Membership!

Once you verify your email address, you will have immediate login access to the SmallCap Network Community and will automatically be added to our priority list of Members who receive our Newsletter before anyone else.

Also, make sure to add our email address to your contact list to ensure delivery of our Newsletter straight to your inbox.
