
Abuja - The Office of the Special Adviser to the President on Youth Empowerment and Kaduna State Government have signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on the training of 601 youths.

The Special Adviser to the President on Youth Empowerment, Amb. Obi Adim, and the Kaduna State Commissioner for Youth and Sports, Alhaji Bashir Zubairu, signed the MoU on behalf of the two parties.

Speaking at the signing event in Abuja Adim said the beneficiaries would be trained under the Integrated Youth Economic Empowerment Programme (IYEEP) of the government.

“The office of the Special Adviser of the President on Youth Empowerment has developed a programme called ‘Integrated Youth Economic Empowerment Programme’.

“For instance, all the people that are going to start of this programme are going to be put into a mentorship platform.

“We’ve partnered different groups in the world. We will be launching the mentorship platform.

According to him, the implementation of the IYEEP in Kaduna state will serve as pilot scheme for similar programmes for the 35 states of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT).

He said that already his office had entered into partnership with the California State University, Chico, for ‘Train-the-Trainer’ workshop for all the prospective beneficiaries of the IYEEP across the country.

He said that the Institute of Enoch, Alaska, would also conduct the leadership training for the youth aimed at imparting them with positive ideas for the progress of the country.

In his remarks, the Kaduna State commissioner, Zubairu, thanked the Federal Government for selecting Kaduna State for the pilot scheme of the programme.

He described the Kaduna-IYEEP as an experiential entrepreneurial and community service programme meant to improve the quality of life of the youth in the state.

According to him, IYEEP is an exciting programme targeted at young people between the ages of 18 and 35 designed to help them approach life as entrepreneurs.

Zubairu said that Kaduna State Government had so far disbursed N2 billion to 7,300 beneficiaries of its newly-introduced Youth Empowerment Programme.

He said the beneficiaries were selected from the 23 Local Government Areas of the state.
