
Next time someone asks you if you can drink in Dubai, why not dazzle them with some figures: it was revealed this week that, far from abstaining from alcohol, residents of the UAE drink almost double the global average.

The figures, published by the World Health Organisation, show that, between 2008 and 2010, residents of the UAE drank 32.8 litres of pure alcohol per person per year, as compared to the global average of 17 litres per person per year, out-drinking the populations of the UK, Ireland, the US and Australia.

And, given that the legal drinking age here is 21 and Muslims are not allowed to buy alcohol, that equates to an awful lot of expats enjoying a sundowner or six. But are we surprised? The challenges of expat life have long been recognised as a trigger for alcohol and substance abuse.  Language and cultural differences can be overwhelming in a new country, and expats often turn to alcohol when struggling with feelings of loneliness and isolation.

On the flip side, expat life seems to go hand in hand with drinking when things are going well, too. By definition, expats have to make an effort to meet people, and that means going out and being sociable. In terms of business, it’s a lifestyle that, for many, involves entertaining out-of-town clients, networking and attending work and social functions where a drinking is the norm. There can be a huge pressure to fit in.

I also wonder if there’s a positive correlation between drinking and the type of risk-taking personality that chooses to move overseas in the first place. Many expats throw themselves wholeheartedly into the infamous expat “work hard / play hard” mentality where long days at work are countered by drinking to let your hair down – and not just at the weekend.

The ironic thing is, though, if you wanted to ignore alcohol, the UAE would be a good place to do it. Unlike in the UK, where alcohol is highly visible, as long as you avoid the licensed places, it’s comparatively easy to live life here without seeing any reference to alcohol.

It’s not on sale in supermarkets; it’s not advertised publicly; bottle shops are tucked discretely away; and restaurants and cafés are not licensed unless they’re inside a five-star hotel – just imagine: no wine with your lunch at Carluccio’s; no beer at Nando’s; and certainly no mini bottles of white waving at you in the M&S Café.

So what could it be specifically about expat life in the UAE that drives people to seek out a drink? I think there’s a lot to be said for the “sunshine effect” – when you’re socialising in five-star beach hotels and surrounded by tourists, it’s easy to be lulled into a “false sense of holiday”. For some people, sunshine equals holidays equals booze – and that’s a tricky piece of psychological hard-wiring to dismantle, even when the reality is actually sunshine equals work equals responsibility.
