
The national leadership of the All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA) led by Chief Victor Umeh has rejected the move by a group of the party chieftains in Awka North and South Local Government Areas to bar two of its members in the House of Representatives from seeking re-election in 2015.

Addressing journalists in Abuja at the weekend, the National Secretary, Alhaji Sani Shinkafi, said the meeting of the Awka stakeholders and decisions taken to stop Hon. Emeka Nwogbo and Kenechukwu Chukwuemeka were null and void and of no effect.

“The attention of the national leadership of our party has been drawn to a media report where  a group of APGA leaders in Awka, Anambra State, operating as stakeholders have taken a decision to suspend and  bar two lawmakers representing the area from running for a second term in office in 2015.

“If they called themselves stakeholders’ meeting, it is null and void and whatever action or decision taken at that meeting is null and void and has no blessing of the party leadership,” he said.

Some chieftains of APGA in Awka including former Special Adviser to Governor Rochas Okorocha, Chief Austin Ndigwe, former Commissioner for Agriculture, Chief Godson Ezenagu and Adviser to Anambra State Governor, Chief Willie Obiano, on Security Matters, Chief Chikodi Anara had during a stakeholders’ meeting in Awka resolved to  suspend Nwogbo and Chukwuemeka over alleged poor performance.

However, Shinkafi in dismissing their action, said under the constitution of APGA, there was no provision for any stakeholders’ meeting but that what was provided for are executive committee positions at the national, state and local government levels.

Shinkafi said a member of the House of Representatives was a very important stakeholder in any political party, adding that it was not right for anyone to take rash decisions under the circumstances.

“If the member has failed to discharge his constitutional responsibility to his people, it is for the electorates who voted into office to remove him at the appropriate time. It is not for our party members to start showing to the opposition that our elected representatives are not capable of delivering dividends of democracy to the people. This is not good for the progress of the party in the 2015 general elections,” he said.

Speaking on the issue of the alleged suspension of 10 ward chairmen of the party, Shinkafi said it had never been witnessed in any party  where 10 ward chairmen would be suspended along with councillors and a vote of no confidence passed on them.

On the issue of anointing a candidate, the APGA scribe said the party had no place in the party and that in line with the Electoral Act all the candidates for the 2015 elections for APGA would emerge through democratic process.

“The party will not allow any unconstitutional act by baring or disqualifying any member of the party who wants to aspire to any elective position in 2015. We have a procedure where the party will come out with election guideline on how its candidates will emerge through a democratic process.

“For the stakeholders in Awka North and South to say that they have anointed a candidate, Hayford Okeke for a second term in office is undemocratic and will never be accepted by the national leadership of the party. Anybody who wants to run through our party must come through a democratic process. Electoral Act 2010 as amended has spelt out the criteria on how a candidate will emerge in an election.

He said the Chairman of APGA in Anambra State wasnot even aware of the meeting where a decision was taken to bar any member of the party.

“No matter your position in the party you cannot come on the pages of newspaper to bare any member of the party from running for election.

Shinkafi said the leadership of APGA will invite both the affected lawmakers, ward chairmen, along with the councilors to see to resolve any disagreement between them amicably.

According to Shinkafi, APGA has had a terrible experience in the past 10 years, and “as such we cannot continue to be washing our dirty linen in the public”.

“Since the party was registered the first plot against the leadership was plotted by Chief Raph Nwosu in 2003, another one in 2004 and now many plots are being hatched against the party. We have never had any peace inane that is why the party has lost its members to APC and other parties.

“We have lost a governor under this crisis, we have lost senator, members of House of Representatives and House of Assemblies and we cannot continue loosing members day by day.

Please leave your comment below. Your name will appear next to your comment. We'll also keep you updated by email whenever someone else comments on this page. Your comment will appear on this page once it has been approved by a moderator.

Please enter some keywords that you'd like to search for. Your results will be displayed below.

THISDAYLIVE cares about you, help us to report better!
