
LAHORE (PR): The launch ceremony of Akhuwat Cloth Bank was held here on Sunday at Akhuwat’s head office in Township. In this manner Akhuwat solidified its promise of helping alleviate poverty in Pakistan.

The leading Shariah-compliant ‘No Interest’ Microfinance non-governmental organisation in the world, Akhuwat reached another milestone by launching its latest initiative, “Akhuwat Cloth Bank” that will further its objective of connecting the haves of the society with the have-nots.

Through this initiative decent clothing and accessories will be provided that has transformed the fortunes of half a million families so far, but also in a diverse range of social sector initiatives, including health and education among many others, Dr Amjad Saqib said, he was confident that drawing on the goodwill of a very large section of society, Akhuwat Cloth Bank shall also be a major success.

ISLAMABAD (PR): Roots Millennium Schools, Islamabad organised Pakistan’s first Public Private Professional Development Programme on Monday at Roots Flagship Millennium Campus I-9/3, Islamabad, in collaboration with Roots National Institute of Teacher Training & Education and Capital Administration & Development Division-CA&DD, FDE, INTEL and Teacher Development Centre.

The theme of the programme was School Leaders as Agents of Change conducted for 40 Government and Federal Government Head Teachers/ Principals. The training aims to enlighten the audience on the teaching practices best suited in the current scenario and teach the teachers on how to best respond to the challenges of education.

It is anticipated to encompass a broader perspective of facilitating the provision of a platform to bring together all the private-public educational stakeholders for a collective response and enacting more integrated and coherent reforms for creating opportunities beyond limitations.

LAHORE (PR): Dr Hassan Sohaib Murad, Rector UMT has been presented a book “100 performing CEO’s and Leaders of Pakistan” by  the Governor of  Punjab, Chaudhry Muhammad Sarwar in the 7TH CEO Summit Asia 2014.

This was an acknowledgement of his 25 years of golden contribution in the field of higher education. Dr. Hasan Sohaib Murad is the Rector of University of Management of Technology (UMT), Lahore since 2004. Before the inception of UMT he held the position as Director General, Institute of Leadership and Management (ILM) from 1992 to 1999.

In accumulation to his current position, he also acts as Chairman for ILM Colleges, The Knowledge School project, MIZAB Engineering, I-Ways International, First IBL Modaraba and Association for Academic Quality, (AFAQ). Dr. Hasan has been the President of Association of Management Development Institutions in Pakistan (AMDIP) for four years. He is the Member Executive Board and Executive Council of Association of Management Development Institutions in South Asia (AMDISA), and Asia Academy of Management respectively. Dr. Hasan Sohaib Murad is also having the positions as Member, Board of Governors of Institute of Policy Studies (IPS), Tricast media (Pvt) Ltd and International Business Forum, Turkey.

LAHORE (PR):  Mobilink won the Pakistan Advertisers Society (PAS) Awards 2014 for the Best Campaign of the Year under the “Telecommunication Service Provider” category. The award was presented for Mobilink’s ‘Har Dil Har Din’ campaign launched in June 2013.

The PAS 2014, organised by the Pakistan Advertisers Society, is designed to acknowledge and reward the most effective communication advertising campaigns in Pakistan. PAS announced awards in a total of 34 different categories where Mobilink was the only winner in “Telecommunication Service Provider” category.

LAHORE (PR): Refrigerators from LG Electronics (LG) featuring the company’s Inverter Linear Compressor have been recognized by the Association for Electrical, Electronic and Information Technologies (VDE), for their energy efficiency and quiet performance. One of Europe’s largest and most respected scientific and technical associations, VDE’s 500 highly qualified employees conduct around 100,000 tests annually for national and international manufacturers such as LG.
