
MAY 19 — Water Association of Selangor, Kuala Lumpur and  Putrajaya (SWAn) would like to applaud the move by relevant parties to finally end the very much lengthened takeover process with regards to the water industry in the state of Selangor.

 Recent news that both Puncak Niaga (M) Sdn Bhd (Puncak Niaga) and Syarikat Bekalan Air Selangor Sdn Bhd (SYABAS) has accepted the offer for the takeover bid by the State Government of Selangor is certainly a step forward. While the deal is more or less concluded, SWAn would like to strongly alert and warn the government and other water related agencies that the bigger challenge is yet to come.

It is important to note that unless the consumers’ needs are fulfilled, the takeover will become meaningless. Many of us have realised that the takeover saga has affected the industry service level when several development and improvement works on water supply and distribution systems were forced to be put on hold by the National Water Service Commission (SPAN) as instructed by the state government of Selangor. The restructuring exercise was used as a reason to suspend the CAPEX of the water distributor SYABAS but however looking at the current water scenario which is certainly disturbing, SWAn strongly urges SPAN and the Ministry (KeTTHA) to ensure that development and improvising programmes are not put on hold but are spearheaded more efficiently to ensure consumers do not suffer any longer.

The situation of suspending the CAPEX of SYABAS until the situation becomes very critical has resulted in several setbacks which include insufficient water treatment capacity, uncurbed water loss and unimproved level of service. The delay in the investment for this required capital works has caused several hundred of businesses to be put on hold due to insufficient water capacity. At the same time, water losses could not be reduced further as the utility company, SYABAS is unable to undertake major pipe replacement works due to the freeze directives issued by the State Government of Selangor to SPAN.

SWAn urges the authorities especially SPAN and KETTHA all projects and pipe replacement programmes are initiated simultaneously with the restructuring exercise. Putting the takeover above the implementation of major repairs, crucial pipe replacement works will not benefit the Rakyat as a whole. Several groups of consumers have raised these concerns to SWAn on several occasions. There seem to be fear of yet another possibility of the lack of treated water supply.

SWAn as the body representing the consumers on water urges the strong intervention of the Honourable Prime Minister of Malaysia in ensuring all relevant projects and programmes are implemented continuously to ensure efficiency and accountability amongst the water related agencies.

* This is the personal opinion of the writer or organisation and does not necessarily represent the views of The Malay Mail Online.
