
Barry Rosenstein’s JANA Partners revealed new positions in the first quarter of 2014. The activist fund bought top new positions including AerCap Holdings N.V. (AER), Leucadia National Corp (LUK), eBay Inc. (EBAY), and Constellium N.V. (CSTM). It sold Charter Communication (CHTR), Safeway Inc. (SWY), and Huntsman (HUN).

JANA Partners’ 13F filing said the fund sold its position in Charter Communication (CHTR) that accounted for 3.68% of JANA’s 4Q 2013 portfolio.

Charter Communication is a cable operator providing services in the United States with approximately 6.1 million residential and commercial customers as of March 31, 2014. It offers traditional cable video programming, Internet services, voice services, and advanced video services such as On Demand (or TM), high definition (or HD) television, and digital video recorder (or DVR) service. It also sells local advertising on cable networks and provides fiber connectivity to cellular towers.

Last month, shares went up after Charter Communications and Comcast (or CMCSA) reached an agreement where following the close of the Comcast-Time Warner Cable merger, Charter will acquire approximately 1.4 million existing Time Warner Cable (or TWC) subscribers. In addition, Charter and Comcast will each transfer approximately 1.6 million customers. Charter, through a tax free reorganization, will form a new holding company (New Charter) that will own 100% of Charter. Comcast will form a spin off to its shareholders. It will be a new, independent, publicly-traded company that will operate systems serving approximately 2.5 million existing Comcast customers (or SpinCo). Comcast shareholders, including the former Time Warner Cable shareholders, are expected to own approximately 67% of SpinCo, while New Charter is expected to directly own approximately 33% of SpinCo.

The transfer of systems, asset purchase, and SpinCo acquisition will be valued at a 7.125x 2014 EBITDA multiple (as defined by the parties), and Charter will make additional payments to Comcast over time as tax benefits from the asset sale are realized. Following this agreement, Charter’s current residential and commercial video customer base will increase from 4.4 million to approximately 5.7 million, making Charter the second largest cable operator in the United States.

The release noted that the divestiture follows through on Comcast’s willingness to reduce its post-merger managed subscriber total to less than 30% of total national multi-channel video programming distributor (or MVPD) subscribers, while maintaining the compelling strategic and financial rationale of its proposed merger with Time Warner Cable. The deal will take place following federal approval for Comcast’s $45-billion acquisition of Time Warner Cable that was announced in February. The deal ends the strained relationship between Charter and Comcast after Charter lost out to Comcast in a bid to acquire TWC in February. Charter had even persuaded TWC shareholders to reject the Comcast merger.

Charter said that on an actual basis, first quarter 2014 revenues increased 14.9% year-over-year to $2.2 billion due to growth in Internet, video, and commercial revenues. It posted a basic and diluted net loss per share of $0.35 in the first quarter of 2014 that narrowed from $0.68 on a pro forma basis, and $0.42 on an actual basis during the same period last year. Net loss decreased on a pro forma basis primarily due to higher adjusted EBITDA of $767 million, which grew by 7.3% year-over-year. During the first quarter of 2014, Charter saw year-over-year and sequential improvement in customer relationship and PSU growth.

Charter noted that continued competition and the prolonged recovery of economic conditions in the United States, including mixed recovery in the housing market and relatively high unemployment levels, have adversely affected consumer demand for its services, particularly video. In response to video competitors, Charter has promoted its digital product and initiated a transition from analog to digital transmission of all channels, which will result in substantially more HD channels and higher Internet speeds. The management said, “With our new product suite, Charter Spectrum, we will deliver the most HD channels, video on demand and the fastest Internet service across the vast majority of our markets, all packaged with high quality service at a competitive price point.” Besides cable operators, Charter sees competition from wireless service providers and streaming services like Aereo, Netflix, and Hulu.
