
The results of 2014 Lok Sabha elections indicate, these election were truly remarkable in many respect. The BJP not only registered its bigger victory, it managed to win majority of seats in the Lok Sabha on its own, the only party other than the Congress to win majority of seats in Lok Sabha.

The reason for the success of the BJP is largely because, the party, which till recently was referred as a party of the urban upper caste voters voter's have been able to make inroads amongst sections of voters who till recently have been voting for the Congress or the regional parties in different states. The results indicate, massive surge for the BJP is rural constituencies, complemented by its existing popularity amongst the urban voters. In the past, BJP used to get disproportionately high vote in urban and less in rural constituencies. In this election the BJP seemed to have polled if not more but more or less equal votes both urban and rural constituencies. The surge of BJP in rural India has been possible due to shift amongst the voters belonging to the Other Backward Castes (OBC) and the Dalits, amongst which BJP has not been popular in the past. Though sections of OBC voters did vote for the regional parties in states, kile Yadava voted for RJD in Bihar and Samajwadi Party in UP, but at the national level, large number of OBC voters, though it was more amongst the lower OBC ( 45 percent) and slightly less amongst the Upper OBC (33 percent). The party which hardly got dalit votes managed to attract sizeable proportion of dalit votes. At the national level, the BJP seemed to have got more dalit votes compared to any other party in these elections.

The BJP's emphatic victory is also credited to the decisive shift of the young voters (18-22 years of age) in favour of BJP, more due to party's prime ministerial candidate Narendra Modi. The young voters who are sizeable number, have remained divided between the Congress and the BJP during past elections, but their decisive shift towards the BJP, in states like UP, MP,  or Maharashtra, gave the BJP huge lead over the Congress. Apart from rural surge, shift amongst the OBC, Dalit and Young voters, what helped the BJP enormously was its enormous consolidation amongst the sections of voters who have traditionally voted for the BJP. Nearly 60 percent of the Upper castes voted for the BJP in these elections, an unprecedented consolidation as even during the 1998 and 1999 Lok Sabha elections less than 50 percent of the upper castes had voted for the BJP. The educated voters who have stood solidly behind the BJP in past elections seemed to be standing with the party more firmly in this election than ever before.
