
5ive minutes, 5ive stories, 5ive o’clock (will make you feel alright).

EVERY WEEKDAY EVENING, TheJournal.ie brings you the five stories you need to know before you hit the road.

1. #HIJACKING: A man has been arrested in relation to an incident in which a car was hijacked in Terenure, Dublin last Friday afternoon – with two children and their mother inside.

2. #VULNERABLE: Two rape counselling services, in Clare and Tipperary, have to close for at least a month to save costs – while one covering Limerick will only operated “a skeletal and limited service”.

3. #INEQUALITY: An unnamed “multi-national retailer” has h ad to pay out €30,000 to a woman who worked for them for over 30 years when they refused to provide her with a chair despite her doctor’s requests.

4. #INCREDIBLE: A dramatic – but very fortunate – escape for a lone fisherman rescued after a woman and her son tending sheep on a beach heard his cries for help as he clung to a lobster buoy out at sea.

5. #CONFIRMED: No surprise but a final confirmation this afternoon that Louis Van Gaal has succeeded David Moyes as permanent manager of Manchester United. What will he bring to the role? Our pals at TheScore.ie  have been contemplating his finer qualities .

Get breaking news from TheJournal.ie via Facebook.

Just click Like.

Email “The 5 at 5: Monday”.

Content copyright © Journal Media Ltd. 2014 Registered in Dublin, registration number: 483623.                 Registered office: 3rd floor, Latin Hall, Golden Lane, Dublin 8.

Please note that TheJournal.ie uses cookies to improve your experience and to provide services and advertising. For more information on cookies please refer to our cookies policy .

News images provided by Press Association and Photocall Ireland unless otherwise stated. Irish sport images provided by Inpho Photography unless otherwise stated. Wire service provided by Associated Press .

Journal Media does not control and is not responsible for user created content, posts, comments, submissions or preferences. Users are reminded that they are fully responsible for their own created content and their own posts, comments and submissions and fully and effectively warrant and indemnify Journal Media in relation to such content and their ability to make such content, posts, comments and submissions available. Journal Media does not control and is not responsible for the content of external websites.
