
In green, red, black and blue they wrote their farewells.

They were messages from their hearts. They were saying goodbye to a dear friend.

“So long, farewell,” said one.

“Much love” said a third.

Several said “Goodbye Frenchay” with the dates they had worked there beneath.

Some had been there for more than a decade. One had worked there since 1977.

Gradually they used up all the space on the heavy hospital door.

It was one of their final acts before leaving the hospital’s casualty department for the last time.

For almost 50 years the lights had blazed day and night as doctors and nurses tended to the injured and fought valiantly to save lives.

They didn’t care about the cramped conditions, the faded paintwork or the walk across a car park to the X ray machine.

It was simply the place where they helped people in need.

As the black rimmed clock mounted high on the wall ticked round past 1 am yesterday morning ambulances were diverted to the Bristol Royal Infirmary.

And Frenchay’s casualty unit began to close down.

For the following 60 minutes doctors and nurses stood by in case anyone else came through their doors.

Until 2 am when the new Southmead Hospital casualty unit opened.

Nurses in their bright blue uniforms gathered in huddle wrapped in each other’s arms.

For so many years they had given comfort to patients, now they comforted each other.

Some were in tears. For this genuinely was the end of an era.

Their final patient had come in just  a few minutes before.

Adam Willis had fallen off his motorbike on his way home from work in Pilning.

He had hurt his leg and hand but thankfully not seriously.

The 17-year-old didn’t expect to become part of Frenchay’s history.

“It's strange being the last patient here when you think about how many people will have been treated here before,” he said.

Frenchay’s casualty department opened in the early 1960s.

Then it cared for around 35,000 people a year. In recent years that figure has risen to around 100,000.

In its final hours yesterday morning a team of 11 nurses and 10 doctors - double the usual number were on duty.

After the final ambulance pulled Frenchay's chaplain Avril Gaunt blessed the unit.

Then the staff in their grey, blue and green tunics drifted outside and stood in the arrival bay.

And together they released more than 25 pale white balloons into the moonlit sky.

It was a final farewell to a place where they had not only worked but a place they loved.

They had worked as a team to the end. They had all helped pack up. Nurses, doctors, consultants and porters.

Giant blue crates were filled to the brim. Beds were rolled away. Resusitation kits packed up and carried away.

Cupboards were emptied, shelves cleared and a department which had been busy for half a century gradually fell silent.

Matron Juliette Hughes has worked there for 26 years.

She said: "Frenchay has been here such a long time, people have such fond memories.

“I think the community really feel it is their hospital.

"I have dreamt about this day and worried about this day for so long I can't believe it's here and we are doing it."

She and her team have been coming in during their days off and working around the clock to make sure everything was ready in time.

"What makes this hospital so special is the people and they are all coming with us,” she said.

As the clock passed 2am they began arriving at their gleaming new home just a few miles away.

At the new £430 million Southmead Hospital the lights were shining in welcome.

Their tears had been wiped away. In their place were smiles of relief and delight.

Ambulances continued to be diverted to Bristol Royal  Infirmary until 5am.

And at the newly named Emergency Department only a handful of walking wounded were seen.

The spacious bright bays of Southmead are a world away from the dark. claustrophobic cubicles of Frenchay.

They are double the size and bristling with high tech equipment.

And Matron Juliette Hughes was soon settled in and smiling broadly.

She said: “There is a huge amount of space. It has been really important to us because it gives our patients the privacy and dignity they deserve.

"It is really exciting to be here. It feels just like when you are moving home.

“You have all the fond memories of your old home and you are sad to leave it but then you are really excited about your new home and moving in."
