
By using this website, you consent to our use of cookies. For more information on cookies see our Cookie Policy .

Paul Murphy’s election pitch may be a tad blunt for some lunchtime shoppers at the Nutgrove Shopping Centre in Rathfarnham, Dublin.

Given the anger and disillusionment of many voters, Murphy and party leader Joe Higgins , who was with him on the canvass, get a willing ear from some for their “tear ‘em down to build it up” message.

Murphy has styled himself as the anti-water tax candidate, yet there are some mixed views on the charge among people in Nutgrove, with a few saying water should be paid for.

While it is a quiet canvass – Liffey Valley was more fruitful, Higgins says – Murphy is successful in translating disillusionment with the established parties into promises of votes.

Others politely decline his literature and walk on while one couple open up on Higgins and Murphy on their “negativity”.

“But we’re explaining it,” replies Murphy, claiming consumer confidence is still on the floor.

“Most of the fellas who have businesses say it’s picking up a bit,” says Donal in disagreement.

Higgins claims the Government is a “carbon copy, to the letter, of Fianna Fáil and the Greens”.

Murphy is not the only hard-left candidate standing for the European Parliament in Dublin. People Before Profit’s Bríd Smith spent yesterday morning canvassing workers as they came on and off shifts in An Post , CIÉ and Cadbury’s.

The Irish Times/Ipsos MRBI poll put Smith and Murphy within one percentage point of each other, on seven and six respectively. They both reckon it might be enough to get one of them over the line, if they transfer strongly to each other.

Smith’s canvassing style is chattier and lighter than Murphy’s as she works for votes outside the CIÉ/ Dublin Bus canteen at Earl Place , behind Clerys on O’Connell Street.

Her 10am canvass is timed to meet as many drivers as possible as they take a break after the morning rush hour. Many know of her from her time as a shop steward in Dublin Bus and her long association with trade unions.

Martin Christie from Finglas, who left Sinn Féin a decade ago, says he’ll vote for her, and they chat about the left in Dublin.  Smith, who is also seeking re-election as a city councillor for the Ballyfermot-Drimnagh ward, believes she and Murphy complement each other.

When asked if only one of them should have stood in the election, Smith not unreasonably points out there is as much policy difference between her and Murphy as there is between Fianna Fáil and Fine Gael.

Higgins also says Sinn Féin are heading down the Labour path; the hard left are ready to stay where they are.

We reserve the right to remove any content at any time from this Community, including without limitation if it violates the Community Standards . We ask that you report content that you in good faith believe violates the above rules by clicking the Flag link next to the offending comment or by filling out this form . New comments are only accepted for 3 days from the date of publication.
