
It was momentous moment for the Redcay family in Muhlenberg Township.

With the help of countless community donations, the first batch of dirt was moved to begin the $65,000 addition to the Redcay home.

"We built their home originally. We are honored that they allowed us to be a part of helping Derrick and putting an addition on their home," said John Smith, vice president, Forino Builders.

The company, along with several skilled contractors, will be adding a living room, bedroom, bath and deck area for Derrick Redcay.

Derrick, 18, is a senior at Muhlenberg High School. He is active in his church and serves as a volunteer firefighter for Goodwill Fire Company.

On April 24, his life was turned upside down. Derrick suffered a rare stroke, which severed some nerves in his spinal cord, causing him to lose feeling below his neck. It has affected his ability to eat and even breathe on his own.

"He has not shown any signs of quitting or wanting to give up," said Brian Redcay, Derrick's father.

The Redcay family said community members started finding out about Derrick's injury and offering support, but it did not stop there. The family has received support from across Berks County and beyond.

"We wish we could shake each and everyone of their hands, and we know we cannot do that but, we just want to let you know we know you are helping and that you are supporting Derrick. Thank you for taking care of our son," said Redcay.

Forino Builders plans to finish the addition in seven weeks when Derrick is expected to come home from the hospital.

The views expressed are not those of this company or its affiliated companies. Please note by clicking on "Post" you acknowledge that you have read the TERMS OF USE and the comment you are posting is in compliance with such terms. Your comments may be used on air.  Be polite. Inappropriate posts may be removed by the moderator.  Desktop and mobile versions of this site use independent comment threads.

No email address was supplied by .                                 To complete your registration on this site, please supply an address.

Please confirm or modify the email address to which you will have subscription offers sent.

For a more personalized experience, please supply the following optional information.
