
In the spring of 1863 Alpena resident George Motley and his 55th Ohio had just settled in for a dinner when all of a sudden  scores of birds and animals scampered out of the woods around them, followed by 27,000 yelling and screaming Confederate soldiers. The rebels formed three lines, each two miles long and were charging hard and fast.

Motley was in an area known as the Wilderness, just outside of Fredericksburg, Va.

Panic and confusion was everywhere. Union soldiers tried to regroup but couldn't. Fighting raged for almost four hours, with both sides getting tangled up in the underbrush. As darkness settled on the battlefield, combat came to a gradual halt. Some fighting continued but it was sporadic.

Of the 491 men from the 55th Ohio who fought at the Wilderness, nine were killed, 87 wounded and 57 missing in action. That was a casualty rate of almost one third of the Regiment in one afternoon.

That night, Confederate Gen. Stonewall Jackson, while doing reconnaissance with a small group of soldiers, was accidentally shot by his own men. In the darkness, they had mistaken Jackson and his scouts for Union soldiers.

Jackson was rushed to a field hospital where they amputated his right arm. Eight days later while recovering, he died from pneumonia.

J.E.B. Stuart took over Jackson's command. He spent a good part of the next day, trying to reunite with Lee's main force.

The morning of May 3 was the bloodiest part of the war. Frontal assaults from 5-10 a.m. resulted in 70 percent of the battle's casualties. Finally, later in the morning, Stuart united  with Lee's men. The 55th Ohio did not see action on this day or the next two.

At noontime, as Lee was ready to initiate an attack, a courier came galloping with the news that the Yankees had taken Fredericksburg. Lee immediately gathered reinforcements and went to their aid. In Fredericksburg, the Confederates retook the town and drove the Federals back toward the river.

During the night of May 5, Lee awoke to find that Union Gen. Joe Hooker, against the advice of his generals, had left the battlefield. More than half his 13,000 soldiers had not seen action and as a result, were puzzled by the retreat.

Northern morale, both civilian and military, was at its lowest point. Gen. George Meade replaced Hooker and the war continued.

Lee's Army of Northern Virginia lost 14,000 men and the Army of the Potomac lost 17,000. Lee's loss in victory was more devastating, due to the fact that he couldn't replace these men.

In June, Meade took his army along the Alleghanies in search of Lee. The two armies met by accident at the town of Gettysburg. For three days the infantries, artillery and cavalries of the Army of Northern Virginia and the Army of the Potomac clashed in and around the little Pennsylvania hamlet. Over 180,000 soldiers engaged in this life or death struggle, 77,500 Confederates and 93,500 Union troops.

The 55th Ohio Infantry and  Motley arrived at 2:20 in the afternoon on July 1, the first day of the battle.

The 55th Ohio received orders to form skirmish line just south of Gettysburg on the Taneytown Road. While the main battles were being fought, they engaged the enemy from time to time. The Regiment lost about 50 of its 375 men in these engagements.

The defeat Lee suffered at Gettysburg marked the end of his attempts to invade northern soil. For the next two years Grant and the Army of the Potomac would chase Robert E. Lee and the Army of Northern Virginia all the way to Appomattox, which ended in Lee's surrender in April 1865.

In April 1864, the regiment marched with Gen. William T. Sherman in the Atlanta Campaign. In November Motley was promoted to full corporal and on Nov. 15 Motley and the 55th Ohio left Atlanta with Sherman on his "March to the Sea." The Federal troop totaled 65,000 men. For almost a month they marched through Georgia with little or no opposition.

In December Sherman's army laid siege to Savannah. On the final day, Sherman sent his famous telegram to President Lincoln presenting him the city of Savannah as a Christmas present. By April of the next year the war was drawing to a close.

From April 29-May 19, the 55th Ohio Infantry marched to Washington by way of Richmond for the victory celebration. Finally on the morning of May 26, they lined up with their dirty and ragged uniforms. Sherman was afraid the crowd of 200,000 spectators would not accept them because of the spit and polish of the Eastern troops on the previous day.

The 55th Ohio Infantry mustered out on June 11, 1865.

After the Civil War, Motley returned home. Feb 23, 1870, he married, 18-year-old Sarah Collins from Seneca, Ohio. The couple settled in Sandusky, Ohio. They had two children, William born in 1874 and Ada in 1876.

George's sister Elizabeth, the first Motley to come to Alpena, arrived in the late 1860s at the age of 29. Between 1876 and 1880, George and Sarah arrived with their children and George's brothers, Eugene, Thomas and Charles and their mother, Rebecca also arrived. At first, the family lived together at 425 S. 3rd Street but later, George moved his children and Rebecca to 813 River Street.

Albert, their youngest child was born on March 1, 1881. In the early 20th century he was one of Alpena's pioneer veterinary surgeons. He had an office and established a dog hospital on Washington Ave.  Albert had a genial personality and was deeply loved by all the area farmers.

His brothers and sister remained in Alpena. George and his brothers, Thomas, Charles and Eugene worked as packers and fishermen for S.H. Davis and Co.

Charles eventually relocated to Cleveland. Thomas stayed in the fishing industry.

Eugene became printer and typesetter for the Alpena Argus, Alpena's pioneer newspaper in 1887. Four years later he took charge of the life saving station on Middle Island. His sister, Elizabeth, joined his family there.

In 1889 George worked as a fisherman and carpenter for the Alpena Fish Co., which was owned by Casper Alpern, a former Confederate soldier. A couple years later, he went to work for David Lincoln on his fishing vessels.

George was known in Alpena for his cheerful personality. In spite of his long illness, he maintained that trait until the time of his death.

May 1883 he joined the Lockwood Post #139 of the Grand Army of the Republic. He was one of the charter members of the Civil War Veterans organization.

George Motley, 72, died on June 25, 1814, at his home on 813 River St. For months, he had been suffering from liver problems and dropsy, a buildup of fluid in the body tissues, usually in the legs. It is usually caused by congestive heart failure.

His daughter, Ada and her husband, Richard Kirchstein had been caring for him in the months preceding his death. The funeral was held at the home with the Rev. James Pascoe officiating.

He is buried at Evergreen Cemetery together with his wife, Sarah and his mother Rebecca. His son, Albert and brothers, Eugene and Charles and sister, Elizabeth are together in the Motley family plot.
