
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

MOBILE, Alabama – A state legislative candidate in Semmes has filed a lawsuit seeking to overturn the Alabama Republican Party's decision to invalidate his bid for the state House of Representatives based on a residency issue.

The suit, filed late Friday in Mobile County Circuit Court, seeks a hearing as soon as possible and argues that the party's decision earlier this month was "unequal, arbitrary and capricious." The civil complaint seeks an order requiring the party to accept the results of the June 3 primary, where McNeil's name will be on the ballot in House District 102 because it was too late to remove it.

"We're asking Judge (Rick) Stout to certify that I am a candidate and certify my results," McNeil said. "I'm looking forward to my day in court."

State party officials referred questions to Chairman Bill Armistead, who could not immediately be reached for comment.

Mobile County Republican Party Chairwoman Terry Lathan, who filed a complaint against McNeil in March, said she was reluctant to comment in detail because she is named as a defendant in the suit.

"The process will work its way out," she said. "And he has every right to challenge this, and the party has every right to disqualify him."

McNeil, a businessman, filed paperwork on Feb. 6 to run for the office. District 102, which covers western and northern Mobile County, has an open seat with incumbent Chad Fincher opting not to seek re-election. McNeil has said that his life is in District 102, including a tanning salon he owns, the church where his worships and the school that his daughter attends.

But McNeil's house is on the south side of Howells Ferry Road – the dividing line between Districts 101 and 102, and he is registered to vote in District 101.

The legal challenge raises a number of issues, ranging from a defense of McNeil's legal right to run to allegations that the party acted unfairly.

As to whether McNeil legally can run, the suit cites the state constitution, which states that House candidates must be "residents of their respective counties or districts" for at least a year prior to the election.

The suit maintains that language applies to McNeil since he has been a resident of the county.

State law separately holds that, "Each member elected shall reside in the district which he or she represents or seeks to represent."

The suit argues that the law does not preclude McNeil from running because he would be able to move to a home in the district before taking office.

The suit also makes a number of arguments regarding the party's handling of the issue. The complaint maintains that by acting after the deadline to remove a candidate from the ballot, the party violated a federal court order settling a lawsuit against the state of Alabama over the Help America Vote Act.

The suit maintains that the proper procedure would be to challenge McNeil after the primary if he were to win. The unavoidable result of doing otherwise is to "disenfranchise" Scarlet Morgan – a named plaintiff – and other residents of District 102.

The complaint alleges that the party treated McNeil differently from two other candidates challenged over residency questions. The party candidate committee voted 9-4 against hearing a challenge to state Rep. Alan Harper, who is seeking re-election in District 61 in Tuscaloosa and Pickens counties. The committee did hear a challenge – which it rejected – to House candidate Ron Wilson in District 85 in Houston and Henry counties based on allegations that he previously had supported Democrats. But the party refused to hear a separate challenge based on his residency.

McNeil said the party made those decisions despite the fact that those candidates live far outside their districts. He said he does not know why the party would treat him differently from other challenged candidates.

"I wasn't the pick down here. Jack Williams was the pick," he said, referring to his belief that party insiders favor one of his opponents.

State GOP official Harold Sachs said the party's candidate committee did review the complaint against Harper but determined that a hearing was unnecessary.

"They felt there was sufficient evidence that he did live there," he said.

Lathan said she does not know about the other cases but added, "Some things might sound like they're close and really aren't."

© 2014 Alabama Media Group All rights reserved ( About Us ).

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
