
Image copyright 2014 Getty Images. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.

WASHINGTON, D.C. - With the exception of executives at CNN, the full brute power of the Institution of the National American News Establishment (INANE) was brought down on CNN’s coverage of the crash of Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 in March.

CNN put on an easily mockable performance, to be sure. It was over the top, silly, often irresponsible and often hilariously goofy. But beware the mockers.

If we could accurately quantify the virtual ink spilled on these stories, I think INANE would eat some of its sort-of-snobby CNN-bashing words.

The search terms “Jill Abramson New York Times” yielded 97,700 returns on Google News. “Malaysia plane” got a mere 51,000. There has been a three-part instant mini-series in The New Yorker, live coverage of Abramson’s commencement speech on the cables, endless roundtable discussions, long print stories and more Tweets than there are Times readers left on the planet.

Recall that 329 people died in the Malaysia Airlines crash. And for the first time ever, an entire jumbo jet has gone missing. Poof, nada.

As far as I know, no one has died at the Times. And the newspaper may be shrinking, but it is not missing.

My point is not that CNN’s coverage of the crash and mystery was legit and worthy. It wasn’t.  But the coverage of Sulzberger v. Abramson is equally bonkers. It is one thing for the industry trades and gossip sheets to go bulimic on it.  But it is quite another to subject our intra-industry cannibalism gossip to civilians with such excess.

The Abramson coverage is an example of what was called a “Milano” when I worked at CBS News. The phrase was invented by an long-time news executive named Dick Reingold when he was at WCBS-TV in New York. Apparently there was a news director at the station who took a memorable trip to Milan and was frequently demanding stories about his beloved northern Italian city, pronounced ala Itialiano.  In CBS lore, a Milano refers to, “The distortion of news executives' editorial judgment based on their own personal experiences." It is the job of editors to protect citizens from the Milano.

The system broke down in this case.

I’m ready for a new story.  I heard that Jill Abramson was about to report that Hillary Clinton was behind the Malaysia Airlines 370 disappearance because a key Benghazi witness was on the plane, heading to talk to Interpol in Geneva and that Abramson had the story but Sulzberger wouldn’t run it because he was in cahoots with Bill who got a Mexican drug lord to finance…..

Copyright 2014 Scripps Media, Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.
