
The cause of Kawasaki disease in Japan, and perhaps even the West Coast of the United States, may be blowing in the wind from agricultural areas in northeast China.

Dr. Jane Burns, director of the Kawasaki Disease Research Center at UC San Diego and Rady Children’s Hospital — San Diego, said scientists have known for years that the condition was somehow connected to wind patterns, but this is the first time they have been able to track those patterns back to a specific location.

“We’ve been walking in the dark for about 30 years, and now we suddenly have a very solid hypothesis. As someone who has been working on this disease for 30 years, this is huge,” Burns said.

Named for Japanese researcher Tomisaku Kawasaki, who first described the ailment in 1967, Kawasaki disease attacks the coronary arteries of certain children — generally younger than age 5 — whose genes make them susceptible.

If untreated, the disease can cause severe damage to a child’s blood vessels that can turn into dangerous aneurysms later in life. According to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, there were 5,447 cases of the disease in the United States in 2009.

Japan has the highest rate of the disease, but many cases have emerged over the years throughout Asia, in Britain, across the Caribbean and elsewhere. The incidence rate in the U.S. has been increasing, the CDC said.

Burns and other researchers have noticed for years that Kawasaki cases tend to appear in clusters, with the highest numbers usually arriving locally in March. Just last week, she said, pediatricians referred three cases to Rady.

One of the patients is 15-month-old Brady Petrizzo, who arrived at the hospital with a fever, body rash, swollen hands and feet and other Kawasaki symptoms. An echocardiogram, which uses sound waves to provide a real-time picture of the heart, confirmed that the toddler’s coronary arteries were under attack.

Burns ordered a series of therapies, including a blood infusion of immunoglobulin to help Brady’s immune system respond to the threat. After a week in the hosptial, the boy was ready to go home Monday.

His mother, Farrah Petrizzo, a cardiac nurse, said she was taken aback to hear that her son’s case could have been caused by something floating all the way from China.

“I guess the wind blows everywhere, right?” Petrizzo said.

Indeed, it does. Just ask climate researcher Daniel Cayan of the Scripps Institution of Oceanography. He and Burns worked with a research team in Barcelona, Spain, to analyze the climate data and air samples discussed in the newly published paper.

“The evidence is very clear that, in California, especially Southern California, we see Asian dust as well as African dust. Without a doubt, you can get Trans-Pacific importation of particles,” Cayan said.

Upgrade your browsing experience with a paid subscription to the U-T.
