
Alappuzha: With the ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH) yet to respond to the state government's demand to approve the new tender document for constructing the Alappuzha bypass, the project may get delayed further.

It was on January 17 this year that the centre and the state governments had inked a memorandum of understanding (MoU) to share funds for the bypass.

K C Venugopal , then Union minister of state for civil aviation, had announced that the Rs 243-crore project would be completed in 30 months.

Tender process for the project, however, hit a roadblock after the Centre objected to the state government's move to award contract to companies that quoted excess tender. Following this, the NH wing of the public works department decided to retender the project.

Before the Lok Sabha polls, the PWD has sent a revised tender document for the approval of the Central ministry to resume construction works for the bypass project. The PWD will be able to invite new tenders only after receiving the ministry's nod.

"Though we have been in touch with the ministry, they haven't responded to our requests. We will be able to invite tenders for the bypass project only after getting its nod. As of now, we are not sure when we would be able to invite new tenders," said Sabu Ebraham, superintendending engineer with the NH wing of the PWD.

District collector N Padmakumar said land for the project can be handed over to the PWD by June. "We have asked the  Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) and Kerala water authority (KWA) to relocate electric posts, cables and pipelines from the land at the earliest. The PWD has handed over Rs 4.5 crore to the KSEB and the KWA for this purpose. The KSEB is expected to invite tenders for this purpose on May 22," he said.

The revenue department had, in 1980, acquired land for the seven-kilometre-long bypass. In order to open the 45-metre-wide stretch from Kommady Junction to Kalarcode Junction for traffic, it would be necessary to set up two railway overbridges (ROB) -at Kuthirapanthi and Malikamukku. A two-lane elevated highway connecting the ROBs would also be constructed alongside Alappuzha beach.
