
Makayla Sault was diagnosed with acute lymphoblastic leukemia. She has refused to resume chemotherapy in favour of indigenous traditional medicine after the side-effects became too much for her to bare.

Makayla Sault, 11, and her family have rejected chemotherapy for her cancer treatment, choosing traditional medicine instead.

Surrounded by family, including her mother Sonya and grandfather, Makayla Sault, 11, speaks at an event in Ohsweken Sunday.

Makayla and friends performed a dance routine for the audience.

The Children's Aid Society of Brant says it won't take a cancer-stricken 11-year-old New Credit girl away from her parents after the family refused further chemotherapy treatments in favour of traditional medicine.

"We have no plans to apprehend the child. I understand on the referral that the family was told that we might do that. We don't have any plans for that," Andrew Koster, the society's executive director, said Monday.

"We are just hoping that there ends up with some kind of compromise that considers the child's safety and also her well-being."

Makayla Sault was diagnosed with acute lymphoblastic leukemia in January. She has refused to resume chemotherapy, in favour of indigenous traditional medicine after the side-effects of her treatment became too much for her to bare.

Koster said he's meeting with representatives from the New Credit First Nations and the Sault family on Tuesday.

Just weeks ago, Makayla's father Ken said he had to carry her around wherever she went because she had no strength to do it on her own. On Sunday evening, the girl led nine other children in a dance routine in front of a park full of supporters.

"She's been through an experience and these past few days, she's had a complete turnaround," Ken told a crowd of about 200 people at Veteran's Park in Oshweken Sunday night.

"This (story) has gone all across the country, standing up for our rights and privileges as First Nations … this is not affecting just our daughter, but it affects our nation as a whole, of First Nations people across this land," he said.

The crowd gathered for the Bread and Cheese fest, part of Six Nations Community Awareness week.

Ken, a pastor at the New Credit Fellowship Centre, introduced performers and speakers and led the concert with his wife Sonya.

"To see our daughter walk a path that she's called to walk, we stand with her and we support her 100 per cent," said her mother Sonya. "I know it's something that the medical world can't understand."

Through tears, Makayla spoke about her diagnosis and her "very intense chemotherapy." She was constantly throwing up; she couldn't walk; she lost her strength. She couldn't speak and she didn't want anyone to visit her in the hospital because she was so sick.

"I remember the nights when I would just pray to God to come get me, because I couldn't fight it anymore," she said weeping, while the crowd stood silent.

The family declined to speak to The Spectator at the event.

When the family decided to stop the treatment, McMaster Children's Hospital called CAS.

A statement issued by McMaster on Friday said it had no choice but to refer the case to the CAS.

"It is a legal obligation under the Child and Family Services Act of Ontario. It is then up to the CAS to determine whether action is required."

On Sunday, Six Nations Chief Ava Hill took to the stage to offer support for the family at the event.

She told The Spectator she was surprised McMaster had contacted CAS as she believes the choice of treatment should be a family decision.

"McMaster is so close to our community, people here have been taking traditional medicine for years. For them to now say it's not going to work is ludicrous," Hill said.
