
ATHENS, May 19 (Xinhua) -- Greece's main opposition Radical Left SYRIZA party candidate for Governor of Attica Region Rena Dourou and incumbent Mayor of the Municipality of Athens Yorgos Kaminis lead the two races which are considered as key barometers for the nationwide overall results in Sunday's local elections and next Sunday's polls for the European parliament, the first official estimates showed.

With about 11 percent of all votes counted, Dourou wins 23.8 percent with incumbent Governor Yannis Sgouros who had the support of the co-ruling socialists also qualifying in the second round next Sunday with 22 percent, according to the estimates released by the Interior Ministry on Sunday night.

Euro parliament MP Yorgos Koumoutsakos of the conservative ruling New Democracy (ND) party garners 14.2 percent of votes, while neo-fascist Golden Dawn (GD) party MP Elias Panagiotaros wins 11.1 percent.

In the Athens mayoral battle, Kaminis who was supported by the centre-Left and liberals, was marginally ahead with 21 percent of votes over 20.3 percent for SYRIZA's candidate Gavriil Sakellaridis.

Aris Spiliotopoulos, a former Tourism and Education Minister supported by the conservative ruling New Democracy party (ND) ranked third with 17.1 percent, while GD spokesman Elias Kassidiaris fourth with 16.3 percent.

Candidates in elections for municipal and regional councils under the Greek Constitution run as independents, but traditionally they are strongly backed by political parties which count the result among their wins or losses.

About 9.8 million registered voters were eligible to cast ballots to elect their representatives over the next five years to a total of 325 municipalities and 13 regions across Greece.

The battles for the Municipality of Athens and the Region of Attica have a special significance for analysts among the parties and pollsters, since about half of the country's population lives in the Greek capital and its suburbs.

The top topic on the agenda was the debt crisis which hit Greece since 2009 and the parties' strategies to address it, as it happened in the 2012 general elections which showed a country divided between pro-bailout and anti-bailout forces.

Even though the early results revealed again a divided country and the final official results of the first round of local polls are expected by Monday noon, both sides appeared satisfied and confident about the eventual outcome on May 25.

"Greek voters can contribute to strengthen the sense of security that we can move forward," Prime Minister Antonis Samaras commented after the release of the first official estimates on the outcome of the first round.

He promoted "stability" versus the "change" sought by SYRIZA and other opposition parties.

"Today citizens took a first step, next Sunday will be the start of a new era," SYRIZA party chief Alexis Tsipras said, stressing that the May 25 elections will be a sort of referendum on the bailout deals struck in 2010 with international lenders as well as a referendum on the government's future.

Beyond the conflicting signals for the strength of the ruling and main opposition parties, political analysts in Athens noted the alarming strong performance of GD candidates in the first elections after the beginning of the crackdown against the party last October after the murder of a Leftist activist by a GD supporter.

Even though almost the entire GD parliamentary group faces charges for participating in a criminal organization, the party seems to still capitalize on Greeks' anger at austerity, as it had happened in the general elections when the party entered the parliament for first time winning seven percent of votes.
