
May 19, 2014, 7:30 a.m.

When the paddlesteamer Avoca was found underwater in Mildura on April 25, Murray Bridge man Gavin Doecke's heart broke.

Reminiscing: Murray Bridge man Gavin Doecke has many memories of the paddleboat Avoca, which he and his father owned for about 17 years.

Going under: The paddleboat Avoca, which spent part of her lifetime in Murray Bridge, was found underwater in Mildura on April 25.  Photo: Graham Edwards, April 30.

Going under: The paddleboat Avoca, which spent part of her lifetime in Murray Bridge, was found underwater in Mildura on April 25. Photo: Graham Edwards, April 30.

Going under: The paddleboat Avoca, which spent part of her lifetime in Murray Bridge, was found underwater in Mildura on April 25. Photo: Graham Edwards, April 30.

When the paddlesteamer Avoca was found underwater in Mildura on April 25, Murray Bridge man Gavin Doecke's heart broke.

Mr Doecke and his father, former Murray Bridge Mayor Eric Wilhelm Doecke, owned the boat from 1957 to 1974.

"I've been told it had four bilge pumps which ran non-stop to keep it afloat and there was a power failure," Mr Doecke said.

Built in 1877 at Milang as a river cargo transporter, the boat was 111-feet and 3-inches long by 21ft 3in wide, and 6ft high, but has since had some alterations.

In 1891, she travelled by sea to become a wheat carrier in the St Vincent Gulf, before coming back to the Murray to cart supplies to lock construction sites.

She was also a salvage craft and a passenger boat before becoming a showboat, which is how Mr Doecke and his father bought her in 1957.

Now, there is discussion as to what should happen to the Avoca and whose responsibility it is.

The boat had been sold to Sunraysia restaurateur Simon Harrington by the previous owner, Mildura cook Stefano de Pieri, only two weeks prior to its sinking, but settlement had not yet been made.

Mr Doecke said he hoped the Avoca would be refloated, restored and running on the river, but it could be a costly exercise.

"To refloat it, it could cost between $50,000 and $150,000, and it could be anywhere around $250,000 to get her back into shape," he said.

"I'm not worried where she ends up, just as long as she's operational - I'd like it to be saved."

He said the Avoca was named after an Irish county, where the builders hailed from, and Avoca Dell was named after the boat, as that was where it was moored in Murray Bridge - Dell is Irish for home or base.

"She was one of the best tourist attractions in Murray Bridge," Mr Doecke said.

He said the Avoca was cleverly operated when she was located in the St Vincent Gulf.

"When the tide was up, she would pull in as far as permissible, and when the tide went out she would sit on the land - the wagons would arrive with the wheat load, and then the tide would come in again and she'd go back out," he said.

Mr Doecke said he and his father were interested in tourism so they bought the showboat from the Collins brothers of Mildura.

"They were very old river people - his mother and father were captains, they were captains, and his sister was a captain and engineer," he said.

Mr Doecke received his captain's ticket in 1971 so he could man the boat, and throughout the time as an owner several alterations were made.

"We took off the side bits, because when we'd bring it in, the people would go in the side alcoves and tip it," he said.

"When my father and I bought it, it was steam, and we converted it to diesel-electric."

Mr Doecke said it would take two and a half hours to build the steam up to start the boat and when they arrived at their destination it would take about an hour to shut it off, whereas when it ran on the diesel-electric system it was "like turning a car off".

He said there were interesting times had on the boat while it was in Murray Bridge.

"We were cruising at night time and part of the motor broke at Swanport," he said.

"We had 100-odd people on board and we couldn't get it home - we were sitting on the river.

"So I stripped down to my jocks and shoes and swam to a friend's house, and he dropped me home and we got the speedboat and we pulled it (the Avoca) home."

Mr Doecke said functions and celebrations were held on the Avoca, and bands were often a feature.

"A few Murray Bridge people had weddings on there and my sister had her 21st," he said.

"We'd have social clubs on there - the Italian club, schools and Scouts."

Mr Doecke said the Avoca had even starred on television.

"She used to be on TV, the Bobby Limb show," he said.

"They'd come up and go for a cruise each year."

When the pair sold the showboat in 1974 due to Mr Doecke's father's failing health, the boat was taken to Mildura.

Mr Doecke said after it left, there was one thing he missed more than the boat - the people he met.

"The overseas people, all they wanted to do was go on an old paddleboat," he said.

See all the glitz and glamour of this year's Mallee Formal, held at the Karoonda Town Hall.
