
A $40 million expansion at Nacogdoches County Memorial Hospital is leading to a unique request.

The hospital wants to take ownership of one city street and a portion of another, so its customers can easily access new emergency, labor and delivery, and surgical wings.

The request go before the Nacogdoches City Council Tuesday.

Raguet Street leading to the backside of Nacogdoches County Memorial Hospital has been blocked for months. Kingham Construction knew passing motorists would be too disruptive and dangerous during the massive expansion.

Now, hospital planners see the benefits of closing that portion of Raguet Street to through traffic and closing all of Tejas Street permanently.

"What the hospital desires to do is take inTtejas street as part of our planned parking, east of Raguet Street," said Jane Ann Bridges, Nacogdoches County Memorial Hospital's chief financial officer. "Now, I'm on Raguet Street, and our plan is from the end of our building and our parking lot, what we would like to do is make it very plaza style. We intend to widen Raguet Street."

Hospital customers will use the roadway to drop off patients and circle back to the parking lot or to leave the campus. Easy access is important as the hospital improvements are expected to attract customers from all over the region.

"Right now we're standing in the new emergency room waiting room," Bridges said.

The new emergency room will include a new intake area, triage, and private physician consulting areas.

Not far away will be the inpatient and outpatient state-of-the art surgical suites, taking in about 30,000 square feet.

Large labor and delivery suites will be found on the second floor.

"We worked to where most of the expansion is outside the scope of patient rooms and areas," said Alan Caraway, the project's superintendent. "We are doing it on the second floor, and we're kinda using the newest technology as far as trades to keep the noise and the dust as quiet and clean as possible."

Completion is scheduled for September. The move-in date will be announced following final inspections.

Hospital planners conducted neighborhood meetings to inform nearby residents of its request to obtain the city streets. On Tuesday, the Nacodoches City Council will consider the hospital request for a quit claim for the city streets.

Copyright 2014 KTRE . All rights reserved.

Diboll ISD students got to celebrate their first day back to school with a party. Everyone in the community was invited to attend the districts' first back-to-school bash.

One former Nacogdoches educator just can't get away from a school filled with personal memories.G.W.. Neal celebrated another “first day of school” even though he didn't plan it that way.

All content © Copyright 2000 - 2014 Worldnow and KTRE. All Rights Reserved.
