
A campaign leaflet at a Georgia rally.

Among the candidates is millionaire businessman David Perdue -- the cousin of former Georgia Gov. Sonny Perdue -- and Rep. Jack Kingston, 22-year veteran of Congress.

A runoff is considered likely. If none of the candidates in Tuesday’s race receives more than 50 percent of the vote, the top two will head to a July 22 runoff. The winner will then take on the Democratic rival in November’s elections.

Perdue said Sunday he’s trying to bridge the gap between Tea Party conservatives and more mainstream Republicans.

"My message is forget about what your single issue is or what we disagree on," he told The Associated Press after attending Sunday worship at Woodstock Baptist Church, one of the state's largest congregations.

In what can only be described as a case of unfortunate timing, Broun also ran into a bit of controversy days before the race. Police arrested Broun’s son over the weekend on marijuana possession charges in Georgia. It's unclear if the younger Broun has an attorney, and he declined to comment on the charges.

On the Democratic side, the leading candidate is Michelle Nunn, daughter of former U.S. Sen. Sam Nunn and founder of a non-profit group. Other candidates include Steen Miles, a former state senator and retired TV reporter; psychiatrist Branko “Dr. Rad” Radulovacki; and firefighter Todd Robinson.

And in Idaho, Tea Party-backed lawyer Bryan Smith is trying to oust Republican Rep. Mike Simpson, who's seeking a ninth House term.

Campaign adviser Josh Holmes says the McConnell camp is ready.

"Our campaign has been up and running at full speed for six months," Holmes said. "We are able to get through the primary election with an operation that we feel confident about that we are able to test and we're able to carry into the fall that has some success already under its belt."

Both Grimes and McConnell are running on a campaign of change. For McConnell, that means stopping President Obama’s health care agenda. For Grimes, it means raising the minimum wage and pushing for gender-based pay equality.

The race has already seen record campaign fundraising.

Grimes and McConnell raised a combined $19 million in the two years leading up to Tuesday's primary elections.

A McConnell win would help Republicans as they try to take control of the Senate. A Grimes win would topple the Senate minority leader, a 30-year incumbent.

A May 17 Courier-Journal/Survey USA poll puts Grimes slightly ahead of McConnell, 43 percent to 42 percent.
