
From cellphones that double as MP3s to pants that convert to shorts, we’re all about two-in-one. This unit lets your college-bound grad to have two popular dorm appliances packaged together.

Give your grad a care package full of their favorite snacks to get them through those all-nighters.

Dorm rooms never have enough storage space, so containers of all sizes are a must.

Every student can use a new laptop for those term papers they'll inevitably write.

A nice large bag to bring their dirty laundry when they visit home.

Students can use iPods as they're putting off studying or walking to class. Hopefully they won't use it during class.

A quilt to keep them warm and remind them of mom when they get homesick.

Who hasn't heard -- or experienced -- the freshman 15? The Dorm Room Diet by Daphne Oz might just help someone from skipping that rite of passage.

A plastic surgery group says new cars and expensive vacations aren't the only things young women are getting as graduation gifts.

An increasing amount of them are getting breast augmentation procedures to go along with their new diplomas, according to the American Society for Aesthetic Plastic Surgery.

The group said more than 3,300 girls under the age of 19 had breast augmentation surgery in 2013, which makes for a 64 percent increase compared to the year 2000.

Vitenas Cosmetic Surgery spokesman Dr. Alexander Vitenas said his Houston-based group sees a mild jump in business after graduations commence in May and June.

"Surgery as a graduation gift is definitely a pronounced theme that we see every year," he said. "Many of these were paid for by parents as a congratulatory gift, but several of the patients will in fact finance the procedures themselves.

These patients usually come in before or after they graduate high school or college, Vitenas said, adding that some patients get consultations after they finish medical and law school.

With hundreds of the procedures every year, breast augmentation is the most popular procedure that Dr. Vitenas performs, by case volume.

Dr. Michael Edwards, President of the American Society for Aesthetic Plastic Surgery, said the biggest markets for plastic surgery procedures that he has seen have been Las Vegas (where he practices), Houston, and the southern parts of Florida and California.

"Right now is my busiest time of year, once weather warms up. More women are thinking about bathing suits," Edwards said. "I have a full office waiting for me right now."

Edwards said that given the locale of his practice, he hears from a lot of patients who want to get the procedure done to increase their chances in the Vegas hospitality job market. Nose jobs are also highly requested, according to Edwards.

Vitenas agrees that the most popular times of year for breast augmentation procedures are spring break and early summer. Spring break is popular, he said, for teachers and students alike as they have a little bit of spare downtime before returning to classes.

"Just this morning we actually received an inquiry from a pair of twins wanting to speak to us about graduation breast augmentations," Vitenas said.

Edwards said he has turned down patients who come to him seeking the surgery, for varying reasons. Plastic surgeons should sit and talk with the patient so that they are educated on the surgery beforehand, he said.

"Each case is looked at individually," Edwards said. "I've talked some patients out of the surgery."

Some are turned down because they don't need it, Edwards said, or have unrealistic expectations. He reminds them that at their young age that may have not yet stopped growing, and also that the recovery time will prohibit them from certain physical activities.

"They also need to know that there is a possibility for a surgery down the line for further adjustments," Edwards said.

Plus take a look at these eight surprising foods that are full of sugar.
