
 FROM DESMOND MGBOH, KANO A six and half months old baby, Master Chigozie Nnorom, Sunday night miraculously escaped death after being knocked off his mother’s arms by the impact of the explosion that rocked the Sabon Gari area of Kano.

Bombs loaded in a Sport Utility Vehicle (SUV) went off on Middle Road (by Gold Coast Road), Sabon Gari, Kano Sunday night, killing about five people and injuring many others.

Eyewitnesses said when the bomb exploded, its force threw the baby off his mother’s arms and landed him meters away in front of their residence at No. 1 Middle Road, Sabon Gari, Kano. The baby was engulfed in thick smoke amid confusion caused by the blast.

His mother, Mrs. Joy Nnorim, who hails from Abia State and Chigozie are currently in hospital along No-man’s-land, Sabon Gari, Kano, where friends and relatives have been pouring in to rejoice with them for the lucky survival as well as praising God for His miracle.

Speaking from her hospital bed, Mrs. Nnorom said that she was standing in front of their compound enjoying fresh air when the blast occurred.

Mrs. Nnorom, who had multiple cuts on her hands, eyes and even stomach, said it was later that she recovered her baby from a neighbour.

A resident in the affected compound, Mrs. Sandra Iyke Ibeabuchi, recalled that when the blast occurred, the force threw the baby off the mother’s grip and landed him on the floor, leaving him motionless.

According to her, the mother, who was at this time bleeding seriously, did not even realise that she was badly injured, adding: “After shaking the baby for a while, because at first, the baby was not moving and was not crying, he suddenly wept. And that cry reassured us all that he was alive.

“By time we rushed the baby to the hospital, I noticed that his pampers was unusually wet and when I tried to remove it, I discovered a deep cut by the lower region of his stomach,” she recalled. Mrs. Ibeabuchi noted that the sight of the deep cut on the baby’s body frightened her, making her to scream.

She revealed that this attracted doctors and nurses, who immediately rushed the baby to the theatre for urgent surgery.

Doctors at the hospital are battling to remove the fragments of bombs lodged in the body of Mr. Kelvin Onah, another victim of the blast. When Daily Sun visited the hospital, along Emir Road, where the victim is on admission, Onah had stitches, which stretched from his mouth to the cheek and was writhing in pain.

Onah, an indigene of Mbu Agboti, in Isi Uzo Local Government Area of Enugu State, managed to speak. He explained that he owns a tavern situated at 1 Middle Road, revealing that he was in his shop when the bomb exploded and hit him.

Meanwhile, indications have emerged that the death toll of the blast may be slightly far more than what was confirmed by security officials.

Eyewitnesses said that they counted more than five dead bodies. They listed some of the deceased to include a meat (suya seller), the two daughters of a fish seller and fuel vendor, among others. They also noted that some of those who were rushed to the hospitals in critical conditions might not survive.

Some families are still searching for their relatives after they failed to return home last night.

The scene of the bomb blast was littered with broken bottles, scattered blue and white chairs, burnt vehicles and their dismembered parts and broken glasses that fell from the windows of various buildings. There were also bloodstains all over the place.

In his reaction, Chairman of the Christian Association of Nigeria, Bishop Ransome Bello, condemned the attack, describing it as extreme wickedness, barbaric and inhuman.

He sympathised with the families of the victims and prayed God to grant eternal rest to those who died as well as grant succour to those who are in the hospitals.

Also, Kano State Governor Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso has commiserated with the victims, describing the act as criminal and unfortunate.

He stated that the bomb blast was executed by a group of persons who have formed the habit of destroying life and property. Kwankwaso, accompanied by all the security chiefs, arrived at the scene at 4.30 pm.

He noted that Sabon Gari area is critical, adding that whatever happens in the area affects the entire country, even as he stated that government will support the victims.

He urged the people to be more vigilant, asking them to report any suspicious character to the nearest police station.

Start receiving  Breaking News & Alerts by simply adding your email below. A confirmation email will be sent to you!

Take advantage of our impressive statistics, advertise your brands and products on this site.
