
Digital healthcare incubator Rock Health today announced its sixth class of digital health startups, which includes app makers, analytics companies, and even an insurance plan suggestion site.

“What we are looking for is really talented entrepreneurs who are working on real problems in healthcare — and there are plenty of them — and addressing them with really big ideas,” Rock Health founder and CEO Halle Tecco said of the selection process.

Kurbo Health makes a kid-friendly weight loss app based on research from Stanford and SUNY Buffalo. Cofounder Joanna Strober comes from the venture capital world, last serving as director of private equity at  Sterling Stamos Capital Management .

Studio Dental offers full-service dentistry that makes house calls. The company sends dentists out in a “mobile dental office” to do everything from teeth cleaning to root canals.

Ambient Clinical Analytics sells a suite of analytics-based decision support tools for ICU, operating room, and emergency room caregivers.

Stride Health runs a website that finds the best health insurance plans for consumers and estimates the real costs. The site may be especially useful to consumers and businesses buying healthcare through exchanges, Tecco says.

Doctor on Demand offers a “national virtual medical practice” where consumers can have a video consultation with a licensed physician using a tablet or laptop. One of the founders is Jay McGraw (Dr. Phil’s son), who won an Emmy for writing and producing the 2008 TV series The Doctors.

Factor 14  makes a hardware and software system that helps caregivers manage patients on blood thinners.

HealthEquityLabs makes software that creates a FICO -like health score based on a person’s metabolic markers. The startup was founded by Munjal Shah, who cofounded Like.com, which was later sold to Google.

The addition of these seven new companies brings Rock Health’s portfolio up to 55 startups. The new additions will receive funding and guidance while under Rock Health’s wing. Rock Health itself is funded by a group of venture capital firms, universities, and healthcare organizations.

Mobile developer or publisher? VentureBeat is studying mobile app analytics. Fill out our 5-minute survey , and we'll share the data with you.
