
AKARTA, May 19 (Xinhua) -- After rushing to set up coalition, political parties in Indonesia finally support two pairs to compete in the July presidential race, almost likely diminishing the possibility of a run-off.

The two pairs are pro-poor and clean Joko Widodo with his running mate Jusuf Kalla, and former general and reformist Prabowo Subianto with running mate Hatta Rajasa.

On Monday, both of the presidential candidates determined their running mates, one day prior to the deadline to register at the country's National Electoral Commission (KPU).

Personally, the frontrunner presidential candidate Jokowi, the favorite name for the current Jakarta governor, 52 year old, has previously topped several surveys on the presidential polls, defeating former general Prabowo who is 63 years old. But based on the total supports secured by the candidates, presidential hopeful Prabowo secured more supports based on the results of the April 9 legislative polls.

With Golkar, the second biggest party, and other parties giving supports to him, Prabowo has so far secured 35.63 percent votes, exceeding rival's supports of 30.93 percent votes.

"Aburizal Bakrie (Golkar chairman) said that the strong leadership is Prabowo as presidential candidate and Hatta as vice presidential candidate, " said Idrus Markam, secretary general of Golkar Party before the declaration of the pair at the Rumah Polonia building on Monday.

"Aburizal Bakrie told us to deliver a statement that all Golkar Party members fully support (to the pair)," he stressed.

Prabowo chairs the Indonesian Great Movement Party (Gerindra), the third rank at the legislative polls by securing 11.81 percent vote and Hatta is chairman of the National Mandate Party (PAN), the fifth rank with 9.04 percent votes.

Some other political parties, the Prosperous and Justice Party (PKS), the Indonesian United Development Party (PPP) and the Moon and Star Party (PBB) have taken side with the pair.

On his speech, Prabowo expressed his gratitude to the support and insisted to do his best for the country. "(Now) we become a big power to secure this country," he said referring some bottlenecks being faced by the country such as seismic corruption and other poor bureaucracy.

Jokowi, a favorite name for the current Jakarta governor, 52 years old, is nominated by the winner of the recent legislative polls, the Indonesian Democratic Party of Struggle (PDIP) with support from the National Democratic Party (Nasdem), the National Awakening Party (PKB) and the People Conscience Party (Hanura). "Last night at a meeting, we decided that Jusuf Kalla as vice president," said Jokowi on Monday.

Kalla is also expected to draw support from eastern Indonesia, his birth place while Hatta is former economic chief minister and father in law of President Yudhoyono's son.

Still, President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono's Democratic Party, the fourth rank at the polls with 10.19 percent votes, has yet determined its support.

Yudhoyono is to end his second term in October and could not enter the third term, according to the law.

Tuesday is the deadline for the registration of the presidential candidates to the national electoral commission.

Jokowi, the former major in Central Java, has been well now for his clean and pro-poor people stances, helping get victory at the Jakarta governor polls in recent years, defeating rival supported by much larger political parties' coalition.

Experts have said that Indonesia's polls would turn much on the candidate personality rather than the vision or programs of the candidate as the people trust have whittled down by the recent politician maneuvers, such as graft and conspiracy in the country with seismic corruption.

But some chorus has been lingering recently over the pessimistic on the capability of Jokowi to promote Indonesia among the offshore investors at the international stages. Differently, Prabowo has frequently delivered his ideas to set up steep reforms of the country, a move likely bringing a radical change in the Southeast Asia's largest economy.

Nevertheless, the former general has to scramble to tackle possible rival's attack on his poor human rights track records in the past. The upcoming presidential election is a test to determine whether the personality or the strength of coalition has stronger portion in the election at the national scale in the vast archipelago country with the biggest economy in the region.
