
Georgia Gov. Nathan Deal speaks to a voter during the ‘Grilling with the Governor’ campaign event in Buford on Saturday. Reps. Paul Broun and Jack Kingston, along with Georgia’s former Secretary of State Karen Handel, attended the event and worked the crowd at the barbecue in northern Georgia, a GOP stronghold that could prove to be the key to winning Tuesday’s primary.

BUFORD — Candidates in Georgia’s fiercely contested Republican Senate race sought votes in one of the most solidly Republican areas in the country on Saturday, just days ahead of a primary that could help determine congressional control.

Reps. Paul Broun and Jack Kingston, along with Georgia’s former Secretary of State Karen Handel, worked the crowd at a barbecue and fundraiser organized by Gov. Nathan Deal in northern Georgia. The GOP stronghold is key to winning Tuesday’s primary.

Republicans need to gain just six seats to claim a majority in the Senate. They cannot afford to lose the Georgia seat, which opened when Sen. Saxby Chambliss announced his retirement. Other Republicans in the race are Rep. Phil Gingrey and former Dollar General CEO David Perdue.

Nearly a quarter of all Republican voters in the 2012 primary live in the two north Georgia congressional districts, and the top three elected state officials — Deal, Lt. Gov. Casey Cagle and state House speaker David Ralston — call the area home. It’s a reliable base of fiscal and social conservatives and has become the state’s political power center.

That has made campaign events, such as meet-and-greets and candidate forums, in the area even more critical for voters like Patricia Falk, president of a GOP group at her residential community in Hoschton. She has decided to support Handel, who was one of three candidates who spoke to her group.

“I feel as though that I have had more exposure to her, and I liked what I heard,” Falk said.

Mary Jones, who runs a horse and dairy farm in Flowery Branch, said she has known Kingston for years.

Later, the candidates met for their final debate before Tuesday’s primary. Perdue, who has been leading in polls, sought to explain comments he made earlier this week about how cutting spending and increasing revenue are both needed to address the nation’s fiscal problems. His chief rivals have used those comments to accuse him of supporting tax increases.

“Of all the deceitful and false accusations that have been coming my way, this is absolutely the most outrageous,” Perdue said, adding he had signed a pledge not to increase taxes.

Perdue was also attacked by Kingston and Handel for not voting in previous Georgia primaries. In response, Perdue said he wasn’t living in the state in 2008 and voted in the 2012 presidential primary. There were general state primaries in 2010 and 2012.

On term limits, Gingrey, Handel, Kingston and Perdue said they support them, while Broun said no.

“The problem is not unlimited terms,” said Broun, who repeatedly cast himself as the anti-establishment candidate.

The Republican candidates were asked whether they would support Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, who has drawn a tea party challenger in his own bid for re-election. Handel and Perdue said they would not, while the three congressmen would not commit either way. The debate was hosted by WSB-TV in Atlanta.

Meanwhile, Michelle Nunn, the daughter of former Sen. Sam Nunn, did not attend a separate WSB-TV debate for the Democratic candidates in the Senate race. Nunn is likely to advance in her primary against three lesser-known candidates. Her campaign cited a scheduling conflict.
