
Unfortunately, for women like Ms. Abramson who are at the top of their professions, those words are borne more out of necessity than advice. Much has been said and written about women in the workplace and the glass ceiling, and even the glass cliff — the notion that women who reach certain levels eventually encounter a sudden and precipitous decline. But in light of Abramson’s dismissal, we ought to be talking about another ominous translucent structure in the lives of all professional women: the glass elevator.

As women rise up the ranks in all fields, they are faced with heightened scrutiny. As they ascend to the very top of their fields, that scrutiny increases exponentially. For the women at the very top — the handful of Fortune 500 CEOs or managing partners or state governors or editors at the top of the most recognizable masthead in the world — that scrutiny is often so intense, it makes it nearly impossible for them to do their jobs.

In fairness, all people at the top of their fields — men included- enter a glass elevator, and that isn’t entirely a bad thing. The fact that CEOs, elected officials and editors are held accountable to shareholders, voters and readers is a foundational principle of our democracy and society. But unlike men, women almost always ride that glass elevator alone; they don’t have the benefit of a network of peers ascending alongside them. They’re left to deal with the intense scrutiny alone — without anyone else to deflect or distract from it.

This is where words like “pushy” and “polarizing” become so important. When used to describe men, they are practically euphemisms, calculated to soften the blow of less-choice words that might actually describe their character. When used to describe women, they are often career-ending death knells. If that isn’t a double standard, I’m not sure what is. We live in a world where it’s completely appropriate — if not expected — for top male bosses to have anger management problems, whereas women who aren’t seen as universally likeable are the management problem.

With all eyes on the small handful of women riding that glass elevator, it’s virtually impossible for them to achieve the standards we set forth for them as a society. Couple that with the frustrating reality that most women will never earn what their male peers do, and it’s no wonder that so many women opt out of a trip on the elevator altogether.

The small share of of women at the upper-floor destinations of glass elevators isn’t unique to journalism, where women have represented 70-75% of journalism and communications graduates over the past decade yet represent only 39% of the masthead.

Women constitute over 50% of law school graduates but fewer than 20% of law deans and firm partners; women represent half of all newly minted MDs, but you could count on one hand the number who are chief surgeons at the hundreds of teaching hospitals across the country. Why? Without a doubt the answer is multifactorial, but one simply cannot discount what is all too often a humiliating ride in the glass elevator, even for women who consider themselves to be fearless.

The times — and the Times — have without a doubt changed since editor Betsy Wade sued the Gray Lady for gender discrimination and won. But for ambitious, high-achieving — and, yes, pushy — women everywhere, the climate is perhaps more frustrating than ever before. It’s incredibly demoralizing to know that no matter how long we’re in the professional game, we’ll nevertheless eventually find ourselves without a seat among the musical chairs.

Knowing that the boys still finds ways to save those seats for one another is even more infuriating. Knowing that a top journalist who is a woman can still be fired for, among other things, asking questions — that is, doing her job -- shows you exactly why so many woman have been outraged by this past week’s news.

If anything good comes of it, it will be the lesson to women everywhere that there can be only one true solution to the glass elevator problem: bring more women on board with you.

Goren is a former speechwriter to Gov. Andrew Cuomo and former Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa.

© Copyright 2014 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.
