
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

NORTH ADAMS — Berkshire Medical Center staffers moved through a final inspection Monday morning before the noon opening of a satellite emergency room in the former North Adams Regional Hospital building.

The center, fully staffed and with the same 14 treatment rooms North Adams Regional Hospital operated, is capable of handling nearly every sickness or injury presented including patients brought in by ambulance, said Michael Leary, a spokesman for Berkshire Medical Center.

There is one exception: Ambulances will transport patents suspected of suffering from strokes to Berkshire Medical Center in Pittsfield because the North Adams facility doesn't have CT scanning capability often required in those cases, Leary said.

Patients who need to be admitted for observation will go to another hospital, Berkshire Medical Center or Southwestern Vermont Medical Center in Bennington, once stable.

Saddled with debt from failed real-estate investments, North Adams Regional Hospital closed abruptly March 28 and its parent company subsequently filed for bankruptcy protection with intent to liquidate.

The closure left about 40,000 residents of northern Berkshire County without access to a hospital. The nearest emergency rooms were at Berkshire Medical or Southwestern Vermont Medical Center.

Berkshire Medical Center has a bid in to buy the hospital building and a nearby office building out of bankruptcy for $4 million. But that transaction won't be completed until July and other potential purchasers can top the bid.

In the meantime, Berkshire Medical Center has a one-year agreement to keep the emergency room open.

On Monday, Berkshire Medical Center staff members rechecked equipment and rooms. Leary said Berkshire Medical Center had to replace hospital equipment that was leased then repossessed by the leaser when North Adams Regional went bankrupt.

"We had to make sure there were all the supplies," he said. "We had to get all the certifications in place."

Everything was cleaned and a carpeted floor in the waiting room was replaced with easier-to-clean  wood.

Leary, a North Adams resident himself, said he had confidence in Berkshire Medical Center's abilities  while North Adams was closed.

"But I do understand it was disconcerting for people to go from having a facility so close to one that was 35 minutes away," he said. "This is a great relief."

Check here if you do not want to receive additional email offers and information.

You are now signed up for our Breaking News newsletter. You will receive occasional emails from us as stories break.  To view and subscribe to any of our other newsletters, please click here .

© 2014 MassLive LLC. All rights reserved ( About Us ).
