
The mother of electoral battles, Battle 2014 is over. It is time for victory lap. And 63-year-old Narendrabhai Damodarbhai Modi, NaMo to his fans, has made his triumphant entry into Lutyen’s Delhi from his home turf in Gujarat on Saturday with cheering crowds lined up all along the long route of his cavalcade from the Indira Gandhi International Airport to 11 Ashok Road, the BJP headquarters.

A massive road show it was befitting Hurricane Modi that has pushed out the Congress, the Grand Old Party of India, to its worst ever tally of 44 seats and heralded the new uni-polar politics of Bharatiya Janata Party with an absolute majority of its own in the 16th Lok Sabha.

The result has proved to the world that India has become a mature democracy where aspiration, not caste, creed or religion matters.   The pollsters have reasons to sport a smile too since Indian psephologists have come of age while arm chair analysts have egg on their face.

All good enough reason to go into a hyper gung-ho with Subramanian Swamy, a one-time lone warrior, back where he matters – as the Chanakya to the great relief of his friends here in India and across the straits.

On the home front, revival of the Indian economy and governance apparatus, which had been pushed into a crippling paralysis, has to be the Priority One.  This is an unenviable task left behind by Man Mohan “weak” Singh.  In his last days MMS tried to set things right by steps like allowing FDI in Pharma.  But these are at best cosmetic.

The need is a fresh lease to reform process, and a good bye to the Nouveau-Fabian Socialism that flourished under the Congress dominated United Progressive Alliance Government. Prime Minister Singh is respected abroad as an economist but at home he ended up with insomniacs. It had led to 2G Spectrum scam with a DMK Raja in the eye of the storm, and offered freebees that have no shelf life even in Amethi, the pocket borough of the Congress First Family.

As the Hurricane Modi showed, people want no doles; people want opportunities to lead a life of dignity in some comfort and a means to sustain the life-style.  Well, this is aspirational India that has no religion tag; no caste label; it also has no time for slogans of any kind.

Action is what it wants here and now; it is unwilling to shine under the reflex glory of a lucky few who have made it big on the national and international stage with or without State patronage. This places a huge responsibility on the son of a petty trader who began his life as child tea vendor. Yes, Modi is arriving on the scene with his perfect Gujarati brew after Ganga aarti in the holy city of Kashi.  Simply put the people want him to replicate the Gujarat model of development on the national level quickly and without much ado.

Now the foreign policy agenda, which is of interest to its neighbors –Sri Lanka, Pakistan and China in particular, and to the lone global cop, the United Sates.

The Americans are eager to do business with NaMo though they have denied him a visa to visit the Big Apple for a decade for reasons which are rooted in lobbyist jingoism. President Barrack Obama has picked up the phone, talked to Modi and invited him to visit the US. So did the leaders of Pakistan and Sri Lanka.

Two Tamilians have played a prominent role in Modi arriving on the Delhi stage – one is the well-known maverick Subramanian Swamy; the other is a less known Senthil Kumar, who helped Modi campaign acquire the tech edge with his 3-D holography and reach out to over 100 million voters at 1500 venues across India.

Senthil, whom Modi calls a hippie because of his hair style, is an established name in Tamil and Telugu film industry as a cameraman; he learnt the ropes of holographic technology in London at the behest of noted director Mani Shankar.  Senthil came in contact with NaMo in 2012 because of Mani, who, according to informed sources, felt that the one political leader who would be open to using this technology to reach out to ever larger numbers of people was Narendra Modi.

“We felt Modi was one leader who was up to date in technology. He is educated and knowledgeable. That is why we thought of pitching the idea to him”, Senthil Kumar said in a recent interview.

The rest was history as the saying goes - first with the Gujarat assembly elections and now with Battle 2014.

That Senthil was impressed by NaMo is clear from a remark attributed to him. “If Modi becomes the Prime Minister, India will be like the United States. You will see a total change in the country and the whole world will start admiring us. I am sure about it”, Rediff.com quoted Senthil as saying.

He appears to have his reasons in the right place because in the same interview he also said: “He (NaMo) is a learned man and has the desire within him to do something for the country. Moreover, he doesn't have a family to steal money for. So far, he has worked for the welfare of the people of Gujarat. Now I think he will work for the whole of India”.

The other Tamilian, who came close to NaMo in recent months, was Dr Subramanian Swamy, who had his political baptism in the Jana Sangh; he had left the saffron fold owing to differences with Atal Behari Vajpayee, the then tall leader.   Now that Atal is history, and NaMo era has begun, he returned to his RSS roots in the BJP, and has held the forte in TV debates during the grueling campaign months particularly the last one month when most Delhi-based BJP talkathon experts were out on campaign trial.

Well, he has thus won back his BJP spurs and can expect to be rewarded not merely because of his expertise as an economist but also because of his ability to be an interlocutor with Colombo.

Swamy has friends in the Sri Lankan capital, who look to him in mutual admiration, and it may come in handy as Modi-fied India settles down and begins to deal with the Lankan neighbour keeping the resurgent AIADMK-led by charismatic Jayalalithaa Jayaram in the loop.

BJP has a rainbow coalition of its own in Tamil Nadu and its president P Radhakrishnan has become the national lawmaker from Kanyakumari. This opening in Tamil Nadu, according to BJP national President Rajnath Singh, is a high priced gift since it came at a time the Congress has been completely wiped out of the state, and Congress party’s long time ally DMK has been vanquished convincingly.  Both these parties have paid the price for their ambivalence on the Lankan Tamil issue. Clearly BJP will like to carve out a place under the Dravidian sun.

Significantly, a day after Modi made his triumphant entry into Delhi Jayalalithaa government flooded the national dailies with a full front and back page advertisements. Ostensibly it was to mark her three-year rule of “splendid achievements”. Graphic and detailed in content, the advts spoke of “comprehensive growth in all spheres” under Jayalalithaa.

The tag line was however the giveaway. It read: “The people are with me and I am with the people”.  And held out a subtle message that Delhi cannot ignore Amma and the AIADMK which has emerged as the third largest party in the 16th Lok Sabha.

Amma and NaMo have good personal rapport, and it may come in handy in the days ahead with Delhi factoring in Chennai more clearly and forthrightly than under UPA-II in its dealings with Colombo.

If there are any lingering doubts these have been set at rest by Modi’s congratulations to Amma on her party's LS stride.

Modi called up Jayalalithaa over phone on Sunday afternoon and congratulated her for the remarkable victory of her party in the Lok Sabha elections in Tamil Nadu, according to an official statement in Chennai.

“Modi assured the chief minister that there will be absolute cooperation between the Government of India and the Tamil Nadu government”, the statement said.  The phone call from Delhi was Modi’s way of responding to Amma’s letter of congratulations sent on Saturday, May 17.   It puts the lid over the campaign period acrimony. While Modi presented his Gujarat model to entice Tamil voters and pitched the BJP front as a 'viable alternative' to the AIADMK and the DMK, Jayalalithaa had claimed that with her at the helm TN was ahead of Gujarat on development index.

‘The Swamy’s of BJP will have their place under the Chennai sun because of their dexterity though only after they walk the extra mile to make Amma sport a smile, and condescend to talk them. For the moment  the buzz in the BJP circles is that Swamy stands a chance of being rewarded suitably by NaMo dispensation – a shade better than the prize he enjoyed under the PV Narasimha Rao government  between 1992- 1996.

Will China shadow loom large on India-Sri Lanka relations? We will discuss in Part II of this article.
