
May 20, 2014, 4:20 a.m.

UNDER FIRE: Member for Calare John Cobb has been accused of showing a lack of understanding about the problems faced by the most vulnerable in society.

ANGLICARE Western general manager Brad Addison says member for Calare John Cobb’s comments on last week’s budget show a lack of understanding about the problems faced by Australians battling to make ends meet.

Mr Cobb told the Central Western Daily young and unemployed people in rural towns and villages should get a lift into town and “find out where the jobs are”.

Mr Addison said while he knows Mr Cobb was trying to defend the budget, he needed to understand that finding a job in a location close to home is not as easy as it sounds.

Mr Addison said the budget targeted the most vulnerable people in society, including the young, unemployed and sole parents.

“Obviously we’re quite concerned about Mr Cobb’s comments and we’re quite concerned about a budget that’s targeting the most vulnerable people in the community,” he said.

“We don’t understand why the government would do that,” Mr Addison said.

“We understand the government has a responsibility to return a strong economy ... but they’re trying to do that on the backs of the poorest people in society.

“A particular concern is young people and what happens when they reach the end of their six months without recourse to income support before they are eligible for another six months of work for the dole,” he said.

“The impact of no income for six months will inevitably lead to more people living in crisis and the cycle will only end when the person gets a job or turns 30.

“A $7 co-payment for visits to the GP will hurt people who can already not afford to go to a doctor. It will cost Australia’s healthcare system in the long term.

Former Labor candidate for Calare and Bathurst councillor Jess Jennings said he was “astonished” by Mr Cobb’s assessment of the budget.

“They’re not just out of touch, they’re quite simply illogical ... they’re idiotic,” he said.

Mr Jennings said country and rural residents would be greatly impacted by cuts to health and education.
