
78-year-old discovered he had 'bi-lateral carcinoma of the right lung'

He said: 'I was stunned to be told in such a blundering way'

A grandfather discovered he had lung cancer when hospital test results were mistakenly sent to his home, rather than to his consultant.

Ian McDonald, 78, found his diagnosis in the last line of a six-page report, revealing he had 'bi-lateral carcinoma (cancer) of the right lung'.

The diagnosis came after Mr MacDonald underwent a radiology examination, and was told to expect a further appointment date in the post, where he would be told the results.

But he received the news in the post on a Saturday late last year, leaving him and his wife Irene to face an anxious wait to speak to his doctor the following Monday.

The couple, from Rosyth on the Firth of Forth, have since received an apology from Ninewells Hospital in Dundee.

Administrators there should have directed the test results to Mr MacDonald's consultant at the Queen Margaret Hospital in Dunfermline.

'I was stunned to be told in such a blundering way,' Mr MacDonald said.

'What I received was obviously part of my hospital notes.'

The former Royal Navy engineer, spent the weekend coming to terms with the diagnosis and consoling his wife.

'I had to set my own feelings aside and help her because she was distraught,' he added.

He claims his consultant at the Queen Margaret was furious the news was broken in such a slapdash way.

Mr Macdonald, a father-of-six, said: 'I was stunned to find out in such a blundering way'

'We were asked to see him straight away and he did his best to make us feel at ease, but it was clear he was far from happy,' Mr MacDonald said.

'I've heard other people have been treated in the same way.'

Father-of-six Mr MacDonald, who worked as a driver after leaving the navy, has since received an apology from NHS Tayside.

It arrived in December, two weeks after he was wrongly sent the medical notes.

The paperwork contained the results of his full-body MRI scan, which was prompted by his GP who was worried about Ian's persistent cough and breathlessness.

Mr MacDonald has since undergone chemotherapy to stabilise the cancer but doctors have warned him surgery is not possible.

He said: 'They say it is inoperable and I will know in a few weeks if the drugs have halted the spread.'

Mr MacDonald, who retired in 1996, believes the cancer may be a legacy from exposure to radiation fallout he received while serving with the Royal Navy during the Christmas Island nuclear test explosions.

He said: 'I have been told that those who were near the test grounds in the Pacific islands in 1957 are at a higher risk.'

A spokeperson for NHS Tayside said: 'We have apologised to Mr MacDonald for this administrative error and have made changes to our IT processes to minimise the risk of this happening in future.'

The comments below have been moderated in advance.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
