
Standards for Chinese nurses are taking off after they were given a month's special training – as air hostesses.

The idea is being introduced as a pilot project at Lianshui County Chinese Medicine Hospital in Lianshui county in east China's Jiangsu province where all staff working in the Chinese medicine ward are required to dress in the air hostess outfits.

The move is seen as a way of addressing growing conflict in the country between staff and patients and their relatives. The aim of the project is to offer a new standard of care designed to defuse tense situations, and as it is a state funded hospital, the air hostess nurses are on hand for all patients in the ward.

In the pilot project 12 nurses from the hospital Lianshui county in Huai'an city began discarding their traditional white nurse garbs for a new air hostess getup.

Recruitment for the voluntary program began in March, and the nurses involved as well as being fully qualified medically were given a supplementary month of training in areas such as communication by a real air hostess from China Eastern Airlines in April.

"The nursing department had long intended to create an air hostess ward, but just didn't carry it out," said a spokesperson from the hospital, adding that this first batch of 12 nurses are now on duty but currently confined to serving patients from the Chinese medicine ward.

The air hostess uniforms at the hospital have a slightly longer skirt for reasons "everyone understands", said the spokesperson, who also noted that the participating nurses receive a higher salary but also take on a heavier workload.

One of the participating nurses, 23-year-old Zhao Yanan, said dressing up as an air hostess makes her work with more enthusiasm and has even encouraged her to sleep earlier so that she looks better in the mornings.

The majority of the Chinese netizens and patients are positive about the introduction of stewardess nurses, with many saying that it brightens up the hospital. The detractors, on the other hand, say focusing on attire detracts from what patients really care about, which is the quality of the nurses' service and attitude.
