
1. At  first, it should be made clear whether other parties to nuclear talks  with Iran are actually concerned about Iran’s nuclear energy program  being non-peaceful, or are in reality looking to first limit and then  totally dismantle the Islamic Republic’s nuclear activities. If they  really seek to have their concerns dispelled, they should note that  through its unprecedented cooperation with International Atomic Energy  Agency (IAEA) and by showing total transparency with regard to its  nuclear energy program, Iran has already proven that the other parties’  concerns are not based on objective evidence and are mostly the result  of illusions and propaganda. However, if the other negotiating parties  are actually seeking to achieve other goals, it goes without saying that  under such conditions no negotiations can be successful. Up to the  present time, it seems that the other negotiating parties are apparently  trying to reach an agreement with Iran over all the aspects of the  country’s nuclear case. In trying to achieve this goal, the negotiating  parties may face some simple and some more difficult issues. However,  there are two points that raise hope in the success of the ongoing  nuclear negotiations. Firstly, it should be noted that the time frame  for reaching an agreement as well as the full scope of Iran’s nuclear  activities, especially the uranium enrichment process, are complicated  issues in nature and it would take some time before the negotiating  parties manage to reach a comprehensive agreement on these issues. The  second consideration which will help the success of negotiations is the  high emphasis put by the Iranian negotiating team on transparency over  the country’s nuclear activities while the opposite parties have  actually accepted Iran’s right to peaceful use of nuclear energy within  framework of international regulations.

2. At present, both sides suffer from a mutual lack of trust. The  Americans are distrustful of the Islamic Republic of Iran. This  pessimism and distrust has its roots in extensive Iranophobic efforts,  which have caused the West in general to look upon Iran’s realities with  permanent doubt and pessimism. Therefore, even when faced with the  factual reports of the IAEA [about Iran’s nuclear energy program], the  Western countries still look for illusionary excuses to shape the  realities on the basis of their own mentality. They have already a  mentality and they want to shape all the realities on the ground  according to that mentality. Therefore, if they are sincerely concerned  about Iran’s nuclear energy program, they should put the highest  emphasis on the need for Iran to show transparency about its nuclear  activities, instead of forming their mentality on the basis of total  dismantling of Iran’s nuclear energy program. They should pay due  attention to the IAEA's reports on Iran’s nuclear activities as well.  During the past four months that have lapsed since the [interim]  agreement [reached between Iran and the P5+1 group of countries in the  Swiss city of Geneva last November], the IAEA has conducted very  extensive and complicated inspections of Iran’s nuclear facilities all  of which have proven beyond any doubt the legal nature of Iran’s nuclear  activities. Therefore, the negotiating parties with Iran should pay due  attention to these realities and avoid of coming up with new excuses  every day in order to put more pressure on the Iranian side.

3. Another point which should be emphasized here is that after Iran takes  all the trust building measures, which are expected from it, the other  parties should make a final decision on lifting the sanctions they have  imposed against the Islamic Republic. It would be against the letter and  spirit of the agreement, which the two sides are supposed to reach, to  expect Iran to go through the bureaucratic maze of the other negotiating  parties – for example, to wait for final decisions of the US Congress  or the United Nations Security Council – in order to have sanctions  removed. The other negotiating parties cannot expect Iran to abide by  its obligations as per the agreement while sanctions continue  relentlessly. Of course, it is quite natural for Iran to comply with its  obligations and prove beyond any doubt the peaceful nature of its  nuclear energy program, but the other parties should, for their part,  take the necessary steps to totally remove anti-Iran sanctions. Of  course, sanctions imposed on Iran have many aspects. There are certain  sanctions, which have been imposed by the UN Security Council while  another part of sanctions have been imposed by the US Congress and are  considered transnational measures taken by the United States, and there  are also sanctions, which have been imposed by third countries that  previously cooperated with Iran in various fields. These sanctions are  very unfair and at loggerheads with all the norms of international law.  Finally, there are unilateral sanctions imposed by the member states of  the European Union against the Islamic Republic. All these sanctions  should be removed. In other words, if negotiations [over Iran’s nuclear  energy program] are supposed to bear fruit, all kinds of sanctions  should be gradually removed in proportion to measures taken by the  Iranian side. This, however, has not been the case so far. The Western  countries have shown that they are not willing to lift anti-Iran  sanctions and are, in fact, using these sanction as a means of mounting  pressure on Iran over its nuclear energy program. In doing so, they have  largely ignored the fact that in their entirety, the Islamic Republic’s  nuclear activities are legal and within framework of the regulations  enshrined in the Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT). At present, there is no  doubt that all nuclear activities of Iran are peaceful and carried out  with total transparency.

4. Last  but not least, we are dealing with a duality here and the Iranian  negotiating team has been trying to make it clear what Iran is going to  achieve in return for the confidence building measures that it is  supposed to take. If Iran is simply going to see ambiguous responses  with regard to sanctions, for example, if Tehran is supposed to wait for  a decision by the US Congress or go through a lengthy procedure through  the UN Security Council, or wait for the green light from all the  member states of the European Union before sanctions are lifted, it is  clear that such responses are vague at best and will not help nuclear  talks to reach the desirable result.

*Gholamali  Khoshroo is the Senior Editor of the Encyclopedia of Contemporary Islam  and Former Deputy Foreign Minister for legal and International Affairs,  Islamic Republic of Iran (2002-2005). Khoshroo is assistant of  President Khatami on “Alliance of civilizations” and Dialogue among  Civilizations”. He has served as the Dean of the School for  International Relations (1983-89); Ambassador to the United Nations  (19890-95); Deputy Foreign Minister for Research and Education,  Member  of OIC Commission of Eminent Persons on “Enlightened Moderation”. In  recent years, he has extensively worked on the development of  contemporary political Islam and its implication for western societies.  As a sociologist he studied at Tehran University and New School for  Social Research, New York, He has published several articles and books  on political and cultural affairs.
