
GDF SUEZ and the Japanese utility company Tohoku have signed on 16 May 2014 in Paris a long term LNG sale and purchase Heads of Agreement. Under this new agreement GDF SUEZ commits to deliver 270,000 tonnes per year (tpa) of liquefied natural gas (LNG) to Tohoku Electric Power. The long term contract will start in 2018 and last for a 20-year period.

Volumes will be supplied with natural gas from the US which will be liquefied in the Cameron LNG plant. GDF SUEZ will be one of the first companies to supply Asia with American LNG, thanks to its LNG carrier’s fleet and a diversified LNG portfolio.

The Cameron LNG export project which partners are GDF SUEZ, Sempra, Mitsubishi and Mitsui has received conditional approvals from the US Department of Energy (DOE) and partial agreement from the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) and is likely to be finally sanctioned within the course of this year.

GDF SUEZ is a global LNG player and the main LNG importer in Europe. GDF SUEZ has the third largest LNG supply portfolio in the world, supplied from six different countries, and representing 16 million tonnes per year. It controls a large fleet of 14 LNG carriers under mid and long term charter agreements. The fleet is permanently optimized to satisfy GDF SUEZ long term commitments and short term opportunities. The Group has also a significant presence in regasification terminals around the world, including FSRU’s and in liquefaction projects.

Looking for Oil, Gas and Power Research & Data? PennEnergy Research has the answers.

Please fill out the remaining fields to complete your registration.

By clicking 'Register' you are indicating that you have read and agree with our Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy .

By clicking 'Register' you are indicating that you have read and agree with our Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy .

Enter your email address below and click Submit to receive password reset instructions via email.

An email has been sent to .

Please follow the instructions in the email to change your password.

Your account has been created and you are now logged in.

It looks like you've already registered with .  Please login below to link your accounts.

Thank you for registering.  An email has been sent to with instructions on how to verify your account.

The specified email address, , needs to be verified in order to login.

An email has been sent to with instructions on how to verify your account.
