
Jakarta. It was the worst-kept secret in contemporary Indonesian politics, and on Monday it was made official: presidential front-runner Joko Widodo has picked Jusuf Kalla, the former vice president, to be his running mate for the July 9 election.

“After some thinking and consultation with coalition party leaders, we have decided to choose Bapak Muhammad Jusuf Kalla to be my running mate,” Joko said in a brief declaration at the historical Gedung Juang building in Menteng, Central Jakarta, on Monday morning, where he was flanked by Kalla.

The pair had arrived from the nearby home of Megawati Soekarnoputri, the chairwoman of Joko’s Indonesian Democratic Party of Struggle, or PDI-P, and were greeted by hundreds of supporters waving flags and banners.

Joko said he was confident that he and Kalla could “bring a change to our beloved nation,” before thanking the crowd.

After the declaration, the pair returned to Megawati’s home, from where they are scheduled to head to the office of the  General Elections Commission, or KPU, also in Menteng, by bicycle to officially register for the election.

The PDI-P and its coalition partners were widely expected to pair Joko with Kalla, who was believed to have been proposed by Surya Paloh, the chairman of the National Democrat Party, or NasDem, one of the four parties endorsing Joko.

The others are the National Awakening Party, or PKB, and the People’s Conscience Party, or Hanura.

Surya and Kalla previously served together as top officials of the Golkar Party, until Surya left to establish NasDem.

Polls paint Joko as the strong favorite to win the July 9 election.

Presidential candidates have until midnight on Tuesday to register with the KPU. Joko and Kalla are expected to be the first to do so.

Prabowo Subianto of the Great Indonesia Movement Party, or Gerindra, is also expected to register later today. He previously named Hatta Rajasa of the National Mandate Party, or PAN, as his running mate.

After registering, the candidates will undergo a medical check-up at Gatot Subroto Army Hospital in Central Jakarta later this week.

I heard it from JG first. Makasih banyak. I think this is very good news for Indonesia. Pak Jokowi will have had to make a tough personal decision, that he thinks the majority of voters would support. It’s a very good example of the mix of public opinion, professional political negotiating, and personal leadership, i.e. a willingness to put one’s own reputation and future on the line for the public good. I suspect the people and Jokowi know best. Let’s pray Bu Mega shows the same character. Indonesia is set for an absolutely fabulous government and up to a decade of really constructive national identity formation. Get things right and there will be good flow on benefits in all international relations as well. The whole world could benefit by a realistic and generous pluralism in Indonesia, better than India or the United States: more groups and issues to be pluralist about, and pluralism itself being something that is strongly uniting. It was always the original vision of Sukarno. The natural environment–flora, fauna, and socio-linguistic–in the archipelago has been a healthy melting pot of evolutionary diversity for millions of years, driven by tectonic plates and the Wallace line. Indonesia is where evolution was most strongly demonstrated, as Wallace himself thought, to the glory of some unknown Creator, one might reasonably call Ketuhanan yang maha esa. The very environment of the natural and human world of Indonesia forces it towards a mini globalism the rest of the world needs to learn. I’m really excited and happy about this. Indonesia raya!

Goodness me. I love your stream of consciousness rant here. It sounds like some sort of enhanced reality where everything is that bit brighter, where the possibilities are now endless.somehow I don’t recognise the Indonesia I know on on planet Earth here. Perhaps it’s the other Indonesia in another dimension where Suharto did not come to power, where violent, murderous, slamo fascist gangs don’t exist, and the politicians are as clean and innocent as a bright summer day. if only.

Democratic Party of Struggle, or PDI-P, said in Jakarta on Monday.

Oh, that’s a disappointment. I would have really hoped for Mahfud MD (or the fellow from he KPK).

This is so utterly disappointing. Everyone expected a new face from the younger generation, not another had-been from the Soeharto/SBY era. Seems like the only consideration for choosing Kalla was to repay him for having recommended Jokowi to Megawati as Jakarta’s running candidate for governorship.

Good luck to Jokowi & Kalla, the best pair to win, and thus to bring Indonesia to greater heights. The market has responded positively and if Jokowi push through with subsidy reform and fix the creaking infrastructures, we could possibly see Indonesia registers economic growth of above 6% again.

With China’s economy slowing down, it is a possibility that Indonesia could lead the growth engine in G20 grouping.

The good news is Jokowi is still presidential candidate, the bad news Kalla is VP, the free man gangster to help joko beating up the FPI etc…… ……..not bad at all.

Divide et impera.

Preman actually means “a precursor of the human being” (which could be seen as describing the modern preman) whilst the Indonesian word preman is the modern form of the “jago”, the village strongman who dealt with “difficulties”. The word originated from the Dutch term vrijman (‘free man’) which later morphed into preman, but it referred to a new breed of urban jago who “was not in the service of the Dutch East India Company, but has permission to be in the Indies, and carries out trade for the sake of the VOC”.

These “vrijman” were the original  thugs and mobsters free to operate outside of the constraints the Dutch Government imposed on the DEIC and the VOC and the romanticised definition of Preman meaning a Free Man is utter rubbish – they are as much gangsters as anything the Cosa Nostra and similar groups have to offer and should be treated as such. The term gangster only came into being in the late 1890′s in America and has nothing to do with “free man” – it means “a member of an organized gang of criminals, especially one who resorts to violence” which brings us neatly back to Preman!.

gyro……errrr ….you too nice. If found guilty of his past misdeeds I would dispatch him to Buru Island….quite close to his past.

Val, — your words about his relocation are resounding all around my office.

JC……..it’s simply a fact that JK will bring in the votes Jokowi needs. I believe ARB was asking tooooooo much during that late night meet with the fat lady.

Jokowi was honest about the Mr. ‘J’ Now lies the mystery of who he referred to as Mr. ‘A’. I am seeing his body movements on TV as not showing ease with JK at his side……..too bad, he had to answer to his master/s’s call.

Ultimately, I feel strongly that it was a politically intelligent call. They knew that ARB would no doubt sell himself to Prabowo. No honor….no shame in politics. Thus having JK on their team would either split some Golkar votes and shake the Banyan tree a little…….and most vital of all secure a strong hold in South Sulawesi.

Such are the woes of politics.

I think you’re probably right. Not many other “choices” that would soothe the Great Dame. After all, JK was quite the political yo-yo in the past – jumping between the Democrats, Golkar, PDI-P, etc.

I hope he can play that signed electric guitar he got from Metallica a while ago. But I guess he’ll have his hands pretty full dealing with his new crew.

Kalla is the pragmatic pick, because he’s deeply entrenched in the high-level bureaucracy who could basically block any Presidential initiative if they choose.

Subscribe to our newsletter to get a briefing on the day's top stories, photos and more.
