
As such any action that might tip the balance to one claimant over another is recorded with the precision of a seismometer’s needle.  An operational deep sea-drilling rig is analogous to a sizeable geopolitical quake.  And Vietnam has responded in kind.

You fools! Don't you remember your history? The last time the Chinese came, they stayed a thousand years. The French are foreigners. They are weak. Colonialism is dying. …  But if the Chinese stay now, they will never go. As for me, I prefer to sniff French s--t for five years than to eat Chinese s--t for the rest of my life.

However there is a deeper, structural cause to the current conflict that can be explained outside of the unique history of these two nations. It is also an explanation that raises worrying questions for the future of peace in the region.

The implications of this is teased out in a masterful if depressing work by John Mearsheimer called The Tragedy of Great Power Politics.

The best way for states to survive in an anarchic system in which others states … might be hostile is to have more rather than less power. This logic… drives states to maximise their share of world power.

The tragedy is more than the absence of a ‘government of governments’.  Those seeking a solution in the night watchman should surely recall Plato’s sage observation that ‘this and no other is the root from which a tyrant springs; when he first appears he is a protector’.

In a world where trust is always in deficit, the only one who wins is the arms dealer.

Evan Ellis is a freelance journalist currently completing his Masters in International Studies with a China major.

Joint strike fighters image by Shutterstock .

Comments should be short, respectful and on topic. Email is requested for identification purposes only.

It would be foolish to believe that female liberation can occur in a vacuum: as long as there are girls and women being brutalised in the DRC, schoolgirls being sold into slavery in Nigeria's border regions, girls around the world are being subjected to female genital mutilation and women being supressed by religious ideology, then the acquisition of our own freedoms — flawed as they are — is a hollow victory indeed.

Tim Judah, highly regarded historian of the post-Yugoslavia wars of secession, predicted things were about to go very badly in Ukraine. He wrote that in the east he witnessed 'the same brave talk, euphoria, and delusions' that beset Yugoslavs before they 'tipped their country into catastrophe in the 1990s'. Just two weeks later, Ukraine races towards civil war, prompted largely by the provocative clumsiness of Kiev and its Western cheerleaders.

As I scanned the actor profiles for the new Star Wars film, it became apparent that no brown actress was among them. The mythology George Lucas created 40 years ago remains predominantly male and white. What happens when brown women are kept out of the picture is that their invisibility is normalised. We are not seen to contribute, much less lead. This is not harmless. It makes our presence in society incidental. Dispensable.

Eureka Street is completely free of charge - however it costs a significant amount of money to provide our unique content. Eureka Street relies almost entirely on donations from our readers and organisations that support our endeavours. The balance of our revenue is from advertisers. If you are a regular reader and are able to support us financially, please consider making a donation.

Get updates when new articles are published on Eureka Street.
