
The Jordanian military is redeploying its forces along the Hashemite Kingdom’s  lengthy border with Syria in light of the deteriorating security situation on  the frontier, the London-based Arab-language newspaper Al-Hayat reported on  Monday.

Last month, Jordanian state television reported that Jordan’s air  force hit and destroyed military vehicles trying to cross from Syria.

A  Jordanian security source said the targets appeared to have been Syrian rebels  with machine guns mounted on civilian vehicles who were seeking refugee from  fighting with government forces in southern Syria.

The Syrian state news  agency SA NA said no Syrian vehicles were involved in the  incident.

Photos taken from the air that appeared on several Jordanian  news websites showed at least one civilian Chevrolet pickup damaged and another  similar vehicle on fire.

Amman has tightened controls along the 370-km.  border to try to prevent Jordanian Islamist fighters who have joined the rebels  from crossing back into Jordan. They are seen as a domestic security  threat.

Unlike Syria’s other main neighbors – Turkey, which has given  rebels a safe haven, and Lebanon, whose border has been breached with impunity  by combatants – US-allied Jordan has prevented any free flow of arms or fighters  over its frontier.

Western diplomats say Jordan has been granted hundreds  of millions of dollars from Washington in the past two years to beef up its  boundaries with Syria. Amman has constructed scores of observation towers with  the latest surveillance equipment.

Jordan has diplomatically sought to  distance itself from calls to bring down Assad. It retains diplomatic and  economic ties with Damascus, saying it seeks a political solution to the  conflict and opposes foreign military intervention.

Amman has long been  concerned that any overt support of the Syrian insurgency could trigger  retribution against the kingdom by Assad’s powerful security  forces.

Jordan’s intelligence establishment has long expressed concerns  about sleeping cells recruited by Assad in the kingdom with orders to engage in  acts of sabotage in reprisal for any perceived support for a Western-led  military operation against Syria launched from Jordanian territory.

Your comment must be approved by a moderator before being published on JPost.com. Disqus users can post comments automatically.

Comments must adhere to our Talkback policy . If you believe that a comment has breached the Talkback policy, please press the flag icon to bring it to the attention of our moderation team.
