
After booking Ryanair flights I tried to check in online for myself and my family – five people in total – only to discover that Ryanair has reduced the online check-in time from the 15 days offered when I booked, to just seven. It seems the only way to check in and print your boarding card from home is to reserve a seat.

Seat reservations costs £5 or £10 per person per route. This allows you to check in online up to 30 days in advance of travel.

I feel this change will catch many travellers out and it seems such a regressive step (albeit the motivation is surely generating more revenue).

I spoke to Ryanair which, as you would expect, had nothing to suggest other than buy seat reservations.

Ryanair has made much in recent months about its change of policy and its decision to try not to, in the words of Michael O'Leary, "unnecessarily piss people off" . Shareholders had complained that the airline's "macho" image was harming its business. Hidden charges, in our estimation, were one of the things that annoyed the Irish airline's customers most.

Which makes this change, which has arrived somewhat under the radar, all the more surprising – not least as it looks like a crude attempt to get more people to pay extra and buy an allocated seat.

The airline confirms that the 30-day advance online check-in is only available to customers who purchase their preferred allocated seat. "Customers who don't wish to pay for an allocated seat can check-in online between seven days to two hours prior to each flight and will be allocated a seat free of charge," it says.

As you say, it leaves those going away for longer than seven days having to book an allocated seat for the return leg at least – or hoping they can find an internet cafe (complete with printer) while away. Ryanair users, you have been warned.

On a more positive note, other changes mean that customers who book directly using the Ryanair website now have a 24-hour grace period from the time of original booking to correct any minor errors – the mis-spelling of names, incorrect routings/dates etc, which is welcome.

Our editors' picks for the day's top news and commentary delivered to your inbox each morning.
