
BRITONS who were held hostage in Yemen have described Abu Hamza's conviction as "justice" - but questioned why it couldn't have happened sooner.

Three Britons and an Australian died in 1998 when Yemeni forces rescued the hostages and it is claimed Abu Hamza had been hoping to exchange the hostages for his son, stepson and several other British radicals arrested days earlier in Yemen.

Following Hamza's conviction Laurence Whitehouse, who was among the hostages and whose wife, Margaret, was one of the Britons shot dead, spoke of his relief at the court's decision.

He told the Daily Telegraph: "This has taken a long time, even though there was evidence of his involvement early on. We could have had less trouble and strife in the world if effective action had been taken against him earlier."

Mr Whitehouse also told the BBC Radio 4 Today programme: "I think (Hamza) has done more harm to the cause of Islam and the Islamic community and lots of damage, therefore I am pleased he can't continue his incendiary messages."

Another of the hostages, Eric Firkins, 70, said: "The worst thing, coming back from Yemen was finding it had all been organised in north London. For years I saw him on the television every day, a free man who was still spouting hatred. Now I can parcel it up."

Immediately after the verdicts were announced last night Hamza’s lawyers said he intended to appeal.

He was said to have used the cover of religion to “hide in plain sight” under the noses of the British authorities for years.

Hamza was convicted of supporting Al Qaeda and the kidnap the British hostages Yemen.

He was also found guilty of advocating violent jihad in Afghanistan in 2001 and conspiring to establish a training camp in Bly, Oregon, between June 2000 and December 2001.

Home Secretary Theresa May today welcomed the conviction, saying: “I am pleased that Abu Hamza has finally faced justice. He used every opportunity, over many years, to frustrate and delay the extradition process.

Hamza will be sentenced on September 8, three days before the 13th anniversary of the September 11 attacks.

Former home secretary David Blunkett said Hamza's conviction justified the lengthy efforts made to extradite him from the UK.

He said: "This has been a very long journey to obtain justice, and to ensure that someone who has been so adept at avoiding the just penalty for his extensive activities is at last being brought to book.

"The verdict justifies the extensive measures over many years to ensure through his extradition that he should pay for the misery he brought to others."

British taxpayers spent millions footing the bill for his fight to resist American justice, which went all the way to the European Court of Human Rights.

After a relentless 10-year battle by the US authorities he was finally extradited in 2012.

During the trial Hamza’s defence team claimed the prosecution case, which included videos of his fiery sermons at the Finsbury Park Mosque, was about “words, not deeds”.

They portrayed him as an “independent thinker” who was “on his own island”.

In his own testimony at Manhattan’s Federal Court, Hamza brazenly said that even today he loves the late Al Qaeda leader Osama Bin Laden and believes the 9/11 Twin Towers attack was a good thing.

During the trial Hamza wrote a series of letters to district judge Katherine Forrest.

He told her his evidence would be “important for historians”.

He also overruled his legal team’s objections to him discussing anything inflammatory.

Egyptian-born Hamza claimed he was just the “mouthpiece” for the Yemeni kidnappers and nothing else, a role he likened to Sinn Fein president Gerry Adams’s connections to the IRA.

He claimed he had tried to “de-escalate” tensions between the West and the Muslim world and told the jury he had nothing to do with the Oregon camp and did not send anyone to fight in Afghanistan.

Hamza moved to Britain aged 21 in 1979, gaining UK citizenship with his first marriage.

He studied engineering at Brunel and Brighton universities and worked at Sandhurst Military Academy, which was attended by Princes William and Harry.

He converted to Islam after working as a bouncer and strip club owner in Soho.

He lost his hands and most of his forearms in an explosives accident in Pakistan in 1999.

In London Hamza, who has been married three times and fathered eight children, began his rise to public notoriety as imam at Finsbury Park.

He had claimed that he was only trying to help the former mujahideen who had been displaced after the war against the Soviet Union in Afghanistan.

But in 2006 he was convicted of inciting murder and jailed for seven years.

See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper,    order back issues and use the historic Daily Express    newspaper archive.
