
NEW YORK – Israeli envoy Ron Prosor publicly blasted the UN Relief and Works  Agency for Palestine Refugees in Near East at a talk on Monday at the UN on  whether the agency is a help or a hindrance in the pursuit of peace in the  Middle East, and how it may perpetuate the refugee problem.

Right  of return, he said, is actually a euphemism for the destruction of  Israel.

UNRWA is responsible for helping fuel this “fiction” of the right  of return to Palestinian children through their textbooks and schools.

That  is, in addition to the right of return, the fact that the UN puts Palestinian  refugees in a class of their own, separate from those from elsewhere in the  world, has also fueled the problem.

He added that those who fund UNRWA  are, of course, enabling it to perpetuate its activities.

“Eighty-five  percent of UNRWA’s funding comes from North American and Western European  countries,” he continued.

Even the Palestinian government doesn’t take  responsibility for its people, he said, because UNRWA’s services are already  taking care of them.

The difference in the status of the refugees  comes in the differences in the definitions made by UNRWA and the UN High  Commission on Refugees.

Under  the UNRWA definition, being outside the country of one’s nationality is not  mentioned, said James Lindsay, a lawyer and former general counsel to UNRWA from  2000 to 2007.

“They are, they remain, refugees. Their descendants  remain refugees,” Lindsay said.

Even in countries like Jordan where the  Palestinians have citizenship, Palestinian Jordanians are still able to benefit  UNRWA services.

“What if UNRWA lost its funding?” a member of the audience  asked.

It’s possible that Western countries could divert their  funds to other Palestinian agencies, as Canada has done, but a full-fledged,  sudden defunding of UNRWA would lead to the collapse of Palestinian society,  Joffe said.

“The Nakba mentality is ingrained within them [the  refugees],” Romirowsky said. “Until that is changed, they will be doing much of  the same,” meaning that they will continue to elect to be dependent on  UNRWA.

The Palestinian identity and nationalism is based on this idea, he  said.

Einat Wilf, a former member of the Knesset, spoke on the West’s  complicity in allowing the problem of Palestinian refugees to  precipitate.

Since vast majority of UNRWA’s dollars  come from the West, as Joffe and Romirowsky said, UNRWA would not exist without  the West’s support.

Steven Rosen, the director of the Washington Project of the  Middle East and a former senior official at the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, analyzed how the American  government in particular had become complicit in UNRWA’s  spread.

The event was arranged by The  International Association of Jewish Lawyers and Jurists and the American  Association of Jewish Lawyers and Jurists.

Your comment must be approved by a moderator before being published on JPost.com. Disqus users can post comments automatically.

Comments must adhere to our Talkback policy . If you believe that a comment has breached the Talkback policy, please press the flag icon to bring it to the attention of our moderation team.
