
RANCHI: The Bharatiya Janata Party , which swept the Lok Sabha polls in Jharkhand, winning 12 of the 14 seats, is in no mood to demand the Jharkhand chief minister's resignation.

However, the state unit of the party has decided to move court against alleged rigging in Dumka and Rajmahal Lok Sabha seats, said leader of opposition in Jharkhand Arjun Munda on Sunday.

"The party does not feel it is necessary to demand chief minister Hemant Sorent's resignation. He should step down on moral grounds on his own," he said.

Munda was addressing a press conference along with party president Ravindra Rai at the BJP state headquarters in Ranchi.

In Jamshedpur, senior party leader Raghuvar Das too said the coalition government looks certain to collapse on its own soon. Rai claimed that Shibu Soren, Jharkhand's tallest tribal leader, won from Dumka because of rigging.

"The chief minister was camping in Dumka in the run-up to the election. He put pressure on the returning officer and other officials concerned to tamper with the results," said Rai, who has won from Koderma constituency.

In Ranchi, Munda said the government deployed forces according to their convenience. "Central forces were deployed in urban areas while state forces were deployed in rural areas," said Munda, adding that there were frequent power cuts in the strongroom during counting. "There was no fuel to run the generator either. This clearly points to some foul play."

Shibu Soren defeated BJP's candidate Sunil Soren by over 39,000 votes.

BJP levelled allegations of rigging against JMM in Rajmahal constituency as well. JMM's candidate Vijay Kumar Hansda defeated BJP's Hemlal Murmu by over 41,000 votes.

A JMM turncoat, Murmu has also levelled charges of rigging against JMM. BJP claimed that the government made Bangladeshi infiltrators' voter ID cards and used them "to make its candidate win". BJP leaders also said they have proof for this.

"Our candidates will come with all documents to Ranchi and we will move the court," said Munda. He further alleged that police, politicians and several government officers are involved in illegal coal mining in Jharkhand.
