
The following is an archived video story. The text content of that video story is available below   for reference. The original video has been deleted and is no longer available.

WEST MICHIGAN (NEWSCHANNEL 3) - Its a procedure more than 750,000 women have had over the last 12 years--and according to doctors, most with desired results.

But now, more and more women are coming forward, blaming pain and mystery medical issues that had gone undiagnosed for years on Essure.

In a special report, Newschannel 3 takes a look at the product, the procedure, and the problems that some local women say they suffered because of it.

25-year-old Danica Nieuwenhuis knew, beyond a doubt, when she was done having kids--she sought out a doctor to discuss having her tubes tied.

"That was the first thing that came out of his mouth, was Essure," Nieuwenhuis said. "And I thought, oh, okay, well new baby at home, no downtime, sure why not?"

Video from the manufacturer, Bayer, shows how the procedure works.

Metal coils are placed in the fallopian tubes.

The body has an immune response to a material in the coil, and over time creates scar tissue--blocking the tube, and preventing pregnancy.

But Danica, and other women from West Michigan, say Essure--sold to them as a time and money saving measure--ended up causing immeasurable pain and suffering.

"Cramps, all the time, my periods were so much heavier," she said.

"I had lots of tingling in my arms and my legs, and my fingers would go numb," said another patient, Kirstin Howell.

"I didn't want to get out of bed, a lot, just depressed, and I didn't know what was going on with me," said Jamie Heggie.

The three women describe many shared symptoms that went undiagnosed for each for years.

"Testing and more testing and more testing and nothing coming up, and just like, am I crazy? Am I imagining this?" Heggie said.

"When everything started getting really bad, I thought that I had ovarian cancer," Danica said. "So I went to the doctors, they tested me for everything under the sun, and I was the healthiest sick person there was."

Desperate for answers, the women took to the web, and found a Facebook page that seemed to offer them.

"On there, they directed me to posts that they had tagged with symptoms, went into my doctors office with a note, I probably had 12 or 15 problems on there, I said this is my problem, I think it's Essure," Howell said. "He said, okay, we'll do surgery."

"It just hit me like a brick wall. That's what its been this whole time," Heggie said.

All three went to doctors to have Essure removed--through hystorectomies. All three now say-- their symptoms are gone.

"Before then, I really didn't know that all of my problems were caused by Essure," Danica said. "Now that its out, I know every single one of them was caused by it."

Doctor Jennifer Carman, of Bronson OB-GYN performs Essure, and she acknowledges that serious complications can arise.

"That coil can actually perforate through the fallopian tube or uterus and can or can be expelled in the abdominal cavity sometimes, leading to an invasive surgery to remove the coil," she said.

Dr. Carman adds that fewer than five percent of patients have adverse effects, though.

"The risk for complications are actually pretty small with the Essure procedure," she said. "You know, we have some case reports of some bad complications, but they're pretty rare, most patients do well with Essure."

And Bayer stands behind its product, saying all adverse affects are listed in the product information.

"This fact has been confirmed by the Food and Drug Administration, whose review of our five year safety data for Essure found that it did not demonstrate any new safety problems or an increase incidence of problems already known," said Dr. Edio Zampaglione, who works in U.S. Medical affairs for Bayer.

While they may not be "most patients," these women say their suffering should be more than enough to warrant a closer look at the product and the procedure.

"Who would want to sell you a product that is going to have all of these terrible side affects?" Howell said.

"It's not a good option," Danica said. "It definitely needs to be taken off of the market."

Essure was approved for use by the FDA in 2002.

From that time through October of last year, 943 "adverse events" were reported to the FDA related to Essure--the most common were pain and hemorrhaging.

In August a woman, who was admitted to the hospital with abdominal pain after having the Essure procedure, died from toxic shock syndrome.

The attending physician ruled that the cause of death  was not directly related to Essure.

All three women we interviewed for this story say they are considering becoming part of a medical tort claim--which would be filed against the federal government.

To see the FDA's page on Essure, click here .

For the FDA report on the women who died after using Essure, click here .

2013, WWMT-TV | Portions are Copyright 2013 Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or distributed.
