
Volunteer lifeboat crew with Lough Swilly RNLI were involved in the dramatic rescue of a lone fisherman on Sunday afternoon. The man was found clinging to a lobster pot buoy off Tullagh beach near Clonmany.

His cries for help were heard by a woman and her son who were tending sheep nearby. They spotted him clinging to the buoy and alerted Malin Head Coast Guard Marine Rescue at 1.50pm.

Both the Lough Swilly RNLI high speed RIB and all-weather Tyne class lifeboats were despatched, as well as the Irish Coast Guard helicopter from Sligo and the Coast Guard Greencastle boat. A local fishing vessel also took part in the search and rescue operation.

The local fishing crew, who were directed to the man’s location by the mother and son who had seen him from the beach, were first on the scene. They recovered the freezing casualty, who was wearing a lifejacket, onto their vessel.

Three minutes later the Lough Swilly RNLI inshore lifeboat arrived and the casualty was transferred onboard the lifeboat. The volunteer crew immediately administered oxygen and wrapped him blankets to warm him up. A few minutes later the Coast Guard helicopter Rescue 118 arrived overhead and winched a paramedic onboard the lifeboat. He then assessed the casualty.

The Lough Swilly RNLI inshore lifeboat came ashore onto Tullagh beach where the Coast Helicopter landed nearby. The casualty was immediately transferred to the helicopter and flown to hospital for treatment.

Lough Swilly RNLI crewmember Joe Joyce said: “This man was very fortunate that his cries for help were heard by the mother and her son at Tullagh. Once they raised the alarm, help was at hand within minutes.

“From the arrival of the local fishing vessel, to the fast response of the lifeboat crew and Coast Guard, everyone worked together to help the casualty.

Create your own advertisement or send someone a special message.

© 2014 Johnston Publishing Ltd.

Donegal Democrat provides news, events and sport features from the Letterkenny area. For the best up to date information relating to Letterkenny and the surrounding areas visit us at Donegal Democrat regularly or bookmark this page.

For you to enjoy all the features of this website Donegal Democrat requires permission to use cookies.

Cookies are small data files which are sent to your browser (Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome etc) from a website you visit. They are stored on your electronic device.

This is a type of cookie which is collected by Adobe Flash media player (it is also called a Local Shared Object) - a piece of software you may already have on your electronic device to help you watch online videos and listen to podcasts.

Yes there are a number of options available, you can set your browser either to reject all cookies, to allow only "trusted" sites to set them, or to only accept them from the site you are currently on.

However, please note - if you block/delete all cookies, some features of our websites, such as remembering your login details, or the site branding for your local newspaper may not function as a result.

A tool used by some of our advertisers to target adverts to you based on pages you have visited in the past. To opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

Our sites contain advertising from Google; these use cookies to ensure you get adverts relevant to you. You can tailor the type of ads you receive by visiting here or to opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

This is used to help us identify unique visitors to our websites. This data is anonymous and we cannot use this to uniquely identify individuals and their usage of the sites.

This comes from our ad serving technology and is used to track how many times you have seen a particular ad on our sites, so that you don't just see one advert but an even spread. This information is not used by us for any other type of audience recording or monitoring.

ComScore monitor and externally verify our site traffic data for use within the advertising industry. Any data collected is anonymous statistical data and cannot be traced back to an individual.

Our Classified websites (Photos, Motors, Jobs and Property Today) use cookies to ensure you get the correct local newspaper branding and content when you visit them. These cookies store no personally identifiable information.

We use Grapeshot as a contextual targeting technology, allowing us to create custom groups of stories outside out of our usual site navigation. Grapeshot stores the categories of story you have been exposed to. Their privacy policy and opt out option can be accessed here.

Our partner for Newspaper subscriptions online stores data from the forms you complete in these to increase the usability of the site and enhance user experience.

Add This provides the social networking widget found in many of our pages. This widget gives you the tools to bookmark our websites, blog, share, tweet and email our content to a friend.
