
Participate in Share Chat.

Athens (Alliance News) - Greece's far-left SYRIZA party scored gains Sunday in first-round municipal and regional elections, in a setback for the fragile ruling coalition.

The elections in hundreds of constituencies across Greece were the first nationwide voter test for conservative New Democracy Prime Minister Antonis Samaras since taking office in 2012.

A second round of voting on Sunday will coincide with European Parliament elections.

SYRIZA had a surprisingly strong performance in the populous Attica region as well as in the municipality of Athens, home to nearly 40% of Greece's population, though both New Democracy and Socialist coalition partner PASOK managed to defend their positions in the provinces.

"Greece must show that it is on stable ground, and this is in the hands of the Greeks to achieve," Samaras said.

The results are evidence of the anger felt by voters over austerity reforms demanded under Greece's international bailout, including repeated tax hikes and pension and salary cuts, while unemployment has soared to nearly 27%.

SYRIZA leader Alexis Tsipras is calling for many of the austerity measures and reforms to be scrapped, and said advances made in the first round already marked a major breakthrough. He is looking to use the local poll and European Parliament elections as a referendum to topple Samaras' coalition government.

"We are optimistic that we will win the runoff vote, as well as European Parliament elections next Sunday," said Tsipras, who is also the nominee of the European Left for president of the European Commission.

In the populous Attica region, final results with 20% of the vote counted showed SYRIZA candidate Rena Dourou leading with 23.8% of the vote for the Attica governorship. Socialist rival Giannis Sgouros had 22%.

Gavriil Sakellarisis, a 33-year-old SYRIZA candidate, was at 20.2%, running neck-and-neck with left-centre incumbent Giorgos Kaminis's 21% for Athens mayor.

All four will head to runoffs without outright majorities.

New Democracy's candidate for Athens mayor suffered a heavy defeat, as Aris Spiliotopoulos landed in third place and is eliminated in the run-off vote. It is the first time since 1974 that a conservative candidate will not contest a runoff vote for Athens mayor.

The failure of conservative candidates to secure votes continued in northern Greece, where the New Democracy candidate for the central Macedonia region, Yannis Ioannidis, significantly trailed Apostolos Tzizikostas, who is running as an independent.

New Democracy's candidate for the Thessaloniki mayoralty, Stavros Kalafatis, trailed incumbent Yiannis Boutaris, who is supported by the socialists.

Datafeed and UK data supplied by NBTrader and Digital Look.      While London South East do their best to maintain the high quality of the information displayed on this site,

we cannot be held responsible for any loss due to incorrect information found here. All information is provided free of charge, 'as-is', and you use it at your own risk.

The contents of all 'Chat' messages should not be construed as advice and represent the opinions of the authors, not those of London South East Limited, or its affiliates.

London South East does not authorise or approve this content, and reserves the right to remove items at its discretion.

This site requires cookies in order to give you the best user experience. By using this site, you are agreeing to the use of cookies.
