
Alliance for Democracy and Development President Charles Milupi Charles Milupi says government silence on the damning video capturing Vedanta Resources boss vilifying Zambians for selling him Konkola Copper Mines at loss is shocking.

Featuring on Muvi Television’s The Assignment programme, Milupi said the PF government was hiding something hence their reluctance to even discuss the controversial windfall tax.

The ADD leader also described the state of the Kwacha that is in a free fall as a tragedy.

“Government should come out clean because I do not believe that Mr Anil Agarwal (Vedanta boss) said the things that he said that he is making profit and we have a government that is not aware,” Milupi said.

Milupi said the government seemed to have been cutting deals with investors that made them find it difficult to stand up to investors.

“There is something that keeps them to be on the side of investors….Why is it that when people are in opposition they say that we want windfall tax; we are going to introduce windfall tax? When they go into government they change as if they never said,” he said.

Milupi said at the time he was part of the team that was negotiating the introduction of the windfall tax they had considered the cost of such a venture even for high cost mines.

“That cost (of production) around 2008 came to about US$1.50 or US$3, 300 per tonne as the average cost. And then they (mining firms) said the high cost producers will be US$ 2 per pound and we said we shall allow a 25% profit on top of a high cost producer taking it to US$2.50 per pound,” he said.

He said Agarwal was being very truthful about the super profits he made on KCM as he was speaking to an audience he was at home with.

Milupi said it was very clear that KCM had been undervalued when it was sold to Vedanta Resources and that those that opposed its sale at US$25 million had been vindicated.

Agarwal was captured on video saying he was shocked that Zambians had sold him KCM for US$25 million despite being valued at US$400 million.

He said he was making US$500, 000 million every year from KCM.

Have been vindicated by the reports after 12 years when I mentioned the same at Radio Icengelo and what I received was to be Blacklisted by MMD Government and dismissed on Flimsy ground by my former employer. Shame to MMD and whoever was involved in that scandal. Read Daniel 2:44 and Revelation 21:1-5. Mwabepa fye teti mulingane na Yesu Kristu mwa cepa.
