
Turkey has become aware that the northern Iraq oil stockpiled in Turkey cannot be sold on the world market without Baghdad's approval and has begun developing appropriate new policies.

Summary ⎙ Print Turkey has realized it can’t sell Kurdish oil without Baghdad’s blessing.

Since 2011, when relations with the Maliki government seriously deteriorated, Ankara has been striving for economic integration with the northern Iraq Kurdish administration. Most of the schools, hospitals, hotels, mass housing, roads, bridges and infrastructure in that region have been built by Turkish companies. Most of their food supplies come from Turkey. But that rosy situation began to change when oil and natural gas got into the picture.

These statements were polite warnings in diplomatic language.

Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki was disturbed by the situation and this led to tensions in Ankara-Baghdad relations. On July 10, 2008, when Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan visited Baghdad, he had signed an important accord with Maliki and a “High-Level Strategic Cooperation Council” was set up between two countries.

But Turkey-Iraq relations began to sour before any of these projects came to life. Iraq issued an arrest warrant for its Sunni vice president,  Tariq al-Hashemi , on allegations he was planning to assassinate Shiite leaders, including Maliki. Hashemi first took refuge in northern Iraq and, at the beginning of 2012, came to Turkey. Maliki asked for his extradition but Turkey refused.

Meanwhile, Turkey significantly improved its relations with the KRG. The administration of KRG President Massoud Barzani designated Turkish companies as the lead in construction activities. Cooperation agreements were signed for oil and natural gas. There was an effort for full economic integration between Turkey and the KRG. This was followed by political integration between the Justice and Development Party (AKP) government and Barzani.

According to their agreements, in the first phase 10 billion cubic meters of natural gas is to be transferred to Turkey, of which some will be consumed in Turkey and the rest will be exported to Europe.

Natural gas imports from northern Iraq were scheduled to begin in 2015. But according to information given to Al-Monitor from sources in the Energy Market Regulatory Agency (EPDK), the natural gas transfer was likely to be delayed until 2016 or even 2017.

As for oil, the KRG aims at increasing its daily oil exports to 1 million barrels by 2015 and 2 million barrels by 2020 .

The Kirkuk-Yumurtalik (Ceyhan) pipeline with its 70 million-barrel capacity is to play a major role in transporting regional oil to world markets. A new pipeline with a 300,000-barrel capacity constructed by the KRG was linked to the Kirkuk-Yumurtalik pipeline and the oil started moving through it in January of this year.

The storage tanks in Ceyhan are about full, but the oil cannot be sold because, according to the Iraqi Constitution, permission from the Baghdad government is essential. Baghdad meanwhile is threatening potential buyers with imposing an embargo. This threat of the Iraqi government, which has the world's third-highest oil reserves with 143 billion barrels, discourages buyers.

These remarks clearly point to changes in Turkey’s Iraq policy. After a long period of tension, there are visible signs of desire to revert to the “2009 spirit” in Turkey-Iraq relations.

Mutual visits by the foreign ministers, energy ministers and parliamentary speakers of Turkey and Iraq nourished the hopes that the cooperation would develop. Now there are efforts to realize visits by both prime ministers.

The first goal is to dust off the shelved accords. According to information obtained by Al-Monitor, Turkey’s position on northern Iraq oil is this: Turkey accepts northern Iraq oil as belonging to the entirety of Iraq and thinks there is no legal impediment to Turkey moving it. Turkey has one expectation: to deposit the reimbursement for oil to Turkey’s Halkbank and to share the data about it transparently with Baghdad and Erbil.

While there is a search for customers in the international market for the oil stored at Ceyhan, Turkey’s TUPRAS (Turkish Oil Refineries Corp.) is mentioned. But to avoid being placed on Iraq’s black list, TUPRAS is keeping its distance for the time being.

Al-Monitor brings together top journalists from across the Middle East. Including Egypt, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Lebanon, Palestine, Syria and Turkey. Plus, we have daily translations from 20 major news organizations in the region.

Stay connected. Sign up for our daily newsletter.
