
Archaeologists, historians and academics are set to examine Limerick and other surviving Walled Towns in an effort to reimagine what Ireland’s urban areas may have looked like during the 16th century, regarded as one of the least understood and studied periods in the country’s history.

Organised by Limerick City & County Council and funded by Limerick City of Culture and the Irish Walled Towns Network, a conference in Kilmallock on June 5-6 will examine strands of 16th century Ireland by focusing on town fortifications, the role of the merchant classes, and the function, design, origins and influences of their domestic buildings.

Evidence from Limerick City, Kilmallock and from other towns with notable remains of the period such as Kilkenny, Galway, Kinsale and Youghal will also be considered.

“The 16th century is an important period in history as it marks the transition from the medieval to the modern world, including changes in warfare and its consequences for town defences. Due, however, to the social upheavals of the 17th century and the loss of much of our documentation it is a period that is not much explored or understood,” stated Sarah McCutcheon, Executive Archaeologist, Limerick City & County Council.

Ms. McCutcheon explained that Kilmallock, which is one Ireland’s most intact Walled Towns, is an ideal case study for any examination of 16th century Ireland.

Kilmallock’s town walls, 70% of which remain standing today, led it to becoming one of the most strategically important towns in Ireland resulting in its direct involvement in almost every Irish conflict since medieval times. Hundreds of metres of the town’s medieval walls have been restored since the Kilmallock Town Walls Conservation & Management Plan and Kilmallock Walled Town Public Realm Plan in 2009.

Other speakers during the upcoming two day conference include Dr. Rachel Moss, Assistant Prof. History of Art & Architecture, Trinity College Dublin (Building a house in the 16th century: craftsmen & patrons); Dr. Jim Higgins, Heritage Officer, Galway City Council (16th century Galway, the merchants houses); Daniel Noonan, Archaeological Consultant (Myrtle Grove, Youghal); Dr. Jane Fenlon, Art Historian Consultant (Merchants and their houses); Prof. Colm Lennon, Dept of History, NUI Maynooth (The social and cultural world of the merchant families); Dr Liam Irwin, Former Head of Department of History Mary Immaculate College (The 16th century -setting the scene); Frank Coyne, Director, Aegis Archaeology Ltd. (Supervalu Kilmallock recent discoveries); Ben Murtagh, Buildings Archaeologist Consultant (Changes in design of merchant houses 1500-1600); Col. Donal O’Carroll, Former President of the Irish Military History Society (Small arms & armour); Paul O’Keefe, Archaeologist, National Roads  Authority (Camps, cannons & calivers: the archaeology of the Siege of Kinsale); and Brian G Scott, Heritage Consultant (Walls & cannon, conflicts of interest).

“While the conference is likely to attract a local audience and is targeted at the general public, a good percentage of the delegates will come from further afield, as the subject matter has a national appeal. It will raise the profile of the late medieval remains within the environs, encourage repeat visits and establish Limerick City, Kilmallock  and other Walled Towns firmly on the itinerary of cultural tourism,” concluded Mr. Hodkinson.

Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
