
Tata Motors owned JLR roped in British adventurer Bear Grylls as Brand Ambassador of Land Rover.

GMR Infrastructure on Monday said it has achieved commercial operation along the entire 99 km Hungund-Hospet highway in Karnataka, with the completion of a 15 km stretch last week after getting land clearances. The company expects to generate additional revenue of R10 lakh per day from the newly completed stretch, which largely caters to heavy commercial traffic carrying iron ore. The highway is part of NH-13 connecting Sholapur in Maharashtra and Mangalore in Karnataka, and links the mineral-rich Bellary to ports at Mangalore and Karwar.

The Vijay Mallya-led United Breweries Holdings (UBHL) on Monday said its board is unable to approve and publish the audited financial results for FY14 within the May 30 deadline owing to a pending court case on its sale of United Spirits shares to British liquor company Diageo. The company, in a communication to the BSE, said it will publish the financial results for the quarter ended March and the fiscal within a month of a final order by the SC.

Ranchi-based public sector enterprise Heavy Engineering Corporation (HEC) has manufactured what it claims to be the ‘heaviest mobile machine on earth’, the 2,000-tonne walking dragline 24/96. It took HEC 20 months to manufacture and another 18 months to erect and commission the machine at Northern Coalfield’s (NCL’s) Amlohri project site. Called ‘Abhimanyu’ by NCL, the walking dragline is being used in open cast mines to remove the overburden so as to expose the coal seams. HEC sources said the company secured orders for three Dragline 24/96 machines from NCL against stiff global competition and that each machine is to cost NCL around R153 crore.

Wheels India, India's largest wheel producer and part of the TVS group, has reported a 64% growth in its  net profit for the quarter ended March 31, 2014,

Karnataka HC adds Rs 500 cr extra to KFA’s cup of woes Kingfisher Airlines (KFA) on Tuesday suffered a further setback with the Karnataka High Court upholding a demand from the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (ITAT) for over R500 crore. A division bench of the high court dismissed its appeals pertaining to the tax demand over three financial years, while upholding the assessing officer’s order.
