
Tanning salons will be required to post prominent signs warning customers about  the dangers of contracting melanoma -- the most severe type of skin cancer --  from undergoing “treatment”. In addition, youngsters under the age of 18 will be  forbidden from undergoing such artificial tanning, which involves high doses of  ultraviolet light.

This was unanimously approved by the Knesset Labor,  Social Welfare and Health Committee on Monday. The regulations will go into  effect in 90 days after their publication in Reshumot.

In addition to  signs, the tanning salons will have to hand out fliers with explanations of the  dangers and how to at least protect eyes from UV radiation.

Last week’s  State Comptroller report’s chapter on the Health Ministry included criticism for  its “lack of supervision” of tanning parlors. The World Health Organization  (WHO) has warned against tanning salons because of the danger of skin cancer  that they pose.

It is also recommended that pregnant women, people with  moles on their skin and those with a family history of skin cancer not go to  tanning salons, or at least that they consult a doctor first.

The UV  radiation produced in tanning machines are identical to the harmful rays of the  sun, said Dr. Dikla Dahan, assistant to the head of public health services in  the ministry. Even a one-time exposure raises the risk of contracting melanoma  by 15 percent to 75%, she said, and more than doubles the risk of squamous cell  carcinoma.

Edna Peleg, spokeswoman of the Israel Cancer Association,  added that the WHO recommends putting tanning salons in the same carcinogenic  category as facilities that deal with asbestos (proven to cause lung  cancer).

Your comment must be approved by a moderator before being published on JPost.com. Disqus users can post comments automatically.

Comments must adhere to our Talkback policy . If you believe that a comment has breached the Talkback policy, please press the flag icon to bring it to the attention of our moderation team.
