
Teesside's top judge has warned that domestic violence will be prosecuted even if victims try to withdraw their complaints.

Judge Simon Bourne-Arton QC said: “Anyone who carries out such violence will naturally expect to be sentenced to a term of imprisonment.

“Because violence within the home is a curse.

Scott, 28, was successfully prosecuted and convicted after a trial despite the non-cooperation of the victim.

The judge told him: “Those men, indeed those women, who carry out violence which is called domestic violence realise and should realise a number of things.

“Firstly that the courts will take it seriously.

“Secondly that even if for whatever reason the complainant, here your girlfriend, chooses to seek to withdraw her complaint, the court will and the prosecution will continue with the allegation if there is sufficient evidence to support it.

“That’s what happened here,” the judge told Teesside Crown Court.

“She sought to withdraw her allegation from day one.

Prosecutor Rachel Masters said it was a sustained domestic assault on a vulnerable victim using a weapon.

Scott was found guilty of unlawful wounding, and cleared of the more serious charge of wounding with intent to cause grievous bodily harm.

He denied both charges in the trial last month.

Jurors heard he was arrested after a concerned neighbour reported noise from his flat to police at about 5am on January 10.

A woman was heard screaming for help and crying at the home on Old Station Mews, Eaglescliffe .

Police received another call which was cut off. When they rang back Scott answered the phone with a woman crying in the background.

Scott, now of California Close, Stockton , claimed there had been a dispute with someone else and no one was hurt.

Officers went to the home and found his partner with blood-stained hair and smashed glass in the living room.

Ms Masters told how the injured woman was crying, irate, aggressive and refusing medical treatment.

The victim told an officer that Scott pinned her down on the sofa and punched her a number of times in a heated argument.

She said he smashed a wine glass over her head, causing a cut which later needed to be stapled at hospital.

Scott tried to persuade her to wash her hair and pretend nothing had happened when he realised the police were coming.

She also suffered a broken wrist in the struggle, the court was told.

Scott denied assaulting her and claimed her injuries were self-inflicted as she “went wild” and smashed the glass over her own head.

The victim did not want to come to court and neither she nor Scott gave evidence in the trial.

Scott had no previous convictions for violence.

He was in breach of a suspended six-month prison sentence imposed for perverting the course of justice.

He said Scott had otherwise complied with his suspended sentence “to the letter” and completed unpaid work.

Judge Bourne-Arton jailed Scott for 21 months - 18 for the assault plus three from the breached suspended sentence.

What do you think about this story? Have your say by leaving your comments below.

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

Join us on social media.

For the latest local news straight to your Twitter, Facebook feed or e-mail inbox.

Tell us about it and, if possible, send us a picture.

The Evening Gazette is read by more adults than any other newspaper on sale in the Teesside area, with 95,949 average readership and 36,986 copies purchased each day, providing extensive coverage across the region.

206,000 adults would turn to the Evening Gazette when looking for a job.

205,000 adults would turn to the Evening Gazette when looking for articles for sale in the classified section.

187,000 adults would turn to the Evening Gazette when looking to rent or buy a house or flat.

146,000 adults would turn to the Evening Gazette when planning entertainment and leisure activities.

146,000 adults would turn to the Evening Gazette when looking to buy a new/used car.

To advertise with the Evening Gazette please contact us .

Audience figures from Omniture, monthly average (Jan 12 - Jun 12).

More than 31% of GazetteLive users have clicked through to an online advertisement, demonstrating their receptiveness to effective online advertising.

GazetteLive reaches an internet-savvy audience, with 82% of users having purchased products or services online in the past 12 months.

Chris was appointed editor of the Evening Gazette in January 2012. He is also a former Gazette news editor. Chris has more than 20 years experience as a journalist and has previously worked in senior positions in Newcastle, Exeter and Nottingham.
