
The scheduled closure of the Western Racine County Health Department presents an opportunity for further progress in public health care for the county.

In 1967, the Racine County Medical Society, being aware of the inadequate public health provisions throughout the county, published its recommendation that strongly urged the formation of a county public health department. A few County Board members blocked that plan, fearing increased financial costs for their constituents.

In the early 1990s the Racine County Board again discussed unsuccessfully the possibility of forming a county health department. My understanding was that the opposition was led by a popular public servant, Dennis Kornwolf. Later, another County Board member told me that Mr. Kornwolf, when terminally ill, stated that opposing a county public health department was the greatest mistake he ever had made.

So, in the 1990s the prospects of establishing a countywide health department were dim. I tried to stimulate interest in forming a metropolitan health department to cover the area east of I-94. Those efforts came to naught because the political leaders in the area were not concerned at the time.

Then, in the 1990s our state officials, having been long-aware of the fragmented, inadequate public health situation in Racine County, finally ordered every community to have a functioning public health department. Mount Pleasant and Caledonia formed departments that merged and were joined by Sturtevant and North Bay. Wind Point and Elmwood contracted with Racine’s health department. Burlington’s became the Western Racine County Health Department which now covers somehow the county west of I-94 and will cease operations this year.

Racine, Mount Pleasant and Caledonia are well-served by their health departments. Caledonia-Mount Pleasant is by state standards a Level 2. Racine’s is a Level 3, having more services such as a laboratory (which currently is headed by the noted Dr. Kinzelman). Racine’s also provides the only STD clinic in the area.

We have again an opportunity to improve and to establish uniformity in public health services throughout the county, avoiding unnecessary duplication.

Public health concerns are not limited by political boundaries. Some of the problems are: controlling infectious diseases plus finding contacts, dealing with disasters, problems with pollution, animal licensing, infant mortality, providing immunizations and the need for more public education. A single, larger, well-staffed department could cover the whole county more effectively and efficiently. Population is decreasing in Racine and has increased in the county where more public health concerns can be expected.

Let’s hope turf battles and stopgap measures do not prevent what should be done in finally fixing the public health situations in our county. My opinion is that all would be best served by one agency for the entire county, such as exists in Kenosha and most counties. I understand that a few have what is called a joint city-county health department. In any event, in dealing with matters of public health, boundaries should be erased.

Dr. William J. Little is a former longtime member and president of the Racine Board of Health; former medical director of the Racine County Tuberculosis Clinic and Sanatorium; former consultant and attending physician for Kenosha County tuberculosis facilities. He is presently medical director of the Health Care Network.

Copyright 2014 Journal Times. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Dr. Little makes a number of excellent points.  That said, creating an entirely new health department at the county facility makes little sense.  It is far more logical, and probably far more cost effective, to leverage the already well established and proven structures within the City of Racine Health Department (utilizing the "city-county" model).  The City Health department has proven experienced leadership and capacity, and as noted by Dr. Little, is a level 3 health department with services such as a world class laboratory, the only STD clinic in the area, and qualified environmentalists who are already on call for emergencies around the clock.  While such an effort would require significant cooperation and funding by County Administration, at the end of the day, this model would probably be much more cost effective, would unite all the city-county services, and is the best and most expedient way to serve the needs of all the citizens of Racine County.

Username & Password Required!
