
Jeffrey I. Frank, 53, of the first block of Kings Cross Drive in Lincolnshire was charged with public indecency.

Authorities today suspended the license of a prominent University of Chicago neurologist who was charged last week with public indecency and disorderly conduct.

Jeffrey I. Frank, 53, of the first block of Kings Cross Drive in Lincolnshire, surrendered to police on Friday at 12:40 p.m., Deerfield Deputy Police Chief Tom Keane said. Frank was charged with misdemeanor public indecency and disorderly conduct stemming from a May 3 incident in which he allegedly exposed himself and was seen by minors at a hotel on the 1400 block of Lake Cook Road in Deerfield.

Frank’s medical license was temporarily suspended today, and officials from the Illinois Department of Financial and Professional Regulation filed papers seeking further punishment, potentially including revocation of his license.

Deerfield police responded to the hotel at about 7:30 a.m. on May 3, after two 13-year-old boys reported seeing a man standing naked and masturbating at his open window, which faced an atrium, Keane said.  The teenagers were at the hotel for a field trip, according to papers filed by the state’s professional licensing department.

"The kids were on the floor above and looked down and saw him," Keane said.

When the man saw the children looking at him, he closed the curtains partially but continued to masturbate while looking out of his room, according to documents from the state regulatory agency.

By the time police arrived, the man had left the hotel, Keane said. Using hotel records and surveillance footage, they connected Frank to the alleged crime, authorities said.

During the investigation, police found that he’d stayed in hotels dozens of times within the last 12 months, the state regulatory agency documents show.

Frank could not be immediately reached for comment. He turned himself in to police with his attorney present, Keane said, and no statements were given.

Papers filed Monday by the state’s professional licensing department report a series of arrests for similar alleged acts.

Frank was ordered to undergo counseling and stay away from parks, beaches, schools and other places where minors gather. He was also placed under court supervision.

Frank’s state medical license was suspended from August 2006 until January 2007, an "emergency" suspension tied to his criminal charges, said Susan Hofer, spokeswoman for the Illinois Department of Financial and Professional Regulation.

After that suspension, Frank was put on probation for a minimum of five years and allowed to practice medicine under the terms of his probation, Hofer said. That probation was in effect before his most recent arrest, she said. Conditions of his probation included that he receive treatment from a psychologist and report any arrests related to similar charges, records show.

Frank was arrested in 2002 in Vernon Hills on charges of public indecency, according to the licensing agency’s petition.  Lake County court records show the public indecency charge was dropped and he received 18 months court supervision for attempted disorderly conduct.

During the most recent investigation, Deerfield police learned from Evanston police that in July 2011 Frank “was observed” at a beach masturbating near a group of teenage girls, according to IDFPR records. A search of Cook County court records indicated he was not charged in that incident.

According to his biography on the University of Chicago Medicine website, Frank is "an internationally recognized leader in the field of neurointensive care and vascular neurology."

Frank, who was released on bond, is scheduled to appear in court on June 19 at the Skokie Branch Court, according to the Deerfield police news release.
