
), a publicly traded independent diversified energy company, that markets natural gas, petroleum and coal, is in talks with a major manufacturing company in Japan to sell them large supplies of Liquefied natural gas (LNG).

Universal Bioenergy plans to sell the Japanese company, large supplies of LNG for use in power generation and in their manufacturing processes. The Company will be procuring the LNG from producers and refiners in the global energy market to supply the product to the companies in Japan and other countries in Asia.

The Company sees huge long-term growth prospects in the global demand for Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG), as many countries have a greater need for power. Liquefied natural gas (LNG) provides a cost-effective means for transporting natural gas overseas by super-cooling it to a liquid form. According to one source, the global demand for LNG is expected to increase by more than 50 percent by 2030. The Company intends to market and sell refined petroleum based energy products including diesel fuel, jet fuel and LNG to generate greater sales revenues and higher profit margins. A key focus will be on the sales of Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG).

Universal's Senior Vice President Solomon Ali states, "We have been working for several months to develop strong relationships with several companies in Japan to supply them with LNG, coal and other refined petroleum based energy products, as we expand internationally. The sale of these products are being marketed through our Energy Products division. Our Director of Business Development for the Pacific Rim who has extensive experience in doing business in Japan, is spearheading these efforts to help us compete in that energy market. The transaction, if completed, is projected to generate strong revenues and profits for the Company."

Universal Bioenergy is a high growth diversified energy company that is experiencing double-digit growth, and reported sales of over $60.22 million in its Annual Report for 2013. NDR Energy Group, a subsidiary of Universal Bioenergy, has contracts to supply natural gas to 32 of the largest public utilities, electric power producers and local gas distribution companies that serve millions of commercial, industrial and residential customer in the United States.

About Universal Bioenergy Inc.

Safe Harbor Statement Safe Harbor Statement - There are matters discussed in this media information that are forward looking statements within the meaning of Rule 175 under the Securities Act of 1933 and Rule 3b-6 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and are subject to the safe harbor created by those rules. Such statements are only forecasts and actual events or results may differ materially from those discussed. For a discussion of important factors which could cause actual results to differ from the forward looking statements, refer to Universal Bioenergy Inc.'s most recent annual report and accounts and other SEC filings. The company undertakes no obligation to update publicly, or revise, forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except to the extent legally required.

Please fill out the remaining fields to complete your registration.

By clicking 'Register' you are indicating that you have read and agree with our Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy .

By clicking 'Register' you are indicating that you have read and agree with our Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy .

Enter your email address below and click Submit to receive password reset instructions via email.

An email has been sent to .

Please follow the instructions in the email to change your password.

Your account has been created and you are now logged in.

It looks like you've already registered with .  Please login below to link your accounts.

Thank you for registering.  An email has been sent to with instructions on how to verify your account.

The specified email address, , needs to be verified in order to login.

An email has been sent to with instructions on how to verify your account.
