
Thousands of Jakarta administration civil servants are participating in an open selection to compete for positions at the new One-Stop Integrated Service Agency (BPTSP).

Jakarta Employment Agency head I Made Karmayoga said while monitoring tests in Central Jakarta on Saturday that 2,227 civil servants who had registered online were undergoing computerized field competency tests at 10 schools around the city.

“They are competing for 12 echelon III positions and 321 echelon IV positions at PTSP,” he said.

The new agency will coordinate with other agencies to issue a variety of permits.

The city administration previously piloted one-stop service units at several municipal offices.

There are currently 54 types of permits at 14 agencies, including the Small and Medium Enterprises Agency, the Industry and Trade Agency, the Tourism Agency and Environmental Agency, whose issuance procedures were transferred to the piloted one-stop unit. With the agency, the city targets that permit issuance will take only several days.

Made said those who passed the first test would then take the managerial test. “We hope we can inaugurate them before the city’s anniversary on June 22,” he said.

Made said selected employees would be placed in certain positions, such as department head and staffer.

He said most of the staffers would be deployed to subdistrict and district offices to handle permit requests.

Ratna Ayu, a 27-year-old participant from the Central Jakarta municipal office, said she was participating in the selection because she was familiar with the one-stop system.

“I helped at the one-stop unit for three years when Central Jakarta piloted a unit, so I hope my experience will be useful,” she said.

Ratna, who currently works at the secretariat, said the field competency test was not very hard for her as the questions were related to her daily duties when helping at the unit.

“The questions that I found hard to answer were ones related to organization theory,” she said, adding that she worked mostly in the field. So she was not familiar with the organization’s structure.

She added that the open selection would help the city administration produce officials who were capable and innovative in their fields.

“One-stop service is connected directly to residents and businesspeople, so it is essential to be innovative in giving better services,” she said.

Unlike Ratna, 40-year-old participant Muhammad Aris said he took the test to try his luck to transfer to another office.

“I work at the Pasar Manggis subdistrict office in South Jakarta. I want to move to another office closer to my house in Bekasi, but the procedure is too complex. I hope by being assigned to the new agency I’ll have a better chance to move closer to home,” he said.

Aris said that although he did not specifically want to work at the new agency, he still tried his best. “I’m also interested in the idea of integrated one-stop service. I am eager to learn,” he said.

He also supported the open selection system used by the city administration. “It is really a good opportunity, especially for capable employees who do not have any high-up connections,” he said, adding that it was impossible to get a better position without connections in the old days.

It is the third time the city administration has conducted an open selection. The first time was to select subdistrict and district heads and the second time to select community health center (puskesmas) heads and high school principals.

“The open selection will enable civil servants to compete fairly,” Made said, adding that assessments were open and that participants could learn of their scores.

Selected comments will be published in the Readers’ Forum page of our print newspaper.
