
Share This Story!

Federal government is targeting physicians and others in the illegal importation of drugs.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

In these cases, federal authorities allege that physicians buy prescription drugs from companies or brokers outside of the United States and then offer them to their patients, even though the medicines were not manufactured in facilities inspected or approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, as required by law, according to court records.

The federal cases involve brand-name drugs, such as the cancer treatments Avastin and Rituxan, which were imported from Turkey, India, the European Union or other countries, but were not approved for import or sale in the United States.

Authorities says doctors are getting the imported drugs from unapproved sources to get large discounts — in some cases, 20 percent less than the medicines would cost from U.S.-licensed distributors, the government alleged.

Recent cases against two East Tennessee cancer doctors, for instance, have brought convictions, with one defendant serving a two-year federal prison term and the other still awaiting sentencing.

While neither of the Tennessee cases involved drugs that were alleged to be ineffective or unsafe, authorities say,  recent cases nationwide have involved the importation of “counterfeit” drugs, which had little — or in some cases none — of the active ingredients of the brand-name medications they were purported to be.

In St. Louis, two Turkish nationals were indicted in February for allegedly importing counterfeit drugs, including Avastin, through Volunteer Distribution, a wholesaler based in Gainesboro, Tenn., in 2012. The drugs ended up in physicians’ offices.

In that case, some of the imported drugs had none of the active ingredients of the real drugs, and their packages were full of mold and water, the government alleges.

In the East Tennessee cases, the imported drugs were administered intravenously to cancer patients in clinics in Greeneville and Johnson City, but in neither case was there any evidence that anyone was harmed by the unapproved medicines, officials say.

A Johnson City doctor is accused of billing insurers Medicare and TennCare at full price for the drugs he bought at a lesser price from an importer so he could make a larger profit.

The doctor, William R. Kincaid, 70, pleaded guilty in November 2012 to a single count of “receiving in interstate commerce a misbranded drug with intent to defraud or mislead,” and thereby avoided an indictment and trial. He was sentenced in June to the two-year term, which he’s serving at a federal prison in Montgomery, Ala., and also fined $10,000.

The government alleged that he bought $2 million worth of unauthorized drugs from Quality Specialty Products in Winnipeg, Canada, and then billed Medicare and other insurers $2.5 million for the medicines over a period from 2007 to 2012. The drugs were dispensed through Kincaid’s McLeod Cancer and Blood Center in Johnson City.

In a separate civil action, the government obtained a $4.5 million judgment against Kincaid to recoup the money he billed Medicare and Medicaid for the drugs; the award included triple damages. Kincaid also lost his medical license.

In the second case, Dr. Anindya K. Sen and his wife and office manager, Patricia Posey Sen, originally faced similar, multiple felony counts, but they chose to have a jury trial and were convicted only of lesser misdemeanor charges of “causing the introduction into interstate commerce of misbranded drugs.” They bought the drugs from a distributor in Alberta, Canada.

The maximum sentence each could receive is one year in prison plus a fine, according to court documents.

In the case of the Sens, the jury convicted them on the lesser counts because the government could not prove criminal intent, said their defense attorney, Ed Yarbrough of Nashville, who is a former U.S. attorney for Middle Tennessee.

Other, similar gray market drug investigations reportedly are underway in Tennessee and across the nation as the FDA concentrates on the problem, which also involves prescription drugs that consumers order directly from overseas on the Internet.

Reach G. Chambers Williams III at 615-259-8076 and on Twitter @gchambers3.

A gray market is the trade of a commodity through distribution channels that are unofficial, unauthorized or unintended by the manufacturer. Gray market drugs — the ones imported illegally from foreign countries, and that were manufactured without oversight from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration — have become a big problem nationwide and in Tennessee. They are imported primarily at cut-rate prices by physicians' clinics  and then billed to insurers and Medicare/Medicaid/TennCare at full price.
