
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

BAY CITY, MI — A 44-year-old Bay City man alleged to have twice exposed himself to McDonald's employees has withdrawn his plea and is now heading to trial.

Cory D. Peterson on Monday, May 19, appeared before Bay County Circuit Judge Harry P. Gill and requested to withdraw his previous no contest plea to a charge of aggravated indecent exposure, a high-court misdemeanor. Gill was initially scheduled to sentence Peterson on Monday, April 21, but indicated he wouldn't follow a sentencing agreement of one year in jail and probation after learning of the defendant's 2002 conviction of fourth-degree criminal sexual conduct.

Gill revoked Peterson's bond at that time and Peterson has been in the Bay County Jail ever since.

Gill was to sentence Peterson on Monday, but Peterson requested his plea be withdrawn due to Gill's prior indication that he would deviate from the sentencing agreement.

Peterson's attorney, Todd H. Nye, also sought to have his client's case remanded to Bay County District Court for a preliminary examination, which Peterson previously waived. Gill denied this request.

Nye also requested his client be given a bond, saying that since he was released from prison in 2006, he has been an upstanding citizen.

"His conduct, at least of record ... has been very good," Nye said.

Gill agreed to give Peterson a bond, setting it at $50,000 cash.

"I am very concerned about Mr. Peterson's past history," Gill said. "The thing that really concerns me the most ... was the conviction in 2002. I found that to be exceedingly predatory. It involved a 14-year-old girl at a house in which Mr. Peterson was staying. The conduct that is alleged in this case is concerning."

In the 2002 matter, a girl who was friends with Peterson's daughter spent the night at Peterson's house. She awoke to Peterson molesting her, court records show.

If Peterson posts the bond, he must wear an electronic tether, Gill ordered.

Peterson's charge stems from an incident that happened the night of Sunday, Sept. 8, when police responded to a call of a male subject masturbating in the drive-through of the McDonald's at 314 Washington Ave.

The 24-year-old female manager told officers that she collected the customer's money after he ordered a McDouble. When she went to give him his change, she saw his privates were exposed and he was touching himself, she told police.

"I was in shock when I saw it," the woman told officers. "He said, 'Have a nice day.' Then he drove away."

A few minutes later, the same customer came back, placed another order and exposed himself to another female employee, the manager told police. The manager called 911 and had her employee stall the customer by having him park, telling him they were cooking his fries. The customer parked as instructed.

Responding officers found Peterson sitting in his parked truck in the fast food restaurant's lot. His jeans were zipped and his belt fastened, police noted in their reports. Peterson said he went through the drive-through twice but denied exposing himself.

Officers arrested him at the scene.

Peterson's criminal record includes convictions of attempted possession of narcotics in 1990 and 1998, attempted malicious destruction of property more than $100 and carrying a concealed weapon in 1991 and breaking and entering with intent in 1992, plus the criminal sexual conduct conviction in 2003. Due to that last conviction, Peterson must register as a sex offender until Jan. 21, 2028.

© 2014 MLive Media Group All rights reserved ( About Us ).

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
