
GAJARKOT:  Famine is looming large in remote Gajarkot VDC in south-west Tanahun as a vast swathe of land has been rendered unfit for cultivation after the local irrigation project was damaged. According to locals, about 450 hectare land in the VDC became barren this year due to lack of irrigation after the Attrauli-Puttar irrigation project was damaged last year. “We used to grow enough wheat, rice, maize and potato, but after the irrigation project was damaged, the land has become barren,” said tirrigation consumers committee chairperson Ramji Aryal, adding that failure of the concerned authorities to repair the project in time had created food scarcity in the VDC. Floods last year damaged the 18-km irrigation canal at 76 places. “Starvation is a reality in wards 2, 4, 5, 6 and 7,” said irrigation consumers committee Secretary Dilliram Bhandari, adding that preparations are on to repair the damaged project. Constructed with the aid of Asian Development Bank, the project had come into operation 20 years ago.

RAMECHHAP: Demanding proper maintenance of Fulasi-Doramba-Pasewan road section, locals have halted transportation service indefinitely in Ramechhap from Monday. Locals resorted to the agitation to pile pressure on the concerned authority to promptly repair the road that was damaged due to a flood last week. Following the strike, transport service in more than nine VDCs has been obstructed. “There is no possibility that transport will resume till the road is repaired. According to locals, there was no chance of resuming vehicular movement as the 60 km road from Zero of Fulasi to Doramba and Pasewan was completely damaged. Buses from Kathmandu and district headquarters Manthali ply along the road section every day.  After the road was swept away, only small vehicles have been plying Many vehicles have got stuck in the middle of the road. “We have urged the DDC to repair the road,” said Fulasi locals. They have estimated the repair work to cost more than Rs 2 million. Hence, the contribution from locals was not enough.
