
The cost of your daily cup of coffee could increase thanks to a fungus in Central America.

The fungus, known as coffee rust, attacks the coffee plant's leaves with brown and red spots that look like rust.

The fungus forces the coffee plant, coffea, to produce less fruit which encases the green coffee bean.

Roasted coffee is still safe to drink, there are no health problems from the fungus but as the rust threatens' plant life, production will drop and smaller coffee farms could dramatically start to lose business.

Rohs Street Cafe specializes in Central American coffee. It sources its beans from Guatemala, one of the areas hardest hit by the coffee fungus.

"We love Central American coffee around here so we want to have it, but it's (the fungus) really driving the prices up a lot," Keaton Neely said.

Rohs' currently charges $2 for a cup of coffee and if the problem isn't taken care of sooner than later, it might have to increase the price.

Deeper Roots Coffee in Mt. Healthy roasts coffee beans for Rohs Street Cafe. It only has three bags left of green coffee beans from the two farms it imports coffee from in Guatemala. Co-owner and roaster Les Stoneham traveled to Guatemala to work with the small family-owned farms impacted by this coffee fungus.

"Where we're seeing the big problems now is in the higher elevations where the qualities are higher, higher quality strains, a lot of heirloom strains of coffee but a pretty narrow genetic spectrum," Stoneham said.

At the Coffee Emporium on Central Parkway in downtown Cincinnati, head roaster Tony Tausch is used to coffee fungus in other parts of the world but this time it's hitting farms that aren't equipped to handle this type of fungus.

According to Tausch, several of the higher quality coffee plant farms do not use pesticides simply because they cannot afford it, or they want to maintain an organic farm.

"The quality of the coffee that we will be serving here will hopefully be just as good as it always has been, and they shouldn't notice that much of a change from their daily cup," Tausch said.

And even if coffee costs a bit more, caffeine addicts like Lauren Schmidt said they'll still make it work.

"It would be really hard for it to go up much higher but I'd probably still find a way to justify it somehow," Schmidt said.

Copyright 2014 by  WLWT.com . All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

The views expressed are not those of this site, this station or its affiliated companies. By posting your comments you agree to accept our terms of use.

"Breaking Bad" is in blue heaven.
