
More than half of mentally ill patients hospitalized in Massachusetts were sent home without a complete plan for follow-up care, newly released data show. And for patients who had plans, hospitals often did not communicate the information to the right person.

The information is posted on a federal website, Hospital Compare, that provides consumers with insight into the quality of psychiatric care at 1,753 individual hospitals across the country. Until now, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services rated hospitals only on how they treat patients’ physical illnesses.

“Continuing care plans’’ should include a complete list of a patient’s medications, diagnosis, reasons for being hospitalized, and recommendations for follow-up care, according to Medicare.

The idea is to give outpatient providers adequate information about patients to help them keep improving and to prevent relapses.

Nationally, 74 percent of patients had a continuing-care plan, compared with 41 percent in Massachusetts. Plans were communicated to the appropriate outpatient provider for 63 percent of patients nationally, compared with 31 percent here. The data is for Oct. 1, 2012 through March 31, 2013.

Massachusetts hospital leaders said follow-up care plans are better than the data indicate.

David Matteodo, executive director of the Massachusetts Association of Behavioral Health Systems, said hospitals “do discharge planning on virtually 100 percent of the patients.” Some plans, however, may not include every element that Medicare wants to see, he said, particularly since hospitals have just started reporting the data.

If a patient’s follow-up care plan is missing just one component, Medicare does not count it, he said.

“We have to improve on it,’’ he said.

Stephen Rosenfeld, board president for the Massachusetts chapter of the National Alliance on Mental Illness, said gaps in continuing care plans are the tip of the iceberg. Being discharged can be “disastrous’’ for patients, he said, but hospitals are not at fault for some problems, such as insufficient insurance coverage for residential placement and other intensive outpatient care.

The new Medicare data also describes how often hospitals put psychiatric patients in restraints or seclusion to control their behavior. Massachusetts has an initiative to dramatically reduce these practices, which can cause injury or even death to patients.

Heywood Hospital in Gardner, which owns a geriatric psychiatry unit, showed a higher-than-average rate of restraining patients ages 65 and older.

Heywood spokeswoman Amanda MacFadgen said Friday that she could not provide a hospital official to answer questions about the issue.

The Medicare website showed that Mercy Medical Center in Springfield had very high rates of restraining children and teenagers in its psychiatric units, which the hospital said was because it reported the data incorrectly.

In one case, employees mistakenly told Medicare that restraints had been used for 1,346 hours instead of the 13.6 hours, said Mark Fulco, senior vice president for strategy and marketing for Sisters of Providence Health System, which owns the hospital.

He said Mercy had lower-than-average restraint use for most of the Medicare reporting period, according to data the hospital reported to the Massachusetts Department of Mental Health.

Several hospitals that scored below average on discharge planning said they are working to improve their approach to follow-up care.

At Good Samaritan Medical Center, complete continuing-care plans had not been created for any patients, and at Norwood Hospital, about 4 percent had comprehensive plans, the Medicare data show. Steward Health Care, the owner of both facilities, saw the scores last year “and took immediate action,’’ said Dr. Justine Carr, chief medical officer. “We did have plans but not at the level of detail needed,’’ she said.

One element caregivers frequently left out of plans, for example, were patients’ medications for high blood pressure and other physical illnesses. But it is important to list those drugs because they can react negatively with psychiatric medications, Carr said.

Rosenfeld said hospitals need to address more serious problems, too, such as letting psychiatric patients leave the hospital alone, rather than waiting for a relative to arrive.

Medicare also planned to post information on how often hospitals discharge patients on multiple antipsychotic medications, and on when these are inappropriate. Technical issues compromised the data and Medicare now expects to release that information in April 2015.

■ Correction: Because of a reporting error, this story incorrectly described problems with continuing care plans for mentally ill patients discharged from some Steward Health Care hospitals in 2012 and 2013. The plans included the names of medications patients were taking for physical illnesses, but often did not include the illnesses for which doctors prescribed those drugs, as required by Medicare.

You can now read 10 free articles.

Read it all, now.

Don't miss any of your favorite stories again. Read the stories that matter to you as much as you want, whenever you want when you subscribe to BostonGlobe.com.

The login information you entered does not match an account in our records.

To activate FREE access as a home delivery subscriber start here.

If you don't have a subscription, you can view our digital offers here.

Please check your e-mail for a message from BostonGlobe.com with the subject line "BostonGlobe.com password request." Click the link in the e-mail to choose a new password for BostonGlobe.com, and note that your new password will also be used for your Boston.com membership.

Enter your e-mail address below. We’ll send you an e-mail with a link to reset your password.

Continue reading by subscribing to BostonGlobe.com for just 99¢ .

Continue reading by subscribing to BostonGlobe.com for just 99¢ .

Stay informed with unlimited access to Boston’s trusted news source.
