
Around 420 museums and sites nationwide participated. Given its unique historical and cultural heritage, though, Rome offered undoubtedly one of the most enjoyable locations in Italy, and authorities were satisfied with the turnout.

"We are very proud and happy with the result," Rome Mayor Ignazio Marino said. According to the mayor's office, the event attracted more than 210,000 visitors.

This year, entry to national and municipal museums was not totally free: Visitors were required to purchase a "symbolic" 1-euro ticket ($1.37). One hundred ninety events were organized throughout the capital city, and 40 sites were kept open on average until 1 am, according to the mayor.

Around 3,000 people were admitted to the Colosseum, the country's most visited monument. Only people with reservations were allowed to go beyond the security barriers and line up outside the huge Roman amphitheater.

The Colosseum turned out to be one of the most visited sites along with the Capitoline Museums, which offer collections of ancient Roman and Greek sculptures and pieces of art, the Trajan's Market, and the MAXXI museum of contemporary arts.

People flooded the streets of Rome's historic center, trying to get a glimpse of what they liked best.

"The night is going very well for me, despite the crowd," archaeologist Marta Di Berti said.

She spoke just after being admitted to the Trajan's Market to enjoy a classical music concert. Here again, only people with reservations were permitted to attend the event, a four-hand piano performance featuring the music of Schumann, Brahms and Mendelssohn.

"I made my reservation the very same day the program was released, less than an hour after booking was opened, " Di Berti said.

"Last year I missed the visit to the ancient Roman houses beneath Palazzo Valentini because I did not book. ... This time, I've learned my lesson."

According to organizers, the concert was repeated five times, and 230 people were admitted for each performance. Several hundred people stopped on the walkways outside Trajan's Market to enjoy the music even without seeing the performance.

A few dozen meters away, a historical lecture was given to people at the Forum of Augustus, a prominent part of Rome's imperial forums built by the founder of the Roman Empire.

A lecturer explained the origin, development and role of the original buildings of the site, and a video reconstruction of the forum accompanied the talk.

"I find this performance just amazing," said Viteztav Mek, a tourist from Slovakia.

. All rights reserved. The content (including but not limited to text, photo, multimedia information, etc) published in this site belongs to China Daily Information Co (CDIC). Without written authorization from CDIC, such content shall not be republished or used in any form. Note: Browsers with 1024*768 or higher resolution are suggested for this site.
