
DeSoto told cops that he had only done 'what the animal shelter would have done'

A father who killed his pit bull with a bow and arrow after the pet bit his seven-year-old son has been arrested and charged with animal cruelty.

Errol DeSoto, 33, of Harvey, Louisiana, told officers that the dog attacked his son at about 1 a.m. last Tuesday.

DeSoto told investigators that he first put the animal, a two-year-old pit bull named Nyla, into a room to try and calm her down.

A short time later he checked on the dog, but when she lunged at him he punched her on the head and dragged her outside, reports Nola.com.

DeSoto has also been charged with battery after he also attacked a young man in the car park of a nearby hospital.

After his son was bitten, DeSoto and his wife had driven to West Jefferson Medical Center in Marrero to have the boy checked out.

According to DeSoto’s arrest report he became angry after seeing a 19-year-old man whose underwear was exposed because of his saggy pants.

Angered at the young man's appearance, which he felt was disrespectful to his family, DeSoto told him to pull up his pants and the two briefly argued.

A short time later, DeSoto and his family had to return to the hospital and DeSoto once again noticied the man with saggy pants.

According to the report, DeSoto knocked on the man's window and then pepper sprayed him. The man then ran into the hospital and was treated for his injuries.

Just before 5a.m. DeSoto was arrested at his home by Jefferson Parish Sheriff's Office deputies.

He has been charged with cruelty to animals in connection with Nyla's death and simple battery in the pepper spraying incident, the report said. DeSoto has since been released on a $10,000 bond.

Acording to Jefferson Parish court records, he has previous convictions for false impersonation of a police officer.

The comments below have not been moderated.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
