
Jakarta (Antara News) - Indonesia aims to promote the universalization of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT) in the Southeast Asia, the Pacific and Far East (SEAPFE) regions.

The efforts to promote CTBT universalization was initiated through a regional conference for nations in the SEAPFE regions in Jakarta, on May 19-20.

"The promotion and efforts for achieving nuclear disarmament and nuclear non-proliferation is of paramount importance to Indonesia. We are trying to do what we can across all levels, such as the ASEAN, the states of the CTBT, and in the non-alignment movement, we are pushing for effective momentum to achieve universalization of the CTBT," stated Indonesias Foreign Affairs Minister Marty Natalegawa during his keynote speech at the opening event of the conference in Jakarta on Monday.

Minister Marty underlined the two important issues of the CTBT universalization, such as momentum and building the trust among the global community.

With regard to the issue of momentum, Marty explained that it is an abstract concept, but at the same time also has a political side for the government to make apparent efforts to work towards achieving the common goals of nuclear disarmament and nuclear non-proliferation.

"Back in 2012, without any difficulties, Indonesia believed that by ratifying the CTBT, it could be part of the momentum in generating efforts. I do personally and sincerely believe that in the same way we can eliminate the vicious cycle of distrust and then move towards enforcing the CTBT on one another," reiterated Marty.

On the trust issue, Marty emphasized that the CTBT universalization efforts required all countries to realize that the ratification of CTBT is not a merely a technical issue, but a serious security issue on how one tries to gain an understanding about its current and future state.

"If we do not sense the urgency of this issue then there is a possibility of the political and security window shutting down, and we will find ourselves at the threshold of changing scenarios where technical constraints will quickly become political and security concerns," added Marty.

Therefore, Minister Marty underlined that Indonesia is keen to share and be aggressive in asserting peace and assuring that Indonesia is involved and working towards creating continuous and sustainable peace through its nuclear disarmament and the nuclear non-proliferation efforts.

The CTBT-Regional Conference for states in SEAPFE was organized by Indonesia as it is the Co-President of the organizations Article XIV Conference for the period between 2013 and 2015.

As the co-presidents, Indonesia and Hungary share a major responsibility to promote the universalization of CTBT and its entry into force.

The conference in Jakarta was participated by 21 countries from the SEAPFE regions and some international organizations, such as the United Nations Office for Disarmament Affairs (UNODA), United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament (UNRCPD), and representatives of the European Union.
