
Police have identified a 36-year-old man who was fatally shot late Saturday in Southeast Washington.

Just before midnight Saturday, police received a report of a shooting in the 2700 block of Langston Place SE, just off the Suitland Parkway. When officers arrived, they found Simwone Keith Milstead of Southeast, who later died at a hospital.

Police are continuing to investigate the shooting and are offering a reward of up to $25,000. Anyone with information can call 202-727-9099.

D.C. police said they arrested Monday a second suspect in the May 6 death of a 60-year-old man who was robbed and beaten in a strip of restaurants and taverns on Barracks Row in the Capitol Hill neighborhood.

Earl Patrick, 48, of Southwest Washington was charged with first-degree murder in the death of Carlton Coltrane of Southeast. A court hearing had not been scheduled as of Monday afternoon. Police said Patrick was arrested about 7:15 a.m. by members of the Capital Area Regional Fugitive Task Force.

Zerrick Brown, 42, of Northwest is also charged with first-degree murder in the death of Coltrane, who police said was attacked about 12:50 a.m. at a 7-Eleven store in the 400 block of Eighth Street SE, about two blocks from the Eastern Market Metro station.

Brown was arrested Thursday. He has been ordered held in jail until a preliminary hearing set for June 10.

A 20-year-old Centreville man has died of stab wounds suffered during an altercation Saturday night, Fairfax County police said.

Domingo Eduardo Santiago Cuchil was found lying on a sidewalk in the 14400 block of Golden Oak Road in Centerville about 11 p.m. Saturday by police investigating a report of an assault with a weapon, authorities said. Cuchil was taken to a hospital, where he was apronounced dead Sunday, authorities said.

Police said officers were told that another injured man was in a nearby home in the 14400 block of Cool Oak Lane. The 31-year-old Centreville man was treated and released from the hospital.

Lucy Caldwell, a police spokeswoman, said investigators do not consider the assault gang-related. Anyone with information is asked to call Crime Solvers at 1-866-411-8477.

A 58-year-old woman who worked as a nurse at MedStar Washington Hospital Center was fund dead at her home in Spotsylvania County, and authorities said they are investigating the matter as a homicide.

Nancy Mercer was found late Sunday on the floor of her home on Eastridge Way, the county sheriff’s office said. The street is in the Fredericksburg area. Authorities were called about 11:40 p.m. Sunday and asked to check on her because she had not reported for work.

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
