
. . . . . . .

Photo Caption: Brewer Cameron Fuller poses in the old Southeast Import building he plans to turn into a craft brewery.

While Athens' sole brewery, Jackie O's, plans to expand its Stimson Avenue production facility, local resident Cameron Fuller is planning to open his own new brewery, which would be Athens' second, on Columbus Road.

Fuller said Friday that he was inspired by his success in last year's Ohio Brew Week Homebrew competition (during Ohio Brew Week in Athens), where he took home multiple gold, silver and bronze medals, including the most total medals of any competitor.

"Yeah, I cleaned up on that last year," he said with a laugh.

When the gold medalists all competed for best in show, Fuller won that, too.

"That was really exciting," he said. "As beers kept getting eliminated, I knew that mine was still there. It was quite a thrill."

Opening his own brewery has been a dream for some time, Fuller said, and Devil's Kettle Brewing is now closing in on reality with Fuller purchasing the old Southeast Imports property on Columbus Road and currently preparing the site for craft brew production. He said he hopes to be up and running by Thanksgiving.

"It's that combination of art and craft that I would love to do for a living," he said. Fuller said he's been home brewing for six years and hadn't really competed in Brew Week until last year. "After all those awards, I really felt I could do this and just had to work to get the business side lined up and then get it up and running."

With an aunt who teaches at Ohio University, Fuller said he moved to Ohio after growing up in California, and living nearby, often drove past the old Southeast Imports lot.

"There are so few actual warehouses in Athens, and that's really all you need, just a big open space for brewing," he said. "I watched it sit there for a while, and eventually I was ready to pull the trigger."

Fuller added that the location on Columbus Road near U.S. Rt. 33 and close to the ACEnet facility, a hub of locavore distribution, was attractive.

Currently, he said, he's fixing up the buildings, adding insulation and working on temperature control issues, which is important in brewing. After focusing on construction work the past few months, he said he's at a point now to begin ordering equipment.

"I would love for this to be a place that I'm at for a very long time so I want it to be comfortable, and be happy with it," he said.

Fuller said he will initially focus on packaging kegs and selling to area bars, but he would like to also get a taproom going as soon as possible. The taproom will require further permitting, however, and he said he's focused on getting production going first. He said he'd also like to do growler filling at the location. A growler is a big jug or bottle.

He said he will initially start by brewing three or four beers, including a combination of ales and lagers, and then will decide how to expand from there.

He praised Ohio Brew Week, Jackie O's and what he described as a thriving craft beer culture in Athens.

Fuller said that the people at Jackie O's have been a big help to him, giving advice on moving and installing large brewing equipment that Fuller said he's never had to deal with previously.

"It's great just having the brotherhood of brewers," he said. "The industry has always kind of been like that. People are just really friendly and excited by new ventures."

MEANWHILE, JACKIE O'S IS PLANNING an expansion of its own brewing facility on Stimson Avenue.

Owner Art Oestrike attending a city of Athens Planning Commission meeting Thursday to talk preliminarily about the expansion. Jackie O's will later submit specific architectural plans to the city for review.

After expanding to the Stimson Avenue facility in 2013, Jackie O's began a canning line and is currently selling its brew in stores across the state. Oestrike told the Planning Commission that the business now has 1,400 accounts and is continuing to grow, including into Northern Kentucky.

"It would really help if we could get some more space," he said, and an expansion of the Stimson facility could more than double production.

City Service-Safety Director Paula Horan Moseley told Oestrike that the success of the business sounds exciting. She also said that the facility may have to eventually pre-treat any discharge before it hits the city's sewer system, and mentioned other planned breweries in the city, including Fuller's.

In addition to Jackie O's brewery, and Fuller's Devil's Kettle, a microbrewery is being planned for Armitage Road just northwest of Athens.

Local businessman Alex Couladis appeared before City Council in February to discuss annexation of a property off of Armitage Road into the city of Athens. Since then, the county commissioners have released the property to be annexed and the issue is now in the city's hands.
