
In an industry "first," Enrichment Journeys pairs together a land and river cruise program to the Holy Land featuring Israel and Jordan along with a Christmas-time Danube River cruise, creating a 25-day program with included air, hotels, cruise, guides and more.

(TRAVPR.COM) USA - May 16th, 2014 - In what may be a travel industry “first,” Ft. Lauderdale-based Enrichment Journeys has combined a 12-day Holy Land tour featuring Israel and Jordan, with a Christmas markets cruise on the Danube River. The 25-day package includes airfare from New York, a deluxe Danube River cruise, baggage handling, escorted tours and 15-nights in four and five star hotels in Tel Aviv, Haifa, Amman, Jerusalem, Budapest and Prague. Prices start at $5,999 per person and depart the U.S November 8, 2014.

He said the idea came to him while looking at Holy Land itineraries and trying to see what cruises they might be packaged with. "We combine popular cruise itineraries with interesting land destinations that create unique, one-of-a-kind, experiences," said Gevanthor. "We are capitalizing on a trend preferred by many active retirees who prefer longer trips that combine several destinations, rather than multiple trips to the same part of the world. Given the cost of airfares, and the difficulty of finding and booking centrally-located hotels and planning local tours, the resulting value is very compelling," Gevanthor said.

The tour begins with two nights in Tel Aviv exploring the city and Jaffa. Then passengers drive the Mediterranean coast to Haifa by way of Caesarea, once capital of the Roman regime. From Haifa, Enrichment Journeys travelers will visit Galilee, Tiberius and Capernaum. Significance in this area is a combination of religious tradition and the history of the Roman Empire. From there passengers cross into Jordan for tours of Jerash, the “Pompeii of the East,” and Mount Nebo, where tradition holds that Moses first viewed the Promised Land. A full-day visit to Petra promises to be one of the major highlights of the trip before proceeding to Jerusalem for four nights. Home to three religious faiths, dramatic sights and sounds abound in this fascinating and electrifying city. Throughout the tour, passengers will be escorted by an Israeli scholar and educator who will provide commentary and insights.

Gevanthor says “given the quality of the included tours and accommodations on land and river, we know this will be a successful program. We like to say our trips offer 'remarkable experiences and extraordinary value' and we are sure we will exceed expectation with this program." He added that to insure personalized service, the tour is limited to just 20 participants.

888-775-2404 or visit www.enrichmentjourneys.com .

Please contact the person or company listed above for information regarding the content of this press release. TravPR.com are not the issuers of this press release and are not responsible for the accuracy of the content.

Copyright © TravPR.com 2009 - 2013. All Rights Reserved.
