
A team of food writers from Italy, the home of the international Slow Food movement, will travel to County Clare this week to report on the 2014 Burren Slow Food Festival.

Supported by the Burren & Cliffs of Moher Geopark and also featuring members of the Burren Food Trail and the Burren Adventure, the 8th annual festival takes place in Lisdoonvarna this weekend (24-25 May).

MyChef.tv, an Italian food magazine which highlights excellence and originality in the world of food, will be creating a complete reportage of the event including videos, photographs and articles. The Slow Food movement was founded in Italy in 1986 by Carlo Petrini.

Seaweed is a common theme across the programme for the 8th annual Burren Slow Food Festival.

Author of “Irish Seaweed Kitchen”, Prannie Rhatigan GP is hosting a demonstration and talk on how the thousands of tonnes of seaweed washed up on Irish coastline each day can be exploited for their potential as a foodstuff.

Meanwhile, Sally McKenna of John and Sally McKennas’ Guides (formerly The Bridgestone Guide) and Stefan Kraan, author of “The Science and Gastronomy of Umami”, will be discussing the benefits for Ireland’s seafood industry in harvesting seaweed.

The festival also features food sampling of local artisan foods, a chance to meet local producers and growers, engage with fellow foodies, and enjoy cookery demonstrations from well-known chefs including Jess Murphy, Kai Restaurant, Galway; John Sheedy, Sheedy’s, Lisdoonvarna; and Aidan McGrath, Wild Honey Inn, Lisdoonvarna.

Other highlights of the weekend include a talk by Slow Food Ireland President and chef Darina Allen; a Wild Food Foraging Walk hosted by Oonagh O’Dwyer from Wild Kitchen in Lahinch; and a demonstration of the essential skills of making handcrafted fine chocolates by Burren Chocolatier and Burren Food Trail Kasha Connolly.

The main festival banquet on Saturday night will be prepared by Vivian Kelly of Kierans Kitchen at the Roadside Tavern who will serve Gleninagh Lamb, Burren Smoked Irish Organic Salmon, desserts from Fabiola’s Pâtisserie and wines from Burren Fine Wine & Food.

Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
