
FAIRBANKS—Lawyers representing Fairbanks North Star Borough Superintendent Pete Lewis have accused the school board of defamation and overstepping its bounds.

In a letter sent Friday to the borough's legal department, which represents the board, the attorneys informed the board of their intent to seek arbitration for removing Lewis as superintendent. Seaver and Wagner, a law office in Anchorage, is representing Lewis in the dispute.

Lewis' attorneys accused the board of acting outside its authority on multiple instances when it informed Lewis of its intent to terminate his contract for "incompetence." The board informed Lewis of its decision May 12, despite having renewed the contract through 2016 last spring.

Timothy Seaver of Seaver and Wagner said after reviewing the contract that he could find no basis for the board to have set a five-day deadline — which expired Monday — for Lewis to appeal its decision. Seaver claimed the board cannot terminate Lewis' contract without providing a due process hearing.

"In light of the board's claim that Mr. Lewis must demand a hearing within five days or waive his right to a hearing, it appears that the board is operating under the belief that some lesser degree of process is permissible here," Seaver wrote. "It is not."

Lewis' attorneys demanded arbitration proceedings from the board, stating Lewis has a right to receive the full compensation laid out in his contract unless the board "can prove cause for his termination."

In its May 12 statement to Lewis, the board claimed it had cause to remove Lewis from his contract because of his failure to handle multiple investigations over the course of his three years with the district. Seaver, however, claimed the board's notice was nowhere close to specific enough to prove a cause for the decision.

"The board's May 12, 2014 letter is so vague regarding its claims of 'incompetence' that it fails to comport with the minimum requirements of due process," Seaver's letter states. "For example, the letter makes a series of vague and unspecific claims regarding Mr. Lewis' alleged failure to adequately investigate disciplinary matters without identifying any actual act or omission by Mr. Lewis that arises to the level of incompetence as the term is defined in the contract."

Seaver demanded the board produce all relevant information from its investigation and documents relating to its decision to terminate Lewis' contract.

"Finally, it is readily apparent that the board both collectively and individually has made numerous defamatory statements to the press and public regarding Mr. Lewis," Seaver wrote. "As a result of those statements, Mr. Lewis is likely to pursue a claim for reputational damages in the arbitration."

Contact staff writer Weston Morrow at 459-7520. Follow him on Twitter: @FDNMschools.
