
WORCESTER, Mass., May 19 (UPI) -- An immigrant from Ecuador was sentenced to 12 to 14 years in a Massachusetts prison Monday for a drunk-driving crash that killed a man on a motorcycle.

Nicolas Dutan Guaman was found guilty of manslaughter after a four-day bench trial. Judge David Ricciardone listened to statements from the family of Matthew DeNice before handing down his sentence.

The judge acquitted Guaman of second-degree murder.

Investigators said that Guaman, in a pickup truck, drove through a stop sign in Milford in central Massachusetts in August 2011 and struck DeNice's motorcycle.  DeNice, trapped in the truck's wheelwell, was dragged for about a quarter of a mile.

Guaman, 37  was also charged with reckless endangerment of a child because his young son was a passenger in his truck.

During closing arguments last week, Guaman's lawyer argued prosecutors did not prove his client was drunk at the time of the collision.

Guaman was living in the United States illegally at the time of the crash and did not have a driver's license. His lawyer said he could not understand bystanders calling to him to stop because of his poor English.

Maureen Maloney told the judge the death of her 23-year-old son left "a deep searing pain" in her heart.

© 2014 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Any reproduction, republication, redistribution and/or modification of any UPI content is expressly prohibited without UPI's prior written consent.

UPI licenses content directly to print outlets, online media and institutions of all types. In addition, UPI's distribution partners provide our content to thousands of businesses, policy groups and academic institutions worldwide. Our audience consists of millions of decision-makers who depend on UPI's insightful and analytical stories to make better business or policy decisions.

In the year of our 107th anniversary, our company strives to continue being a leading and trusted source for news, analysis and insight for readers around the world.

© 2014 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

UPI.com is your trusted source for world news, top news, science news, health news and current events.

We thank you for visiting us and we hope that we will be your daily stop for news updates.
