
Participants meet with leading political and economic figures, including, Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu and President Shimon Peres.

Young Jewish leaders affiliated with Keren Hayesod-United Israel Appeal from  around the world are gathering in Israel this week for the organization’s 2014  Forum.

Organized around the tagline “building the next generation of  international Jewish leadership,” the assembly brought up-and-coming Jews from  the United States, Europe and Asia together to network and meet with Israeli  leaders.

The participants met with leading political and economic  figures, including, Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu, President Shimon Peres,  Economy Minister Naftali Bennett, Western Wall Rabbi Shmuel Rabinowitz and  Jerusalem Mayor Nir Barkat.

Venture capitalist Jon Medved and start-up  guru Yossi Vardi, considered the father of Israeli hi-tech, both addressed the  group, touting the country’s economic successes.

Vardi moderated a panel  of “Israel’s most creative minds” at a hi-tech showcase in Tel Aviv Monday  morning at which Bennett spoke.

According to Keren Hayesod, the purpose  of the visit is to cultivate leaders for its operations worldwide and to allow  those interested in helping the organization raise money for Israel to  network.

Speaking to the participants on Monday afternoon, Prime Minister  Netanyahu emphasized the importance of raising money for Israel, of working to  explain Israel’s positions to outsiders and of immigration.

The Prime  Minister rebuffed those who pin the failure of peace talks on settlement  construction, telling forum participants that the Arab-Israeli conflict existed  long before Israel’s capture of Judea, Samaria and Gaza in 1967.

KH-UIA  is one of Israel’s central fund-raising organizations, running campaigns in over  45 countries.

Your comment must be approved by a moderator before being published on JPost.com. Disqus users can post comments automatically.

Comments must adhere to our Talkback policy . If you believe that a comment has breached the Talkback policy, please press the flag icon to bring it to the attention of our moderation team.
