
At the beginning of December, my daughter developed a really bad cough,  with vomiting and breathlessness. Ten days later, I developed the same  symptoms. Over the next two months we deteriorated and, after four  courses of antibiotics, a blood test showed we had whooping cough.

Eileen Bradford, Keighley, W. Yorks.

Whooping  cough has, indeed, been on the rise. There were more than 9,000 cases in  2012, compared with less than 1,000 the year before, and 13 babies  died.

The illness becomes increasingly unpleasant over the  following week or two, causing breathlessness, vomiting and the  characteristic cough, with a distinctive 'whoop' at the end of a sharp  intake of breath.

Though the other symptoms quickly abate, the cough can continue for several weeks.

It  is possible to diagnose whooping cough by taking a swab from the back  of the throat. However, it can be hard to get a swab from the best place  - the area of the throat behind the nose - for a good sample of  bacteria.

Two or three weeks after infection, the bacteria will no  longer be present so swabbing is of no use. At this point the only  option is blood tests to detect antibodies to the bacteria, and this is  how your diagnosis was made.

For you it is clear that despite the courses of antibiotics - which are the normal treatment - the infection had taken hold.

Whooping  cough is most serious for the very young and it can be lethal for  babies. Some may suffer lung damage that only becomes apparent later in  life.

The trouble is we cannot vaccinate newborns as their immune  system is too immature to respond.

So, there is this dangerous window  until the age of eight weeks when the childhood immunisation programme  starts. The vaccine is highly effective, though it does not give 100 per  cent protection.

Furthermore, the protection does wear off to some  extent later in life, which is why pregnant women are offered a booster  to increase their immunity. Antibodies can then pass safely to their  unborn child, giving a degree of protection immediately after birth.

My concern is that the vigorous racking cough you've had for so long has caused your hiatus hernia to flare up.

A  hiatus hernia is when part of the stomach squeezes up into the chest  through a gap in the diaphragm - the layer of muscle that separates the chest from the abdomen.

This in turn can weaken the valve between the stomach and oesophagus (or gullet), allowing acid to escape.

This is a common complication of a hernia, but may not cause heartburn or any obvious sense of indigestion.

However,  it can lead to a cough, and if there is bleeding from the lining of the  stomach, which is not uncommon when there is a hiatus hernia - because  of sores or ulcers - it can lead to anaemia, which might account for  your continued breathlessness and tiredness. So, it could be the  hiatus hernia, not the pertussis, that's the cause of your symptoms. Do  raise these thoughts with your GP or practice nurse.

Stephen Linford, by email.

You have metatarsalgia - the medical term for pain in the ball of the foot.

It's  caused by pressure on the joints where each toe joins the front of the  foot, the metatarsophalangeal joints. There is one per toe, so five in  each foot. In between each of these joints there is a nerve, which  travels into a toe.

As the joints become worn through wear and tear, the surrounding tissue swells.

Wearing  a shoe that confines it even slightly puts pressure on the swollen  area, which then presses on the nerve, causing the sort of pain that you  experience when walking.

Take the shoe off and you may find that  walking is hardly painful at all - this is because the joints can spread  out and the ball of the foot widens slightly, meaning there is little  or no pressure on the irritated nerve.

Dr Scurr cannot  enter into personal correspondence. His replies cannot apply to  individual cases and should be taken in a general context. Always  consult your own GP with any health worries.

What you need is a metatarsal  pad, which you can buy from a chemist - they are made of felt or firm  padding, and are slightly larger than a 50p coin. Some come with a small  loop to slip over the second or third toe to ensure the pad is under  the foot.

The pad spreads the joints apart as your weight is taken on the ball of the foot.

The discomfort is usually minimal once the nerve running between the joints is no longer being irritated.

Continuous use of the pad for a month or two will usually allow the inflammation to settle down and you can then do without it.

If this doesn't work, you need further investigation by an orthopaedic specialist with an interest in foot problems.

This  may involve having a scan - ultrasound or MRI - to check for a swelling  on the irritated nerve, known as a neuroma. Typically, this occurs  after years of wearing tight- fitting shoes, which persistently squeeze  the nerve between two metatarsophalangeal joints.

Sometimes a neuroma will respond to an injection of local anaesthetic and steroid to settle the inflammation.

The  war of opinion about statins, the cholesterol-lowering drugs,  continues. Last week, the BMJ was reported to have 'overstated' the  dangers of taking statins by up to 20 times.

The journal has  withdrawn these statements and is investigating whether the articles  that contained them should be retracted, too. But for patients' sake, I  hope we're in the closing stages of the great statin debate.

There  are two major issues: whether people who have raised cholesterol but are  otherwise healthy should take statins; and whether, in their case, the  side-effects outweigh the benefits.

There's no argument about  statins' benefits if you've had a heart attack or stroke. Scans have  shown statin treatment causes cholesterol fatty blockages to shrink - it  really is a Dyno-Rod pill for those patients and it saves lives. The  problem is the otherwise healthy who rely on anecdotes from internet  cyberchondriacs about side-effects.

In my experience, statins have  virtually no side-effects, though my postbag on this matter heaves with  accusations that I'm biased. All I'm trying to do is the best for my  patients and that means studying the research, not relying on anecdote.

As  a recent Imperial College study showed, statins have few side-effects.  There are claims this study was flawed, but it backs the findings of  another major study published six years ago.

In the Jupiter trial,  17,000 healthy men and women were given 20mg of rosuvastatin daily or a  placebo. The trial was stopped early by an independent safety and  monitoring board as one group - those taking the statin - were doing so  much better that it was unethical for the other group not to be on a  statin, too. But that's not my point: the key is that the total number  of serious side-effects (muscle weakness, newly diagnosed cancer or  disorders of any of the major systems) was similar in both groups.

In  my experience, side-effects mainly occur in people who haven't had a  heart attack or stroke. This healthy group are so sensitive to the  widely held view that taking a statin might upset them that some don't  even want to try.

Those who do, too easily attribute the aches and  pains, stiffness, occasional nausea, sleepless nights and fatigue that  affect many of us in later life to the statin.

But these various  symptoms come and go; and so when the drug is stopped and the symptoms  disappear, patients often put this down to the ghastly drug at last  being withdrawn.

My message is simple on statins: listen to the experts.

The comments below have not been moderated.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
