
Users who have registered earlier need to Re-register! We regret for the                                                     inconvenience.

be used as your username.

Normal life in Phek Town came to a grinding halt Monday, when all shops downed shutters in response to the call by Phek Chamber of Commerce and Industry (PCCI), Phek Town Youth Society (PTYS) and ACAUT Phek Unit, to express resentment of public and business community against the action of NSCN (K) deputy kilonser Thepuvezo Keyho. The bandh was total and peaceful with no untoward incident.

It may be recalled, that the NSCN (K) functionary had allegedly assaulted and threatened business owners in Phek town.

Large number of youth volunteers of Phek town came out in support of the bandh as the incident came in the wake of continuing threats, extortion, harassment and illegal taxations imposed on business and public by various elements.

The NGOs of Phek town also expressed gratitude to public for ensuring the success of the band.

After the bandh, the NGOs resolved that henceforth, any threats or untoward incident by any NPG in the town would compel public to flush them out totally without any compromise whatsoever.

Further the NGOs also reaffirmed their unwavering support to ACAUT Nagaland in its endeavor.

Minister of Roads and Bridges Kuzholuzo (Azo) Neinu expressed serious concern over alleged threat meted out on the business community of Phek town which had invited the wrath of the mass-based organizations such as ACAUT, PTYS, Phek Town CCI by downing shutters.

He also questioned the inaction of the district administration and law enforcement agencies against cadres of NPGs involved in anti-social activities. Azo said such inaction in the face of anti-social elements disrupting the prevailing peace was unacceptable and urged upon the law enforcement agencies to immediately bring those involved to book and awarded befitting punishment.

The R&B minister also expressed appreciation on the initiatives by ACAUT for promoting peace, which he said, was a pre-requisite for all-round development. Azo also encouraged all mass-based organizations to condemn such anti-social acts who continue to disrupt social harmony. While Nagas were in search of peace, Azo said no anti-social element can be allowed to take the law into their own hands and hold public to ransom.

ACAUT Nagaland had condemned the threat meted out to the business community Phek town by a senior NSCN-K functionary. In a statement, ACAUT Nagaland media cell said the committee has extended support to the decision of PTYS, PCCI and ACAUT Nagaland Phek Unit in closing down Phek Town on Monday as a response to the threats.

ACAUT said it was beyond tolerance that the kilonser intimidated PCCI and ACAUT Nagaland Phek Unit against hosting a rally on May 15. However, the citizens of Phek refused to be cowed down.

Lauds ACVA: ACAUT Nagaland has also lauded All Commercial Vehicle Association (ACVA) Wokha District for organizing an important rally to highlight unabated taxation issue.
