
Hungary should assume jurisdiction in a case involving a child born and left in the UK, the High Court has ruled.

In DS (A child) , the child was born in the UK to Hungarian parents, neither of whom spoke English, in March of 2013.

The mother left England to return to Hungary shortly after the birth of the child, called ‘DS’ in court documents, leaving him behind.

DS was in the care of other Hungarian nationals when the mother left England, but none of them were related to the child.

Mr Justice Moylan noted that the reasons for the mother’s arrival in England and for her return to Hungary without her child were not clear.

Despite the local authority’s plan, Mr Justice Moylan ruled that Hungary was better suited to assume jurisdiction in this case.

“(a)        The mother and father and all other extended family members live in Hungary;

(b)          The mother and father and all other extended family members speak Hungarian and do not speak English.

He went on to rule that the only connection DS really had to England was that he was born and lived here.

The Hungarian authorities agreed to assume jurisdiction of the case and immediate steps were taken to place DS into foster care in Hungary.

By leaving a comment you confirm you have read and agreed to our Terms of Use . Please note that due to the volume of questions now received by this blog, we regret that we cannot guarantee a reply to every one.

Notify me of follow-up comments by email.

Notify me of new posts by email.

All the latest news straight to your inbox. Sign up for instant access today.

Marilyn Stowe’s bestselling book: expert advice on all aspects of divorce, just 99p!

Founded by Marilyn Stowe in 1982, Stowe Family Law has grown to become the UK’s largest standalone family law firm with offices in Central London, North Yorkshire, West Yorkshire, Cheshire & Greater Manchester.

Thank you.

Marilyn Stowe’s bestselling book: expert advice on all aspects of divorce, just 99p!

One of the UK’s best-known family lawyers, Marilyn Stowe has helped more than 12,000 clients. She is the founder of Stowe Family Law , the UK’s largest standalone family law firm.
