
New Delhi: Ahead of Cabinet formation, Prime Minister-elect Narendra Modi on Monday held discussions with his close aide and BJP General Secretary Amit Shah and senior party leader Arun Jaitley even as newly-elected BJP MPs met senior RSS functionaries at the Sangh office here.

Modi held the meeting at the Gujarat Bhawan here in Chanakyapuri with Shah and Jaitley, who is likely to be inducted in the Cabinet despite losing in the Lok Sabha election.

Former Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister and senior party leader Kalyan Singh also held discussions with Modi, who is likely to soon meet NDA allies' leaders, including Uddhav Thackeray and TDP representatives soon, BJP sources said.

A flurry of meetings took place at Rajnath Singh's Ashok Road residence with former Leader of Opposition in Lok Sabha Sushma Swaraj, Uma Bharti, Gopinath Munde, Yogi Adityanath, Varun Gandhi and several newly-elected MPs calling on the BJP President.

Anupriya Patel of Apna Dal, which is an alliance partner of BJP in Uttar Pradesh, also met Singh. NDA has won 73 out of the 80 seats in UP.

"Our alliance has swept Uttar Pradesh and nobody can ignore the importance of the state. The BJP chief has already said that the interests of the alliance partners would be safeguarded. So, there is no need for us to say anything else," she said.

After meeting RSS leaders, BJP spokesperson Prakash Javadekar said, "Tomorrow is Parliamentary Party meeting and all our MPs are coming and meeting the BJP President and the Sangh leaders. People have old ties and that is why they are coming here as well. The discussions are about tomorrow's meeting only and no other issue.

Javadekar, who also met the BJP chief, told reporters, "Only Modi and Rajnath Singh are holding discussions on that issue (of government formation) and other people are just meeting and greeting each other on the election victory."

BJP MP from Hamirpur in Himachal Pradesh Anurag Thakur said he had come to thank the RSS for its support. "BJP works independently and will continue to do so," he said.

NDA's ally in Bihar and Lok Janshakti Party chief Ramvilas Paswan, along with his wife and son Chirag, also met Rajnath Singh at his residence.

"Neither I or Chirag has discussed anything about government formation or Cabinet portfolio with either Modiji or Rajnath Singh. I think this is BJP's prerogative to decide who will get what post in the new government," Paswan said.

BJP leader Sushma Swaraj, who is reportedly not in best of terms with Modi also met him in the national capital. The meeting took place at Gujarat Bhawan, where Modi has been camping since yesterday, sources said.

The former Leader of Opposition in Lok Sabha had discussions with Modi soon after holding parleys with Rajnath Singh at his residence.

This question is for testing whether you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions.
