
Joshua Vail/Tribune Paul Slaughter shows off a decorative bowl from Italy made of olive wood during his presentation at the monthly Martin and Osa Johnson Safari Museum Travelogue Speaker Series on Thursday.

The U.S. Navy provided plenty of travel time for now Chanute residents Paul and Connie Slaughter .

The Slaughters were the Martin and Osa Johnson Safari Museum Travelogue Speakers for May.

The couple lived in Hawaii, Italy and Japan while Paul Slaughter served in the United States Navy.

Both of their sons grew up in Italy and Japan and now serve in the Navy as well.

The Slaughters lived in Hawaii for about nine years. Paul Slaughter said Hawaii is a lot of fun with mostly outdoor-oriented activities.

Slaughter said Oahu is modernized like any other American city. The edge of the island can be drven around in about two and a half hours.

Slaughter said the eastern coast of Oahu is very scenic with more rainforest in the north. The northern coast has the largest waves, so most of the surfing is on the northern coast of the island.

Slaughter said there are also parts of Oahu in the north that are more old-fashioned. Most of the native Hawaiians live on the west coast and there is not as much tourism there.

From Oahu, any of the other islands can be visited by plane for about $80, with the exception of the westernmost island, which is privately owned by members of the old Hawaiian royal family.

The volcano is on the big easternmost island. The big island is growing out about one foot per year due to the constant lava flows from the active volcano. People can walk on the cooled lava flows with a guide.

Slaughter said his favorite Island is Maui, which has a seven-mile dirt Road to Hana  leading to a beautiful set of falls.

“You’ve got a little bit of a hike to get in there and it’s a long drive so not everybody does it,” he said.

Slaughter said Maui is also the best island for seeing whales under water as they pass by both sides of the island.

The Slaughters lived in Italy for about six years after leaving Hawaii. There is a U.S. military base on the Italian island of Sardinia.

“We decided we wanted to live with the Italians,” he said.

The Slaughters rented a 30-acre farm about 16 miles from the base.

Slaughter talked about buildings called Nuraghi, which are fortresses built of stone that served as the focal point of Sardinian villages in the 18th century BC, which were always built just far enough out from the previous village that they can still see the old village.

Agritourism is also very big in Sardinia. Agritourismos are family farms which also serve as restaurants and bed and breakfasts. Dinners served at the Agritourismos are made from food entirely grown on the farms.

About 20 minutes north of Sardinia is Corsica, an island which is actually part of France. This is the island where Napoleon Bonaparte was born.

From Sardinia it is an overnight ferry ride and about six hours drive to Rome, France and Germany.

Slaughter said those wanting to visit Rome shoud go in May or September to get the best balance between not too hot and fewer crowds.

Slaughter said Sardinia also has some good beaches, including some owned by the Club Med resort company. Non-farming communities in Sardinia increase significantly in population because of people from France, Germany and Russia renting vacation homes there.

The Slaughters showed many handcrafted items from Italy including Carnivale masks, handcrafted bowls and baskets. There are also a lot of artists in the city of Florence.

The Slaughters also lived in Japan for about four years.

Slaughter said they traveled all over Japan.

Slaughter said the subway system is amazing, but is often very crowded and there are actually people employed at rush hours to push people and cram them onto the subway.

Slaughter said the Japanese put great detail and care into their art. He also showed many pieces of art from Japan.

Slaughter said they had the opportunity to hike on Mount Fugi, and made it almost to the top before their older son began to get altitude sickness.

When climbing mount Fuji, tourists can buy hiking sticks with each threshold of elevation reached burned into the stick.

The Slaughters are currently debating whether their next international trip will be back to Italy to see their Italian friends or to Japan to see their sons, who are both stationed there in the Navy.

Posted in News on Friday, May 16, 2014 8:58 pm.

1 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language.

2 Don't Threaten or Abuse. Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated. AND PLEASE TURN OFF CAPS LOCK.

3 Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.

4 Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.

5 Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.

6 Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness accounts, the history behind an article.

Welcome to the discussion.

We're always interested in hearing about news in our community. Let us know what's going on!
