
Federico seems to manage the Corte de Vasari completely alone. As he promised he cooks me eggs and bacon in the breakfast room in a kitchenette in an old cupboard just like the one in our room. He chats and when we mention our apprehension about bad weather in the Appenines, he offers to give us his mobile number so he can come to our aid if things go wrong. We are the only guests.

. Apparently this small chapel is the place where Francis recognised his vocation and renounced his wealth. The Basilica was built around and over it in the 16th and 17th centuries.

We toil up to the citta of Assisi, and arrive at the front of the Basilica di San Francesco. Very crowded, as is the whole town. We lock our bikes in the forecourt and explore the upper and lower church, with magnificent frescoes covering the walls. Crowded with groups of tourists wearing electronic boxes with glowing red lights, listening intently to their whispering guides, and pilgrims some of whom are singing in various corners of the church. We head off up through the town to the Rocca Maggiore, a rambling set of walls, battlements and towers which is in a commanding position above the town. We clamber up spiral staircases to the battlements which give commanding views, and show what a savage place this was. The weather is becoming threatening, with dark clouds and a biting cold wind.

. This is becoming a bit of a food and wine tour. Assisi is a tourist magnet, with probably equal numbers of religious pilgrims, and tourist from all over. It was one of the few places where we saw a lot of people who were not Italian. There are scores of shops selling souvenirs, predominantly St Francis figures, but everything else besides. When I first visited the town a dozen years ago, many of the buildings were clothed in scaffolding, covering repair works to damage caused by the 1997 earthquake. As a result, now that all the repairs are complete, the mortar in the buildings is new, and the town does not feel as ancient as most we visited.

Back on our bikes, we plummet down into the valley, retracing our route back to Bevagna. We take a detour to Tenuta Castelbuono, a vineyard and sculpture park. We turn off the main road and ride a narrow steep kilometre or so or gravel road up through vineyards, with interesting sculptures placed in the landscape to the main building, a huge Carapace, which is itself a large sculpture, inside and out. The pictures will not do it justice. Contrary to appearances this is a timber building, and the shape is based on a turtle.

Back at our digs, we decide the weather is a bit risky for the Appenines so we book an extra night in Bevagna, then Friday in Todi, and Saturday in Orvieto. It is a long weekend and bookings are tight. Then dinner at Federico's third recommendation, "Scottaditto", a restaurant run by the local macelleria, a meat restaurant. It is remarkably inexpensive. The proprietor is a woman, a fifth generation butcher, married to another butchering dynasty. Naturally all the dishes (aside from dolci) contain meat, and they are pretty good.
