
Jakarta. The Golkar Party has finally decided to throw its support behind Prabowo Subianto, the presidential candidate from the Great Indonesia Movement Party, or Gerindra, surprising many who had considered it more likely that Golkar would support Joko Widodo from the Indonesian Democratic Party of Struggle, or PDI-P.

Speaking at Rumah Polonia in East Jakarta, the house of former president Sukarno, Prabowo said his candidacy had received the support of the National Mandate Party, or PAN; the Prosperous Justice Party, or PKS; the United Development Party, or PPP; and Golkar.

“Today is a historic day for all of us because the leaders who will initiate the change in the nation have been officially declared,” Gerindra chairman Suhardi said.

“We ask for the blessings of all Indonesians for the candidacy of Prabowo and Hatta,” he added, referring to Hatta Rajasa, the PAN chairman who will share Prabowo’s ticket in the July 9 presidential election.

Suhardi said Prabowo and Hatta, with their respective military and business backgrounds, would make a compelling case to the Indonesian people.

“Both are nationalist figures who are brave, clean, honest, religious and have integrity as leaders,” Suhardi said.

PPP chairman Suryadharma Ali, the minister for religious affairs, said the pair could count on his party’s support.

“As a great nation Indonesia needs a leader with ideas and abilities to execute them and that can been seen in Prabowo and Hatta,” he said.

Golkar chairman Aburizal Bakrie did not attend Monday’s declaration, for reasons that were not immediately clear on Monday afternoon. Aburizal had appeared last week alongside the PDI-P’s Joko and pledged to offer cooperation to Joko’s presidential bid. He stopped short, however, of a firm coalition confirmation, in an example of the capriciousness of election politics in Indonesia. The issue was further complicated over the weekend when Industry Minister M.S. Hidayat, of Golkar, said Golkar and the Democratic Party would partner up.

The announcement by Prabowo that he had secured the support of Golkar is a boon to his campaign but it remains to be seen whether the support of Golkar’s formidable election machine will translate into a boost in the polls. Golkar, the political party borne out of the Suharto regime, has nationwide clout and a strong network that enables it to perform well in legislative elections. Whether the support of Golkar helps Prabowo’s presidential polling remains to be seen in what is much more of a personality contest rather than the legislative ballot, which is fought more along party lines.

I mean what to really say about Golkar? Just an incredible party of turncoats….

But “…both [Pabowo & his sidekiick Hatta] are nationalist figures who are brave, clean, honest, religious and have integrity as leaders…” – BRAVE – CLEAN – HONEST – RELIGIOUS – INTEGRITY….whoaaa five positive attributes too many….

Golkar support is not really worth much, Bakrie definitely is not supporting it.  And with Kalla as PDI-P VP, I just wonder how many votes Prabowo will actually get from Golkar.

Golkar must be really divided.  If they signed up with Prabowo last week, they would have gotten the VP slot for sure.

not really wise using coup and Prabowo in the same sentence.

Unfortunately the dirty tricks have already started. Blackberry messages have been circulated recently making bizarre claims. One of these is that Jokowi is ethnic Chinese, while another claims that his presidential candidacy is part of a campaign to Christianize the country….

Got a point there Edan! I actually had initially the same thought when I wrote comment above – but to say, in Indonesia it surely is – looking at all those power-wannabes trying to play the religious tone – many times quite successfully I may add.

Looking back though on US election it seems that even there a religious affiliation seems to be some kind of a needed prerequisite to display to the public how “pious” (and therefore honest, etc.) a presidential candidate is.

Subscribe to our newsletter to get a briefing on the day's top stories, photos and more.
