
Michigan’s The Morning Sun reports that a recent high school graduate of that state has developed an application called “Selocial.” The app allows you to take a picture and then attach 15 minutes of music to it.

Baird says he has access to a very large music database. I went over to his application’s beta web site and signed up. A message arrived in my email browser moments later: “This is a confirmation that your request for an account at Selocial was received.” Nothing beyond that has happened yet, but I look forward to further developments and will report on them.

At the risk of being shot at sunrise, I confess that rather like the piece. Here it is.

Speaking of SoundCloud, the service appears to be clobbering the music app scene in Indonesia. In a new survey , 31 percent of Indonesians say they use it, followed by 21 percent using MelOn and 12 percent using Shazam. SoundCloud is also popular in Vietnam and Philippines, albeit not as widely used as domestic applications, such as Vietnam Radio.

SoundCloud doesn’t get near the top three in India, however. That country’s winners: Songs PK, Saavn, and Hungama.

Finally, station XRAY-FM in Portland, Oregon has put out a notice announcing that its website now features lots of on demand content. You can listen to local progressive talker Carl Wolfson’s programs , plus Death Metal aficionados DJ Skull and DJ Bones’ Strike of Death show and a bunch of other neat stuff.

The station is looking for supporters, of course, the first 1,000 of which “will be immortalized as our Founding Members,” the announcement says. “You will be the ones who made XRAY.fm a sustainable part of the Portland radio landscape.” So Portlanders and others seeking immortality should check out XRAY’s contribution page .

Be Sociable, Share!

Matthew Lasar is a co-founder of Radio Survivor and its business manager. He teaches history at the University of California at Santa Cruz. Likes: deejays, classical music, Disco, postpunk, cats, free school lunches. Dislikes: money, ideologies, claims that technology will fix everything.
