
Villagers often resort to folk medicine. Some live to regret it, others don’t.

When Hajji Jarnail, 60, decided to turn to traditional methods to cure a long-term illness, his health took a turn for the worse.

Conventional medical treatment had failed to help, so an elderly friend advised him to cover himself in the skin of a freshly-slaughtered cow. Soon he found himself covered in spots, which he says nearly killed him, and he had to seek help from a qualified physician.

Dr Jalal Faiz, the skin specialist currently treating Jarnail, said the animal-hide “cure” was highly dangerous.

Dr Faiz said he had seen many patients suffering serious side-effects after trying this old-fashioned remedy.

Despite some modern medical facilities available in Afghanistan, traditional treatments are still widespread in more remote districts, and in villages where people have no access to health centres.

However, not only do these methods usually do little to help, they often make things worse, and can even lead to the patient’s death.

In remote villages, barbers still perform services from circumcisions to tooth extractions, and people visit traditional bonesetters if they break or dislocate a limb.

A common treatment is to wear the skin of a freshly slaughtered cow, sheep or goat. People also believe that certain childhood illnesses can be treated by wrapping the sufferer in the stomach of a sheep, goat or calf. The belief is that the organ removes “bad blood” from the child.

Other treatments include using rabbit blood to help respiratory problems, wearing amulets, and consuming herbs.

The traditional healers include older women as well as men.

Alef Jana, a healer in the village of Motun, says she has treated sick children many times by wrapping them in the cleaned-out stomach of a freshly-slaughtered goat. While she could not explain how exactly this helped, she insisted it was beneficial.

“There weren’t so many doctors or so much medicine in the past. We used to do this and God would heal them. Nowadays, people’s beliefs have been damaged and they don’t believe in most things,” she said.

Jana described other remedies, such as the cure for a baby suffering from diarrhoea. The yolk of an egg was mixed with the seeds of a special plant, spread on a piece of fabric and placed on the soft spot of the baby’s head.

Children suffering from pneumonia, she said, needed to be treated by having a warm mixture of salt fried in cooking oil rubbed on their chest and covered in plastic.

“They bring me children who have been taken to the doctors several times but haven’t been healed,” she added.

Dr Badshah Zar Abdali, a lecturer in medicine at the Sheikh Zayed university in Khost, said such traditional treatments were simply wrong, with no scientific basis. According to him, hundreds of people die from such practices every year across Afghanistan.

Broken bones and dislocated joints are treated by bonesetters whose craft has been handed down through the generations. However, they usually have no scientific knowledge of anatomy.

Khiali Khan, a well-known bonesetter in the Kondi area of central Khost, operates out of a clinic in his home.

He said he knew how to pull and set broken and dislocated limbs, and insisted he did a better job than trained doctors.

“When you go to the doctor in the hospital with a broken arm or leg, they immediately amputate it, whereas we treat them. What should people do with a science that harms them?” he said.

Dr Abdali said that extreme measures were sometimes needed to repair damage done by traditional bonesetters. Two or three people came to his private clinic each week with badly-set broken bones, he added.

Although complementary medicine is common across the world, and forms an accepted part of the treatment of disease, in Afghanistan it has not been codified and there is no academic centre for its study. Practitioners tend to operate on the basis of knowledge passed down through the generations, and are often illiterate.

Maulavi Mohammad Ibrahim, a traditional doctor in Khost, said he could treat all illnesses short of performing surgery.

He added that his patients were happy with their treatment.

However, not everyone is pleased with their experience of traditional medicine.

Din Wadir Shah, a resident of central Khost who suffers from rheumatism, said that someone had suggested he try a traditional cure for his complaint.

Dr Hedayatollah Hamidi, the acting director of public health in Khost, said his department had carried out numerous public awareness campaigns about folk medicine and traditional doctors.

“We have arrested many self-styled doctors and medicine sellers,” he said, adding that serious violations still took place in Khost.

Ahmad Shah is an IWPR-trained reporter in Khost.

IWPR’s journalism illustrated by stunning photography thanks to support from Gettyimages.

Institute for War & Peace Reporting is registered as a charity in the United Kingdom (charity reg. no: 1027201, company reg. no: 2744185); in the United States as a not-for-profit organization with tax-exempt status under IRS section 501(c)(3); and as a charitable foundation in The Netherlands.

© Institute for War & Peace Reporting The opinions expressed in IWPR Online are those of the authors and do not necessarily represent those of the Institute for War & Peace Reporting.
