
THE Philippine Overseas Employment Agency Regional Center for Mindanao (POEA-Mindanao) announced that the Ministry of Health (MOH) of Saudi Arabia is in need of 1,600 medical workers.

POEA Mindanao chief Ma. Carolina B. Agdamag, in Monday's edition of Kapehan sa Dabaw at SM City Davao Annex, said 1,000 staff nurses, 500 respiratory therapists, and 100 xray specialist are needed for various medical institutions in the Arab country.

She said job vacancies are exclusive for applicants from Mindanao. She said job interview and examination will most likely be conducted in Mindanao. They are currently looking for a venue for the interview and examination of applicants.

Qualifications for the positions are: the applicant should not be more than 40 years old; has a bachelor's degree in the applied position; with board license or non-board but Prometric exam passer or with Saudi Council certificate (for nurses and x-ray specialists); and with a minimum experience for three years for nurses and respiratory therapists and two years for x-ray specialists.

Agdamag said qualified applicants should register online at www.poea.gov.ph or www.eregister.poea.gov.ph and personally submit their requirements to POEA Mindanao at Quimpo Boulevard, Davao City.

She said applicants may also submit their applications to their regional extension offices in Zamboanga City and Cagayan de Oro City and satellite offices in Koronadal City, Butuan City, and Tawi Tawi.

Requirments for the application are: detailed resume with job description, school credentials, employment certificates, passport copy, two pieces 2x2 recent picture.

"The deadline for the submission of applications is June 11, 2014," Agdamag said.

Applicants are required to present their original documents for authentication of written information before forwarding the resume to the employer.

Agdamag said MOH will determine what hospital the medical staffs will go to. Basic salary for nurses and respiratory therapists is 3,570 Saudi Riyal (SR) and SR 8,050 for x-ray specialists.

Some of the benefits the employees will receive are free food and accommodation and paid annual vacation with free round trip economy ticket.

Published in the Sun.Star Davao newspaper on May 20, 2014.

DISCLAIMER: Sun.Star website welcomes friendly debate, but comments posted on this site do not necessary reflect the views of the Sun.Star management and its affiliates. Sun.Star reserves the right to delete, reproduce or modify comments posted here without notice. Posts that are inappropriate will automatically be deleted.

Forum rules: Do not use obscenity. Some words have been banned. Stick to the topic. Do not veer away from the discussion. Be coherent and respectful. Do not shout or use CAPITAL LETTERS!
