
Martin Knuijt is an incredibly affable man who is also passionate about his job as an architect. He wins me over instantly with his smile, but seems to clam up when he sees me pulling out my notebook. I can’t really blame him. The chief architect of the Okra firm, which won last year’s architectural competition for the Re-Think Athens project, is wary of publicity because of the involvement of the Onassis Foundation as the biggest bankroller of the studies for the project, and essentially his employer.

The 48-year-old Dutch architect eventually relaxes during our interview in Athens as he knows that the final details of the project have been completed and his Athens experience has basically come to an end.

“So you’re done?” I ask him.

The Re-Think Athens project, which was named by the Onassis Foundation, is centered on the overhaul of Panepistimiou Street, the central thoroughfare that links Syntagma and Omonia squares. Not that the competition is over and funding has been secured: The competition for the construction work is expected to be launched by the end of spring so that the project can hopefully be completed on schedule by 2016.

In its final form, the revamp will not look exactly like it did in the winning mock-ups sent in for the competition.

“First of all, the area that will undergo a revamp has been expanded,” explains Knuijt. “The City of Athens requested that we include all of the side streets running off from Panepistimiou to Stadiou and Academias so that the broader area serves the same goals and carries the same signature. It was a challenge but it ultimately strengthened the network and allowed us to do more than an isolated boulevard,” says the architect.

Other than the changes that arose along the way, the designers also had to bear in mind the particular characteristics of the area they were planning to revamp.

Knuijt is also excited about his collaboration with Greek architects and especially with the Studio 75 firm’s Dora Kotsona and Tasos Rigopoulos.

“We became a team very quickly. The Greeks are more precise in their methodology. The Dutch, we start with ideas, while our Greek colleagues spend a lot of time with details from the very first stages of the design, which is something we look at later. Generally it is easier to work with Greek architects than it is, say, Italian ones, because everyone speaks perfect English, they have normally spent a few years living and studying abroad and they have an international perspective,” says Knuijt.

Now that it’s over for Knuijt, he casts his mind back on the experience and the moment that he remembers most fondly.

“When we finished, we cracked open a beer in the office and celebrated. This is one of my most special memories from the project,” he says.

“Now I can’t wait for the project to materialize. I promised my parents, who are now elderly, that we will come to Athens for the inauguration of the ‘new’ Panepistimiou,” adds Knuijt.
