
The initiative was organized by Nefesh B’Nefesh and Friends of the IDF (FIDF) Lone Soldiers Program, in cooperation with the IDF Manpower Branch, to facilitate the needs of IDF “lone soldiers” – young men and women who immigrate without their immediate families to serve in the IDF. Lone soldiers are eligible for a personal day every two months in order to attend to personal affairs.

“The purpose of this event is to help Lone Soldiers complete all the arrangements required of them. This initiative was launched in order to help make things easier for Lone Soldiers, and was made out of respect, and recognition of the challenges with which Lone Soldiers have to deal with on a daily basis,” said Col. Eyal Karolizki, head of the Welfare Department of the IDF Manpower Branch.

 About 2,800 Lone Soldiers currently serve in the IDF including: 890 from the United States, 404 from Russia, 264 from Ukraine, 165 from France, 79 from Canada, 78 from Britain, 59 from Belarus, 40 from Moldova, 37 from Australia, 37 from South Africa, 34 from Kazakhstan, 29 from Uzbekistan, 28 from Argentina, 26 from Brazil, 25 from Mexico, 21 from Colombia, 20 from Germany, 20 from Italy, 20 from Azerbaijan, 14 from Holland, 14 from Venezuela, 12 from Georgia, 12 from Belgium, 11 from Uruguay, 9 from Spain, 9 from Peru, 8 from Guatemala, 6 from Hungary, 5 from Sweden, and soldiers from dozens of other countries such as Armenia, Bolivia, Bulgaria, Chile, Costa Rica, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Ethiopia, Finland, Hong Kong, India, Iran, Japan, Kenya, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Lithuania, Morocco, New Zealand, Norway, Pakistan, Poland, Romania , Switzerland, Thailand, Tunisia, Turkey, Turkmenistan.

About the Author: Avi is a news writer for The Jewish Press. In the past, he has covered Israel and the Jewish world for Israel National News, Ami magazine and other international media.

If you don't see your comment after publishing it, refresh the page.

Our comments section is intended for meaningful responses and debates in a civilized manner. We ask that you respect the fact that we are a religious Jewish website and avoid inappropriate language at all cost.

If you promote any foreign religions, gods or messiahs, lies about Israel, anti-Semitism, or advocate violence (except against terrorists), your permission to comment may be revoked.

Yes, it was a direct order from Obama and Kerry's to hurt Israel into submission.

Yes, Obama and Kerry gave the FAA a "hint" to  to hurt Israel into submission.

Yes, it was simply understood from the administration's anti-Israel atmosphere.

No, it was a professional decision for the safety of US citizens.

No, it was simply an unprofessional decision by unthinking bureaucrats.

No portion of this website may be copied without the express written permission of JewishPress.com.
