
Both flights were bound to Philadelphia, having left Venice. The flight crew and passengers were not affected.

A photo from the previous incident.

A US AIRWAYS flight has been diverted to Dublin Airport after crew members became unwell – the second such incident this month from the same airline along the same route.

Today, the US Airways flight 715, an Airbus A330-200 which was carrying 238 passengers and 12 crew members, was travelling from Venice to Philadelphia when the issue arose.

The plane had to be diverted to Dublin due to three flight attendants reporting medical issues.

The aircraft landed safely at approximately 2.05pm.

The airline said that medical professionals are evaluating the flight attendants and it is re-accommodating its customers on other flights to Philadelphia.

There are no reports of illness from pilots or passengers.

On 10 May, a very similar incident occurred when a US flight 71 from Venice, headed for Philadelphia, was diverted to Dublin.

Again, this was following reports that several of the crew had become unwell.

Get breaking news from TheJournal.ie via Facebook.

Just click Like.

Email “Second time this month that US Airways plane diverts to Dublin over crew illness”.

Feedback on “Second time this month that US Airways plane diverts to Dublin over crew illness”.

Content copyright © Journal Media Ltd. 2014 Registered in Dublin, registration number: 483623.                 Registered office: 3rd floor, Latin Hall, Golden Lane, Dublin 8.

Please note that TheJournal.ie uses cookies to improve your experience and to provide services and advertising. For more information on cookies please refer to our cookies policy .

News images provided by Press Association and Photocall Ireland unless otherwise stated. Irish sport images provided by Inpho Photography unless otherwise stated. Wire service provided by Associated Press .

Journal Media does not control and is not responsible for user created content, posts, comments, submissions or preferences. Users are reminded that they are fully responsible for their own created content and their own posts, comments and submissions and fully and effectively warrant and indemnify Journal Media in relation to such content and their ability to make such content, posts, comments and submissions available. Journal Media does not control and is not responsible for the content of external websites.
