
Kenya; The Supreme Court is faced with yet another task of deciding whether Evans Kidero should retain his seat as the governor of Nairobi or whether the county should go back to the ballot.

Dr Kidero has filed a petition at the highest court, challenging the nullification of his election by the Court of Appeal last week.

A petition challenging his election was filed at the High Court last year by his close challenger Ferdinand Waititu, a former deputy mayor and a prominent politician in Nairobi. It was dismissed by the High Court but Waititu successfully appealed.

Kidero’s case at the Supreme Court could turn on one argument, that Waititu filed his appeal out of time hence it should not have been entertained by the Court of Appeal in the first place. Section 85(a) of the Elections Act requires that an appeal on any election matter be filed at the Court of Appeal within 30 days after the judgment of the High Court.

In this case, the High Court delivered its judgment on September 10, 2013. The 30-day timeframe was thus to lapse on October 10. On September 9, Waititu filed a Notice of Appeal. However, he could not obtain the typed High Court proceedings which he must include in the record of appeal.

On October 31, last year Waititu was issued with a certificate of delay by the High Court. It indicated that the High Court took 49 days to prepare the proceedings. Waititu filed his appeal on November 22.

During the hearing in February this year the three Court of Appeal judges Mohamed Warsame, GBM Kariuki and Patrick Kiage asked the lawyers to address them on the question of time.

Waititu’s counsel Paul Muite argued that the appeal was filed within the time provided under Rule 82 of the Court of Appeal Rules, 2010.

He submitted that since Waititu had a certificate of delay, he could not be punished for delay caused by the High Court in the supply and preparation of proceedings.

Mr Muite submitted that the 49 days taken for the preparation and supply of the proceedings be excluded in computing the period for filing. Muite argued that a strict construction of Section 85(a) of the Elections Act would violate his client’s right to access justice, under Article 48 of the Constitution.

The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) did not address the issue but left it to the court to decide.
