
Ahead of Cabinet formation, Prime Minister-elect Narendra Modi today held discussions with his close aide and BJP General Secretary Amit Shah and senior party leader Arun Jaitley even as newly-elected BJP MPs met senior RSS functionaries at the Sangh office here.

Modi held the meeting at the Gujarat Bhawan here in Chanakyapuri with Shah and  Jaitley, who is likely to be inducted in the Cabinet despite losing in the Lok Sabha  elections.

Former UP CM and senior party leader Kalyan Singh also held discussions with  Modi, who is likely to soon meet the leaders of his alliance partners, including Uddhav Thackeray and TDP representatives, BJP sources said.

A flurry of meetings took place at Rajnath Singh's Ashok Road residence with former Leader of Opposition in  the Lok Sabha Sushma Swaraj, Uma Bharti, Gopinath Munde, Yogi Adityanath, Varun Gandhi and several newly-elected MPs calling on the BJP President.

Anupriya Patel of the Apna Dal, which is an alliance partner of the BJP in Uttar Pradesh, also met Singh.  The NDA has won 73 out of the 80 seats in UP.

"Our alliance has swept Uttar Pradesh and nobody can ignore the importance of the state. The BJP chief has already said that the interests of the alliance partners would be safeguarded. So, there is no need for us to say anything else," she said.

Newly-elected BJP MPs, including former Home Secretary R K Singh, Gajendra Singh  Shekhawat, Delhi MPs Udit Raj, Manoj Tiwari and senior UP leader Vinay Katiyar had meetings with RSS senior functionaries at Sangh's Delhi headquarters in  Keshavpuram.

After meeting RSS leaders, BJP spokesperson Prakash Javadekar said, "Tomorrow is  parliamentary party meeting and all our MPs are coming and meeting the BJP president and the Sangh leaders. People have old ties and that is why they are coming here as well. The discussions are about tomorrow's meeting only and no other issue."

Javadekar, who also met the BJP chief, told reporters, "Only Modi and Rajnath Singh are holding discussions on that issue (of government formation) and other people are just meeting and greeting each other on the election victory."

BJP MP from Hamirpur in Himachal Pradesh Anurag Thakur said he had come to thank the RSS for its support. "BJP works independently and will continue to do so," he said.

The NDA's ally in Bihar and the Lok Janshakti Party chief Ramvilas Paswan, along with his wife, and son  Chirag, also met Rajnath Singh at his residence.

"Neither I or Chirag has discussed anything about government formation or cabinet portfolio with either Modiji or Rajnath Singh. I think this is BJP's prerogative to decide who will get what post in the new government," Paswan said.

NDA ally in Tamil Nadu MDMK chief Vaiko also met Singh.

The meetings come a day after Modi reached out to party elders L K Advani and Murli Manohar Joshi as top leaders held parleys on the formation of the new government that will be sworn- in this week.

© Copyright PTI. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of any PTI content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without their prior written consent.

TOI reports that a group of BJP MPs from Karnataka went to meet Modi. And he told them that do not come him for ministerial berths. That wont work. Just concentrate on your state.

Awesome response.

A small secretive cabinet is being planned, as they want their corrupt and contentious decisions to remain secret.

Maybe we can have one ministry to clean out govt funded bodies (like JNU, IIC, etc.) that are infested by anti-national parasitic leeches. Let these guys survive by writing columns in anti-national publications like Outlook, that are funded by Congress.

It is said that Shourie was asked to hang around, he was to go back home; so yes he might have some important assignment.

My guess is, atma of planning commission will be changed and he might head that.
