
Martes, 26 de Agosto 2014. Actualizado a las 12:10 AM.

SANTO DOMINGO. The hospitals of Greater Santo Domingo are filled with patients presenting symptoms similar to the Chikungunya virus, a disease which continues to expand throughout the country and which has caused the National Commission of Health Oversight to meet again today.

This commission which is chaired by the Minister of Public Health, Freddy Hidalgo, and which is composed of the Water Sector, the ministries of Tourism and Defense, the Dominican Medical College (CMD), and the Dominican Federation of Municipalities, will talk about the current situation of the virus which according to the latest official numbers is to be found in 20 provinces of the country. The meeting is set for 10:00 am at the Public Health headquarters.

As of yesterday the emergency rooms of the principle hospitals of the capital were full of patients, in the majority of the cases with persons in pain and with fever, the typical symptoms of Chikungunya.

At the Luis Eduardo Aybar Hospital, the situation became chaotic, caused by the large number of patients, more than 50, which, added to the slowness of the attention given at the screening process because there was only one doctor on duty.

Men and women shouted because they were not being attended to and they complained that in spite of the tickets they had obtained at the entrance, the authorities allowed others who had arrived later go first. One man, who complained of pain, laid down on a gurney in order to get attention, but his action did nothing more than accent the growing discontent among the others.

Among the group and in the arms of her husband was Yasely Ramirez, a resident of Las Americas, who also complained that the night before she could not sleep because of the pain and the fever and she only wanted them to respect the turns by the ticket numbers in order to be attended to more quickly.

Although calmer, the Moscoso Puello Hospital was also full of people demanding attention. At noon yesterday there were more than 60 patients with symptoms of the virus in the adult emergency room and 20 in the pediatric ER.

At the San Lorenzo de Los Mina Maternity Hospital, they also had 40 children with fever and pains.

At the Robert Reid Cabral Pediatric Hospital, they did not offer any numbers but among the parents that took their children there they mentioned many cases.

One of them was that of Ms Nery Heredia, who waited for a doctor to attend her little 3 year old girl. The woman, a resident of Kilometer 9 of the Sanchez Highway, has three girls and besides the one that accompanied her yesterday, the oldest of them, a 7 year old, was waiting for them in their house, still recovering from the virus.

"I can't stand the pains in my tendons"

Noemi Frias arrived at the Luis Eduardo Aybar Hospital and could not reach the ER. The pains in her body did not allow her to walk by herself. After a few minutes, a volunteer offered to provide support and walk her to the pre-emergency area. There she took a ticket and remained standing and waiting for her turn. "Look at how I am," she showed her body completely reddened by a rash.

"Aye, this is a pain in the tendons, in all of the tendons in the body that I can't stand," commented the 35 year old woman and a resident of Sabana Perdida. "I have a lot of pain and allergy. In addition I have a ball here (showing the right part of her hip) which hurts a lot." She said that it was the Chikungunya. The symptoms began last Tuesday and she went to the Los Mina Maternity Hospital for medical assistance. "I went to the Maternity of Los Mina, and they didn't do nothing, acetaminophen was what they gave me but this did not do anything," she recalls while she waits, nearly desperate, for the doorman of the emergency room to call number 115, when they have barely attended to number 43.
