
"I really wish the Athens police would consider doing a few passes through busy parking lots (Walmart and Kroger) and start ticketing people who leave their dogs in the car on hot days. Just think about the revenue that could produce."

"I was disappointed to read that the new sheriff was doing away with the cadet program. I thought it did a lot of good. Another bone-headed decision by the new sheriff. Not only that, but to reinstate the insubordinate, sexual-harassing deputy, I really hope (Smith) doesn't decide to run, 'cause I may have to vote Republican for the first time in my life, and I really don't want to have to do that."

"'Right to Work' is a 'Right to Freeload'? Don't you mean, FORCED UNIONIZATION is a right to be lazy and not get fired? Why is it that liberal policy must always be enforced with the barrel of a (government) gun? If unions are so great, why do they have to be mandatory for heaven's sake?"

"When it gets right down to it, whether or not your support unions, right to work isn't the right to work. It's the right To FIRE without notice and without cause. If you take the union out of the situation, the law is still anti-worker pro-wage slavery because it lets the employer do whatever they damn well please and there is no recourse."

"For all their problems with corruption, I still see unions as a necessary force. I truly believe that without them, we'd have turned into an oligarchy long ago with children toiling in factories and everyone being paid with company scrip. The ol' Invisible Hand just doesn't push upward from the bottom of the labor pool. That said, there does seem to be something a little perverse about telling employees they must pay into a collective bargaining fund. Must be the Libertarian in me asserting itself. It strikes me as slightly disingenuous to say, 'No one is being forced to join a union.' Then again, those opposed to unions would be the first to say, 'You have every right to choose somewhere else to work,' so, screw 'em.

"Re: the proposal for crossed lanes at the East State interchange: I drove through an intersection like this in Lexington, Ky. It speeds up traffic by eliminating the need for left turn lights."

"The 'free kitten ads' have started. Wish people would realize that there are spay-neuter low-cost clinics around. Spring, summer and fall we'll be inundated with unwanted pets. Sign-ups are the first Thursday of each month inside the main entrance of Market on State from 4-5."

"Things like the 'Athens Voice' selectively pick what comments to print that line up with their narrow-minded editor. If you're going to selectively do that, then you need to do away with it altogether. Just because it doesn't line up with what you guys think, you just don't print it. That's what's called 'selective censorship.'"

"What 'choo talking about, Terry?! Democrats like freeloaders, people on welfare."

"If Athens truly strives to be pedestrian and bicycle friendly, why are the big-box stores and other businesses on East State Street not required to put bicycle racks adjacent to the bike path so that bicycle riders have a place to secure their vehicles? It only makes sense."

"Boy, I agree, it's not clear in that article how motorists will be made to drive on the wrong side of East State Street and how that will help traffic flow. Better diagrams or a more complete explanation are needed. How about a link to an explanation? Is it fully explained on another site? Something is just missing from that article, and it just doesn't make sense, and I'm sure there's a logical explanation."

Editor's note: Sorry for that oversight. We're adding an explanation and link to the online version of the story. Briefly explained, the crossed lanes are intended, in certain situations, to minimize the number of left turns that have to cross an oncoming traffic lane. This is among the main causes of traffic congestion at the East State Street/Rt. 33 interchange.
