
Portland's Hotel deLuxe is not just pet-friendly: It's a legitimate pet paradise. The hotels offers welcome amenities for your furry friends -- like plush bedding, food and water bowls, toys, and treats -- as well as access to special services such as pet massage, dog walkers, pet acupuncture, doggie room service, and -- Fido's favorite -- pet psychics and pet psychologists.

Sometimes the most simple things can seem the most luxurious -- especially after a grueling transatlantic flight. At Madrid's Hotel Ritz, staff places personalized, monogrammed robes in the room before your arrival. Wrapped in red ribbon with single rosebuds, these are no ordinary bathrobes; they're probably the most luxe and plush you've ever cozied up in.

For luxury travelers who adore their four-legged friends, The Lowell offers the ultimate in pet pampering -- yes, we have to admit, it even beats out previously-mentioned Hotel deLuxe. The hotel's special pet room service menu features gourmet made-to-order meals, including lamb ragout, organic buffalo marrowbone, and filet mignon tartar, with side orders of potatoes, rice and sardines. Can we get a fork, as well? For dessert: Doggie ice cream, fish skin chews imported from Iceland, and classic treats like Milkbones are available. You can also order specialty pet shampoos, paw butter, aromatherapy sprays, and more.

For art lovers and bibliophiles, there are few destinations better than New York City. And within the city, there are few better hotel options than the Andaz Fifth Avenue. Here, locally-inspired decor, such as graffiti art, and a rotating artists-in-residence program, which showcases -- and allows guests to rub elbows with -- some of the city's best and most famous talent, make it an excellent artsy pick. The Andaz has also partnered with the New York City Public Library (located just across the street) to create a fantastic on-site lending library with 700+ hand-selected books that include the hotel's favorites from the famed library.

Mexico's turquoise coastline goes "scentsational" at the Viceroy Riveria Maya, where luxe, over-the-top amenities include everything from a chic spa to a -- you guessed it -- soap concierge. (Actually, you probably didn't guess it. But if you did, then kudos to you.) The service is unique to the property, and invites guests to explore a range of Mayan soaps that promise to cleanse, invigorate, moisturize and exfoliate. Scents are both classic and exotic, from peach to lemon, from chocolate to cinnamon. Request a new soap for your room everyday, or stick to your favorite throughout your stay (hello, chocolate?!). All soaps are available to take home as souvenirs.

Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day..

Use this form to alert a HuffPost editor about a factual or typographical error in this story.

Thank you!
