
Ukrainian authorities said 32 pro-Russian protesters who died during violent clashes in the Black Sea port Odessa were killed by chloroform and not the fire that ravaged the union building where they took shelter.

Forty-eight people died when pro-Russian separatists and supporters of Ukraine’s government clashed in Odessa on May 2 in the worst toll since the ouster of Russian-backed former President Viktor Yanukovych in February. Interior Ministry Chief Investigator Vitaliy Sakal said police had arrested 12 people in connection with the case on both sides and 22 more were under suspicion.

The deaths have fueled a war of words between the Russia and Ukraine, with the former accusing the latter of abusing Russian-speakers, while the government in Kiev says President Vladimir Putin wants to divide Ukraine before a May 25 presidential election.

Six people were also killed in fighting nearby and 10 more died after jumping out of windows to escape the fire, which started after both sides of the violence threw Molotov cocktails, Sakal said. He said the traces of chloroform found in the building indicated it was there for several days before the violence, and authorities were looking into how and why it came to be there. Ukraine has asked Israel to send specialists to assist the investigation, he said.

Ukrainian forces are battling armed separatist rebels who have declared independence for the country’s eastern Donetsk and Luhansk regions and have said they want join Russia, which annexed the Black Sea peninsula Crimea from Ukraine in March.

Two dozen government soldiers have died fighting the insurgents, whom the U.S. and European Union say Russia is supporting with money and special forces. Putin ordered tens of thousands of Russian troops near the Ukrainian border back to base today, the Kremlin said. The North Atlantic Treaty Organization said it had seen no sign of a withdrawal.

Businessweek.com, on behalf of itself and select partners, may send me offers and promotions.

Bloomberg, on behalf of itself and select partners, may send me offers and promotions.

Thank you for subscribing to our Daily Newsletter. You will receive a confirmation email shortly at .
