
Wales is missing out on the chance to create 50,000 jobs by failing to spend a greater share of taxpayers’ money on goods and services within the nation, according to Plaid Cymru.

The party claims that just over half (52%) of public procurement spending by Welsh public bodies goes to companies based in Wales. It wants 75% of spending by Government, the NHS, councils and other bodies to be reinvested in local communities as part of its “Welsh contracts for Welsh companies” policy.

Plaid MEP Jill Evans is alarmed by an analysis of 2009-11 figures which shows that among EU members only Malta – which has a population of just 452,500 – has a “worse” record of public procurement than Wales, with 53% of spending going to other countries.

“At the moment, 48% of the value of our contracts leaves Wales, so our workers and communities don’t see the benefit of this spending, which if spent locally creates yet more jobs. This compares with just 14% that leaks away from our nearest European neighbours, the Republic of Ireland, which is a similar sized population to ours – so they get to keep 86%.

“Other small independent European countries the same size as Wales keep around 90% of their contracts in their own country. The European average is closer to 97%.

Welsh Conservative MEP Kay Swinburne said her party was committed to improving the chances of companies winning contracts.

She said: “As the Conservative-led UK Government fixes the economy at home, we’re also committed to modernising the EU’s public procurement rules so more businesses in Wales can take full advantage of opportunities provided by the single market. Other EU member states have always managed to get European funds to [small and medium-sized businesses].

Alex Thomas, one of Welsh Labour’s candidates in the European election, said: “While initiatives like the Supplier Qualification Information Database show that Welsh Labour is taking action to break down procurement barriers for small business in Wales, the very fact that unemployment this year has been lower than the UK as a whole for the first time shows that what Welsh Labour are doing in Government is working.

“That youth unemployment has reduced at such speed is down to successful programmes like Jobs Growth Wales which has provided around 11,000 job opportunities for young people. Wales is leading the way with Jobs Growth Wales which has an 80% success rate compared with 15% for the Tory work programme.

Welsh Ukip candidate Nathan Gill said Plaid was “disingenuous” because EU requirements to put public contracts out to tender across the EU were to blame for Welsh companies losing business.

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

Join us on social media.

For the latest local news straight to your Twitter, Facebook feed, e-mail inbox or tablet .

WalesOnline.co.uk conforms to the newspaper industry's voluntary Code of Practice, administered by the Press Complaints Commission.

If you feel we have made an error in a report, or have fallen below our usual high standards, please write in the first instance to: Ceri Gould, Online Editor, WalesOnline.co.uk, Media Wales, Six Park Street, Cardiff CF10 1XR. Tel: 029 2024 3672.

We reach over 1,384,563* unique users a month with dedicated coverage of all things Welsh.

WalesOnline is part of Media Wales, publisher of the Western Mail, South Wales Echo, Wales on Sunday and the seven Celtic weekly titles, offering you unique access to our audience across Wales online and in print.

Ceri has been editor of WalesOnline since April 2012. She was previously executive editor of Media Wales and deputy editor of the Western Mail. She started her career on the Glamorgan Gazette.
