
The DUP has launched the party’s agriculture–food commitments leaflet “Standing Up for the Northern Ireland Agri–Foods Sector”.

The event held at Balmoral Show was attended by a wide range of agri food industry stakeholders, farmers and DUP colleagues.

Speaking after the launch, Diane Dodds said that from a European perspective the key policy reform has been the Common Agriculture Policy.

“It is an extremely complex reform which started back in 2010 and was completed only a few weeks ago despite the bluff and bluster of some on the Parliament’s agriculture committee.

“All it took was the promise of a review of the operating rules after a year to have MEPs nod the delegated acts through.

“While I am not happy with the final agreement on the CAP due to the sheer complexity and lack of direction in relation in supporting the primary producer, delivering growth and tackling the real issue of Europe’s food security we have made massive improvements to the Commission’s original text.

“A major victory has been protecting the CAP budget in a European context from the competing demands of other policy areas,” she added.

“While the process is done and dusted in Europe, the implementation here in Northern Ireland is not. Decisions taken over the next number of months - and it is my view they should have already been decided upon - will determine whether we can deliver on Going for Growth.

“My position and that of my party is to devise a policy which promotes a sustainable, productive and competitive agriculture sector within Northern Ireland.

“We believe this can be done by directing money to productive agriculture where ever that is in Northern Ireland. Crucial to this will be a focus on a slow rate of transition to the per hectare payment model of the Single Farm Payment. This will allow family farm businesses the opportunity to adjust towards a flat rate payment. The allocation of support should be based on a three region model (Moorland, SDA, DA and Lowland) to reflect the different production capacity across Northern Ireland like any other part of the UK.

“The need for young farmers and new entrants into agriculture has also been an area which I have supported in the parliament and here in Northern Ireland.

“Less Favoured Areas or Areas of Natural Constraint as they will now be called are vital in supporting both the environment and productive agriculture in Northern Ireland.

“Within Rural Development we have a budget of 227 million euro from Europe which can be financed 50:50. If this money is directed by the DARD Minister effectively we can help reach some of the goals within “Going for Growth”. What we cannot have is a repeat of the current system, where a vast sum of £100 million has been used for strategic projects.

“Northern Ireland has a unique and beautiful landscape. We want to see the sensible management of the countryside.

“We have always opposed the introduction of the “greening” element in Pillar 1 and fought against some of the more difficult environmental proposals – the ban on ploughing of carbon rich soils being one success. Northern Ireland is now in a position of having a legislative requirement from Europe to spend 30% of the Rural Development budget on climate change measures and agri environment schemes.

“Of course we must also target the efficiencies necessary to move the industry forward on a sustainable and competitive basis. There is scope for this in Pillar 2 complimented by the Executive. However while there is an onus on Government to deliver for “Going for Growth”, the industry from farmer to processor to retailer must play their part. It is not enough to sit back and ask Government for finance to make this happen. Finances are tight within the public sector and with potential for severe penalties as a result of no decision on Welfare Reform our ability to spend on growth areas is reduced.

“This is a reality that Government and business face. The books must balance and spending priorities must be identified.

“As a party we are extremely supportive of the industry through our government departments and the work which I do in the European Parliament. Arlene, through Invest NI, has invested substantial amounts of money in our processing sector and has moved to action a number of recommendations highlighted in “Going for Growth”.

“There are positives for agriculture and the agri food sector moving forward. The industry has grown through a recession, demonstrating its resilience and determination to grow. The challenges are clear and the road map that is “Growing for growth” will help deliver growth.

“The world needs more food due to a growing population and westernised eating habits which should be an encouragement to the sector. Identifying markets and producing a product which returns an adequate profit for farmers will the main catalyst for growth going forward.

“At this moment in time the main question on farmers’ lips is delivery on the CAP, something which the First Minister has highlighted we are willing to have a discussion around. This discussion is two ways and I would encourage everyone here to lobby the DARD Minister in obtaining a positive outcome for the agri– food industry.

Create your own advertisement or send someone a special message.

© 2014 Johnston Publishing Ltd.

This website and its associated newspaper adheres to the Press Complaints Commission’s Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion, then contact the Editor by clicking  here .

If you remain dissatisfied with the response provided then you can contact the PCC by clicking here .

Farming Life provides news, events and sport features from the Belfast area. For the best up to date information relating to Belfast and the surrounding areas visit us at Farming Life regularly or bookmark this page.

For you to enjoy all the features of this website Farming Life requires permission to use cookies.

Cookies are small data files which are sent to your browser (Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome etc) from a website you visit. They are stored on your electronic device.

This is a type of cookie which is collected by Adobe Flash media player (it is also called a Local Shared Object) - a piece of software you may already have on your electronic device to help you watch online videos and listen to podcasts.

Yes there are a number of options available, you can set your browser either to reject all cookies, to allow only "trusted" sites to set them, or to only accept them from the site you are currently on.

However, please note - if you block/delete all cookies, some features of our websites, such as remembering your login details, or the site branding for your local newspaper may not function as a result.

A tool used by some of our advertisers to target adverts to you based on pages you have visited in the past. To opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

Our sites contain advertising from Google; these use cookies to ensure you get adverts relevant to you. You can tailor the type of ads you receive by visiting here or to opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

This is used to help us identify unique visitors to our websites. This data is anonymous and we cannot use this to uniquely identify individuals and their usage of the sites.

This comes from our ad serving technology and is used to track how many times you have seen a particular ad on our sites, so that you don't just see one advert but an even spread. This information is not used by us for any other type of audience recording or monitoring.

ComScore monitor and externally verify our site traffic data for use within the advertising industry. Any data collected is anonymous statistical data and cannot be traced back to an individual.

Our Classified websites (Photos, Motors, Jobs and Property Today) use cookies to ensure you get the correct local newspaper branding and content when you visit them. These cookies store no personally identifiable information.

We use Grapeshot as a contextual targeting technology, allowing us to create custom groups of stories outside out of our usual site navigation. Grapeshot stores the categories of story you have been exposed to. Their privacy policy and opt out option can be accessed here.

Our partner for Newspaper subscriptions online stores data from the forms you complete in these to increase the usability of the site and enhance user experience.

Add This provides the social networking widget found in many of our pages. This widget gives you the tools to bookmark our websites, blog, share, tweet and email our content to a friend.
