
MUMBAI: Pharmaceutical giant Pfizer is the latest major firm to shift to the Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC). The MNC took on  lease 90,000 sq ft office space at the Wadhwa Group's commercial tower, The Capital, in a deal concluded a few days ago. It will pay around Rs 225 a sq ft or over Rs 2 crore a month as lease rental, it is learnt.

Pfizer will shift its headquarters from Jogeshwari, which was next to a cowshed. "The management decided to shift as it plans to expand its operations in India,'' market sources said.

The  Capital has pharmaceutical MNCs such as Roche (Swiss) and Takeda Pharmaceuticals (Japanese).

Market experts said the deal is in line of a spate of transactions that have a lower rent on one side and a combination of faster escalation, higher deposit and advance rent on the other. The developer also recently signed on banking major SBI.

Pfizer and The Wadhwa Group refused to comment on the deal.

The deposits and advance rent are believed to be in excess of six months. Currently,  BKC rentals trade Rs 260-350 a sq ft.

"Given the change in sentiments with the promise of a stable government, several companies and banks are looking at relocating to business hubs where good value real estate is available,'' the sources said.

It is learnt that the National Payments Corporation of India is also at an advanced stage of setting up its India  HQ at BKC with around 12,000 sq ft. Market sources indicated that the deal of purchase was around Rs 30,000 per sq ft.

In the BKC, other developments such as Platina and Maker Maxity have also seen renewals by occupiers to stay in the commercial business district. Renewals have happened in these developments between Rs 280-350 per sq ft pm.

A large foreign bank is also planning to shift from  Nariman Point to BKC.

BKC has close to 25 lakh sq ft of commercial space lying vacant or under construction, which has lead to a mismatch between supply and demand.

Early this year, experts had warned that with the average absorption in the BKC at around 5 lakh sq ft annually, this "oversupply" could take at least a few years to be offloaded.

Lease rentals too have taken a knock in the past one year.

The economic slowdown had forced many firms to settle for smaller offices in cheaper places over the past one year, affecting the BKC market.
