
Hong Kong (HKSAR) - Beijing Genomic Institute (BGI) announced today (May 19) that it will further expand the operations of its Tai Po research centre to meet the company's anticipated business growth.

BGI set up BGI-Hong Kong Co Ltd in 2010. Specialising in genome research, the company's Hong Kong research centre has expanded from one floor to three floors and its workforce has almost tripled from 50 to 140 people within only four years. A company spokesperson said that BGI-Hong Kong Co Ltd will recruit an additional 100 people this year to meet its expanding business needs.

Executive Director of BGI-Hong Kong Co Ltd, Mr Alex Wong, said, "Hong Kong's international status, excellent business network, sound legal system and strict protection of intellectual property rights, are some of the reasons why we are expanding. In addition, the Hong Kong Government has reinforced its support to the innovation and technology industries in recent years. We can make use of the city as our springboard from which we can expand to overseas markets."

The Laboratory Manager of its BGI Tech Solutions (Hong Kong) Co Ltd, Mr Sunny Cheung, added, "BGI-Hong Kong has established a large-scale testing platform for genome sequencing, biological information and health technology, and standardised and industrialised the quality of our services.

We have also expanded our services to the Americas, Europe, including the Czech Republic and Israel, and pan-Asia Pacific, including Australia, Korea, Singapore and Taiwan. We expect to enter 10 to 20 new overseas markets next year, via our Hong Kong research centre."

To move towards a model of international sequencing and genome data processing centres, the Hong Kong research centre is applying for various international quality certifications. Looking ahead, BGI-Hong Kong will focus on the development of personalised genome sequencing, in line with the future medical trend of using genome sequencing to prevent and cure diseases.

Associate Director-General of Investment Promotion, Mr Charles Ng, welcomed BGI's expansion in Hong Kong.

He said the expansion highlighted the city's importance on the global medical and biotechnology map. He said, "Hong Kong is an international business hub and close to major Asian regional markets, already making it the ideal platform for Mainland enterprises to go global. Together with its advanced and internationally accredited health-care system, the city attracts overseas and Mainland medical and biotechnology companies to conduct related scientific research in Hong Kong."

BGI was one of Mainland China's pioneering genome research institutes.

It set up BGI-Hong Kong Co Ltd in 2010 and has developed equipment for over 100 high-end genome sequences. It aims to develop the Hong Kong centre as a world leader for genome sequencing, genome data processing, proteomics research and clinical services. The Hong Kong research centre is also the international treasury for BGI.

For more information, please visit: www.genomics.cn.

Invest Hong Kong is the department of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR) Government established in July 2000 to take responsibility for foreign direct investment and support overseas and Mainland businesses to set up or expand in Hong Kong. It provides free advice and customised services to help businesses succeed in Hong Kong's vibrant economy. As of December 2013, Invest Hong Kong had completed over 3 090 investment projects creating more than 34 900 new jobs in the first year of operation or expansion and over HK$82 billion of investment.

For more information, please visit www.investhk.gov.hk.

For event photo, please visit: www.flickr.com/photos/investhk/sets/72157644279412067/ .

Limited copyright is granted for you to use and/or republish any story on this site for  any legitimate media purpose as long as you reference 7thSpace and any source mentioned in the story above. Please  make sure to read our disclaimer prior to contacting 7thSpace Interactive. To contact our editors, visit our online helpdesk . If you wish submit your own press release, click here .

There are no comments available. Be the first to write a comment.

You need to enable Javascript to post a comment.
