
As firefighters continue to fight the blaze near Tyonek, a local nonprofit is fundraising to help feed people displaced by the fire and the crews working to douse it. According to an email from the Tyonek Native Corporation, the Anchorage-based Tebughna Foundation is operating a Wells Fargo account to accept donations.

The foundation hopes to purchase breakfast foods, paper plates and cups, soup ingredients and sandwich supplies for the community members who spent the night at a old manufacturing building several miles away from Tyonek, as well as the roughly 50 firefighters battling the wildfire.

People interested in helping purchase the supplies can donate to the Tebughna Foundation’s account #7758543065 at Wells Fargo, according to the Tyonek Native Corporation.

According to the state Division of Forestry, the 10-acre fire reported near Tyonek Monday afternoon now covers more than 350 acres and continues to burn.

Fire officials said crews have made good progress building a fire line between the blaze and the Cook Inlet community. The majority of Tyonek’s roughly 150 residents evacuated Monday. Division of Forestry officials said firefighting operations are set to continue from the air Tuesday morning, weather permitting.

The fire is up to 200 acres, the state Division of Forestry said.

The Chuitna River separates the fire from the village, but some areas are now burning on the village side.

Tyonek was supposed to have an emergency training Monday morning to prepare for wildfires like this one, said longtime resident Donita Slawson.

Most of roughly 150 residents have evacuated, she said. Some elders were taken to Anchorage and Kenai, but most residents evacuated to a camp about two miles from the village near the beach.

The now-60-acre fire is still considered 100 percent active, said Norm McDonald, a fire management officer with the state Division of Forestry.

The wildfire is bumping up against the Tyonek airstrip, he said. Two hotshot crews, eight smokejumpers and two helicopters are on scene to battle the blaze.

Meanwhile, crews are also battling an 80-acre fire near the Funny River Road Horse Trail, McDonald said. No structures are threatened by that fire, the Division of Forestry said.

State Division of Forestry planes carrying firefighters have landed and are battling the blaze, the Tyonek Native Corporation said. They are receiving varying reports of wind kicking the fire up or the fire dying out, but the fire is not believed to be completely out, they said.

A 10-acre wildfire is burning near a Cook Inlet village.

The fire is located less than two miles away from Tyonek, a village of about 150, said Debra Call with the Tyonek Native Corporation. It was reported around 3 p.m.

According to the state Division of Forestry, smokejumpers, forestry firefighters and air tankers are en route to the village.

The corporation is trying to mobilize firefighting efforts and villagers are trying to create a fire line to protect the village, Call said. It is not possible to drive to the village during the summer.

Tyonek residents are urged to leave their homes and head for the beach, Call said. Tyonek Native Corporation has requested help from the Kenai Fire Department.

–Check back for updates on this developing story.
