
Complaints against high street banks about fee-paying packaged accounts have more than tripled in a year.

Banks have been hit by a backlash from thousands of customers who complain they have paid up to £300 a year for perks they never knew existed or did not want.

But the high street giants are routinely rejecting legitimate complaints, forcing customers  to take their case to the  independent disputes arbitrator, the Financial Ombudsman Service.

Critics say the level of customer discontent shows that the banks have a 'rotten culture' and that lenders may become embroiled in a new mis-selling scandal.

Complaints about packaged accounts rose to 5,667 in the year to the end of March, up from 1,629 the previous year, according to figures released by the ombudsman today.

James Daley, founder of Fairer Finance said: 'Some banks seem to feel they can carry on mis-selling until they get fined.

'This speaks to the rotten culture in the banking sector and the fact that so many are being upheld reinforces that banks are treating their customers with contempt.'

He added: 'If the ombudsman has received almost 5,700 complaints this suggests tens of thousands of people have been mis-sold. Who knows how big this scandal will become'.

Around nine million people have a packaged account. Banks are keen to sell them because they are far more profitable than ordinary current accounts, which are free if in credit.

in an echo of the PPI  scandal, many bank customers are paying for perks they do not want or cannot benefit from.

Until recently the most expensive packaged account was Lloyds Premier, which charged £25 a month – or £300 a year. This has been replaced by its Platinum account, which charges £17 a month.

Typical packaged account benefits include travel insurance, breakdown cover and mobile phone insurance. Some also offer free music downloads or free National Trust days out. But in an echo of the PPI  scandal, many are paying for perks they do not want or cannot benefit from.

For example, pensioners may find they are unable to claim on their travel insurance policy because the small print contains an age limit of 65. The ombudsman said a growing number of complaints are from customers who said their accounts had been 'upgraded' without their knowledge.

The City watchdog first raised fears that packaged accounts were being mis-sold two years ago.

Tougher rules were introduced in March last year forcing banks to make stricter checks that customers can claim on the insurance they are paying for.

They also have to send annual statements to tell customers how much they are paying and listing the benefits to see if they are still suitable.

The British Bankers' Association said: 'All banks now ensure that any packaged account that is bought by a customer is right for their individual needs.

'Banks have been responding quickly to this increased level of complaints to resolve any issues for customers.'

If you're fed up with your bank and thinking of switching, there are plenty of incentives to move. This is Money's five of the best current accounts is a regularly updated guide to where the best offers are.

Top deals include Halifax's Reward Account promising new customers £100 to switch and £5 per month if they stay in credit.

First Direct pays £100 to new customers who switch to its First Account. On top of that,  the bank is so confident in its customer service that it will give you a further £100 if you chose to close the account within the first 12  months.

The Co-op, too, has introduced a £100 cash incentive for new customers. It will also donate £25 to charity on your behalf.

If you switch your main current  account to one of the Post Office’s Standard, Packaged or Control  current accounts the bank will give you a £100 gift card.

Lloyds Bank is tempting  desperate savers with its Club Lloyds current account - offering up  to 4 per cent for balances between £4,000 and £5,000. But you will have to pay in at least £1,500.

TSB has also recently launched an interest-paying, the Plus Account pays 5 per cent on balances of up to £2,000 and only requires a minimum monthly deposit of £500.

Santander's 123 current account, on the other hand, pays interest on in-credit balances - 1 per cent on balances between £1,000 and £2,000, 2 per cent between  £2,000 and £3,000 and 3 per cent on balances between £3,000 and £20,000.

Nationwide FlexDirect offers to pay 5 per cent interest on balances up to £2,500 for the first year, while its FlexAccount delivers free travel insurance. It also operates a Refer a Friend scheme,  whereby both parties will receive £50 if an existing customers  successfully recommends friends or family to the bank.

The comments below have not been moderated.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
