
BROOKSVILLE — Imagine someday going into your yard or driveway, hopping into your George Jetson-style flying saucer and lifting off vertically as you head to work.

To some, such a scenario is pure science fiction, but to a consortium of seasoned aviation minds, including those who run Brooksville’s Corporate Jet Solutions, it’s no pie-in-the-sky fantasy.

Located at Brooksville-Tampa Bay Regional Airport, Corporate Jet Solutions recently inked a joint-venture agreement with Aerobat Aviation, a California company with plans, someday soon, to launch a manned flying saucer-like aircraft known as Geobat FS-7.

Unmanned prototypes of the aircraft have been made and tested in Brooksville and at Georgia Tech and Auburn University, where wind-tunnel tests were conducted.

Dye said the companies are working to have saucers ready for the Experimental Aircraft Association’s Airventure Oshkosh event held July 28 to Aug. 3 in Oshkosh, Wis. The event draws aviation enthusiasts and companies from around the globe. In Oshkosh, Bradley Dye and Travis Shannon, chief executive officer of Aerobat Aviation, expect the saucer plane to elicit great interest.

Dye and Shannon say they are prepared to revolutionize aviation and eventually bring high-paying jobs to Brooksville.

Matching their enthusiasm is Dennis Wilfong, who chairs Hernando’s Aviation Authority and is Brooksville’s ambassador of Commerce and Employment,

The California and Brooksville companies were brought together by county commission candidate Jimmy Lodato, a retired entrepreneur.

That was about four months ago.

According to Shannon, the original saucer planes were produced by inventor Jack Jones, who is working on an improved design with Dean Goedde, a flight systems control designer who also designs airframes, autopilots and sensors.

Shannon said future commercial saucer flights are a remote possibility.

The Geobat also could be used for agricultural purposes.

The first scheduled commercial airplane flight happened more than 100 years ago, when Tony Jannus flew then-St. Petersburg Mayor Abraham Pheill across Tampa Bay to Tampa.

Bradley Dye predicted it is only a matter of time before the first manned saucer flight, from Brooksville to Tampa, will occur.

Asked what aviation pioneers Orville and Wilbur Wright might think of the saucer-shaped plane, Dye grinned.

Bradley Dye and Shannon touted the Geobat’s safety, saying the circular craft is likely to roll like a hubcap in the event of a crash, potentially increasing survivability rates.

The next step, Dye said, is to obtain Federal Aviation Authority certifications and begin production of light-sport aviation aircraft.
