
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .

If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .

Oil prices were mixed amid escalating violence in crude producer Libya following a revolt by a rogue general that has raised concerns about potential supply disruptions.

The US benchmark, West Texas Intermediate (WTI) for delivery in June, rose 59 cents to $US102.61 a barrel on Monday.

Brent North Sea crude for delivery in July dipped 38 cents to stand at $US109.37 a barrel in late London deals compared with Friday's closing level.

Timothy Evans of Citi Futures said the mixed reaction suggests "a rough balance between the easing of tensions over Ukraine and the ongoing threats to supply in Libya and Nigeria".

Gold futures pared gains to end nearly unchanged as a rebound in US equities tempered investor interest in haven assets.

Gold for June delivery, the most active contract, settled up 40 cents at $US1,293.80 a troy ounce on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange.

Gold prices had touched $US1,305.70 an ounce, their highest level in four days, after US equities pulled back in early morning trading on Monday.

But by early afternoon, a rebound in stocks saw gold erase most of the day's gains.

An apparent easing in tensions between Russia and Ukraine also appeared to be undermining gold prices.

Copper futures closed at their highest level in two months as worries about supply helped lift prices of the industrial metal.

The most actively traded contract, for July delivery, rose two cents, or 0.6 per cent, to settle at $US3.167 a pound on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange.

Copper prices have been recovering, after sliding to four year lows in March, as worries about an economic slowdown in China appeared to be overdone.

China is the world's largest copper consumer, accounting for about 40 per cent of global demand.

While some investors feared that slower business activity would dent the country's copper purchases, recent economic data led traders to grow more optimistic in their outlook on copper demand.

Copper has also drawn support from concerns about a short-term shortfall in supply.

Nickel futures posted their biggest one-day gain since September 2012, as investors refocused on Indonesia, the world's largest nickel producer, which in January banned the export of unprocessed nickel ore.

Nickel for three month delivery closed kerb trading up 5.7 per cent at $US20,100 a metric ton on the London Metal Exchange.

Daredevil wingsuiters take on 'epic challenge'

Onlookers cheer as two Dutch wingsuiters jump from a helicopter and soar around the Euromast building in Rotterdam.
