
With the exception of iron ore, Macquarie observes supply growth rates in bulk materials and metals markets are finally slowing, as the miners' productivity push abates. Demand outside of China is outperforming expectations as sentiment turns more positive. China is still expected to deliver the majority of global commodities demand this year, but the government's efforts to drive change in the business models of state-owned enterprises and maintain tight credit means sentiment is being kept in check.

Macquarie thinks nickel's story is just starting. For the first time in over two years there is a pronounced constraint to the raw material because of the Indonesian ore ban. Ore prices have doubled this year and fed through to higher quotes on the London Metal Exchange. There are some concerns that Indonesian nickel pig iron capacity could ramp up more quickly than expected via the blast furnace route. Macquarie thinks this view is flawed as the saprolitic ore faces severe technical challenges when used in a blast furnace. Even with aggressive re-balancing assumptions, Macquarie believe a multi-year deficit in the metal is likely.

In contrast, bulk commodities are suffering from the supply growth from the past two years and need higher Chinese imports to clear the market. Macquarie has once more lowered both metallurgical (coking) and thermal coal price forecasts, as a reticence to cut immediate supply and a lower cost structure in China prolong the impact of the supply overhang. The analysts observe there's some supply reaction from the coal market which should limited downside risks form current spot levels. This is not the case in iron ore, with supply continuing to exceed expectations.

UBS has revised iron ore price forecasts lower for 2014, by 9% to US$111/t. Chinese steel production is running at record rates and iron ore supply is also at record rates. Much of the steel production is ending up in the export market, signalling to UBS that domestic consumption is not as strong as the production data would suggest. UBS has reduced earnings forecasts for Australia's major iron ore producers, by 12% for Rio Tinto (RIO), by 11% for Fortescue Metals ((FMG)), and by as much as 29% for Atlas Iron ((AGO)) in FY14. Australia's strong supply response to the lift in Asian steel making activity is largely to blame for the drop in prices and UBS has retained longer-term iron ore price forecasts.

Our archive tells no lies. FNArena warned its readers well before the price of crude oil peaked in 2008 the speculator bubble would deflate with devastating   consequences for those holding oil company shares. In August we warned the most severe correction in modern history was forthcoming for natural resources.   In 2007 we warned the problem with US subprime mortgages would prove much bigger than experts and media were anticipating (among other things).

FNArena is showing the true value of truly independent financial analysis and reporting. Our daily news reports can be trialed at no cost and with   no obligations at www.fnarena.com . Simply sign up and see it for yourself.

Subscribers and trialists should read our terms and conditions, available on the website.

All material published by FNArena is the copyright of the publisher, unless otherwise stated.   Reproduction in whole or in part is not permitted without written permission of the publisher.

The content of this information does in no way reflect the opinions of FNArena,   or of its journalists. In fact we don't have any opinion about the stock  market, its value, future direction or individual shares. FNArena solely  reports about what the main experts in the market note, believe and comment  on. By doing so we believe we provide intelligent investors with a valuable  tool that helps them in making up their own minds, reading market trends and  getting a feel for what is happening beneath the surface. This document is provided  for informational purposes only. It does not constitute an offer to sell or  a solicitation to buy any security or other financial instrument. FNArena employs  very experienced journalists who base their work on information believed to  be reliable and accurate, though no guarantee is given that the daily report  is accurate or complete. Investors should contact their personal adviser before  making any investment decision.
