
PATNA: Now, need not stand in serpentine queues as, with Patna Municipal Corporation's (PMC) initiative, Patnaites can file their property tax returns online.

Addressing a press meet on Monday, PMC commissioner Kuldip Narayan said the online mode would free the property owners from the hassle of standing in queue and the application is very user-friendly. Notices are being sent to property owners with their number, property ID, details about their wards, old holdings as well as new holding numbers. "We are ensuring the notice reaches the right address. Like courier boys take receiving after delivering the letter or article, we will obtain receiving the same way," he said.

Property owners can log on to www.ptax.nagarseva.in/home and select their district, urban local body and their circle to file their returns. After selecting 'File PTR', one has to type the notice number and submit the details. The next page that will appear will ask for property-related details such as nature of ownership, location of the land or property and nature of the property. After filling the details and completing the procedure, a verification code will be sent on the mobile number fed by the visitor. The visitor will have to fill in the verification code and click the 'confirm' tab.

After the final confirmation, the visitor will have to get a print of the return and with proper signature will have to send the copy to the circle office under the municipal corporation. "Without the hard copy, the return will not be considered valid," said the civic boss.

For the final payment of the tax, one will have to generate challan from the website and pay the amount at any branch of either State Bank of India (SBI) or Punjab National Bank (PNB) or at PMC office or with tax collector. "But the property owners should not feed wrong information as they will be slapped hefty fine afterwards," he said and added that for implementing the system, tax collectors have been trained and notices are being sent to property owners. For more information, one can call on the helpline number 0612 3095555.
