
The 2014 Atlantic Hurricane Season predictions are due out this week from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), although the accuracy of such long-range forecasts is often criticized.

NOAA’s Satellite Operations Facility near Washington houses the the tools meteorologists use to make their forecasts.

Tom Boyd sits before a bank of computers that streams live data from weather satellites.

The imager works like a camera in space, and the sounder measures the temperature radiated from clouds, oceans and air. Boyd is among the dozens of aerospace engineering technicians in the control room who gather that data and make sure the satellites run properly around-the-clock.

Each day NOAA's Satellite Operations Facility processes 16 billion bytes of data from 16 different satellites.

“Every time we see a hurricane, every time we see any kind of severe weather out there, that underscores the importance to the folks out here on the floor of what they do every day,” Condray said.

He expects predictions to improve with the launch of the Joint Polar Satellite System in early 2017.

 “What these will provide is about an order of magnitude, in other words about 10 times more volume of data on the atmospheric state on the winds, the temperature and the humidity in the atmosphere,” Condray said.

That information will improve the day-to-day forecast.

Warmer than normal waters in the tropical Pacific generally indicate fewer storms in the Atlantic.

This forum has been closed.

Your JavaScript is turned off or you have an old version of Adobe's Flash Player. Get the latest Flash player .

Jewish people from across Europe and Russia have been immigrating to Argentina for hundreds of years. They brought with them dance music that was eventually mixed with Argentine tango. The result is Yiddish tango -- a fusion of melodies and cultural experiences that is still evolving today.  Elizabeth Lee reports on how one band is bringing Yiddish tango to Los Angeles.
