
MINDEN, Nev., May 19, 2014 (BUSINESS WIRE) -- DTS8 Coffee Company, Ltd. BKCT, +2.86% (otcqb:BKCT) (bcn:9BE) announced today that the DTS8 Coffee is served at the prestigious Morton’s of Chicago Steakhouse in Shanghai. This is the first of Morton’s restaurants to sell DTS8 Coffee. The 400-seat restaurant is the world’s largest Morton’s restaurant to date, and is located on the 4th floor of the Shanghai IFC mall, in the new business district of Lujiazui, Pudong.

DTS8 Coffee Company, Ltd. (“DTS8”) is a purveyor of gourmet-roasted coffee in China. DTS8 roasts, markets and wholesales the “DTS8 Premium”, “Single Origin Premium”, “Don Manuel”, and “Private Label” brands in Shanghai and others areas of China. DTS8 coffees are well regarded by consumers for their uniqueness, consistency and special flavor characteristics, and are sold through distribution channels reaching consumers at restaurants, multi-location coffee shops and offices. Visit us at www.dts8coffee.com .

Except for the historical matters contained herein, statements in this press release contain “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Investors are cautioned that forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, which may affect DTS8’s current and future business and prospects. Actual results could differ materially, as a result of various risk factors including but not limited to: (1) competition in the markets for DTS8’s coffee; (2) the ability of DTS8 to execute its business plan; and (3) other factors detailed in DTS8’s public filings with the SEC. By making these forward-looking statements, DTS8 can give no assurances that transactions described in this press release will be successfully completed, and undertakes no obligation to update these statements for revisions or changes after the date of this press release. This release should be read in conjunction with DTS8’s Annual Report on Form 10-K and its other filings with the SEC through the date of this release, which identifies important factors that could affect the forward-looking statements in this release. In addition, factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in the statements include, without limitation, overall economic conditions, and other risks associated generally with the coffee business. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance.

SOURCE: DTS8 Coffee Company, Ltd.

Copyright ©2014 MarketWatch, Inc.  All rights reserved.

Intraday Data provided by SIX Financial Information and subject to terms of use .                 Historical and current end-of-day data provided by SIX Financial Information. Intraday data                 delayed per exchange requirements. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones & Company, Inc.                 All quotes are in local exchange time. Real time last sale data provided by NASDAQ. More                 information on NASDAQ traded symbols and their current financial status. Intraday                 data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, and 20 minutes for other exchanges. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM)                 from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. SEHK intraday data is provided by SIX Financial Information and is                 at least 60-minutes delayed. All quotes are in local exchange time.
