
SEOUL, May 19 (Yonhap) -- POSCO, South Korea's top steelmaker, said Monday it will aim for an annual consolidated operational profit of 5 trillion won (US$4.9 billion) by the year 2016 and focus on financial stability to boost its global competitiveness.

Holding its first investor relations gathering since CEO Kwon Oh-joon took office in March, the company said it will strive for overall sales of 78 trillion won in the target year to give the steelmaker an operating profit rate of 6.4 percent and strengthen its core business area of steel manufacturing.

POSCO reported an operating profit of just under 3 trillion won with sales reaching 62 trillion won in 2013, for an operating profit rate of 4.8 percent.

Besides steel, POSCO said it will focus on other industrial materials and clean energy development as next generation "mega growth engines" that will allow it to fulfill the "POSCO the Great" corporate vision outlined by Kwon. The steelmaker said it wants to move into next generation fuel cells, energy storage and magnesium-based materials.

"The key goal for the future is to strive for growth based on internal stability and discard past practices of pushing only for expansion," the CEO told investors. He stressed the steelmaker will start reaping investment made in the past and prod all of its overseas operations in such places as Indonesia to become profitable by 2016.  Last year, some eight foreign POSCO affiliates lost money.

"Normalization is key as well as cost-cutting," Kwon emphasized.

The steelmaker said bolstered profit and sales would push up earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or EBITDA, to 8.5 trillion won in three years' time, which should give the steelmaker a credit rating of "A." At present the company's credit rating stands at BBB-plus, as measured by Standard & Poor's Rating Service, and Baa2 according to Moody's Investor Service.

On the managerial front, the company said it will shift its past mergers and acquisitions strategy to a "collect and collaboration" framework that focuses on constructive alliances with other companies at home and abroad. Such a move can reduce investment outlays and help POSCO's free cash flow that should move into positive territory in 2015.

The steelmaker said that it will effectively slash investment by half in the coming year to 12.6 trillion won compared to the 2011-2013 period, and reduce borrowed money by 2.7 trillion won vis-a-vis last year.

Reflecting this blueprint, POSCO said it will shed non-core operations, selling off unnecessary holdings even in key affiliates as long as its managerial control is not placed at risk, and push for the merging and consolidation of affiliates to bolster efficiency.

On speculation that the steelmaker will spin-off Daewoo International, its energy and trading arm, the CEO said that nothing has been decided at present but all affiliates are subject to restructuring.

He pointed out that the company is currently acting as a "cash cow" thanks to the operational gas field in Myanmar in controls.

As to the sharp drop in stock prices of POSCO M-Tech, an affiliate that deals in various metal products and materials development, Kwon said every effort is being made to conduct sweeping restructuring that includes selling off holdings.

Any decision on POSCO taking over Dongbu Steel's operations in Incheon will be decided after due diligence is completed by the end of the month, he added.

"Whatever action is taken should result in a win-win arrangement for all sides," the CEO said.

Kwon struck an optimistic view for the future, saying that while things have not been good for the steel industry as a whole in the past, there are signs of recovery.  In five to 10 years, conditions could improve, especially if more value-added products made by the company start reaching the market, he said.
