
While many residents and businesses support the proposed Lake Worth Inlet Palm Beach Harbor port expansion, we at the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers understand that there are differing and even opposing opinions. As a federal agency, our duty is to fulfill the mission directed by Congress and be accountable to the taxpayers we serve. We remain dedicated to providing quality, responsive service to the nation.

We have just completed a feasibility study and environmental impact assessment of proposed navigational improvements to the harbor. The Army Corps of Engineers recommends improvements to the channel that would increase overall port efficiency and safety and generate transportation cost savings.

The proposed improvements include channel and turning basin widening in some areas and deepening of the port by 6 additional feet. To arrive at these recommendations, the study included ship simulation modeling performed by the pilots that analyzed the need for widening, an economic analysis on the need for deepening every additional foot, an environmental assessment of potential impacts and mitigation for unavoidable impacts.

The recommended federal navigation project will support infrastructure improvement and generate national economic benefits. We also recognize its impacts, which range from a temporary increase in noise and the presence of large equipment during a two-year construction phase, to the permanent removal of sea grass and hard-bottom habitat. To the greatest extent possible, we mitigated these impacts during the study process and will continue to use the best science, engineering and equipment available to minimize impacts to the human and marine environments.

Of particular concern to some residents are the alleged impacts by an increase in storm surge, overall blasting effects, changes to dredge material beach placement operations and long-term ship wake or wave erosion impacts. Let me address these concerns and clarify some misinformation.

The Army Corps of Engineers took into account storm surge frequency, local topography, anticipated sea-level rise effects, and much more. To put this in perspective, a 100-year hurricane event (occurring once in a 100-year period) would cause a stormwater surge of 10 feet to the current condition of the Lake Worth Lagoon. The recommended project would cause water to rise a maximum, additional 4 inches during a storm of this magnitude. This is unlikely to cause a significant change in flooding.

Implementation of confined underwater blasting during construction is an approved technique used by experts to loosen, fracture or otherwise pre-treat rock prior to excavation and dredging. This technique was safely and effectively used in Miami Harbor with no discernible negative impacts to the marine or human environment.

Under the proposed project, the corps intends to place the same average annual amount of beach-quality material on down-drift beaches. However, the maintenance events will occur every other year. The project will not reduce the amount of material dredged, only the frequency. The reduction in dredging frequency saves taxpayers thousands of dollars annually. All coastal dynamic modeling suggests that increasing the placement operation interval from once a year to once every two years will have minimal to no impact on the down-drift beaches. We will continue to examine all dredging events to maximize the amount of material placed on the beach and in near-shore waters.

We anticipate no increase in shoreline erosion as a direct result of the project’s construction, and base this position on numerous and thorough analyses. The project would increase navigation efficiency and safety for the current fleet of vessels using the port. Future changes in types of vessels, frequency of transit, vessel speed, proximity to shoreline and other operational parameters is not within our jurisdiction, and may occur with or without the implementation of the recommended project.

I want to reassure the community that during each step of this project, we are coordinating with local, state, and federal officials and will continue to keep the public informed and involved. We appreciate the opportunity to respond to your concerns.

Thank you for registering!

We have sent you a confirmation email. Please check your email and click on the link to activate your account.

Thank you for registering!

We look forward to seeing you frequently. Visit us and sign in to update your profile, receive the latest news and keep up to date with mobile alerts.

Don't worry, it happens. We'll send you a link to create a new password.

We have sent you an email with a link to change your password.

We've sent an email with instructions to create a new password. Your existing password has not been changed.

To sign in you must verify your email address. Fill out the form below and we'll send you an email to verify.

Check your email for a link to verify your email address.
