
We have re-imagined our design in a bold new way. Before we roll it out for everyone, we are giving select readers an opportunity to try out the new design. We welcome your feedback.

We've removed you from the beta test of the new design.

Please note: if you clear your cookies you may be invited back to the beta. In order to prevent this from happening, please do not clear your SFGate.com cookies for the next 30 days.

Today I have answers to reader questions on cashing in pre-euro coins, paying off a child's student loans and determining how old is too old for coding bootcamp.

Q: Roz S. writes, "I was cleaning out some drawers and discovered a small cache of European coins left over from foreign trips to France, Germany, Italy, Netherlands and Switzerland. Is there any bank anywhere in the world that will exchange these coins for euros, or is there anywhere I can donate the change?"

A: The answer is all over the map. Each country that joined the eurozone set different policies for how long their old currencies could be converted into euros. In some cases the expiration date was different for coins and paper money.

The old currencies of France, Finland, Greece and Italy "are kaput," says Gabriel Leichen , operations manager with Global Numismatic Services in Houston. Neither their coins nor bank notes can be converted into euros and thus have no value except, in rare cases, as collectibles. To see if they have collectible value, check with a rare-coin dealer or eBay.

Austria, Belgium, Luxembourg, Germany, Spain, Ireland, Malta, Cyprus, Slovakia, Slovenia, Netherlands, Estonia, Portugal and Latvia will still exchange their old banknotes for euros. Only Germany, Spain and Austria will also exchange their old coins into euros.

Most U.S. banks will no longer convert pre-euro currencies into dollars, but companies such as Leichen's will, as long as they are still convertible into euros. "On German paper we pay 90 percent of face value. On coins we pay 80 percent for a half-mark and up and 60 percent on smaller coins," Leichen says.

Neither Switzerland nor Britain joined the eurozone; their currencies can be easily converted into dollars except for Swiss banknotes issued before the late 1970s and one Swiss coin that was taken out of circulation.

Q: In response to my Sunday column on student loans, Aiko H. writes, "I want to help my daughter pay off her student loans. Are there any tax incentives for parents and if so, what should we do?"

A: Borrowers can deduct up to $2,500 in interest paid on federal and private student loans each year, even if the borrower does not itemize.

However, "only the person responsible for making payments on a student loan can claim the student loan interest deduction," says Mark Kantrowitz , publisher of Edvisors.com.

If the daughter's parents help her make the payments on the loan, the daughter can claim the student loan interest deduction on those payments in addition to her own payments.

Parents can claim the student loan interest deduction on interest they pay on a Federal Parent Plus loan or on a private student loan they cosigned, but not on the interest portion of payments they pay on their daughter's federal student loans or on private student loans that they did not cosign. "They have to be legally obligated to make the payments on a loan to claim the student loan interest deduction," Kantrowitz says.

Note: If the parents can claim the daughter as an exemption on their tax return, the daughter is ineligible for the student loan interest deduction.

Q: In response to my May 3 column on coding boot camps, Marty S. writes, "I'm wondering if this is a possible career for an over-60 person? If an older person completed the education, are they likely to be able to find work?"

A: The oldest person who went through Dev Bootcamp was 53 and landed a job as a developer, says Dev spokesman Brandon Croke .

"While our environment is rather youthful in attitude, we have a 35-plus student or two in each cohort," he adds. "Older students are just as likely as younger students to find work, however many people in the tech industry discuss ageism as a very real issue, especially in the valley. The benefit to an older student is that they have more work experience and may have networks of friends who work in the industry. Anyone we accept into the program should have the drive, openness and dedication to make a career switch, but it is not easy and there are no guarantees."

General Assembly "does have older students attend courses and build successful careers, though the majority of students are in their 20s to 30s," a spokeswoman replied in an e-mail. "A good example of an 'older' student is Patsy Price , who took (an immersive Web development course) at 57 and is now working as a developer" at SmartZip, a marketing tool for real estate agents.

Although she had little prior programming experience, Price has a degree in materials science engineering from UC Berkeley and was working as a sales engineer with Google before bootcamp.

Price doesn't think age was a factor in her job search. "I think the skill set I acquired is really in demand right now. At the same time, when you go into this, you are competing day to day with a lot younger people."

She says people who want to become coders should have "a deep desire to learn how to code," an aptitude for math and be willing to work 10 hours a day.

To see if you are cut out for coding, Price suggests taking free online courses such as those offered by General Assembly or Codeacademy in Ruby, HTML, CSS or Javascript. She especially likes https://dash.generalassemb.ly/.
