
Enterprise Hadoop specialist Cloudera will house its data center infrastructure with Vantage Data Centers in Santa Clara, the companies announced today. The deal includes “significant data center space,” according to Vantage, with the ability to expand across an even larger footprint if Cloudera needs more space.

Cloudera  is a leader in the fast-growing “Big Data” sector, offering customers enterprise data hub software built on Apache Hadoop, providing a single place to store, process and analyze all their data. Earlier this year the company lined up $900 million in funding, including a $740 million investment from  Intel Capital  (INTC).

That funding allows Cloudera to expand its data center infrastructure. Vantage operates campuses in Santa Clara and Quincy, Washington. The lease with Cloudera will help fill space in Santa Clara, where the company has more than 24 megawatts of capacity available, making it easy for Cloudera to expand if needed.

Vantage is one of several data center providers with space available in Santa Clara, which is the busiest data center market in Silicon Valley due to affordable power from the local utility, Silicon Valley Power.

Last month Vantage increased its revolving credit facility from $210 million to $275 million. The company said the additional credit will allow it to continue to its expansion, including forays into new geographic markets. Vantage is backed by Silver Lake, the global leader in technology investing, with over $20 billion in combined assets under management.

Rich Miller is the founder and editor at large of Data Center Knowledge, and has been reporting on the data center sector since 2000. He has tracked the growing impact of high-density computing on the power and cooling of data centers, and the resulting push for improved energy efficiency in these facilities.

Get Daily Email News from DCK!

Subscribe now and get our special report, "The World's Most Unique Data Centers."

IBM Opens SoftLayer Data Center in Toronto, Canada First SoftLayer data center in Canada, the facility to improve service for the company’s Canadian customers as well as customers outside of the country serving the Toronto market.

IO Building Massive Beachhead in New Jersey Provider has deployed dozens of modular data centers in its massive facility overlooking the New Jersey Turnpike in Edison, establishing itself as a major player in the highly competitive New Jersey market.
