
The U.S. recently marked the fourth anniversary of the catastrophic BP oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico.

The deadly explosion that caused the disaster and the months of thick oil spewing into the water off our coast were horrific reminders of the dangers that can be associated with oil and gas production.

The workers who play such a valuable role in that industry, the many who depend on it for their energy and the people and businesses who are close to oil wells deserve to know that these installations are carefully monitored.

Unfortunately, a new federal report prompts important concerns about the agency tasked with keeping a watchful eye on the thousands of oil and gas wells that dot the nation — including those in Louisiana.

While the Deepwater Horizon explosion and resulting spill happened in the Gulf, many of the nation’s oil and gas wells are on land. They are regulated by the federal Bureau of Land Management, but a report by the Government Accountability Office casts doubt on how carefully it is carrying out its important responsibilities.

This situation is particularly distressing at a time when our nation is so rapidly expanding its use of fracking technologies to extract oil and gas from deep beneath the earth, a process that already worries some environmental activists who see it as a possible threat to water quality.

Regardless of whether those fears turn out in the long run to have merit, the federal agency is giving the public little reason to trust that adequate safeguards are in place.

Part of the answer could be putting more money into the inspection program, but clearly there are other factors at work as well. The fact that so many inspections have been neglected and so many more sites have not even been classified is a serious blow to public confidence, one that will take a concerted effort to overcome.

Posted in Opinion on Monday, May 19, 2014 10:29 pm.

1 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language. PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.

2 Don't Threaten. Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated.

3 Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.

4 Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.

5 Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.

6 Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness accounts, the history behind an article.

Welcome to the discussion.

jaxtrk posted at 6:40 am on Fri, May 23, 2014.

So much is done by paper filings by some person in an air conditioned office miles away, by a person who knows nothing and has never seen a drilling rig. But you are completely right, inspectors should be held accountable. But as in the Deep Horizon and Halliburton not following specifications on the concrete sealing process, if there was no inspector on the rig observing, how do we hold that inspector accountable???? How do we hold the inspector accountable for the miscues of the supervisors on the rig. It's dark and muddy water we are treading into grufferdog.

grufferdog posted at 12:07 am on Thu, May 22, 2014.

I agree with you in principle that industry inspecting their industry is a bad idea, just as it is equally bad if not worse if the safety inspectors are "in bed" with industry. The somebodies who signed off on the production "go ahead" directly allowed the accident to happen. Hiring more of the same types of inspectors will only insure more of the same problems. Hence my rant about responsibility.

jaxtrk posted at 8:14 am on Wed, May 21, 2014.

gufferdog, just look at the history of big business regulating itself. They don't and never will. They will pollute every piece of ground and water source around they can get to. After they spoil the area, they are gone, leaving the mess to be cleaned up by someone else. Right here in Conroe, the old Conroe Creosote company is a perfect example. The soil so tainted that homes built on the old site were condemned and bought by TAX PAYER money.

Your thoughts for responsibility is nice, but as unreal as the movie Avatar. Especially oil and gas companies have shown total disregard for our environment. Rivers and streams polluted. Some to the point not a living creature can be found for miles from their discharge. Only Government oversight can correct and bring these companies into compliance. I don't know about you, but I enjoy clean water and clean air. I like not having to wear face mask like in China where the "unregulated" pollution is choking it's population.

America still has some work to do in cleaning up the oil and gas industry. In a recent offshore fishing trip, I was handed a pamphlet warning about to much mercury found in some fish being harvested off the Texas Gulf coast. Oyster reefs have been quarantined because of pollutants released from nearby chemical plants.

grufferdog posted at 1:42 am on Tue, May 20, 2014.

Gee, what a novel solution to a major problem. Throw more money at it, it will go away. Much like the foodstamps program, medicare, medicaid, dod, doj, fbi and all the other federal agencies. If we could just throw more money at them, they would defeat hunger, give adequate medical care to our poor/seniors, insure world peace, give equality to all.

The only problem with that solution is we have tried it repeatedly. It has only increased the fraud, waste and abuse. Wait, wait 1 second here, how about trying RESPONSIBILITY? Everyone knows resposibility. You know where you dont have children you lack the financial ability to care for. Where you know you're gonna retire someday so you put something away for it. Where we the United States are NOT the world police and mind our own business. Where we are a Soveriegn Nation, whose National Constitution applies exclusively to OUR citizens, both naturalized and homeborne.....Naaaaah that would never work, its just too tough to do.

Yep, its better to tax our citizenry/businesses into oblivion. To run a national debt/deficit that is on pace to outdo our GDP. Yah now thats the way to effectively govern, throw more and more money at the fire..... \ sarcasm off.
