
A Petronas logo is seen near its twin towers in Kuala Lumpur.

The chief executive officer of Malaysia’s state-owned Petronas is to deliver the keynote address this week at a Vancouver conference that will shine a spotlight on British Columbia’s fledgling liquefied natural gas industry.

Shamsul Azhar Abbas, who is slated to talk about the global economics of exporting LNG, will be visiting Canada as 14 B.C. projects jockey to turn their proposals into reality.

Petronas leads the Pacific NorthWest LNG joint venture, considered the front-runner in the race to export B.C. natural gas in liquid form to energy-thirsty customers in Asia.

B.C. Premier Christy Clark will be on hand to welcome Mr. Shamsul on Wednesday, when the three-day conference kicks off. Notable energy executives spearheading B.C. projects will be attending, including Pacific NorthWest LNG president Greg Kist.

Industry experts caution there is room for only four B.C. LNG projects at most, given that the players in Canada are trailing foreign rivals in places such as Australia, the United States and Qatar.

“Canadian LNG production not only faces competition from other countries but from other energy resources. Coal and nuclear power production is on the rise in many countries,” according to a new report by Ernst & Young.

Still, demand for liquefied natural gas is forecast to be robust in the years ahead. Japan is the world’s largest importer of LNG, while demand in China is soaring.

“In time, China expects to feed significant demand with its own shale gas resources but until that resource is developed, it is likely that Chinese demand for LNG will grow,” EY said in its report.

British Columbia has advantages such as faster shipping times to Asia, compared with projects planned for the U.S. Gulf Coast, but challenges include matching skilled labour with massive construction, and waiting for details of the provincial government’s LNG tax program. “The LNG tax is expected to encounter additional complexities given the multiple different ways in which LNG will be produced and exported,” the EY report said.

© Thomson Reuters 2012.

All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. Thomson Reuters is not liable for any errors or delays in Thomson Reuters content, or for any actions taken in reliance on such content. ‘Thomson Reuters’ and the Thomson Reuters logo are trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies.

Selected data supplied by Thomson Reuters.© Thomson Reuters Limited. Click for Restrictions .

© Copyright 2014 The Globe and Mail Inc. All Rights Reserved.
