
Even though it's great the lights are back on, for those businesses, now the real work begins -- such as getting coolers back up and running and getting approval to reopen from the health department.

"Today's been two to three hours just sanitizing everything," said Steve Szaday, Bruno's Pizza night manager.

Normally Bruno's Pizza employees would be serving customers Sunday afternoon, instead they were cleaning.

"We had to take apart and clean up all the coolers inside and out and make sure the drains were working because we had standing water in those," Szaday said.

Like many other downtown businesses, Bruno's lost power late Thursday night.

"We were in a hurry to get all the food out Friday morning," Szaday said.

Some of the frozen food was stored in trailers. Some of it was shipped to other franchise locations, but they still lost 30 percent of their stock.

"That was the big thing was having to sort out what we could lose and what we could keep," Szaday said.

The power came back on at around 12:30 Sunday afternoon. The next big hurdle for employees was to get ready for a health department inspection, which would allow the establishment to reopen. Jimmy John's workers are in the same position.

"It's a big relieve I'm finally back in my store," said Rudy Reyes, the general manager.

Jimmy John's employees spent the day returning food to the refrigerators and prepping for Monday.

"We have no meat sliced," Reyes said.

But things are finally getting back to normal there even though their profits took a hit. The general manager estimates he lost $3-4,000 this weekend.

The St. Joseph County Health Department food service director says there are roughly 30 businesses in downtown South Bend that will need to be inspected before reopening. Inspectors will check the coolers to make sure they are still working properly following the outage. In fact an inspector was even out working Sunday, trying to help businesses get back open as soon as possible.

No email address was supplied by .                                 To complete your registration on this site, please supply an address.

Please confirm or modify the email address to which you will have subscription offers sent.

For a more personalized experience, please supply the following optional information.
