
Countries around the world have different rules regarding e-cigarettes, and while they are enormously popular in some countries, people in others turn up their noses at them.

The United States said on Tuesday that it would not coordinate with the government of President Bashar al-Assad on targeting Islamic State militants on Syrian territory, as preparations for possible air strikes gathered pace.

Iran has supplied weapons and ammunition to Iraqi Kurdish forces, Kurdistan President Massoud Barzani said on Tuesday at a joint press conference with Iranian foreign minister Mohammad Javad Zarif in Arbil, capital of Iraq's Kurdish region.

Francois Hollande on Tuesday installed a former banker and ally as economy minister in an emergency reshuffle seen as the "last chance" to haul France out of the biggest crisis of his presidency.

For more than a decade, Israel's high-tech-fuelled economy has weathered the global financial crisis and several military conflicts with little impact on growth or the free flow of foreign investment.

The war in Gaza has sparked several new takes on the Ice Bucket Challenge with Palestinians dumping buckets of rubble over their heads and an Israeli dousing himself with manure.

Family members and U.S. officials say the Islamic State militant group has been holding a young American woman hostage in Syria since last year.

An Israeli official says Israel has accepted an Egyptian-brokered ceasefire plan to end a seven-week war against Islamic militants in the Gaza Strip.

Boko Haram's declaration of a caliphate in Nigeria may have been prompted by the attention heaped on Islamic State (IS) militants in Iraq, experts said, but the pronouncement may have deeper roots.

A UN cargo helicopter crashed Tuesday in South Sudan's warzone region of Unity state, the UN peacekeeping mission said, adding it was "deeply concerned" about the fate of the crew.

The United States is poised to send spy planes into Syria to track Islamic State jihadists whose advances have sparked international concern and American air strikes in neighbouring Iraq.

The president of the United Nations' top human rights body has appointed a former New York Supreme Court judge to serve as the third member of a commission investigating possible violations of the rules of war in Gaza.

The Palestinians have reached agreement with Israel on a "permanent" ceasefire for the Gaza Strip, a senior official told AFP on Tuesday.

A Vietnamese court has jailed three activists for up to three years, a lawyer said Tuesday, after a one-day trial marked by strict security including the detention of scores of supporters.
