
Share It.

Auburn Folsom Road will be closed south of Eureka Road for approximately an hour on Tuesday, May 20 for construction work.

The closure is scheduled to last from 10 to 11 a.m. The Placer County Public Works Department is advising motorists to expect delays and to consider taking alternative routes.

The construction work is part of the Auburn Folsom Road Widening Project. During the closure, Pacific Gas & Electric Co. will be relocating some facilities to allow the road-widening project to continue. Auburn Folsom is being widened to four lanes between Bell Drive and Douglas Boulevard in Granite Bay.

When the project is complete, Auburn Folsom will be a four-lane thoroughfare from Douglas to the Placer-Sacramento County line.

Hot Pink Fun Run in Downtown Roseville September 28th Registration is now open for the 7th Annual Hot Pink Fun Run, a family-friendly run, walk and fun zone on Sunday, September 28, 2014.

High Marks for Sierra College Energy Tech Students The Sierra College Energy Technology students who took the North American Board of Certified Energy Practitioners Entry-level exam in June 2014, all passed.

Multiple Sclerosis Becomes Counselor's Asset During most of the '70s, Kathe Skinner, now a 65-year-old licensed marriage family therapist in Colorado Springs, Colorado, couldn't figure out what was wrong with her body.

8 Arrested in Roseville Police Drug and ID Theft Operation Roseville Police detectives, following up on a Roseville drug case, searched a home in Sacramento and found evidence of methamphetamine sales and identity theft involving scores of victims.

Placer County Republican Party Announces Endorsements The Placer County Republican Party has announced the following endorsements in local races for the November 2014 election.

Federal Subpoena Served to Placer County Sheriff's Office The Placer County Sheriff's Office has received several inquiries about employee internal investigations and a federal subpoena.

Bill to Help Disabled Veterans Heads to Governor A proposal sponsored by George Runner to protect California's disabled veterans cleared the Assembly this week with unanimous, bipartisan support, and now awaits action by Governor Jerry Brown.
