
Welcome!

Rumors are swirling that Warren Buffett may have his sights set on Kellogg (NYSE: K     )  as the next major acquisition for Berkshire Hathaway (NYSE: BRK-A     )  (NYSE: BRK-B     ) .

It's a compelling argument at first glance. Kellogg's $24 billion market cap is large enough to move the needle at Berkshire. The company fits alongside brands like Coca-Cola (NYSE: KO     )  and Heinz as a quality consumer foods company. And free cash flow consistency is top-notch, surpassing $1 billion per year in the past three years.

It seems like a dream company for Berkshire. That is, if you ignore everything Charlie Munger has ever said about cereals.

In a now-famous speech to business school students at USC, Munger explained his perspective on the cereal business.

He compares cereals to airlines, noting that the industry is commoditized and highly competitive. Cereals are so commoditized, in fact, that the premium and discount products in any particular category are often made by the same manufacturer.

[I]n other fields -- like cereals, for example -- almost all the big boys make out. If you're some kind of a medium grade cereal maker, you might make 15% on your capital. And if you're really good, you might make 40%. But why are cereals so profitable -- despite the fact that it looks to me like they're competing like crazy with promotions, coupons and everything else? I don't fully understand it.

Obviously, there's a brand identity factor in cereals that doesn't exist in airlines. That must be the main factor that accounts for it.

And maybe the cereal makers by and large have learned to be less crazy about fighting for market share -- because if you get even one person who's hell-bent on gaining market share....For example, if I were Kellogg and I decided that I had to have 60% of the market, I think I could take most of the profit out of cereals. I'd ruin Kellogg in the process. But I think I could do it.

It's in the last paragraph that I think Munger really hits on the reason why Berkshire Hathaway wouldn't own Kellogg, or any cereal business, for that matter. The product is so commoditized, and consumers are so price sensitive, that one bad actor in the industry could ruin the profits for everyone.

A bet on Kellogg is also a bet on General Mills and the many private-label brands in existence. Once one industry player shoots for market share, rational pricing goes out the window. Declining profits would follow.

While I'm perfectly willing to admit this quote is old -- 20 years old, in fact -- the economics of the business have hardly changed. If anything, the economics are more challenging. Personal incomes have flatlined for more than a decade. Private-label brands have improved in quality and in quantity. And cold cereal volumes have been in a consistent decline, especially among health-conscious families, who take issue with the fact kids' cereals contain up to 56% sugar by weight.

Kellogg passes the smell test for the rumor mill, but it seems unlikely to ever be a Berkshire brand.

Imagine a company that rents a very specific and valuable piece of machinery for $41,000... per hour (that's almost as much as the average American makes in a year!). And Warren Buffett is so confident in this company's can't-live-without-it business model, he just loaded up on 8.8 million shares. An exclusive, brand-new Motley Fool report details this company that  already has over 50% market share . Just click  HERE  to discover more about this industry-leading stock... and join Buffett in his quest for a veritable landslide of profits!

Jordan Wathen has no position in any stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool recommends Berkshire Hathaway and Coca-Cola. The Motley Fool owns shares of Berkshire Hathaway and has the following options: long January 2016 $37 calls on Coca-Cola and short January 2016 $37 puts on Coca-Cola. Try any of our Foolish newsletter services free for 30 days . We Fools may not all hold the same opinions, but we all believe that considering a diverse range of insights makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy .

Report this Comment icon found on every comment.

You are so right.  No competitive advantage to Kellogg.

DoctorLewis4,

I'll give them credit for the brand. That's an advantage. I just don't think it's particularly durable, and neither does Munger, apparently.

I find it interesting that Munger goes so far to compare it to airlines. That comparison tells me a lot about what Berkshire really thinks of the cereal business.

Thanks for your comment.

Please be respectful with your comments. Review our Fool's Rules .

The secret is out... experts are predicting 458 million of these types of devices will be sold per year. 1 hyper-growth company stands to rake in maximum profit - and it's NOT Apple. Show me Apple's new smart gizmo!

Use this area to report a comment that you believe    is in violation of the community guidelines. Our    team will review the entry and take any appropriate    action.

Apple recently recruited a secret-development "dream team" to guarantee its newest smart device was kept hidden from the public for as long as possible. But the secret is out. In fact, ABI Research predicts 485 million of this type of device will be sold per year. But one small company makes Apple's gadget possible. And its stock price has nearly unlimited room to run for early-in-the-know investors. To be one of them, and see Apple's newest smart gizmo, just click here !

Terms of Use © 1995 -        2014        The Motley Fool. All rights reserved.

BATS data provided in real-time. NYSE, NASDAQ and NYSEMKT data delayed 15 minutes.

Real-Time prices provided by BATS . Market data provided by Interactive Data .

Company fundamental data provided by Morningstar . Earnings Estimates, Analyst Ratings and Key Statistics provided by Zacks .

SEC Filings and Insider Transactions provided by Edgar Online.
