
GULFPORT — Gov. Phil Bryant and officials from the Port of Gulfport and McDermott International announced today the company is locating pipeline finishing operations on the East Pier of the port. The project will create 100 full-time jobs in addition to the longshoremen that will be employed while vessels are at the port.

McDermott represents the first major jobs announcement of the Port of Gulfport Restoration Project, and it comes two years prior to the completion of the project’s construction. The company expects to begin operations at the port in late 2015. The company’s tenant lease is for 10-years and includes options for three 10-year extension.

”I am proud to welcome McDermott International as the newest tenant of the Port of Gulfport and the newest business partner to the state of Mississippi.  This announcement is one of many recent positive accomplishments of the Port Restoration Project, and we are proud to include McDermott in our progress.  The Port of Gulfport is an important economic driver for south Mississippi, and the investments we are making today will position the region for growth for years to come,” said Gov. Phil Bryant.

McDermott International is an energy, construction, and installation firm focused on the oil and gas recovery sector. From the Port of Gulfport, the company will spool the finished pipe onto special oil services vessels calling at the port. Additionally, McDermott will consolidate its Gulf of Mexico operations center to Gulfport so its service and supply vessels will use the port as its base of operations.

“Gulfport’s well established port with coastline access makes it a prime location for the operation of a spoolbase. This facility complements our efficiency and our high-performance vessels. We will be ideally positioned to serve a wide range of our clients’ needs from this base in the Gulf of Mexico,” said Tony Duncan, Executive Vice President, Subsea.

The Mississippi Development Authority provided assistance in support of the project for equipment relocation costs.
