
StockMarketWire.com - Shaft Sinkers Holdings said Q1 2014 was challenging with operational issues compounding the negative impact of ongoing industrial action in South Africa and the continuing cost of legal fees relating to the Group's arbitration case with EuroChem.

"We experienced significantly lower margins as a result of operational underperformance and higher operating costs. This resulted in the Group recording an unaudited loss before tax of approximately GBP2.7 million for the Period compared to a loss before tax of GBP2.0 million in the same period of 2013."

As a result of the above factors, the Group is facing an increasingly tight cash position, particularly in South Africa, and a number of initiatives are underway to release cash tied up in the business.

These include the sale of assets to clients, the disposal of surplus property, measures to reduce the recovery cycle of receivables and the deferral of non-essential expenditure. In addition, the Group is targeting a further reduction in operational overheads with the aim of improving cash flows.

"At the Group's Kibali project in the Democratic Republic of Congo, sinking proceeded in line with expectations during the Period and we have successfully caught up on some delays experienced previously. The shaft depth has now surpassed the major milestone of 500m and the team has worked for more than 90 days without a single lost-time injury," it said.

"In India, we delivered improved progress at the HZL project during the Period as a result of remedial measures which were implemented at the end of 2013. At the end of March 2014 the main shaft at HZL had reached a depth of 287m and by 16 May it had reached 415m. The headgear at the north ventilation shaft was successfully commissioned and initial sinking commenced in February. The north ventilation shaft had reached a depth of 163m at the end of the Period and 288m by 16 May."

However, results at HZL were still below contractual levels in the Period due to poor sinking progress on the main shaft and the change over from pre sink to main sink at the north ventilation shaft with a consequent impact on margins.

"However, in the latter part of the Period we achieved a consistent improvement in sinking rates at the main shaft and a work acceleration programme has commenced which we anticipate will result in additional revenue."

Industrial action in the South African platinum sector resulted in the suspension of work at Lonmin and Impala 16, preventing Shaft Sinkers from carrying out work on these contracts impacting both revenues and profitability. Impala 16 has declared a force majeure and the Group is in constructive discussions with Impala to resolve this issue amicably. The Group believes it has contractual safeguards in place which should enable it to recover certain costs.

In addition, operational underperformance at Shaft Sinkers' Impala 17 project was exacerbated by safety stoppages following receipt of a Section 54 notice from the Department of Mineral Resources in January 2014.

"Whilst the Group has renegotiated its contract for the Impala 17 project, the expected benefit of the revised terms will only begin to be felt in the second quarter of the year. The revised contract for Impala 17 expires in September 2014, unless renewed. As previously reported Shaft Sinkers is participating in a new tender process for the work at Impala 17."

Performance at our Styldrift project for Anglo Platinum and Royal Bafokeng Resources was below expectations in the first quarter due mainly to poor operational performance on the main and services shafts and subsequent delays in the construction of underground infrastructure associated with the shaft.

The Group achieved good results at the Leeuwkop project for Afplats during the Period. This improved performance was pleasing as the team there successfully resolved a number of issues which arose in the first half of 2013 and delivered a much improved performance.

Shares is the leading weekly publication for high net worth private investors and stock market professionals and as such is read weekly by thousands of private investors, analysts, fund managers, stockbrokers and company directors.

Brokerforecasts.com publishes equity upgrades, downgrades, reiterations, resumption and drops in coverage, as well as price target changes to a desktop or via alerts to email.

All recommendations are delivered and updated as soon as possible after release. The majority will be on brokerforecasts.com prior to market open.
