
Share This Story!

Livability.com ranked Brentwood No. 1 for kid health care, safety and education.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

In 2013, Livability named the Brentwood Library’s Children’s Library as one of the top 10 children’s libraries in the country.

BRENTWOOD – Children growing up in Brentwood have more access to a wealth of schools, health care and even restaurants that cater to their appetites.

Now, Livability.com, a Franklin-based website that focuses on American cities, has named the Williamson County city in the national Top 10 Best Cities for Kids for this year.

Brentwood comes in the seventh position on the list and is the only Tennessee city to garner inclusion in the top kid-friendly rankings.

Livability arrived at the rankings by first looking for cities with a high number of school-aged children in households. Then the list was narrowed down by considering the quality of education in these areas through GreatSchools.org; low rates of child mortality and a great number of youngsters covered by health insurance, compiled with the help of the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation; and a high percentage of local eateries that have kids’ menus available, with Food Genius, a company that delivers insight into the food industry, providing the data.

The number of parks, playgrounds, libraries and recreational venues with kids in mind also factored into the rankings. Brentwood has 11 parks and eight green spaces and greenways covering more than 861 acres of recreational land. In 2013, Livability named the Brentwood Library’s Children’s Library as one of the top 10 children’s libraries in the country.

Boise, Idaho, was the No. 1 city in the nation for children, according to this year’s Livability rankings, followed by Downers Grove, Ill., and Overland Park, Kan. Then, it was Cedar Rapids, Iowa, in fourth, followed by Plano, Texas, in fifth and Carmel, Ind., in sixth. Palo Alto, Calif., Royal Oak, Mich., and Newton, Mass., rounded out the top 10.

Reach Bonnie Burch at 615-771-5421 and on Twitter @BonnieBurch_WAM.
