
The trial of former ACT Party leader John Banks over electoral fraud charges will continue today, with the man at the centre of the controversy set to testify.

Two anonymous donations made by Kim Dotcom to Banks' campaign totalling $25,000 each sparked the case - with Dotcom saying the donations were anything but anonymous, and that Banks knew who was behind the money all along.

Dotcom is expected to front at Banks' trial at the Auckland High Court today and detail exactly how much Banks knew about the money. He will give evidence after former National Party president Michelle Boag, who was a member of Banks' campaign team.

Yesterday the man who ran Banks' campaign finances said he had no idea Dotcom made two $25,000 donations, but did know the identity of the person behind a $15,000 donation made by SkyCity.

Giving evidence at the former ACT Party leader's trial yesterday afternoon, Banks' campaign treasurer Lance Hutchison explained how Banks' campaign was run financially.

Banks has pleaded not guilty to a charge of knowingly filing a false electoral return during his failed Auckland mayoralty campaign.

Mr Hutchison revealed Banks did not have access to the campaign's finances, adding "to this day I don't think he's even seen a bank statement".

Mr Hutchison said around 60 percent of donations to the campaign were made anonymously. He never spoke to Banks about anonymous donations to the campaign or where they may have been sourced. He also told the court he never heard of Dotcom until well after the campaign, when he was featured on Campbell Live.

However, Mr Hutchison said he called SkyCity over a $15,000 donation and asked if the donor would like it to be declared. But he was told by an employee at SkyCity they wished to keep it anonymous.

He could not recall whether the SkyCity donation came through the mail or from a handler for Banks.

The start of the trial yesterday was initially delayed after a protester threw a bucket of dirt at the MP. Banks was given time to change his suit and proceedings got underway at 11:30am.

After entering his plea yesterday morning, Banks was given permission to leave the dock and sit behind his counsel in the courtroom.

In his opening statement for the prosecution, lawyer Paul Dacre QC said the Crown would seek to prove that three donations Banks received – two $25,000 donations from Kim Dotcom and one $15,000 donation from SkyCity – were filed as 'anonymous' by Banks, despite the fact he knew who they came from.

Mr Dacre called Banks "wilfully blind" and said he "engineered the situation so the identity of the donors was not disclosed".

Sixteen witnesses are to be called for the Crown, including former National Party president and member of Banks' campaign team Michelle Boag. Kim Dotcom and his estranged wife Mona will also give evidence, as well as SkyCity managing director Nigel Morrison.

Defence lawyer David Jones QC said his client believed the return was "true and correct" and that Banks had acted with "honesty and integrity" throughout.

"As far as he knew, the return was accurate."

Banks' judge-only trial is set down for two weeks.
