
Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own.

I am a freelance writer who has been covering business news in Hong Kong in the past two decades for three intellectual newspapers: South China Morning Post, and two Chinese language newspapers: Ming Pao and Hong Kong Economic Journal. Starting with the ever-changing listed retail counters and the now seemingly out-of-fashion media companies, I covered Hong Kong’s corporate scene with special interests in telecom companies, before taking over “Lai See”, the longest running SCMP column at the back page of Business Post. An avid reader of listed company documents and publications, I like to see, as well as hear, before making sense of what happens in the corporate world – be them quirky financial deals or interesting personnel changes. Welcome to this part of the business world where you would not complain of having a boring day.

Consider the case for real estate developer Greentown China, whose chairman Song Weiping , said last week that he was in fact talking to rival Sunac China for selling no more than a 30 per cent stake  of Greentown, out of the 43% stake that he and his wife jointly own.

Merger between Chinese property developers is uncommon, but what makes it even more unusual is Greentown’s Song is selling to its smaller rival, raising investors’ eyebrows whether he knows something they should.

Why Song, a Hangzhou-born tycoon who aspires to challenge China Vanke China Vanke ’s Wang Shi, is willing to cash out at a low point of the property cycle has stirred up all sorts of speculation, one of which was his gambling predilection.

Over the weekend, Greentown denied the speculation from Yan Yan, founder of SAIF Partners, a leading private equity firm in China, that Song has lost his fortunes in Las Vegas, according to Chinese mainstream media. Sun Hongbin , chairman of new buyer Sunac also called such rumour “rubbish” on his weibo .

Since founding Greentown in 1995, Song has been a big gambler in the mainland property market, and quickly established himself as a formidable player. Riding on the boom since the turn of the century, Song turned on the acquisition turbo along the Yangtze river and managed to list his flagship in July 2006.

His biggest bet came in the year running up to the global financial tsunami in 2008 when he spent over US$ 4.8 billion for land acquisitions, mostly in his hometown Hangzhou, as well as in Shanghai, where he had 10 projects.

Unfortunately Song was not always the winner. His heavy bet on property was proved disastrous after Beijing decided to suppress the rising residential home prices.

In June 2012, the high-geared Greentown had little choice but to bring in Hong Kong-based Wharf Holdings, which injected US$650 million in convertible note equivalent to about 24 per cent stake if converted. Two weeks later Greentown sold half of a big project in Shanghai to Sunac for US$528 million.

Just when investors began to see some stability, chairman Song played down the future outlook despite clocking in a record profit of US$ 782 million last year because the good old days of the property sector have become history and the tough market condition remains.

His philosophical words in the annual report were now over as he is standing on the checkout counter.
