
Russia's Norilsk Nickel, the world's largest nickel and palladium producer, is in talks with Russian banks on raising $1 billion to finance a copper project, Norilsk's first deputy chief executive said.

Norilsk, controlled by tycoon Vladimir Potanin and aluminum giant RusAl, recently approved the project to develop the Bystrinskoye copper deposit in the Zabaikalsk region as part of its strategy update.

The company has invested about $500 million so far and plans to raise the remaining $1 billion as a non-recourse debt.

Norilsk plans to start copper concentrate production at Bystrinskoye in the third quarter of 2017. Annual revenue is expected to exceed $1 billion after reaching full capacity production of 66,000 tons of copper concentrate and 219,000 troy ounces of gold concentrate in 2018.

Norilsk plans to develop the project alone, said Norilsk's first deputy chief executive, Pavel Fedorov.

"We believe that partners are not necessary for this project in the current market conditions," he told reporters Friday in comments approved for publication Monday.

London copper hit its highest in 11 weeks on Monday as China pledged to quicken the pace of financial reform, supporting growth in demand for commodities as global exchange supplies of the metal dry up.

Norilsk said it planned to suspend production at its old Nickel plant in the town of Norilsk by 2016 and to compensate the plant's production with other assets.

Norilsk is currently in talks with the government to share the up to 4.5 billion rubles ($130 million) the company needs to retrain and migrate 3,500 people who currently work at the plant in Russia's Arctic.

It also plans to use its own semi-products rather than supplies from third parties in its nickel refining plant Harjavalta in Finland, Fedorov said.

Its 2016 and 2018 production target, announced in October, remained unchanged, he added.

Any comment deemed non-constructive, personal attacks, spam and abuse will not be tolerated and will lead to you being banned from our website.

The Russian Defense Ministry has confirmed that the ten Russian paratroopers captured by Ukrainian security services in the country's east are indeed Russian, but said they crossed the border by mistake.

Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov on Monday urged Western and Arab governments to overcome their distaste for Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and engage with him to fight Islamic State insurgents.

Russia has granted asylum to Lithuanian banker Vladimir Romanov, who is wanted on embezzlement charges, and has said it will not extradite him.

Yet another two McDonald's restaurants in Russia have been forced to shut their doors after a sanitation watchdog closed down four outlets in Moscow.

Residents of Moscow's Taganka district woke up Wednesday morning to find a Ukrainian flag attached to the Soviet star on the spire of one of the area's iconic Stalin buildings.

Two brides wed in Moscow earlier this month, with teeth-grinding authorities unable to prevent it despite a ban on same-sex marriage — because one of the brides was a man.

As Ukraine marked its Independence Day on Sunday with a military march in Kiev, pro-Moscow rebels countered by parading captured Ukrainian troops through the streets in Donetsk's central Lenin Square.

A children's fashion show in Moscow triggered outrage among bloggers after the show, titled "Children of the World Against War," depicted a child dressed up as Ukraine holding a gun to her head.

Russia ordered the temporary closure of four McDonald's restaurants in Moscow on Wednesday, a decision it said was over sanitary violations but which comes against a backdrop of worsening U.S.-Russian ties.
