
While the days of at- and below-the-knee shorts likely won’t disappear, thigh-exposing shorts are gaining popularity across college campuses and even rivaling some girls’ length of choice.

The shorts-only company Chubbies — whose shorts come with a 5 ½-inch inseam — even has a college ambassador program to help spread its message.

“It definitely is the style. I love it and everybody wears it, especially college kids,” says Kyle Archambault, a Chubbies college ambassador and junior at the University of Florida.

With the company’s core demographic being college students, Chubbies first reached out to more than 100 fraternity presidents and campus leaders. Turned out to be a wise move.

Chubbies started in 2011 when Hency and three other 20-something-year-olds saw a “unique opportunity to define the weekend for the younger guy,” Hency says.

The shorts — which are made in the U.S. and retail for about $50 — have a vintage look and feel.

Hency says they’re “heavily inspired” by shorts from the 1970s and 80s.

Other clothing companies are getting on board with the trend, too.

Fittingly, Abercrombie & Fitch dubbed its shortest shorts “Campus Fit,” the shorts “with the most attitude,” according to its website.

But not everyone is comfortable with showing a little thigh.

But she understands the desire to go with the flow.

“If that’s what’s in style, then fine. Let guys show off their thighs,” she says.

Ben Sheffler is a senior at Pensacola State College, where he served as editor of the school’s newspaper, The Corsair.

This article comes from The USA TODAY College Contributor network. The views expressed in this article do not necessarily reflect the views of USA TODAY. You understand that we have no obligation to monitor any discussion forums, blogs, photo- or video-sharing pages, or other areas of the Site through which users can supply information or material. However, we reserve the right at all times, in our sole discretion, to screen content submitted by users and to edit, move, delete, and/or refuse to accept any content that in our judgment violates these Terms of Service or is otherwise unacceptable or inappropriate, whether for legal or other reasons.

Target’s back to college guide made dorm decorating painless, and dare I say it, actually pretty fun.

Make your room a reflection of yourself and decorate it with what makes you happy.
