
The Whitecourt Community Learning Centre project is proceeding nicely.

This is the message Living Waters Chair and Edson trustee Gemma Christie told the Whitecourt Star in an interview on Friday, May. 16.

“I am just so excited about the learning possibilities that this project will open up, not only to our students, but to the community,” Christie said.

On Jan. 31, the Alberta government announced that a 650-student St. Joseph replacement school had been approved as part of a larger Community Learning Centre.

The centre is a partnership between the provincial government and the municipalities of Whitecourt and Woodlands County. It will also include a Performing Arts Centre, a Community Adult Learning Hub (which will include NorQuest College along with other adult learning providers) and business offices for Living Waters.

Christie said that Living Waters is also hoping other businesses and community groups will join the project.

“It is a wonderful project and I am sure other groups will see the value of being part of the Community Learning Centre,” she said.

A steering committee, with representation from Woodlands County, the Town of Whitecourt and the school division is meeting weekly planning and setting an overall vision for the centre.

Christie said the committee is close to hiring a project co-ordinator who will oversee the centre’s construction.

After the project co-ordinator is hired, the steering committee will be inviting the community to a series of meetings to not only get more information, but to give their input before an architect is selected and plans for the centre are created.

Christie said the dates for the community meetings have not been set yet.

“It all depends on when we are able to get a project co-ordinator in place, but they will likely be in mid to late June,” she said.

Christie said the thing she is most looking forward to seeing when the centre is completed is the dual credit course and Registered Apprenticeship Program possibilities, which will beopen to Living Waters students. A dual credit course is one in which they can earn credits that count towards both their high school diploma and their post-secondary diploma, degree or apprenticeship certification.

She said by offering dual credit courses, students will be able to stay in the community longer while they pursue their post-secondary goals.

If you already have an account on this newspaper, you can login to the newspaper to add your comments.

By adding a comment on the site, you accept our terms and conditions and our netiquette rules.

Share your story, photo or video about something you've seen.

Choose among a variety of subscription packages and stay up to date with convenient home delivery and our on the go digital e-edition.
