
Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own.

We write about business news from the nation's capital with a focus on taxes, budgets and fiscal policy.

The freight rail industry faces a new tide of regulation that threatens what has been a remarkable industry comeback over the last three decades, from the depths of bankruptcy to one of the strongest industry sectors in the U.S. economy.

To put a finer point on it, the U.S. industry that the National Academies of Engineering called “the envy of the world” is under threat from U.S. regulators weighing a proposal that would smother freight rail growth and have a cascading impact on freight rail’s ability to deliver goods and products.

At issue is a proposal from a small group of rail customers seeking to lower the price they pay for freight rail service. The regulation would require that at least two Class I railroads be available to compete for freight carloads—even if the tracks of only one railroad serve a shipper’s facility. So if a shipper is within 30 miles of a rail junction, it could choose to require the railroad serving its facility to provide local switching service and then give up the freight for movement to its destination over a different railroad.

The rail proposal has several major downsides. First, it doesn’t take into account the detrimental impact across the economy that would result from these less efficient rail movements (the result would be much slower rail shipments across the network). It doesn’t take into account the huge costs required to maintain and operate a rail network providing “competitive switching” service for all customers. Lastly, the proposal doesn’t say how the railroads would be compensated.

It’s not hard to predict the financial outcome of such regulatory tinkering and faux competition. At the most basic level, railroads would require more resources to move the same amount of freight, returning the industry to the dark days of gross inefficiencies.

Rail industry leaders say that the result could be an annual revenue loss of $7.9 billion from rate reductions. Rail companies will have less money to maintain and expand the nation’s 140,000-mile rail network, at a time when recent incidents hauling crude oil only serve to highlight the need for continued safety investment on the part of railroads. Some industry estimates peg the resulting reduction in capital expenditures at 13 percent, but that figure is far too low.

In each of the last two years, America’s freight railroads have spent more than $25 billion annually of their own funds, not taxpayer money, to build and maintain a safe and reliable rail network. That could come to an end.

There is some irony in this proposal. One obvious response to weather-related service delays encountered on freight rails earlier this year is greater capital expenditure by railroads. But competitive switching would ensure insufficient funds to add capacity or smooth choke points.

If the industry is a gun shy about the specter of more government regulation, that’s because of how far it has traveled. In the 1970’s, the industry was in free fall due in part to a regulatory system that required railroads to make multiple routes available literally on request. At the time, most major railroads in the Northeast and several major Midwestern railroads were bankrupt. The cause in large part was excessive government regulations.

Industry-wide resuscitation came in the form of the Staggers Rail Act of 1980, which partially de-regulated the industry. The impact has been steady and dramatic. In the 1970s the industry could only muster an average return on investment of 2 percent. But that climbed to 4.4 percent in the 1980s, 7.0 percent in the 1990s, and by 2011 had topped 8.5 percent. The most recent data show the industry with an estimated return on investment in 2013 of 13.1 percent.

The default in Washington at the bi-partisan Surface Transportation Board, which is considering the proposal, theoretically should be against the regulation. As Michael Grunwald of Time magazine notes, the success of freight rail and its fundamental underpinning of our nation’s economy is something that transcends party alliance or political philosophy.

“The right should love railroads because they’re proof that deregulation can work and the private sector can upgrade infrastructure. The left should love railroads because they fight global warming and provide union jobs. We all should love railroads because they bring us our stuff and keep prices down,” he wrote.

Competitive switching is the biggest threat to freight rail in a long time. It is a throwback to another era thought to be long gone, back when government felt it knew best how to manage economic forces. Unlike other regulatory proposals affecting other industries, this one has minimal support outside the group proposing it. Still, as students of government will note, that in no way means it will be discarded.

Anthony Hatch has over two decades of experience as an analyst and financial consultant for the transportation industry, including freight rail.
