
The following is an archived video story. The text content of that video story is available below   for reference. The original video has been deleted and is no longer available.

EL PASO, Texas -- A northeast El Paso man voices concerns after he said a construction company he paid never came back to finish the job.

Ray Pastran said he paid Rojeros General Construction $1,600 upfront to come out and start renovation work on his bathroom in February.

Pastran said the company's workers came out a total of three days and said they were going to come back and finish the job the following week.

"They came and they tore everything up," Pastran said. "They said they were going to come by the next two days, but they didn't show up. That's a lot of money for giving them $1,600, and then not return."

Not only did the company not complete the bathroom, but Pastran showed us new and old renovation materials that the workers left in his front yard.

"These building materials have been here for three months and it's already rained three times on this," Pastran said.

KFOX 14 reached out to Rojeros General Construction last week. The owner of the company said the reason he had not come back to finish the job is because he had been ill and he has another job he has been working on out of town.

After doing some digging, KFOX 14 found on the Better Business Bureau's website that there were a total of five complaints filed with the BBB for the company's service within the last year.

KFOX 14 reached out to Rojeros General Construction again on Sunday for further comment, but no one was at the business' location.

Pastran said the family does have a second bathroom, but with five people in the house he is frustrated that this bathroom is left incomplete for months at a time.

"This is a two-day job, you can finish this if you work on it eight hours each day, it would be done," Pastran said. "We just want our bathroom back."

Pastran said if the construction company does not come out and finish the rest of the work soon, he will be filing a complaint with the Better Business Bureau.

The homeowner said from now on he plans to look into the company's history a little more closely before paying any company to do work on his home.

The public can check the Better Business Bureau's website and search for a company's history of complaints at www.bbb.org .
