
Boeing and aerospace conglomerate Embraer S.A. announced Monday that they will open a joint research center to advance a sustainable aviation biofuel industry in Brazil.

The two companies will perform joint biofuel research, as well as fund and coordinate research with Brazilian universities and other institutions. The research will focus on technologies that address gaps in a supply chain for sustainable aviation biofuel in Brazil, such as feedstock production and processing technologies.

"Boeing is working aggressively around the world to expand the supply of sustainable aviation biofuel and reduce aviation's carbon emissions," said Julie Felgar, managing director of environmental strategy and integration, Boeing Commercial Airplanes. "With our joint biofuel research center, Boeing and Embraer are making a strong commitment toward a successful, sustainable aviation biofuel industry in Brazil."

The companies' biofuel research center will be located in Sao Jose dos Campos Technology Park.

"Embraer is committed in supporting the development of sustainable biofuels for aviation, and the joint efforts with Boeing will undoubtedly contribute to the company continuing to be in the forefront of research in this area," said Mauro Kern, executive vice president, engineering and technology, Embraer. "Brazil has tradition in the area of alternative fuels and enormous potential yet to be explored in bioenergy research."

When produced sustainably, aviation biofuel emits 50 to 80 percent lower carbon emissions through its lifecycle than petroleum jet fuel.

"Boeing and Embraer have a tremendous opportunity to work together to enhance Brazil's aviation biofuel capabilities, as well as the global industry's access to aviation biofuel," said Al Bryant, vice president, Boeing Research & Technology-Brazil.

* Disclaimer: Please note that libellous or offensive comments are not allowed.

No, cargo needs its own clear identity.

It will make little difference one way or the other.

Yes, and other belly-cargo carriers will follow suit.

It will make little difference one way or the other.
