
The government is not aware whether Bank of Cyprus CEO John Hourican has submitted his resignation but hopes that no such issue is at stake.

This is what government spokesman Nicos Christodoulides said on Sunday amidst reports that Hourican had clashed with the board of directors over the handling of non-performing loans.

The same reports said the feisty Irish-born CEO had submitted his resignation but neither the Central Bank of Cyprus nor the Troika of the island’s international lenders would accept it.

Reports have BoC chairman Christis Hassapis wanting to get rid of Hourican and asking an auditing firm to recruit a person for the position of deputy CEO which the board created to restrict his powers.

The candidate most rumoured for the job was actually interviewed by Hourican, as the board had requested, but the CEO made clear he would walk out if the appointment was made.

That was when CBC Governor Chrystalla Georghadji stepped in telling the board chairman that Hourican’s resignation would not be accepted and that this was also the wish of the Troika – the EU, ECB and IMF as well as the government’s.

BoC exited resolution status in July after the island’s banking system collapsed last March and the government had to accept harsh terms of an international €10 billion bailout agreement with the Troika.

One of the terms was that BoC converted large deposits into stock to recapitalise as well as to absorb collapsed Laiki Bank – the island’s second biggest lender.

Hourican, aged 43, was appointed in October. He had spent 16 years at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, which in 2008 received the world’s largest bank bailout to date.

The CEO’s toughest job is to whittle down a lender that ballooned to twice the island’s economy with BoC’s bad loans soaring to 53% of gross lending.

Hourican’s plan is to split the bank into two – ‘good’ and ‘bad’ – and take tough action on those big lenders – mainly developers – who can pay back their loans but refuse to do so.

A Bank of Cyprus director Sunday night dismissed the reports as ‘unfounded’ and possibly an act of a provocateur.

Marinos Yialeli also told state television that the CEO and his team have the board’s green light to chase big borrowers who are not paying up.
