
Qantas Airways has angered many of its own pilots, to the point many are refusing the 100 voluntary redundancies on offer by the airline.

The redundancies offer 747 and 767 pilots a year’s salary but not enough pilots will make up the 100 person goal, according to an Australian and International Pilots Association (AIPA) poll.

The AIPA, which is the pilots’ union, met yesterday with Qantas management to discuss the offer but it is understood that the offer does not affect pilots on leave without pay with Jetstar and Emirates.

The AIPA poll responded that they needed a base salary of 24 months if they were to leave.

AIPA president Nathan Safe said that the redundancy pool needed to be expanded to 2000 pilots in order to not create a morale problem at Qantas.

There is currently confusion in bargaining negotiations over the redundancies, because the Qantas enterprise agreement for pilots does not prescribe a payout for pilots that leave.

It is beneficial for Qantas to offer voluntary redundancies to compulsory redundancies because they allow younger pilots to come through and save on the cost of retraining pilots over 65 years of age.

Meanwhile, Qantas is facing more backlash over its decision to levy weekend customers travelling on Qantas- Emirates flights.

Qantas will charge AUD $25 to people travelling on the Qantas-Emirates network to Singapore, Thailand and Kuala Lumpur.

The surcharge will apply to flights to Thailand on Saturday and Sunday for Qantas flights and Fridays and Saturdays and Sundays for Emirates flights.

Qantas will also levy a $200 ‘Q’ surcharge on economy tickets to the Middle East, North Africa, Britain and Europe from June 19 to June 28, August 21 to September 6 and December 12 to December 2.

In addition, a $50 surcharge will also apply in the economy and ­business cabins on Sydney-Honolulu flights on both outbound and inbound flights on select dates as will a $25 surcharge on flights between Australia and Hong Kong, Sydney and Shanghai and Sydney and Manila.

Qantas has been using surcharges to help shore up its loss making international division, Qantas International.

The attention to detail and high level of service offered, have made this Emirates flight experience excellent all round.

You may have noticed e-Travel Blackboard has had a make-over? We're under new management and everything’s had a scrub & polish.

To start we've given our name a lift. Introducing ETB News - Global Travel News and Tourism News.

We’ve merged our five international sites into one www.etbnews.com .

We’ve listened to your feedback and now offer tailored newsletter subscriptions. Don’t forget to change your newsletter preferences or subscribe it’s FREE!
