
Coleraine’s budding craft and food entrepreneurs are being given the chance to develop their business ideas through an innovative new programme run by Coleraine Borough Council.

Fifteen local entrepreneurs are being sought to participate in the first of two ‘Journey To Market’ programmes, which is part funded by Invest Northern Ireland and the European Regional Development Fund under the Sustainable Competitiveness Programme for Northern Ireland.

The programme will provide the successful applicants with the support they need to establish and develop their business idea.  The support includes four days of expert mentoring and a series of seminars covering business planning, marketing, visual merchandising and product development.  Participants will also have the opportunity to complete the highly acclaimed accredited customer service training programme, World Host.

The programme culminates in three showcase events targeting the Christmas market.  The aim is to support entrepreneurs to them develop their idea and prepare them to bring their goods and services successfully to the local markets.

Mayor of Coleraine, Councillor David Harding said: “Coleraine Borough Council is delighted to be offering this programme as it has long recognised that there is a wealth of talented food and craft producers in the area.

“The Journey to Market Programme will highlight opportunities for existing businesses to take on new markets, new methods of working and diversifying their business.

The council are delighted to be able to offer 30 places altogether on two programmes.  This is the first round of recruitment with the second planned for November 2014.  If you cannot commit to registering for June then consider taking this opportunity and register early for the second programme.

Create your own advertisement or send someone a special message.

© 2014 Johnston Publishing Ltd.

This website and its associated newspaper adheres to the Press Complaints Commission’s Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion, then contact the Editor by clicking  here .

If you remain dissatisfied with the response provided then you can contact the PCC by clicking here .

Farming Life provides news, events and sport features from the Belfast area. For the best up to date information relating to Belfast and the surrounding areas visit us at Farming Life regularly or bookmark this page.

For you to enjoy all the features of this website Farming Life requires permission to use cookies.

Cookies are small data files which are sent to your browser (Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome etc) from a website you visit. They are stored on your electronic device.

This is a type of cookie which is collected by Adobe Flash media player (it is also called a Local Shared Object) - a piece of software you may already have on your electronic device to help you watch online videos and listen to podcasts.

Yes there are a number of options available, you can set your browser either to reject all cookies, to allow only "trusted" sites to set them, or to only accept them from the site you are currently on.

However, please note - if you block/delete all cookies, some features of our websites, such as remembering your login details, or the site branding for your local newspaper may not function as a result.

A tool used by some of our advertisers to target adverts to you based on pages you have visited in the past. To opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

Our sites contain advertising from Google; these use cookies to ensure you get adverts relevant to you. You can tailor the type of ads you receive by visiting here or to opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

This is used to help us identify unique visitors to our websites. This data is anonymous and we cannot use this to uniquely identify individuals and their usage of the sites.

This comes from our ad serving technology and is used to track how many times you have seen a particular ad on our sites, so that you don't just see one advert but an even spread. This information is not used by us for any other type of audience recording or monitoring.

ComScore monitor and externally verify our site traffic data for use within the advertising industry. Any data collected is anonymous statistical data and cannot be traced back to an individual.

Our Classified websites (Photos, Motors, Jobs and Property Today) use cookies to ensure you get the correct local newspaper branding and content when you visit them. These cookies store no personally identifiable information.

We use Grapeshot as a contextual targeting technology, allowing us to create custom groups of stories outside out of our usual site navigation. Grapeshot stores the categories of story you have been exposed to. Their privacy policy and opt out option can be accessed here.

Our partner for Newspaper subscriptions online stores data from the forms you complete in these to increase the usability of the site and enhance user experience.

Add This provides the social networking widget found in many of our pages. This widget gives you the tools to bookmark our websites, blog, share, tweet and email our content to a friend.
