
By using this website, you consent to our use of cookies. For more information on cookies see our Cookie Policy .

Four US public health groups have praised the Government’s plan to introduce plain packaging for cigarettes, responding to lobbying efforts by the US Chamber of Commerce and other opponents.

The US Chamber of Commerce presented Mr Kenny with a letter when he visited their offices on his St Patrick’s Day visit. A number of business trade groups warned him in the letter that the packaging proposal could “degrade” intellectual property rights and affect American and Irish businesses.

“ Ireland joins an illustrious list of countries threatened by the tobacco industry over packaging measures, including Australia , Canada , New Zealand , South Africa and Uruguay , ” they wrote.

Among the parties to have lobbied the Government to drop its plans are US congressmen and governors and the world’s largest tobacco companies, including Philip Morris, makers of Marlboro.

The public health groups noted in their letter to Mr Kenny that Altria, the US parent company of Philip Morris, sits on the board of the US Chamber of Commerce and that British American Tobacco is on the board of the National Foreign Trade Council , another signatory of the March 10th letter to Mr Kenny.

The groups urged the government to ensure that the EU-US trade agreement being negotiated protects public health policies from challenges started by the tobacco industry.

“Given the tobacco industry’s ongoing abuse of trade agreements to threaten and bully governments globally, we want you to know that we stand with you in your effort to protect the people of Ireland from the deadly harms of tobacco use,” they said.

We reserve the right to remove any content at any time from this Community, including without limitation if it violates the Community Standards . We ask that you report content that you in good faith believe violates the above rules by clicking the Flag link next to the offending comment or by filling out this form . New comments are only accepted for 3 days from the date of publication.
