
Masters Energy Oil & Gas Limited, a major player in the downstream sector of Nigerian oil and gas sector has commissioned its mega station in Warri, Delta State. The imposing ultra modern mega station situated along Sapele Road was commissioned to ease petroleum products availability to the residents of the ancient town of Warri.

Cutting the tape to declare the station open,  the representative of Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR) Operations Controller, Mr. Jerry Odegbunam, commended Masters Energy for establishing such mega station in Warri and urged the company to ensure full compliance with all DPR’s laws in the conduct of its business.

“There is no doubt that you have built a mega station that is a beauty to behold; but I want to charge you to ensure that you operate by the rules since DPR frowns on any sharp practice and will not hesitate to met out appropriate  punishment for any infringement of its laws.” Odegbunam warned.

Head, Retail Business, Masters Energy, Mr. Benjamin Solarin, in his speech informed the residents of Warri that the new mega station was in line with Masters Energy’s desire to make petroleum products available to Nigerians at affordable price.

Solarin assured residents of Warri town that they will have value for their money, adding, “the integrity of our pumps is not in doubt and we will deliver excellent customer service that are yet to be witnessed in Warri.”  He reminded motorists and residents of the area that Masters Energy has maintained its social pact with communities in where it conducts business and admonished them to see the station as their own and patronise it at all times.

On the issue of sale of PMS above government’s regulated pump price, Ajala said the company is reputed for selling products only at government’s official pump price. According to him, managers at the station are aware of consequences of selling above government’s official pump price and management takes great exception to such practices as it is against the company policy. Ajala assured the residents of Warri that the new mega station will operate in line with other Masters Energy outlets all over Nigeria and asked them to report any untoward practice by any staff to the appropriate quarters.

The commissioning of the mega station was witnessed by DPR officials,  representatives of the host community, executives of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW).

Please leave your comment below. Your name will appear next to your comment. We'll also keep you updated by email whenever someone else comments on this page. Your comment will appear on this page once it has been approved by a moderator.

Please enter some keywords that you'd like to search for. Your results will be displayed below.

THISDAYLIVE cares about you, help us to report better!
