
Bill English's sixth Budget was an election-year Budget     in three respects.

First, it doled out some cash, mainly to take the gloss off       opposition parties' election promises and medicate some       itches. This does not compare with Labour's 2005 middle-class       welfare splash, including making student loans interest-free.       But Mr English did have an eye on September 20.

Second, the Budget projected a realisable upward fiscal       track. That reassures business and investors and generally       soothes voters. It constrains opposition parties'       tax-and-spend promises because households are not       over-confident and mortgage rates have begun to rise.

Third, the Budget's upward track rests on forecasts of steady       GDP growth which for households means more jobs and higher       earnings from those jobs. This upward GDP track is predicated       on improving economic competitiveness, continuing demand for       primary commodities coupled with expanded output (more cows)       and no big shocks in the wider world.

The Treasury commentary did canvass some global risks. But Mr       English, who a few months back frequently highlighted risks       so as to dampen public expectations from his Budget, did not       say much last Thursday that might disturb consumer       confidence, which is critical to keeping John Key and him in       office.

There are two big risks. One is the financial system's       continued fragility, particularly in Europe, coupled with       grossly overvalued stockmarkets when measured against       earnings fundamentals. Our high and rising country external       debt makes us very vulnerable to a shock in either.

China's Minister of Commerce, Gao Hucheng, underlined that       risk on Friday. Chairing an Apec trade ministers meeting in       Qingdao, Mr Gao said: ''The recovery of the world economy is       picking up. However, there are still many instabilities and       uncertainties. More risks are gathering.''

That it was Mr Gao speaking points to the second big risk:       China.

In its Budget commentary, the Treasury generally expected       China to go on providing a lucrative market for primary       commodities. But it also worried about China's property and       investment boom, rapid credit growth, high local government       debt, quality of lending in the ''shadow banking'' sector,       exposure of the financial sector to ''housing market       vulnerability'' and a potentially disorderly transition from       investment-led to consumer-led economic growth.

Drop into Beijing for a week, as I did last month, and you       get a very wide range of insight-rich assessments, from       ''Pamplona'' (''running with the bulls'') super-optimism to       ''polar bears'' predicting imminent financial contraction and       a hard landing into a patch of slow GDP growth or even       contraction.

This last point arises from a huge credit expansion through       trusts and other ''shadow banking'' vehicles, which in part       launder loans official banks are barred from making.       Optimists say this is manageable because the Government has       huge reserves and shadow banks are a minority in the       financial system. Pessimists say credit bubbles of this       dimension always cause an economic contraction at some point       and China cannot just reimport its foreign reserves for a       bail-out. Authorities have tested the water by allowing some       small-ish trusts to go bust.

Bears point to over-investment in infrastructure, housing and       shopping malls which they say are a productivity drag on the       economy. Bulls say these will be fully used in due course and       are overstated.

State-owned enterprises still have a huge share of the       economy and stashes of cash. Officials say performance must       sharpen and dividends must rise. Bulls think this is doable.       Bears think vested party and other interests will blunt it.

Official Chinese think-tanks, which feed into Government       thinking, frankly spell out serious soil, water and air       pollution problems and energy and resource constraints. Bulls       say the technocrats have leeway on pollution because for now       public opinion backs economic growth. Bears point to rapidly       rising emigration to cleaner rich countries, among other       things.

There are very wide and rising income and wealth       inequalities, compounded by party bigwigs' egregious       corruption and rent-taking. Bulls say the new leadership is       addressing them. Bears expect political convulsions beyond       the centre's control capacity.

And the rate of GDP growth is slowing. The Government is       trying to manage expectations down to 7% in the short term       without frightening investors or stirring popular resentment.       Not too far off, some say, they will be managing expectations       down to 5%.

That is still big and getting bigger - cause for optimism.       But there will be bumps, possibly big ones, on the way to 5%.       Cause for caution about Mr English's upward fiscal track.

- Colin James is a leading social and political       commentator.
