
Megan Foo of The NextWomen examines the issue of the lack of access to education for girls in developing countries. Megan talks to Georgina-Kate Adams, Founder of crowdfunding project The Seed, Africa , regarding the impact of educating girls through crowdfunding.

As a high school junior in Hong Kong who has received an amazing education thus far, I can attest to this fact.

Unfortunately, this state of mind does not resonate with many of my counterparts in other countries, adolescent girls who face persistent barriers to education. School attendance and enrollment rates remain low for girls in developing countries; a 2012 World Bank report places the count of girls out of school at 31 million globally.

Entering our data-driven digital society, this question has been answered time and time again through the advent of crowdfunding philanthropy, which sees social entrepreneurs leveraging donor support and voluntary micropayments to projects and organisations focused on furthering girls’ education.A streamlined approach to improving access to education, crowdfunding often serves as a funding mechanism for education projects that are little known or difficult to reach.

Uniting the worlds of business, technology, and philanthropy, crowdfunding achieves a two-fold effect of raising awareness of a cause and securing funding for the individuals who need it the most.

This past month, I was able to gain some insight from Georgina-Kate Adams, the Founder of The Seed, Africa (a crowdfunding project that supports girls’ education in Swaziland), regarding the impact of educating girls through crowdfunding.

Founded as a crowdfunding project, The Seed hosted its first pitch on Crowdfunder.co.uk in November 2012.

Volunteers and supporters of The Seed believe that “if you educate a girl, you plant a seed to change a community, a nation, and every future generation”.

The Seed, Africa brought together 200 people in what they describe as a "philanthropic flashmob" - funding a £7000 scholarship so that a girl in Swaziland could attend boarding school and fulfil her dream of becoming a doctor.

According to The Seed Founder Georgina-Kate Adams, the impact of the funds raised through crowdfunding has been immeasurable. Not only is the girl “in her second year of boarding school and is excelling”, but “the transformation in her confidence, self belief and ambition is incredible” - a testament indeed to the fact that education is a catalyst for individual empowerment. Furthermore, the crowdfunding campaign, which harnessed the power of flashmobs, online advocacy and social networking in tandem, helped spur people to amplify their solidarity with the girls’ education cause.

Georgina-Kate notes that “many of our supporters are now proud ambassadors for girls’ education in their own lives, having had no prior engagement with the issue before the crowdfunding”.

However, great success always follows equally great challenges - Georgina-Kate can vouch for this. The classic challenges that accompany crowdfunding campaigns, namely budgeting, filming, marketing and time commitments, still appertained to The Seed during its early phases. A challenge unique to The Seed’s crowdfunding project, however, lay in convincing prospective donors of the impact of investing in just one girl’s schooling.

The dynamic online donation community that crowdfunding has birthed breathes significant contemporary relevance, allowing individuals to systematically accelerate positive change and nurture a sense of community through donating to and reading up on meaningful causes.As someone who actively uses crowdfunding platforms to support girls’ education focused organisations based in Guatemala, I am continually inspired that crowdfunding allows me to give my counterparts in other countries the same opportunities I’ve been lucky enough to have in Hong Kong.

Most importantly, crowdfunding has reinforced in me that just as my teachers and peers have inspired me to be the best I can be, I can make a similar difference in someone else’s life.

You get a Letter from the CEO :-), the chance to catch up with the best of our recent articles - and some extra things we throw in once in a while.

We try hard for smart reading.

The NextWomen is a community of Investors, Entrepreneurs & Advisers. We build formats to support the growth of female entrepreneurs -from startups to companies making millions. We provide access to capital, resources and networks, offering our community a support infrastructure critical for success.

We work closely with sponsors and advertisers whose content, products and services will be of interest to our community and offer a range of advertising and sponsorship options.

The NextWomen has an audience of 100,000 entrepreneurs, investors and experts. Only members of TheNextWomen can submit guest posts.

You can also become a member of TheNextWomen community; we offer a START membership and a PRO membership of our Business Club.
