
Last Modified: Monday, May 19, 2014 at 7:05 a.m.

LAKELAND | Katie Worthington's career has taken her to Fortune 500 companies and businesses with fewer than a dozen employees.

She is currently the president and CEO of the Greater Winter Haven Chamber of Commerce, but her resume includes stints at SunTrust Banks and State Farm Insurance. Most recently, Worthington spent three years at Clark/Nikdel/Powell, a Winter Haven-based marketing agency.

"I was there for three years, and the company went from 11 to 21 employees, which was great," Worthington said. "There are a lot of advantages to working in a place where your boss is sitting next to you.

"It's easier to learn how things work, and it helps you learn how to run a business."

A recent study ranked the best places to work for a small business. The report focused on the 100 largest metropolitan areas by population in the United States. The Lakeland-Winter Haven area, which encompasses all of Polk County, placed 90th out of 100. The top three metro areas were Minneapolis, Salt Lake City and Miami.

The study was conducted by WalletHub.com, a website that incorporates census data, expert opinions and social networking to provide information for consumers and business owners.

The "Best & Worst Cities to Work for a Small Business in 2014" report also coincided with this year's National Business Week, which took place May 12-16.

According to the U.S. Small Business Administration, small businesses employ 47 percent of the private workforce in the nation. They are also responsible for 60 percent of the new jobs created in the past 20 years.

The administration defines a small business as "one that is independently owned and operated, is organized for profit, and is not dominant in its field." The standard for the number of employees varies by industry. The maximum number employees for a manufacturing company may range from 500 to 1,500 employees, while the maximum number of workers for a wholesaling business may range from 100 to 500, depending on the product being manufactured or provided.

WalletHub, on the other hand, defined small businesses as those with 250 workers or less for its study.

The report used 10 different metrics to evaluate each metro area's small business friendliness: number of businesses with under 250 employees per 1,000 inhabitants; industry variety; net small business job growth; small business vitality; average number of hours worked; average monthly earnings for new hires; unemployment rate; average disposable income; cost of living; and a well-being index.

The study used the most recent data available from the U.S. Small Business Administration, as well as the U.S. Census Bureau, the Council for Community & Economic Research, the American City Business Journals, and Gallup-Healthways.

Todd Baylis is the president of the Lakeland-based Qgiv, which makes online fundraising software for nonprofits and other organizations, and Cipher Integrations, an information technology firm.

He noted these types of studies tend to look at lagging indicators.

"I know the LEDC (Lakeland Economic Development Council), for example, has placed a lot of importance in bringing in lifestyle entrepreneurs in the last few years," Baylis said.

"There are a lot of pieces in place here in terms of the small business community, but it could take up to 10 years to see them really develop."

Baylis said the two companies he founded have about  25 employees between them. Cipher Integrations won the 2014 Small Business of  the Year Award from the Lakeland Area Chamber of Commerce.

CareerSource Polk, a nonprofit that oversees state and federal funds in an effort to connect skilled job-seekers with employers, gives out the Polk County Best Places to Work awards each year in August.

"The award promotes a company's unique, forward-looking philosophy and recognizes those who have taken the lead in developing exceptional workplaces to improve the quality of life for workers and their families," said Marybeth Soderstrom, community outreach coordinator.

"Quality of life" is one of the positives that come from working at a small business, according to Mercedes Guzman, vice president and director of human resources at Lakeland-based insurance company Lanier Upshaw.

"We have an office in Tampa, too, so there are some employees who go between offices," Guzman said. "Even with those people going back and forth, the environment is very personal. It feels more like a family."

Lanier Upshaw was among the small businesses -- per WalletHub study's definition of a small business -- that received one of CareerSource Polk's Best Places to Work awards last year. The company offers an Employee Stock Ownership Plan to its workers, a retirement plan in which employees earn a share of ownership in the agency.

Guzman also noted Lanier Upshaw -- and other small businesses in Lakeland-Winter Haven -- are able to attract talent from the Tampa and Orlando markets.

'A UNIQUE MARKET'

Dan Shupsky, director of operations for Lakeland-based Quantum Marketing Inc. (QMI), first moved to Lakeland from Orlando in 1997.

"Lakeland is a unique market," Shupsky said. "I believe it's thriving and will continue to thrive from a business and community standpoint."

Shupsky previously worked in retail, operating the Service Merchandise store in Lakeland. In 2001, he began work at QMI, an automotive additives manufacturer that was acquired by Illinois Tool Works (ITW), a multi-national manufacturing company.

QMI has 123 employees, according to Shupsky, and he has been impressed with the area's workforce.

"We've never had a problem finding good people, especially compared to bigger markets," he said. "When there's a staffing need, all I basically have to do is put a sign out."

QMI was also among the companies recognized by CareerSource Polk as one of the county's Best Places to Work. Perks include health benefit plans that become effective the first day of the month following an employee's hire date, and employer-paid short term and long term disability plans.

"If you treat people right, you'll have them for a long, long time," Shupsky said.

Worthington said she thinks Polk County's standing as a desirable place for small business workers isn't reflected in WalletHub's ranking.

"If the list is saying this isn't a good place for small businesses, I beg to differ," she said.

Reader comments posted to this article may be published in our print edition. All rights reserved. This copyrighted material may not be re-published without permission. Links are encouraged.
