
SANDUSKY — Authorities today identified Tyshaun Washington as the man who they said was severely beaten in a Sunday incident in which seven people were shot at a Sandusky party hall, with none of the shooting injuries appearing life-threatening.

Sandusky police said the beating victim, who is 28 and from Lorain, Ohio, was flown to Mercy St. Vincent Medical Center in Toledo. He was listed in critical condition, a hospital spokesman said today.

Police identified three of the shooting victims as Aries Irby, 25, Michael Lately, Jr., 27, and Reva Roldan, 30, all of Sandusky, each of whom were shot in the leg with a small-caliber handgun, according to a police report. The other shooting victims listed on the report were Domonic Webb, 26, Darryl Pearson, 23, Sharee Russell, 29, all of Sandusky, and Michael McClellan. Jr., 29, of Castalia, Ohio, according to the report. The report did not say in what part of the body they were shot.

Mr. Washington and two of those shot were found in the parking lot of Geno’s Party Center in the 1600 block of Cleveland Road. Five more people showed up later at a hospital saying they had been shot at the party hall, according to police.

Police said it was unclear what caused the altercation, which occurred about 4 a.m., and whether it was gang-related. The altercation was described to police by witnesses as a "large fight" "between Sandusky boys and Elyria boys" that had possibly started with a fight involving several women, according to a police report. Police said there may have been multiple shooters, with multiple shots fired both inside and outside the party center.

Witnesses told police the fight started in the hall and then spilled over into the parking lot, where the beating victim "was jumped," according to the report.

The report also named Javon Montgomery, 30, of Lorain, as a suspect in the shooting. He was seen talking to Mr. Washington shortly before police arrived and was later arrested in the vicinity of the party hall after fleeing police, according to the police report.

He was charged with obstructing official business and disorderly conduct while intoxicated and booked into the Erie County jail, where he was being held on $13,500 bond pending arraignment Tuesday at Huron Municipal Court, according to the Erie County Sheriff's Office. The bond amount included the $10,000 on an outstanding warrant for driving with a suspended driver's license.

Copyright 2014 The Blade. All rights reserved. This material may not be copied or distributed without permission.

Copyright 2014 The Blade. By using this service, you accept the terms of our privacy statement and our visitor agreement . Please read them.

To contact a specific department or an individual person, click here .
