
Bat Lau Dung Laai.

Hong Kong people who had witnessed those years of Vietnamese boat people certainly remember this famous phrase.

It was the beginning of a government   announcement for the Vietnamese who were sailing to find temporary refuge in Hong Kong, in hopes of gaining permanent refugee status in Western countries.

Strictly speaking, it should be bat dau tu nay, meaning "beginning from now."

The government announcement was that starting at the time, Hong Kong had   implemented its screening process so that only those identified as genuine refugees were able to wait for permanent settlement overseas, while bogus claimants would be repatriated in an orderly manner.

Beginning in the mid-1970s, the illegal entry of Vietnamese refugees  plagued the Hong Kong government for 25 years until the problem was resolved.

But if anyone thought today's Vietnamese should be grateful and spare SAR merchants in the current anti- Chinese protests over the mainland's oil rig in the South China Sea because Hongkongers had made so many sacrifices for the Vietnamese boat people, he or she is naive.

There wasn't any collective memory of this history as Vietnamese workers in industrial parks set fire and looted the factories. Not only were mainland- owned factories torched and workers injured, greater damage was done to the Taiwanese ones.

Other factories established by Singapore, South Korea, Japan and Hong Kong weren't spared either.

The mainland was said to be the target, but it was more than geopolitics.

Like China decades ago, Vietnam is in the process of modernization and opening up. If China used to be the world's factory supplying cheap labor, that's no longer the case now. Entrepreneurs have been moving factories to neighboring countries like Vietnam to tap into cheaper labor costs after China raised minimum wages over the years.

Any economist would say that in due course, the wealth disparity between the two countries is bound to worsen. Vietnam is in the middle of this.

If the anti-China protests were started politically, the intensity with which they escalated was fuelled by tensions between employers and workers who receive low wages for working long hours. That's at the root of the violence.

If the Vietnamese were willing to get low pay for long work hours in the past, they certainly want improvements now.

That is human nature.

The protests were largely confined to industrial parks. The angry workers couldn't have mistaken the Taiwanese or Singaporean factories for mainland ones.

If what China did - requiring employers to raise the statutory minimum wage - is a reference, Hanoi would also be forced to come up with a solution of its own in the longer term.

In view of the importance of foreign capital to Vietnam's modernization, it's predictable that Hanoi will clamp down on the riots forcefully, in order not to scare away investment.

It's also predictable that Hanoi will act to improve workers' incomes.

Bat lau dung laai - beginning from now - SAR merchants should start planning what they should do next.
