
Good morning, everyone, it's a pleasure to be here. As you just heard, it's actually the first time for me to be to this conference. And came in very late, yesterday night, from Europe and didn't recognize until this morning, what a beautiful place it is, when I look outside the window. So should stay a little bit longer. Maybe I should have come in a little bit earlier. It was nice place. So thank you for having me. What I will like to do here is talk a little bit about 3M of course, and then take your comments and questions.

And first of all, what I will like to do is just to pay attention to a division that we laid out as enterprise, a couple of years ago, because it's important link to the enablers, meaning six strategies in terms of where we try to go. And in terms of our vision, it's basically calling out what we do, how we do it and where we do it, which vision is all about. It should also be related to a competitive advantage you have should be holistic and should be authentic to you as an enterprise.

And when you think about 3M's portfolio, both in terms of product breadth and geographical depth, I think this vision is calling in and out very well. So this is about what we do, which is basically advancing, enhancing and improving. That's what 3M is for 112 years. We are waking up every morning and ask themselves, how they can do that.

The center of our plan is actually research and development of technologies, and you see, we do it by technology products and innovation. And then, where we can do it is basically with and for every company around the world, in and for every home, and in and for every life. And every life for us is of course healthcare, schooling, but is also around sustainability and is around sustainability and community.

In terms of every home, most people are thinking initially around Scotch-Brite, Scotch Filtrete, et cetera, but it's much more. These products going into homes, where we are specified into other company's product lines, we've got refrigerators, stoves, air conditions, et cetera.

And in terms of every company that's a very sophisticated company that are working with big platforms and/or smaller companies, we can always help them with solutions that are very cost effective for them. So for us in terms of division, it's important for us in order to guide the organization.

That is then enabled by six strategies and the strategies are important for us. The four first ones are all about growth. And then the articulation is important. You can see words that are like customer and you see the word relevance. You see market share and see profitable market share. You see global capabilities and build outs. You see operational excellence and you see people.

So the four first strategies are all around growth. The fifth one is around people, all of our employees. And the last one is around operational excellence. They are strategies from a high level, but they are all operationalized into the enterprise. Meaning, the metrics and tools are very clear, and in fact were developed by the organization after we launched the six strategies from top level.

Now, when you think about 3M, that's a couple of things that are fundamental strengths, and they are technology, manufacturing, global capabilities and brand. But let's pause for one second and just think about them. When we talk about technologies, this is our ability to combine different technologies in order to developed new product and solutions. So based on all 45 technology platforms, that's what we can do.

Technology platforms are not owned by any single division, they are owned by the company. Everyone can use them in order to find solutions with their customers. And this is fundamentally very important thing for 3M. 3M is the company that create technology platforms, develop technology platforms and also in many cases using them ourselves, but equally important, let our customers use them. That is what we call open innovation and we have done that for many, many years. It's a key element for 3M's primary or be active in order to give you a high return on your investments.

Manufacturing is an important element for us. We have a big footprint. And you can see there is a lot of process capabilities and many of them are trade secrets. One of the key element for us in order for us to produce a product that are very cost effective, but also adding value to our customers, and we do a lot roll-to-roll and are probably the best in word relative to the technologies around that.

The global capabilities is around the subsidiary network around the word, where everyone in the 3M world can use the capabilities that we have built for many, many years. Front-end and back-end is what is very important. So we can start our businesses, capitalize it around the world and every business or the certified division can utilize the infrastructure that is in place.

And then, finally, the brand. Global brand that is very important. If that's a corporate brand in terms of Post-it or Scotch or Filtrete or if it's a very specific brand into a special area, healthcare, Littmann Stethoscope, Micropore tape, Tegaderm dressing, et cetera. So whatever it is, the branding is an important element for 3M. So here's the four element that actually are the fundamental strings of 3M in a very vertical integrated model that we are using, and is a key to the success for many, many years of the return we have given to the shareholders.

Now, November 8, 2012, we gave you the new guidance relative to the five-year plan, and we are on track in order to move us towards that direction. And if you remember, we gave you a 9% to 11% EPS growth target, we gave you organic revenue growth of 4% to 6%, around 20% return on invented capital and then around 100% cash flow. That was the plan we laid out then for '13 and '17 and we are sticking to our plan. We do not change that and we are well on track in order to be able to deliver this. And I feel personally very good relative to our progress towards it.

Now, there is key levers for us for the future in order to even further increase the shareholder value. The first one is portfolio management and I will come back and make some comment around it. The second one is investing in innovation or research and development with outcome of innovation. And then thirdly, best business transformation, which is all about efficiency, productivity in a much more effective 3M, as we go ahead.

Those three key levers are very important for us as we move ahead, and in fact are imperatives in the company. So when you think about it, as we go forward to create more value, those three things will be very important for us.

If you look upon the businesses, you can see we have five business groups today and you can see their relative size of them from, industrial of $10.6 billion; healthcare $5.3 billion; consumer $4.4 billion; safety and graphics $5.7 billion; and electronics and energy $5.4 billion.

And you can see the target we have laid out in the plan is 4% to 6% organic local currency growth, and we see clearly a step-up relatively to come to that target as we move ahead. And I personally am very pleased of the performance we are having. You can also see for the different business, what we laid out in expectation as we move ahead, and most of them are right in the spots relative to the corporate guidance, but some like healthcare has slightly higher estimation as we move ahead.

Now, let me talk about the first lever. Corporate portfolio management, something we did two years ago, where we really looked back on the businesses and identified, and we categorized them in a couple of groups. One is the Heartland divisions, which is five divisions in the company, stands for one-third of our business and slightly more in terms of our profitability. Big sizable businesses, very profitable, utilize multiple 3M technology platforms, strong brand equity, global scale and leverage and very, very good businesses for us.

There are anyhow in businesses that are growing slightly slower as a marketplace, this is what 3M would like to do at the current pace relative to the 4% to 6%, as we move ahead. Push forward, our businesses that you can categorize very much like the Heartland division, with differences that they are a market that they're growing faster than we would like to move the company, and faster than the Heartland divisions.

We are relatively small on a global scale meaning that we have big opportunities as we move ahead and need to prioritize that as business opportunities and investments. And then we identify businesses on strategic review that when we started a process it was about $2.5 billion.

Businesses that are doing very, very well, but in relative terms to 3M and our return had lagged a little bit in the last five years. All are profitable, all doing well, and I would say many other portfolios maybe will be one of the start. For us, however, in the way of a competitive set, we try to view, went back and look upon them to say, why are they not at least able to perform at average of 3M.

Then you look upon the growth as we have laid out for the future and in the past, and we categorize them and develop them, developing economies, and you can see when we went back to 2003, 21% of our business at that time were in developing economy. As we speak today, that's 35%, so the build out of the businesses have really accelerated. And you can see as we move forward to 2017, we believe that's 40% to 45%. So an incredible plan in terms of making sure we capitalize one of our strings, which is our global reach and capabilities around the world.

Now, why that's important is that, all of us know, but it's not always the way we think about it, the evolution of an economy. And the economies evolution in every country is basically starting always with that, you have to build infrastructure. When the infrastructure is in place that is when manufacturing broad-based are willing to invest. When they get invest specifically from more developed countries, safety regulations are coming in place.

After that, when people have got incomes and they can spend money, the retail and consumer business start to take off. And then finally, the healthcare regulations start to build out. There have always been healthcare in those countries, but have been at a different level.

If you think about that evolution and I've lived many places around the world and I think this model was actually build on my own experience, as I saw countries build out over time. Our portfolio is following every step of the way in that evolution. It is traffic safety systems or our telecom business, when you're into infrastructure, if it's whole industrial business that is one-third of our business, when industries starting to invest in with its safety regulation where our personal safety business is, and whole way up to healthcare business, that is our most profitable business. This is very good for us, as we are building out the businesses and been able to prove that for many, many years that this is a model that is working very well for us.

Now, we also made a statement relative to investment in research and development. Research and development is the heartbeat of 3M and is an important element for us in order to continue to drive organic growth. And there is also one element why we are able to return premium to you as shareholders.

We have historically spent around 5.5% to 5.6% in research and development, and last year that was like $1.7 billion. And one thing that our model is not doing is to comprise our investment in research and development, because in a way that is a key element together with our people for the future in order to have a competitive differentiation.

We made a commitment to move that closer to 6% as we move ahead. And of course, we have three element we look into here. We look upon to develop products with existing markets. We are looking for new products for existing and adjacent market and then the new investment should go to new product for new markets and relative to investment for disruptive technologies.

Very important to make sure that this is happening and is actually investment on a corporate level, where we have made sure that the money is floating back into the laboratories in each division as we go ahead. As organic growth is the primary driver for 3M, this is a very important element that we continue for the future.

Now, we will complement with acquisitions as well as we go, and it will be build based on the portfolio prioritization that we have done. So that work is in place, and we know now very much where businesses are and what needs to be done as we move ahead. It should be in relevant targeted areas, should be high growth spaces and/or technologies that could be leveraged across the company. And then, as we now have enhanced the integration capabilities, we start to feel that we can do slightly bigger acquisitions than in the past.

If you recall that people had followed us the last six years up to 2012 or 2011 and we had done maybe 60 or 70 acquisitions, and most of them were smaller I would say. So it took a lot of time in order to integrate them. And we believe now as we move ahead based on the portfolio analysis we have done that we are ready to go slightly bigger, and with a good team in place that can take them and integrate them more effectively.

So to think about it, if you think about portfolio intent, should be Heartland boost of a technology and into adjacencies, and the push forward should be our ability to build out the penetration around the world. And we have also changed the process, where in the past the process was very much bottom-up, which we continued to do. But we have also accelerate top-down corporate structure in order to make sure that we can look upon potential opportunities that are crossing multiple business groups and divisions.

And then of course, we would like creates value and maximize that and be able to do that faster and that's also why we form these team in terms of integration. And those capabilities are now very good, I would say, and we had some practices around that.

The third lever is our business transformation enabled by the SAP system, and this is an important element for us in terms of efficiency as we move ahead. And you can see here it's very much also relative to planning for custom intimacy, but in addition is relative to efficiency and the back office and the whole organization. So this is an important element for us as we move forward and the end goal for us here is savings of $500 million in operating income and $0.5 billion in cash and it's a seven-year plan as we roll that out.

The other thing that we have done during the last 18 to 24 months is to step back and take a view relative to Lean Six Sigma. Operation and excellence is well-embedded in 3M and I think we can say that we are well-known for what we are doing and we are doing it very well. 3M is a company that are process-oriented and very good at the project management.

Relative to Lean Six Sigma, we are now focusing even more, and you can see, specifically, into manufacturing. We have a big manufacturing footprint and we believe here is even more opportunities for us as we move ahead. And we are doing that we are looking for Lean relative to wall-to-wall in the facilities and we are also looking in through the supply chain opportunity.

And you can see here that we have ramped up our Black Belt quite a bit since the ending of 2011 and up today. So we are adding more Black Belts, so we have closely to $500 million, as we speak.

And then when we are coming and talking about our shareholders and what we are giving back to the shareholders, you can see that we have a very good history relative to what we have done. We have for the last couple of years made sure, you can see here, for the cash dividend that we have returned $14 billion during the time, the past decade. You can also see that, 2014, we have a cash dividend estimation of $2.3 billion. And we all know that we have had increase for the 56 th consecutive year, this year, relative to the dividends.

You can also see relative to our stock repurchases that we announced effective this year, a 35% increase, and that is coming after some very good history of what we have done in the past. So we believe we are on a good place relative to returning cash to shareholders and we have proven that over a long period of time and are happy to continue to do so as we move ahead.

When we look upon the result for the first quarter of this year, you can see the good thing for us was we had organic local currency growth in all geographical areas in all businesses, and for us that's a very good thing and its starting out to see that growth are coming both from a businesses and geographical perspective.

You can see that the healthcare led the way with a 6% organic local currency growth; and the industrial and safety and graphics both had 5%; electronic and energy 4%; and then consumer 3%. From a geographical perspective, APAC had 7%; Latin America, Canada 7%; Europe, Middle East, Africa 4% and United States 3%.

You can see that operating margins went to 21.9%, so an increase from last year on a very high base, meaning that our model is working. And then you can see we returned $2.3 billion of cash to shareholders via dividends and share repurchases. And we increased the dividend by 35% in the quarter.

So with that I'll hold it there, and then we take questions and try to answer them from here. So thank you very much.
