
Through this integration, once Bromium isolates advanced malware, it sends detailed information about the targeted endpoints and the infection source to LogRhythm's Security Intelligence platform in real time via Bromium LAVA, which works in conjunction with Bromium vSentry software protecting endpoints throughout an organization. Bromium vSentry hardware-isolates and defeats advanced, targeted attacks against endpoint devices without requiring signatures or updates, automatically discarding malware and reducing the need for timely patching or costly remediation.

LogRhythm's Security Intelligence platform identifies and prioritizes advanced security threats by integrating and correlating real-time threat information from Bromium LAVA with log, flow, event and other machine data collected and generated by LogRhythm from across the network environment. Through the integration, customers can leverage LogRhythm's advanced security analytics to model malware behavior based on Bromium telemetry and leverage those insights to identify other compromised hosts in their environments.

In addition, LogRhythm's Security Intelligence platform can take automated actions based on threats identified with Bromium, such as adding threat intelligence to internal watch lists or black lists, disabling active sessions with source IPs known to be bad or quarantining compromised hosts. The combined solution helps security operations teams prioritize actions, slash response times and adjust defenses to counter today's most severe threats.

LogRhythm seamlessly combines next-generation SIEM, log management, file integrity monitoring and machine analytics, with host and network forensics, in a unified enterprise-class Security Intelligence platform. It is designed to address an ever-changing landscape of threats and challenges, with a full suite of high-performance tools for security, compliance, and operations. LogRhythm delivers comprehensive, useful and actionable insight into what is really going on in and around an enterprise IT environment.

About Bromium, Inc.

Bromium is re-inventing enterprise security with its powerful new technology, micro-virtualization, which was designed to protect businesses from advanced malware, while simultaneously empowering users and delivering unmatched threat intelligence to IT. Unlike traditional security methods, which rely on complex and ineffective detection techniques, Bromium protects against malware from the Web, email or USB devices, by automatically isolating each user-task at the endpoint in a hardware-isolated micro-VM, preventing theft or damage to any enterprise resource. Bromium's technological innovations have earned the company numerous industry awards including being named as a CNBC Disruptor and a Gartner Cool Vendor for 2013. Bromium counts a rapidly growing set of Fortune 500 companies and government agencies as customers, including NYSE and BlackRock.

LogRhythm is the largest and fastest growing independent security intelligence company in the world. The company's patented and award-winning Security Intelligence Platform, unifying SIEM, log management, file integrity monitoring, network forensics and host forensics, empowers organizations around the globe to detect and respond to breaches and the most sophisticated cyber threats of today, faster and with greater accuracy than ever before. LogRhythm also provides unparalleled compliance automation and assurance as well as IT predictive intelligence to Global 2000 organizations, government agencies and mid-sized businesses worldwide.
