
Patterson Toyota Scion will be sold on May19, 2014 to auto industry veteran Scott McCorkle.  The dealership will be re-branded Mount Airy Toyota.

For over 45 years Patterson Automotive Group has owned and operated Patterson Toyota.  The Pattersons are now passing the baton to auto industry veteran Scott McCorkle of Charlotte, North Carolina. Both parties worked together to reach a business-friendly agreement to ensure a smooth transition for both employees and the community. McCorkle, who currently owns Liberty Buick GMC in Charlotte and Matthews, will re-brand Patterson Toyota Scion to Mount Airy Toyota Scion.

The Patterson Family has a long history of servicing the automotive needs in the Mount Airy community with exceptional products for many years. Along with the Toyota Scion dealership, Patterson Automotive Group is also selling their Patterson Chrysler Dodge Jeep Ram dealership to Mr. McCorkle.

“It’s been a pleasure to serve the automotive needs of Surry County and beyond with such great brands.  We have so many great friends in the community through this dealership.  We look forward to continuing to have a presence in this community we call home,” says Paul Patterson.

“It’s my life's work to make the Scott McCorkle Family of Dealerships the best in the area with our state of the art, family-friendly facilities and incredible team of trained professionals,” says McCorkle.

Scott McCorkle has owned Liberty Buick GMC in Charlotte since 2003. His career in the automotive industry began in the mid 80’s as a service advisor for a Saab/Volvo dealership. McCorkle then moved to the Keffer Auto Group where he spent 25 years in sales and management positions before buying Liberty Buick GMC.

The Scott McCorkle Family of Dealerships now includes Liberty Buick GMC, Keffer Pre-Owned South, Mount Airy Toyota and Mount Airy Chrysler Dodge Jeep Ram.  For more information regarding Mount Airy Toyota call (336) 786-2118. For more information on Mount Airy Chrysler Dodge Jeep Ram call (877) 261-0657.
