
State Collection Service Chairman and CEO, Tom Haag (second from right), with members of the Haag family, after winning the 2014 WI Family Business of the Year Award.

State Collection Service may be the Haag family’s business, but without the hard work and dedication of every member of our staff, seasoned and brand new, we would not have made it this far. This award is for every employee of State Collection Service.

State Collection Service is extremely proud to announce that the company was recently selected as the large business Winner of the 2014 Wisconsin Family Business of the Year Award. At a ceremony held in Madison, the company was among a group of 19 family business nominees. Established in 1949 and celebrating its 65th year in business, State Collection Service is the first receivables firm in the state to ever win such an award.

The Wisconsin Family Business of the Year Award was created to highlight and celebrate the accomplishments and contributions of family businesses that make an impact on the Wisconsin business community. Winners are chosen by an independent panel of judges from nominations solicited from family businesses in Wisconsin.

Criteria for selection include the family business’ contribution to its community and industry, its positive links between family and business, and innovative practices used in its business.

In 1929, a 17-year old Hilding Haag left his native Sweden for the United States in pursuit of the American Dream. Initially settling in Minnesota, he began working in the collection industry. After a decade of increasing success in the industry, he moved to Madison in 1941 to run a collection agency. In 1949, with two decades of experience, he founded State Collection Service, working hard in those early years to establish a successful business based on the foundation of ethical practices and the idea of treating clients and their customers like family.

Not many companies can say that they have continuously been in business for 65 years with the same family ownership – this is a fact everyone at State Collection Service is extremely proud of and one that makes the organization special. Strong leadership – first by founder, Hilding Haag; then by current CEO, Tom Haag; and soon by the third generation, Tim Haag – has directly influenced the growth trajectory and success of the company.

After over six decades, State Collection Service has become a leader in the healthcare revenue cycle service industry, known throughout the United States. The company’s many long-term partnerships are a tribute to its service, integrity, and results.
