
Solar solutions provider ecoSolargy plans to donate a free solar system to Giving Children Hope in Buena Park to offset its electricity costs, announced ecoSolargy founder and CEO Alan H. Lee.

The company has launched a Giving Children Hope series of solar panels; profits on the series will be placed in a fund to pay for the Giving Children Hope solar system.

Once the solar system is in place, it will reduce the non-profit’s electricity costs for the next three decades.

Giving Children Hope supports a local homeless program, as well as provides international disaster relief and supports medical efforts worldwide.

ecoSolargy is an American-owned solar solutions provider headquartered in Orange County, California. ecoSolargy offers cutting-edge solar solutions which deliver affordable, clean, renewable energy to businesses and homes. The company’s evolution from solar module manufacturer to comprehensive solar solutions provider reflects the expanding needs of contractors, project developers and building owners.

For more information about ecoSolargy, please visit www.ecoSolargy.com .

The article above was released by ecoSolargy.

Alan H. Lee, founder and CEO of Orange County solar company ecoSolargy, installs solar panels on an Orange County residence. ecoSolargy plans to donate a solar system to Buena Park non-profit Giving Children Hope using profits from the firm’s new Giving Children Hope solar panel series. Courtesy photo.

Orange County Breeze covers local news in the northwest Orange County communities of Cypress, Los Alamitos, Rossmoor, and Seal Beach. We also cover news about Los Alamitos Joint Forces Training Base and Seal Beach Naval Weapons Station.

We maintain a community calendar of events , too! To have your event included in the calendar, email calendar@oc-breeze.com .

Orange County Breeze loves comments — but not just any comments.

All comments are moderated. Our moderation judgements are final.

To be approved for publication, a comment must be relevant to the post that it’s attached to. The comment must be polite. No personal attacks. No vulgar or profane language. The commenter must leave a real email address (which will not be published).

Copyright © 2014 Orange County Breeze All Rights Reserved.
