
Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own.

I was a former senior manager at KPMG and since 1994 the owner of the Marks Group PC, a 10 person customer relationship management consulting firm based outside Philadelphia. I've written five small-business management books, most recently, “In God We Trust, Everyone Else Pays Cash: Simple Lessons From Smart Business People.” Besides Forbes, I write weekly for The New York Times, Inc.com, The Huffington Post and Philadelphia Magazine.  I am an unpaid contributor to Forbes.  I make no compensation from the number of people who read what I write here.  Follow me on Google Plus , Twitter , Facebook , and Linked In .

Which is why “net neutrality” is a dumb idea.

And supporting net neutrality will hurt us in the long term because it will hurt those who can help us. Say what you will about Comcast Comcast , Verizon and AT&T AT&T but they are large companies with hundreds of thousands of employees that have invested billions in the infrastructure that we now call the Internet. And they will continue to invest to make it better (and it needs to be better). But only if the motivation is there. And that motivation is return on investment for their shareholders. The Internet speed in the U.S. is the 8th fastest in the world (South Korea is the fastest). Want to make it the fastest, or at least much faster? Let these companies spend their money, rather than taxpayer money, to improve this infrastructure and bandwidths. And let them charge more to the people who are willing to pay more. There will always be people willing to pay more (yes, even startups – and isn’t it ironic how the startup, venture and “entrepreneurial” community is so against others making money if it happens to affect their own companies?).

And by the way…it won’t be that much more. When Netflix Netflix had its scrap with Comcast a few months ago over access and speed of delivery, they wound up paying more for the privilege. Was the cost ultimately passed down to their consumers? Yes. Not to their existing customers (we pay $7.99 a month) but to new customers , who now have to suffer – brace yourself – a one or two dollar monthly increase for the service. A year’s worth of Netflix could cost a new user up to $120! What a catastrophe! If Netflix wants you as a customer they will have to justify their increased price by providing great content. And the best part: the government hasn’t been involved. It’s a free market. You choose.

Unfortunately, the government will ultimately be more involved. That’s because the Internet isn’t just an apartment, or a car. It’s now a utility. And everyone needs some type of access to it. If we require it to be totally neutral we’re in effect socializing it. And that will need management by an independent source – the government. Who will pay for that? Taxpayers. How well will it be managed? Well…take a guess.

However, if tech companies like Comcast, Verizon, AT&T and the like are allowed to make a profit and run this critical component of our economy aren’t we putting this responsibility in better hands? And could there be abuse? Most definitely, which is why we’ll still need some type of public and private oversight just like we now have over private companies that provide us with energy. Abuse can be monitored and limited. The public can be represented. And the cost will overall be much, much less.

The bad news for consumers and business owner like me is that either way, there will be higher costs in the future. If the FCC FCC imposes more “neutrality” then expect greater government oversight which will ultimately lead to government control…and more taxes. If the larger companies are allowed to charge for faster access, even with some type of quasi public/private oversight, that will also result in higher fees. The costs will be higher either way. But the results, if left to the private sector, will be better.

Note:  Here’s a short debate between myself and Mitch Stoltz of the Electronic Frontier Foundation which further explains this position. I hope this helps with the discussion.

Comcast, at least in my area, demands common carrier rates for putting up cable on local utility poles. Then, they claim that they aren’t bound by common carrier rules for the content that travels over those cables.

They should either be one or the other, not both.

Wow what a blatant propaganda piece for the ISPs. Net Neutrality is not saying that everyone should have the same internet speed coming into their house, it’s that ISPs are not allowed to slow down one website over another. They have no interest in upgrading their infrastructure and none of the 7 countries which have faster internet speeds than the US have practices like Comcast, Time Warner, and Verizon want to impose. Internet providers are a now utility, which is of course, a very low growth investment. So their new genius idea to reward their shareholders is to slow the internet down and get us to pay more to speed it back up.

Doesn’t really help your case any at all. It is missing a very important thing, logic.

no it doesn’t. these companies already pay for their connection to the main fiber networks, this is just ISPs trying to triple dip. you know, we already pay TAXPAYER money to the ISPs to improve networking, but they just keep the money, and do diddly squat. want to use a different isp? there probably isn’t one. these are antitrust and monopoly tactics they are using. what they want to do is make the internet like cable. want google? well, that’s another $200 a year.

That’s just one of many reasons Net Neutrality is a brilliant idea. As long as the ISPs have basically a regional monopoly on the last mile into our homes, they should be regulated like the monopolies they effectively are.

You seem to have the wrong idea about what net neutrality means. It’s not a matter of being charged more for a luxury brand like you suggest with your BMW vs Hyundai type examples. It’s being differentially charged for the way we as consumers use the -exact same- commodity.

You correctly point out that the Internet has become a utility. It should be regulated like one.

Perhaps we don’t find businessmen with “smart ideas” suggesting this because it would be practically impossible to determine how people use their water and electricity.

But it’s simple to decide if someone is using their Internet connection for “luxuries” like Netflix versus the benign use of e-mail or web browsing which doesn’t impact the cable TV industry.

Internet is used in different ways. Larger companies use more bandwidth, and need ‘stronger’ internet. A homeowner that uses netflix does NOT need the same internet as Netflix to provide their services. Let the internet companies figure this out privately. Plus why even begin to pass regulations? Google Fiber is going to give ISP’s a reason to upgrade… 10 GB of data for $70 a month from google, now compare that to Comcast for the same price (Fyi, you get 105 MB/s with ~$70 a month, which is about .01% of googles speed). Net neutrality is dumb, our whole infrastructure is dumb.

Internet is not like water or electricity. Calling it a utility is completely wrong. You can live without internet. No your life doesn’t require you to have an email or Facebook. Modernist views of the internet need to stop, and look at the reality of it. All it is is fancy mail, delivers packages (files, ect.), mail (email), provides services (order catalogues, online shopping). Its a form of communication, that isn’t necessarily needed for human life.

Above you can argue the fact that I may have also mentioned the telephone, or telegraph (like thats still used). Those are things required for calling emergency services, something that truely should be called a utility.

Last time I checked you can live without electricity or running water, as well. You can set up a well in your backyard for electricity and do without electric lights. These are not “needed” for human life.

The whole concept of a utility is that things are nondiscriminant, but why is that necessary for telephone, by your logic? Surely they could simply give priority for 911 calls and having it as a utility would be unnecessary. The thing is, the internet is no longer some niche product that can be ignored. The internet provides news, communication, weather warnings, and more. How important are these things? Since 2009, it is a legal right in Finland to have access to 1mbit/second internet.

I don’t think you fully understand the argument here, Jack. The internet already has different packages, I can pay for t1+ if I’m a operating a business, or I can pay for 20mbps if I’m living alone. They already have different packages. The problem here, is that the internet is trying to charge for a service that is separate from their own. They are trying to charge more for access to specific websites, ie; taking a “piece of the pie” from successful websites. What I am paying for is *data*. I’m not paying for specific data to specific websites, I’m paying for data.

Don’t get me wrong, I’m usually against government interference with businesses, they have no reason to put their head into it, but this is a much more complicated issues than that.

When we say things like “they need more money to upgrade the infrastructure”, that is a blatant lie. We gave them *tremendous* tax breaks in the ’96 telecomm act, with the implication that they upgrade the infrastructure. The infrastructure was *never upgraded*.

One last point, since you mentioned Google Fibre, you’ll notice that big ISP’s are fighting tooth-and-nail to prevent Google from rolling out their own infrastructure. The same guys that are saying that the government has no right to interfere, are asking the government to interfere.

This is a very difficult issue to address in one post, but I would be happy to point you in the right direction if you’re interested in more about the issue. The majority of this stems back to the “1996 telecommunications act”, where the ISP’s promised so much from the network, but never delivered.

You are one scary dude. Hopefully you don’t have access to lots of money where you impact lots of other people’s lives. You need to brush up on what Net Neutrality really is. Hopefully the people of influence understand what it is before we make anymore laws!

There’s the problem then. Your opinion on this matter is based on a opinion from Fox News. Thank you for regurgitating that into the internet. This article belongs on 4chan, not Forbes.

Net neutrality isn’t a new idea, it has been in place for many years, without government involvement. The decision to end it comes from a person who worked for the telcom industry, and is seeking to give a kickback to his supporters, common for American politics – zero honor, all corruption. Sure, the telcom industry has invested into increasing infrastructure, but their profits already rise above the cost of investment. You make it sound like these companies are some sort of abused Cinderella, doing all the work and getting nothing in return. Consumers pay quite a fee for cable and internet services. No one is paying $8.00/month for their internet service. Most bundled packages have their internet component at $30.00/month. Multiply that over hundreds of thousands of customers, and you have a nice little monthly score there. Let’s not forget the TV and phone services to boot, at another $30/month, respectively. Add on the stations that pay to be included in their tiered TV bundles, plus advertisers, and now we see quite a profit. So, don’t weep too hard for these companies, they’re doing quite well.

Lastly, think about the inverse – what if this no holds barred plan goes through? How long until the companies throttle the end user, manipulating speeds to people’s homes, and claim that they must pay more to get the speeds they once had? We’ve already seen this happen with cell phones and data throttling. $30/month could easily jump to $60/month, and then to $90/month, and that’s before your tv services.

Sometimes you have to stop fanning yourself with hundred dollar bills to see the big picture in front of you. The oil industry and banks already sold America up the river in the 70′s with unwarranted, uncontested inflation. The economy cannot afford another surge in prices. The wheels will come flying off, and what you have left is a broken society. If you need to know what comes next after that, read up on the French Revolution.

So either way the costs to the consumers will go higher.

First what your proposing is not allowing a level playing field for market entry. The net-neutral internet has allowed many small entrepreneurs a way to create a business – That will end with the end of net-neutrality.

Consider your examples “Should a person who can afford a Bentley pay more for road space then a Datsun owner?” How absurd, but this is exactly what your proposing.

Should your local ISP, comcast, charter, etal deny you the opportunity to get television broadcasts at a better price. This is the very reason why these entities are actively lobbying the FCC. Keep what you have and keep the competition out.

If I think one college is too expensive, I can go to another and get a similar education.

If I think a BMW is worthwhile upgrade over an Accord, I can choose to pay up.

If I think Netflix is too expensive, I can watch movies elsewhere.

But if I don’t like how Comcast is behaving, I can only escape them by choosing to not have broadband internet. In modern times, that’s no choice at all.

Your whole argument is dumb! It is not like getting a “two bedroom, 2,000 square foot apartment on Park Avenue cost the same as one in Queens.” It’s more like paying a landlord rent, for any apartment, and then the landlord charging anyone who comes over to visit you… Now go collect your Comcast paycheck idiot.

You need to learn more about how fiber optics work. There is no lack of bandwidth in the world. There is more than enough bandwidth for everyone because of the tremendous capability of fiber optics. The only limits are placed by the major bandwidth providers, who (like the diamond industry) have a vested interest in treating bandwidth as if it were a highly limited commodity that must be metered and conserved. In truth, there are almost no limits as to the amount of bandwidth a single fiber optic cable can carry … and we have TONS of fiber optics cables. Bandwidth “limitations” is merely a made-up excuse for providers to jack up prices … that’s it.

Exactly. We have the technology to support unlimited bandwidth. It costs them almost nothing to accommodate high bandwidth users. The price margins are incredibly high already.

You simply don’t understand the internet. This entire article is wrong. As a home user/consumer, I already pay for my speed of internet connection (the size of my house on Park Ave, as I’d have nothing less). Companies like Netflix already pay their network providers for access to the internet (the size of their house, which is more like an entire city in comparison). The connections are already paid for. Nothing else should be up for negotiation.

This is very much like you paying for something online from Amazon. Amazon has paid the postal service to deliver the package and has already accepted the package. Before delivering the package the postal service has gone back to Amazon and said we will hold on to your package for a month unless you pay us more money for immediate delivery.

Please, before you write for a large publishing company like this, understand your position. If you need help with understanding this technology, I’d be more than happy to school you.

On a side note: Your data on Netflix not increasing the price on its existing customers is also out dated. They are indeed increasing the price as I’m a customer and I got an email stating they would be doing it in another year or two.

Your analogy is flawed. This is not like a Park Avenue apt costing more than a Queens apt. This is like putting the same Park Avenue apt up for sale, but charging double to a black couple simply because the building owner wants to encourage white occupants. This isn’t about consumers paying more for faster speed (as you seem to think), this is about bit discrimination, and it serves no practical purpose in this increasingly large part of our economy.

Same old argument when FCC ordered telcos to resell their services and networks. As it turned out, the argument was just smoke screen. If telcos were reluctant to upgrade their network because they had to resell their networks, the cable companies would have eaten them alive. The FCC should focus on improving the market competitions rather than giving more power to the few powerful ISPs.

Forbes has just lost all credibility for me. Almost every author here is ignorantly against net neutrality because they won’t admit they have no idea what they are talking about.

The Internet is a universal free market. It’s another dimension of a free market. If it’s not neutral the big corporations will thrive while startups will die out.

So basically, without the net neutrality, Government decides they are going to put up a ton of speed bumps, purposeful traffic delays, temporary road blocks etc, on the roadways to both the small grocery store and Walmart.

The government says, hey Walmart, pay us more money and we will make the roadways to your stores smooth and clear so that your customers can get to you faster. (just like they always were when net neutrality existed).

Walmart says Ok, pays up and now customers are happy to shop at Walmart. But the small grocery store says: “we can’t afford to pay up and our business relies on keeping our prices down for customers”. So the government says “too bad” we’ll keep the various road problems to your store intact.

Eventually, customers get tired of taking the slower terrible road to the grocery store, and that store dies out.

So the Internet is like roads. Here is a REAL LIFE example of the throttling of traffic that ISPs want to do. In New Jersey when a mayor did not endorse Chris Christie, he and his staff literally caused a massive traffic jam in the mayor’s city. Causing huge delays for many people and absolute hatred towards Chris Christie.

The problem with the argument in this article is that the author is assuming that the internet is a luxury, like a BMW or an apartment on Park Ave. However, the internet is not a luxury. People all over the world depend on the internet to perform daily tasks, such as work, which makes it a necessity like power and plumbing.

I think we are already paying these ISP providers for speed. If you want more speed, you pay them more per month. What I am against is that these big corporations will control which websites will be accessed faster or slower. I would like the speed of accessing any website to be the same depending of course on what speed I paid for, not that some websites will be slower to access than other websites.

Well, not innovators that is for sure.

how about this roads being the same way? want to go to walmart? better have the “premium” car package or you wont be able to use the roads there.

Any similarity between you and a human being is purely coincidental.

What is so wrong about using tax payer $$$ for something that benefits all taxpayers.

If the options are Net Neutrality vs Taxpayer cost, I take the taxpayer cost any day. Not everything needs to be commercialized or set to the “free market” (read: big $$$ controlled).

Holy hell this was an absolute shit article. Do you even know what you’re talking about when you talk down net neutrality? Comparing it to cars or electricity? These are monopolies whose only job it to transport data packets from point A to point B, not charge users at each end to sucker them for more money because they use Facebook or Forbes. It is more along the lines of telephone lines than electricity. This is just a scheme to make more money. History has shown that even with profits up, ISPs have never put their main focus on their infrastructure. Why do you think we are so far behind other countries when it comes to internet speeds? We fucking invented the service and we aren’t even number one, because greedy companies control the market and don’t care about making a better service because they don’t have to. They can make plenty of money sitting on their asses year to year because the basics are there and consumers don’t have other choices.

Previous “Open Internet” or “Net Neutrality” rules were vacated earlier this year, the outcome of a  lawsuit brought, and won by, Verizon.  The D.C. Court of Appeals ruled against the FCC because  the language used characterized Internet Service Providers as content providers, over whom  the FCC has limited authority.  The ruling court, seeing the necessity of maintaining the Internet as it  is, even spelled out how the FCC could easily rectify the situation.  If the FCC designated the ISP’s as common carriers, basically pipelines for data, it could regulate them under its Title II authority.

  The biggest opportunity this ruling presents for ISP’s is a new source of income as they seek to  control access to content and institute charges for entities who wish to put their content in the  forefront.  Verizon, for example, looks “forward to working with the FCC and Congress…without the need for unnecessary new regulations that seek to manage the explosive dynamism of the Internet.” (Quote from Verizon’s policy blog).  In this instance, dynamism=profit.

Save yourself the embarrassment and just delete the article.

This is a weak argument against net neutrality. Cars and apartments cost different amounts in comparison to other cars and apartments? I don’t think the writer of this article fully understand net neutrality. Neutrality is literally to keep the internet from being controlled. Neutrality means ISPs can not block out legal content, that ISPs must be transparent and disclose their policy, and can’t just throttle or slow down one site over another. It doesn’t suddenly make it “socialized” like people are all stuck with the same exact service and price. The internet as we know it (i.e. net neutrality) is fine.

Exactly! thank you for pointing that out, Dave Schaeffer… Probably the best comment I’ve seen on this piece.

Your comparisons dont work. The internet is its own phenomenon and must be considered independently without resorting to lame, petty and improper analogies.

If ISPs cannot afford to improve infrastructure, they have the option to charge subscribers more for internet service. Ending net neutrality only convolutes the system and makes way for sneaky dealings/profits while passing the cost onto the end-user anyway.

Gene, you’re a dumb idea.

Why ‘Free Market Internet’ Is A Dumb Idea.

Gene Marks’ clout as a tech contributor makes this article an ISP’s wet dream. Marks clearly doesn’t understand the current state of the ISP landscape in the USA, or is completely ignorant of our own history with telecommunications service monopolies. At present, nearly two-thirds of all internet traffic in the USA is routed through only five companies. The first and the third on the list of service providers (Comcast & TWC) are currently negotiating a merger which, if enacted, means nearly one-third of all internet traffic in the USA will be controlled by one company. Now you may think that’s not a big deal, so long as you can still connect to the internet. However, if we lose net-neutrality, the ISP’s will no longer be just a connection to content on the internet, they’ll be given the ability to control what content they allow through their infrastructure. If ISP’s, who are already dangerously close to monopolizing the entire internet market in the US, are given the ability to now restrict content based on arbitrary determinations and charge providers, customers or both an additional fee so that they can access this content, this will give them free reign to control all content that travels through their network. This means that if, say, the CEO of Comcast decides he doesn’t agree with Fox News, he’s free to block all content from Fox and demand an unbridled fee to restore access to their content. The end of net-neutrality will see ISP’s turn from utility providers into money-incentivized censors. This is just the opposite of the author’s argument that it’ll be good for business. Small businesses won’t be able to compete with the established big-boys if they can’t afford equal access to potential customers. The author’s analogies to net-neutrality are like comparing apples to oranges. He compares internet service as if it were content. There are two main factors that affect internet service, whether or not you even have a connection, and connection speed. The latter is tiered, so his comparison to price differences among hotels is moot. At no ISP will you find a 1mb/s connection that costs the same as a 60mb/s connection. If you exchanged the author’s analogies to internet with electricity, you’d find it ridiculous if it were implied that the electric company should be allowed to tell you you’re only allowed to use your electricity for light bulbs, and even though you have plenty of amps to spare, they demanded you pay extra if you want to be able to use those amps to power a TV. It’s kind of like how you pay for your 2gb (or whatever) of data at AT&T or Verizon. If you wanted to use that data you already pay for to tether a laptop, they charge you more. It’s your data, it should be your choice on how you use it without the provider deciding for or penalizing you for how you use the service you pay for.

The only people that really stand to gain from the loss of net-neutrality are executives and shareholders at the ISPs, not the customer.

TL;DR? While service providers and customers may benefit from the competition and free-market approach to sales and customer retention, giving service providers free-reign on censorship and access-for-ransom means everybody loses. That is, everybody except those lining their pockets at the big telecom companies.

I can’t even… Oh my. The blind ignorance is astounding. You sir are quite ill informed I’m almost hoping you just wrote this with no research rather than making a quibble about your own opinion. The web is not a hotel. It is not a school. It is a transport. Nothing more. It’s the most powerful infrastructure in the world yes. However the middle man it should not augment bandwidth allocation because it deems it more financially viable.

Educate yourself. Why are we the 8th slowest. I want to see sources of the government being the stopping factor in installing infrastructure. Great the billion dollar companies need to buy permits. Oh no! Cable companies spend FAR more installing limiters and systems to tier the speed of access than they do on new architecture. There is a reason upgrading your speed doesn’t require them to do anything but change a number on their system.

This is pure garbage I’m sorry. Do far better research and source your information with facts before slandering on about something that many people strongly feel for and comprehend.

This article was written by someone that clearly doesn’t understand fully what it will mean when net neutrality becomes a distant memory.

Shame on you for even thinking that the United States internet availability and usage could be compared to a country like South Korea where you can get 100 up and 100 down for about 40$ a month.

You don’t charge a person for a room at the Ritz Carlton, then charge the electric company for the power they’re going to use in their room.

What I’ve gathered most from this article is that you don’t understand the concept of net neutrality at all, nor do you understand the implications of what this “plan” would mean for users. This isn’t about keeping prices down. This is about companies like Comcast and Verizon being able to charge a customer for a service, IN ADDITION to charging a content creator for the ability to provide that paying customer with that service.

Paid column for the telecoms, sad that journalist have been degraded to walking advertisers for the highest bidder. This guy is supposed to be an expert? Give me a break.

If you pay $45 a month for broadband … it costs them $1.35 at Time Warner … and $2.70 at Comcast.

Companies like YouTube and Netflix wouldn’t have even been created if the policies you support were in effect when they were in their infancy. But that’s OK right? Comparing the economics of durable goods to a distributed network further displays your lack of understanding of the Internet as a whole. Playing it off as free market economics is either disingenuous, or unintelligent…possible both.

Last time I checked, Comcast, Verizon, At&T etc, don’t own the servers that many websites are host on, aside from their own (which probably isn’t even completely the case). All they do is provide routing and DNS services to the VAST majority of their customers, which they charge handsomely for. As for being the 8th fastest Internet in the world…it’s actually pretty impressive considering that the top 7 COMBINED have only roughly 2/3rds of the population that we do.

If you think that access to content that isn’t owned by an ISP is theirs to charge for, you’re so completely wrong and clueless, I’m actually embarrassed for you.

Thanks for playing, though.

Wow! Did you bother doing ANY research on this subject before writing this screed on behalf of the Big Telecom oligarchs? I don’t think so. If you had, you might have discovered that the Internet was originally built with billions of dollars of the US taxpayers’ money, not money from these Big telecom oligarchs. You might also have noticed that these Big Telecom corporations have allowed the Internet infrastructure they own to slide so far that the United States — which invented the Internet! — now has among the slowest and most expensive Internet connections in the developed world. You might also have noticed that — not surprisingly — these Big Telecom corporations have among the lowest rates of reinvestment in the developed world.

The sad truth is that these Big Telecom oligarchs have absolutely no interest in improving the US Internet infrastructure and delivering faster, better Internet connections to US citizens, because they mostly operate as monopolies. They face no effective competition in most the United States. What these oligarchs want is to extract higher and higher profits from the status quo — that’s you, me AND content providers — and then, when they can’t avoid it any longer, to charge us all many times what the rest of the world is paying for faster connections.

In order for that to happen, we need a thorough housecleaning at the FCC. Readers: please sign AND SHARE my petition. Let’s see if we can reach a half-million signatures within the four month comment period.

Interesting article. Judging from the other comments, I think you just wrote it to agitate people. This article reads heavily against consumers and small businesses. Cable operations is a multi-billion(s) dollar industry. To site that a “net neutral” ruling would substantially hurt the big tech companies is over-reaching for an argument.

Perhaps a pro-neutrality ruling will, instead, create more competition in the industry, providing an opportunity for smaller providers to get a little action. It may even force the big companies to compete against each other (gasp!). Being forced to yield to one provider isn’t the same as neutral competition. If another store charges a better rate for the product I want, I should have the option of getting it there. That’s an actual free market.

Without government regulation, the rules can become bent and broken. It usually means bigger wins without a contest. I agree that there should be restrictions to what federal administrations are able to do. However, when private industry doesn’t care about it’s consumer base, its reason for thriving, then we’re all going to pay a higher premium regardless. A radical way to view this would be a form of a free market “tithing”.

Conclusion: Neutrality would only be considered “dumb” if you’re one of the internet providers. I’m just showing the other side of the coin. We don’t actually know what will happen until a decision is made. Until then, everything is speculation.

This is one of the most insanely idiotic things I have ever read. At no point in your rambling, incoherent article were you even close to understanding how the internet functions (i.e. Why Netflix now pays Comcast directly) or why Netflix increased their prices.

The price increases have nothing to do with the Comcast deal since this is a fee Netflix already pays (and has been paying) other companies to ensure people can access their services. Now they just pay Comcast directly to service their Comcast using customers, instead of third parties. They also pay these third parties for customers who use other internet services where such deals have not been made yet.

Everyone is now dumber for having read your article. I award you no points, and may God have mercy on your soul.

HAHAHAHAHAH. Oh man, thanks for the jokes. This was a hilarious article. If only any of it was true.

Google Fiber has null and voided this post before it was even made. Seriously you gotta be kidding me with this. If that’s your argument then why are prices cheaper in South Korea? I can’t believe people have this opinion.

Your poor analogy is really flawed. No one has suggested that all internet access in the country should be the same bandwidth or the same price.

US telcos literally stole tax payer dollars that were handed to them on an agreement to build infrastructure that they didn’t. We pay more than the rest of the globe for slower access while the same telcos are bragging about record profits. Content providers pay for their bandwidth to host their content, and content consumers pay for their bandwidth to access content. Now telcos want to double-dip and make content providers pay a second time to every network.

With net neutrality, ISPs can still charge varying amounts to customers whose content they host, and to individuals who want access to the internet. But throttling and blocking content is not part of a free market. It is double-dipping and enables censorship.

I think your logic is flawed. You parallel your argument to the cost of a Broadway show ticket, but the truth is the parallel is to the cab company that shuttled me to the box office. If I paid the cab company for the ride, does the cab company now have the right to charge the Broadway theatre for dropping me off? Of course not. I paid for the service once, I don’t need to pay for it twice through pass-down cost. Broadband consumers are already squeezed enough, and we don’t need another impediment to access the online market as either consumers or sellers by handing over keys to the distribution channel that this market was built upon. American consumers are tired of being squeezed, and this is just another ploy to get more revenue from a public that feels it is being underserved already.

You keep spamming that link like your life depends on it.

Gene Marks, you are an absolute disgrace to the journalistic profession and you should be absolutely ashamed of yourself. You give good writers a bad name.

Please, stop writing. For the good of mankind.

It’s a little thing in our justice system called “anti-trust” which seeks to prevent companies from having too much control over the market to their own benefit and to the detriment of consumers. When an ISP is allowed, at their own discretion, to decide to penalize its competitor with targeted price increases, it has the potential for unfair domination of the market. Verizon and its Redbox on demand service comes to mind, but, left to their own devices, every major ISP in the world will be opening up video streaming services now because people want it and they are emboldened that they can make it cheaper than Netflix can. Netflix got ahead of this by signing deals with the ISP very quickly, which was a smart move, but they are going to find the deal becomes more and more suffocating as the ISP’s ramp up their video streaming offerings. And those that say ISP’s would never do that are blind to what ISP’s have already been doing: they will and are doing whatever they can to maximize profits with the minimal amount of investment.

Clearly you’re either A) Paid off and writing for the telecoms or B) an idiot. They found plenty of ways to pinch off more money than ever with increasing rates. This is just another way of them to increase revenue by essentially double-dipping. They didn’t suffer before this and they won’t after (hoping that net neutrality survives). They’d like to make the argument that they can’t afford to upgrade infrastructure but they don’t make any mention of the BILLIONS of dollars in taxpayer money they received to do so before. What of that? They’re just greedy and you’re the mouthpiece that wants to help them.

This is horribly misleading anti-consumer propaganda and I refuse to read Forbes so long as they continue to allow industry shills write such irresponsible false equivalencies.
