
Fisker Automotive is going to build a new line of electric vehicles (EVs) in the U.S. says its billionaire Chinese owner, who bought the bankrupt automaker in February.

Lu Guanqiu, 69, is the Chinese equivalent of Canada’s Frank Stronach. He is the chairman and founder of China’s Wanxiang Group, the country’s biggest auto parts manufacturer, which had profits last year of U.S. $1.3 billion. His personal worth is estimated at $3.1 billion.

Lu won Fisker in a bidding war with other Chinese investors, paying $149.2 million. Fisker’s collapse cost the U.S. taxpayer $139 million.

When the failed automaker was under the control of founder Henrik Fisker, it assembled its cars in Finland. Wanxiang Group says that when production resumes, its electric cars will be built in the U.S. Making this possible is that part of the Fisker holdings acquired by Lu’s company is a former General Motors assembly plant in Wilmington, Delaware.

It’s believed Fisker first will resume production of its elegantly styled Karma, and then concentrate on new EV models - first for the U.S. market and then for China, where the government is moving to reduce massive air pollution in its major cities.

Fisker first ran into trouble when deliveries of the Karma were delayed from 2009 to 2011. Then there were a number of well publicized battery related fires. But Fisker’s real woes began when A123 Systems, the Karma’s supplier of lithium-ion batteries, went broke under the weight of too many recalls and stopped production. In what he called “buying brains,” Lu also acquired most of A123’s assets in a separate bankruptcy sale.

By adding a comment on the site, you accept our terms and conditions and our netiquette .

Autonet.ca is a leading voice for everything automotive in Canada with exclusive car news, reviews and videos, comprehensive new car information and used car listings from across Canada. Autonet content also appears in print in more than 200 newspapers across Canada through Bowes Publishing, Osprey Media and Sun Media.
