
SEYMOUR >> Downtown storefronts are bursting with shades of red, white and blue, courtesy of Seymour students who created colorful posters to illustrate what Memorial Day means to them.

More than 300 students in grades K-12 entered the “Seymour Remembers” Memorial Day poster contest, which kicked off in March. Their artwork is now proudly displayed in several downtown storefront windows featuring patriotic themes depicting American flags, soldiers, gravestones, the Statue of Liberty and American eagles.

Now it’s the public’s turn to get involved.

People are being asked to cast their ballots for their favorite poster. Each poster is marked with a numbered sticker, indicating from which school the student artist hails. Customers frequenting the downtown business are encouraged to view the student art galleries and vote for the poster they like best.

Winners and honorable mentions will be announced following the town’s annual Memorial Day parade, scheduled for 11:30 a.m. Sunday, stepping off from French Memorial Park and ending at Broad Street Veterans Memorial Park.

Hairstylist Jerica Baez was happy to hang the posters in the window as a tribute.

The idea to involve students in the contest came from Army veteran and VFW Commander Al Yagovane, the Memorial Day Parade organizer. Yagovane wanted students to express their creativity through art to epitomize the meaning of Memorial Day for them. And keeping the memory of fallen soldiers alive through students’ eyes was a great way to do that, Yagovane said.

Proud parent Hope Lanzieri was thrilled her daughter, Lorena, 12, a sixth-grader at Seymour Middle School, decided to take part. Lorena created her own customized version of the Statue of Liberty, surrounded by butterflies.

Seymour High School Assistant Principal James Freund thanked the local businesses that agreed to support the project, and display the posters through Memorial Day.

The posters can be viewed at Greenwich Workshop, Invent Hair Salon, Karen Fisher Attorney at Law, Law offices of Ramon S. Sous, Main Street Center Antiques, Mitz A & A, Nationwide Insurance, Ozzies, Hair Port, Staffworks, Tangies and Tea with Tracy. The public is encouraged to stop by each business and cast their votes.

Have questions, feedback or ideas about our news coverage? Connect directly with the editors of the New Haven Register at AskTheRegister.com .
