
CHARLOTTE, N.C., May 19, 2014 /PRNewswire/ --  UBL Interactive, Inc. (otcbb/qb:UBLI) ("UBL"), The Local Leader with Global Reach™, is pleased to announce that the Company will present at the Third Annual Marcum MicroCap Conference scheduled to take place on May 29, 2014 at the Grand Hyatt New York.

The Marcum MicroCap Conference is dedicated to introducing investors to the very best, undiscovered companies under $500 million in market capitalization. Launched in 2012, the annual Marcum MicroCap Conference features presentations by CEOs and CFOs from promising high-growth companies, the top picks by some of the most astute analysts following small caps, and thoughtful commentary on successful investment strategies and sectors. The Conference expects to draw more than 1,500 attendees including executive, finance and legal personnel from pre-IPO and smaller public companies, venture and lower middle-market private equity investors, directors, bankers and service providers to the microcap marketplace.

About Marcum LLPMarcum LLP is one of the largest independent public accounting and advisory services firms in the United States. Ranked #15 nationally, Marcum LLP offers the resources of 1,300 professionals, including over 160 partners, in 23 offices throughout the U.S., Grand Cayman and China. Headquartered in New York City, the Firm's presence runs deep, with full-service offices strategically located in major business markets. Marcum is a member of the Marcum Group, an organization providing a comprehensive range of professional services spanning accounting and advisory, technology solutions, wealth management, and executive and professional recruiting. The Marcum Group companies include Marcum LLP ; Marcum Technology LLC ; Marcum Search LLC ; Marcum Financial Services LLC ; Marcum Bernstein & Pinchuk LLP ; MarcumBuchanan Associates LLC ; and Marcum Cronus Partners LLC . For more information, visit www.marcumllp.com .

About UBL Interactive and Universal Business ListingHeadquartered in Charlotte, North Carolina and having served over 200,000 businesses across North America, the United Kingdom and Australia, UBL Interactive is the owner and operator of the Universal Business Listing (UBL) service. Through UBL, the Company provides business identity management tools for businesses large and small, as well as SEO providers, advertising agencies and interactive marketers to help their customers distribute their business details as a trusted source across search engines, online Yellow Pages directories, 411 directory assistance, social networks and mobile devices. The Company also offers reputation monitoring tools and a variety of premium Local SEO optimization services.  For more information on the Company and its Universal Business Listing solutions, please visit our web sites at www.ublinteractive.com or www.ubl.org .

SOURCE UBL Interactive, Inc.

Copyright ©2014 MarketWatch, Inc.  All rights reserved.

Intraday Data provided by SIX Financial Information and subject to terms of use .                 Historical and current end-of-day data provided by SIX Financial Information. Intraday data                 delayed per exchange requirements. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones & Company, Inc.                 All quotes are in local exchange time. Real time last sale data provided by NASDAQ. More                 information on NASDAQ traded symbols and their current financial status. Intraday                 data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, and 20 minutes for other exchanges. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM)                 from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. SEHK intraday data is provided by SIX Financial Information and is                 at least 60-minutes delayed. All quotes are in local exchange time.
