
With the midterm elections less than six months away and Democrats rightly feeling the heat on multiple fronts, it’s hardly a surprise that their most fearless leaders, President Barack Obama and Sen. Harry Reid, once again are raising the temperature on climate change rhetoric. The strategy is obvious: If you can’t win the arguments that Americans actually care about, then throw out as many other distractions as possible to deflect attention from those arguments.

Global warming is the distraction du jour. Earlier this month, the White House pivoted to the release of the latest National Climate Assessment. As noted in a Wall Street Journal editorial, the president told NBC weatherman Al Roker that climate change “is not some distant problem of the future. This is a problem that is affecting Americans right now.” Of course it is.

In 2006, Mr. Gore said, “Many scientists are now warning that we are moving closer to several ‘tipping points’ that could — within as little as 10 years — make it impossible for us to avoid irretrievable damage to the planet’s habitability for human civilization.” So it would appear we only have two years left to avoid that dire warning.

Then, in 2008, Mr. Gore stated, “Some of the models suggest that there is a 75 percent chance the entire north polar ice cap, during some of the summer months, could be completely ice-free within the next five to seven years.” That would be right about now. Yet from 2012 to 2013, Arctic ice expanded by more than 50 percent, and The Washington Post reported in September that Antarctic sea ice levels had expanded to record levels for the second straight year.

Again, even the liberal Washington Post wasn’t buying that, with Glenn Kessler’s Fact Checker giving Sen. Reid’s claim three Pinocchios on a scale of 1 to 4. That’s because Koch Industries, while rating 27th on the list of “greenhouse” polluters, emits about one-third of 1 percent of total greenhouse gases in the United States — while gainfully employing 60,000 Americans, many in very good-paying jobs that send plenty of taxpayer dollars to the federal government.

Climate change is the religion of environmentalism. Many on the secular left love to pile on people of faith while worshiping at the altar of Mother Nature. As a matter of faith, they believe in all the tenets of radical environmentalism. It’s a religion in itself, but its congregation isn’t growing. In a March Gallup poll of Americans’ biggest concerns, unemployment, jobs and the economy dominated, while climate change didn’t even make the list.

Clearly, the alarmism isn’t ringing true. Voters are all about jobs and the economy, and they have been since the day President Obama took office. Distractions notwithstanding, Democrats will find that out in November.
