
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

JACKSON, MI – Michigan Gov. Rick Snyder said he believes Jackson will set an example to other communities in the state as it revitalizes its downtown through the Anchor Initiative – a program that aims to have young professionals live, invest and innovate within the city's core.

"Jackson is rocking," Snyder said Monday, May 19, during the official launch of the initiative at Bucky Harris Park . "The conditions are right here, and there are a number of businesses committed to making the initiative work."

Snyder pointed to Midtown Detroit  as an example of how the anchor program can be successful.

"I hope in another 10 years we'll be saying the same thing about Jackson," Snyder said.

The Jackson initiative began in January with Consumers Energy and Allegiance Health as the two lead anchors. Since, more than 20 other businesses have announced their support for the program, including Alro Steel, Eaton Corporation, Jackson College and Michigan International Speedway, among others.

Pattie Poppe, Vice President of Customer Experience, Rates and Regulation for Consumers Energy, spoke to a crowd of more than 100 people at the downtown park Monday about the demand for downtown Jackson housing.

"Between all the anchor institutions there are more than 12,000 employees, with 3,500 of those employees younger than 35," she said. "Of those young professionals, more than 300 said in a survey that they wanted to live in downtown Jackson – not downtown Ann Arbor, not downtown Detroit – but downtown Jackson."

Poppe said there are currently 42 market rate apartments in downtown Jackson, all of which are occupied.

"For all the developers in the audience, the demand is there," she said. "We now need the supply."

Poppe announced earlier this month that the utility will further incentivize living downtown with a $100 a month stipend for their employees to live in the downtown district.

John Russell, Consumers Energy President and CEO, said the former Woolworth Building – which the utility bought in January – will house the Anchor Initiative's headquarters, as well as have a floor dedicated to community innovation and offices housing Consumers Energy's partners and a CP Federal Credit Union, among other businesses.

"I'm confident this initiative will not only attract people but also work to retain people in the city of Jackson," he said.

© 2014 MLive Media Group All rights reserved ( About Us ).

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
