
The  Howard Hughes Corporation ® ( HHC ) announced today the new 2014 SEE/CHANGE summer line-up kicking off Memorial Day Weekend at the South  Street Seaport . Celebrating a highly successful first year of  crowd-pleasing activities, SEE/CHANGE will showcase an exciting  array of retail pop-ups, culinary offerings, live music, DJ series,  outdoor cinema and family-friendly fare in conjunction with New  York-centric activities that locals and visitors have come to enjoy. The  series will commence in the historic cobblestone area of Fulton and  Front Streets on May 23rd and run through the summer as part  of the Seaport District’s ongoing neighborhood revitalization.

FRONT/ROW CINEMA: The free outdoor film series at the  intersection of Front and Fulton Streets drew huge crowds last year  and will return for a new season starting Memorial Day Weekend,  featuring screenings of Mission Impossible (May 23), Ratatouille (May 24) and Breakfast at Tiffany’s (May 25). The summer-long  schedule will include a diverse line-up that includes family friendly  fare (Brave, Frozen), blockbusters (Skyfall, Men  in Black 3), modern classics (The Breakfast Club, Goonies)  and indie-minded films (Crazy, Stupid Love, Perks of Being a  Wallflower). Screenings will be every Wednesday night for family  films and Saturday night for “date night,” with lawn and lounge chair  seating provided for guests each night.

FOOD HAUL: The new Ambrose Hall, also at the corner of  Fulton and Front Streets, will offer craft beers and tasty summer  bites. A rotating list of food trucks and other specialty food vendors  will also serve delicious food and beverage choices along with outdoor  cookouts, BBQ, picnic and tasting events to keep taste buds satisfied  throughout the summer, including Moo Shu Grill, Milk Truck and  Calexico.

SEE/CHANGE RETAIL: The multi-story shipping containers will  once again serve as stylish retail pop-ups on Fulton and Front  Streets, showcasing fashion-forward, independent retailers - including  Selima Optique, Freedom of Animals and The Squeeze - as well as  one-of-a-kind cultural happenings.

MUSIC: SEE/CHANGE will launch new weekday lunch sessions which  will showcase great live music and DJ sets from the FRONT/ROW stage  Monday through Friday, offerings visitors and locals a great way to  spend their lunch hour. The 13th annual international,  indie-oriented Seaport Music Festival also returns July 11th with eight live music performances by indie-rock and pop bands. The  South Street Seaport will also serve as proud sponsor along with the  Village Voice of the 4th annual 4Knots Music Festival.  The annual River to River Festival will take over the Seaport  the weekend of June 26-28, featuring performances each day by a great  line-up of contemporary Latin and Caribbean music bands.

MORNING EXERCISE: Classes will feature a daily selection of  community and health-focused programs that partner with local fitness  experts, including exercise classes on the lawn every Monday through  Friday provided by Crunch Fitness.

CULTURAL/COMMUNITY EVENTS: Numerous cultural and community  events will occur during the summer: Thursday evenings will offer live  music by the Dandy Wellingtons and various performers throughout the  summer; TECH TUESDAYS returns, inviting members of the Lower  Manhattan tech community out for a weekly evening of mingling and  networking; family-related activities will also give  kids a great reason to spend time at the Seaport every Sunday, with a  schedule of live music, book readings and special appearances by  Curious George, Clifford and more.

Information regarding the South Street Seaport can be found at seechangeny.com or follow us on Facebook , Twitter and Instagram .

The Howard Hughes Corporation owns, manages and develops commercial,  residential and mixed-use real estate throughout the U.S. Our properties  include master planned communities, operating properties, development  opportunities and other unique assets spanning 18 states from New York  to Hawaii. The Howard Hughes Corporation is traded on the New York Stock  Exchange as HHC and is headquartered in Dallas, TX. For additional  information about HHC, visit www.howardhughes.com .

Statements made in this press release that are not historical facts,  including statements accompanied by words such as “will,” “believe,”  “expect,” “enables,” “realize”, “plan,” “intend,” “transform” and other  words of similar expression, are forward-looking statements within the  meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These  statements are based on management’s expectations, estimates,  assumptions and projections as of the date of this release and are not  guarantees of future performance. Actual results may differ materially  from those expressed or implied in these statements. Factors that could  cause actual results to differ materially are set forth as risk factors  in The Howard Hughes Corporation’s filings with the Securities and  Exchange Commission, including its Quarterly and Annual Reports. The  Howard Hughes Corporation cautions you not to place undue reliance on  the forward-looking statements contained in this release. The Howard  Hughes Corporation does not undertake any obligation to publicly update  or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect future events,  information or circumstances that arise after the date of this release.
