
CREEPY or convenient? Facebook has launched a new Ask button that could help make it easier to find a date or just creep someone out.

It’s common on social media for some people to keep their private information private.

So, if you think it’s none of someone’s business where you live, where you went to university or whether you are single or attached, you don’t post that as public information in your profile.

The idea is that it keeps unwanted attention away, or at best leaves potential pests guessing.

Now, they don’t have to guess. They just have to Ask.

Specifically, they click on the Ask button next to your status, and you receive a message identifying the Facebook user and what they want to know.

It’s not just a question saying “are you married”. Each Ask request requires the user to type in a message.

So you would receive a: “What is your relationship status” message, along with something personal like: “So, do you like dressing up in Games of Thrones cosplay? I bags be being Hodor” — or whatever it is people say when trying to turn a Facebook friend into more than a friend.

Some on Twitter have labelled it a way for Facebook to counteract the rise of online dating while others have warned that it could open the door for inappropriate nagging or requests from those with dodgy intentions looking to build personal profiles for identify thefts.

One thing about the feature is just because you’re Asked doesn’t mean you have to answer. However, what Facebook hasn’t explained is why someone who has chosen to keep that information private would want to be pestered by questions on their status.

Like,if you need to ask me about my relationship status than we shouldn&#39;t even be Facebook friends.

News.com.au's Privacy Policy includes important information about our collection, use and disclosure of your personal information (including to provide you with targeted content and advertising based on your online activities). It explains that if you do not provide us with information we have requested from you, we may not be able to provide you with the goods and services you require. It also explains how you can access or seek correction of your personal information, how you can complain about a breach of the Australian Privacy Principles and how we will deal with a complaint of that nature.
