
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

grave of Louis Oscar Fried.

The pastor of Salem Lutheran Church, the Rev. Larry Beane, officiated at the recent wreath laying ceremony held by Gretna Historical Society at the grave of Louis Oscar Fried. He was a 19 year old sailor who is celebrated as Gretna’s first war hero, killed during the U.S. Occupation of Vera Cruz, Mexico. In 1914, Fried’s heroism and sacrifice was honored with a funeral procession attended by thousands that stopped for a service at Salem Lutheran.

Gretna Historical Society's mission is to preserve the culture and history of "the little city with the big heart," and it did just that with a wreath ceremony at the tomb of Louis Oscar Fried, a young sailor who is celebrated as Gretna's first war hero. He was killed by a sniper during the U.S. occupation of Vera Cruz, Mexico.

"Fried was among the first killed in the invasion. While waiting for his body to be returned home, a group of Gretna men formed a citizen's committee to plan his funeral and raise funds to erect a public monument. Donations ranged from 25 cents to $20 and, eventually, reached over $1,500 as written in the New Orleans Daily States. Fried's obelisk erected by the donations stands tall in Hook & Ladder, a monument to his heroism," said local historian Sevilla White Finley, who served as chairwoman for the memorial.

"Fried's sacrifice and heroism was eulogized with resolutions from public officials at every level. A general holiday was declared so businesses, factory workers and school children could attend the funeral. The casket was conveyed by caisson and pulled by white horses in a procession that stopped for a service at Salem Lutheran Church."

"Fried's body was waked at his home at 227 Copernicus Avenue, now Huey P. Long Avenue where his mother sat in vigil. It was later moved across the street to the parish courthouse, now City Hall where it lay in state until shortly before the procession. As the crowds gathered, church bells rang intermittently, fire sirens sounded and flags flew at half-mast," Finley said.

She said that on his burial day, the "hero's coping was blanketed in flowers that included a laurel wreath from President Woodrow Wilson. A century later his great nephews Richard A. Thalheim Jr. and Michael C. Smith presented a wreath at this ceremony."

The Gretna Historical Society has a display honoring Fried in the Ignatius Strehle House at the GHS Museum Complex, 209 Lafayette Ave. that is open from Tuesday through Saturday, 10 a.m. to 3 p.m.

Other committee members for the Fried event included Vice Chair Myra Ziifle Thalheim, Reception Chair Margie Camardelle, Paul Coles, Val Coles, Mary Curry, Peter De Broeck, Ronnie Gauthreaux, Ursula Ramm, Chris Ziifle and Ruth Ziifle.

Congratulations are in order to Principal Beth Wren, faculty, staff and students at Shirley T. Johnson/Park e=Elementary School for being awarded the Achievement Network School Impact Year Award. This award is given annually to the school that has had the most influence on other ANet partners in Louisiana. Johnson/Gretna Park was recognized for setting a high bar for its teachers and students, sharing its practice with other ANet schools, and actively contributing to its peers' knowledge of what works for students.

"Our school community is honored to be chosen for ANet's School Impact Award. We are very proud of the increased student achievement and lesson quality that has come from learning together about Common Core standards and our student data. Through our partnership with ANet, our school performance score has risen over 30 points, bringing us from a "D" letter grade to a "C." We are looking forward to even more student growth next year," Wren said.

Mariah McGowan of Gretna has been accepted to and awarded the Founders Scholarship at Cornell College, a private liberal arts college located in Mount Vernon, Iowa.

The story of Louis Oscar Fried, a German name pronounced "freed," remains a part of the fabric of Gretna's history. He was the youngest of seven children of Matthew and Mary Meisner Fried. He enlisted in the U.S. Navy in 1912 at 17. Fried Street, that runs along the side of the Gretna Water Department building was named in his honor and remains a reminder of his sacrifice.

Check here if you do not want to receive additional email offers and information.

Thank you for signing up!

Please check your inbox, and approve the verification email. If you don't see it, check your spam folder.  To view and subscribe to any of our other newsletters, please click here .

© 2014 NOLA Media Group. All rights reserved ( About Us ).

The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of NOLA Media Group.

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
