
Spectrum Weather and Specialty Insurance will be a featured exhibitor at the Snow and Ice Management Association’s annual Snow & Ice Symposium, to be held in Columbus, Ohio, June 18-21, 2014. After such an extreme winter, snow insurance will be on the minds of many in the industry.

Spectrum Weather and Specialty Insurance, Inc., the leading domestic broker of snow insurance and other snow-related risk management products, will be attending the Snow and Ice Management Association’s (SIMA) 17th Annual Snow & Ice Symposium, to be held in Columbus, Ohio, June 18-21, 2014. The yearly SIMA Symposium is an opportunity for representatives of companies that are involved in the snow removal and related industries to come together to help educate each other on the best principles of business management, snow and ice operations, leadership, and other aspects unique to the industry. Members of SIMA include snow removal contractors from the United States and Canada, equipment suppliers, salt and chemical suppliers, and those providing professional services to the snow removal industry.

Mr. Holmes, will be in attendance through the entire SIMA Symposium. In addition to the sponsorship of portions of the educational seminar series available at the Symposium, Spectrum will also be an exhibitor at the associated trade show. “As our climate continues to become more volatile, companies with revenue that is highly correlated to weather will continue to face challenges each year. Those in the snow and ice removal industry have seen that first-hand over the past several winters,” stated Mr. Holmes. “It is Spectrum’s goal that those in this industry are educated with regards to the availability specialty insurance products, such as snow insurance, to help mitigate those risks.” And while this past winter had many cites experiencing record or near-record amounts of snow, “next winter may be just the opposite.” After all, Mother Nature always bats last.

Spectrum was established with the goal of providing rain insurance, event cancellation insurance, snow insurance, and other specialty insurance solutions that are simple to understand and purchase, and with the highest degree of customer service in the industry. Spectrum serves events both large and small, including fairs, festivals, concerts, and other outdoor events impacted by weather. In addition to rain insurance, Spectrum provides liability insurance for events, as well as insurance for weather-based promotions. Spectrum also provides snow insurance to help protect against extremes in winter snowfall for snow removal contractors and others exposed to snowfall volatility.
