
Possible E. coli contamination has triggered the recall of 1.8 million pounds of ground beef products produced by Wolverine Packing Company of Detroit, federal officials say.

The recalled meat, which was distributed to restaurants in Massachusetts, Michigan, Missouri and Ohio, has been linked to 11 cases of E. coli, USA Today reported.

The products were produced from March 31 to April 18 and have the establishment number "EST. 2574B" on them, according to the Department of Agriculture's Food Safety and Inspection Service.

The first E. coli illness came to the USDA's attention on May 12, and the agency worked with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to link the problem to Wolverine Packing Company, USA Today reported.

Reports about treatment delays at Veterans Affairs hospitals across the United States have made President Barack Obama "madder than hell," according to White House Chief of Staff Denis McDonough.

He said on the CBS news program "Face the Nation" that Obama ordered VA officials to "continue to fix these things until they're functioning the way that our veterans believe they should," the Associated Press reported.

There have been allegations that treatment delays at the Phoenix VA hospital led to deaths that could have been prevented. On Friday, a top VA official resigned over the problems.

About 1.2 million cases of several brands of cottage cheese are being recalled by Kraft due to improper storage of ingredients used in the products.

The company said the recalled brands include certain Knudsen Cottage Cheese, Breakstone's Cottage Cheese, Simply Kraft Cottage Cheese and Daily Chef Cottage Cheese products. All of them were made at Kraft's Tulare, Calif. plant, NBC News reported.

Some of the ingredients in the recalled batches of cottage cheese were not stored according to Kraft temperature standards, the company said. The recalled products were distributed across the United States and have code dates from May 9, 2014 through July 23, 2014.

Consumers with these products should not eat them. Instead, return them to the place of purchase for an exchange or refund. For more information, phone Kraft at 1-800-396-6307 between 9 a.m. and 6 p.m. Eastern Time, NBC News reported.

Copyright © 2014 HealthDay . All rights reserved.

Get the latest Healthy Week newsletter delivered to your email. Sign up now!
