
Hooters, the restaurant chain which makes a feature of its buxom, scantily-clad waitresses, has claimed the appearance of a joke about rape on its Facebook page is the work of hackers.

The picture shows a young blonde, wearing hotpants and with legs akimbo, her hands pointing to her groin, with the caption: 'The proof that she was asking for it your Honour'.

It was just one of a string of questionable posts that appeared on the Hooters official Facebook page over the weekend. Others included jokes making fun of small-breasted women.

Hooters PR moved quickly to disown the content, sending a tweet insisting that the page had been 'compromised' and saying the company was working with Facebook to 'resolve the issue'.

But that was not before commentators launched a tirade of criticism against the chain, which has 460 restaurants across the U.S. and more overseas.

PolicyMic's Elizabeth Plank wrote on Twitter : 'So @Hooters just posted this rape joke on Facebook. Really hope someone is losing their job.'

Jezebel writer Mark Shrayber said: 'Whoever was running the social media over on the site this morning really messed up when they thought that posting a picture that suggests that women ask to be raped would be an appropriate thing to put on the site.'

And Laura Beck of Cosmopolitan.com posted: 'It's disturbing when you see this type of juvenile, dangerous garbage being posted to Facebook by jackasses you went to high school with, but it's wholly unacceptable when done by a multinational corporation.'

She also pointed out that a woman is raped, on average, every two minutes in the U.S.

Hooters quickly responded to Ms Plank on Twitter, saying that the page had been hacked and its staff were trying to regain control.

'Apologies. Our page has been compromised. We are working w/ @Facebook now to resolve the issue. Please be patient with us,' tweeted the restaurant's official Twitter account.

But it appeared that many of Hooters' Facebook fans did not even notice that their favorite restaurant was posting discriminatory content.

Jezebel's Mr Shrayber cited one top comment that simply read: 'lOve [sic] Hooters.'

The incident is an embarrassment for Hooters, which has regularly been on the receiving end of sharp criticism for its policy of employing only female waitresses and requiring them to wear tight, low cut vests and orange hotpants.

Of critics queuing up to condemn the rogue rape-joke post, none guessed or apparently even suspected that its sudden appearance was the result of an online security breach.

In other posts on its Facebook fan page, the chain makes a feature of its waitresses' sexual appeal to sell such products as beer and chicken wings.

Ms Beck, while registering her disappointment with the post, nevertheless wrote on Cosmopolitan: 'I don't expect much from a restaurant that makes its female employees wear bright orange booty shorts with taupe tights and pretend to laugh at its male customers' sh*t jokes.'

Hooters posted a fuller apology on the page yesterday.

It read: 'Today, our Facebook page was hacked and all admin rights were suspended. We apologize for the unauthorized posts made and are distressed by the insensitive material that was posted out of our control. Hooters does not share these opinions.

'As of 7 p.m. EST, we have regained admin rights to our page and are working closely with Facebook to investigate the matter.'

The comments below have been moderated in advance.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
