
As hydraulic fracturing ramps up around the country, so do concerns about its health impacts. These concerns have led 20 states to  require the disclosure  of industrial chemicals used in the fracking process.

North Carolina isn’t on that list of states yet — and it may be hurtling in the opposite direction.

On Thursday, three Republican state senators introduced  a bill  that would slap a felony charge on individuals who disclosed confidential information about fracking chemicals. The bill, whose sponsors include a member of Republican party leadership, establishes procedures for fire chiefs and healthcare providers to obtain chemical information during emergencies. But as the trade publication Energywire  noted  Friday, individuals who leak information outside of emergency settings could be penalized with fines and several months in prison.

“The felony provision is far stricter than most states’ provisions in terms of the penalty for violating trade secrets,” says Hannah Wiseman, a Florida State University assistant law professor who studies fracking regulations.

The bill also allows companies that own the chemical information to require emergency responders to sign a confidentiality agreement. And it’s not clear what the penalty would be for a healthcare worker or fire chief who spoke about their experiences with chemical accidents to colleagues.

The disclosure of the chemicals used to break up shale formations and release natural gas is one of the most heated issues surrounding fracking. Many energy companies argue that  the information should be proprietary , while public health advocates counter that they can’t monitor for environmental and health impacts without it. Under public pressure, a few companies  have begun  to report chemicals voluntarily.

North Carolina has banned fracking until the state can approve regulations. The bill introduced Thursday, titled the Energy Modernization Act, is meant to complement the rules currently being written by the North Carolina Mining & Energy Commission.

Draft regulations from the North Carolina commission have been  praised  as some of the strongest fracking rules in the country. But observers already worry that the final regulations will be significantly weaker. In early May, the commission put off approving a near-final chemical disclosure rule because Halliburton, which has huge stakes in the fracking industry, complained the proposal was too strict, the News & Observer  reported .

For portions of the Republican-controlled North Carolina government to kowtow to the energy industry is not surprising. In February, the  Associated Press reported  that under Republican Gov. Pat McCrory, North Carolina’s top environmental regulators previously  thwarted three separate Clean Water Act lawsuits  aimed at forcing Duke Energy, the largest electricity utility in the country, to clean up its toxic coal-ash pits in the state. Had those lawsuits been allowed to progress, they may have prevented the February rupture of a coal-ash storage pond, which poured some 80,000 tons of coal ash into the Dan River.

However, environmentalists point out that the bill would also prevent local governments from passing any rules on fracking and limit water testing that precedes a new drilling operation.

© 1999-2014 Grist Magazine, Inc. All rights reserved. Grist is powered by WordPress.com VIP .
