
Iconic designer is 'nurturing his team to ensure continuity'

Milan, May 19 - Fashion designer Giorgio Armani will turn 80 on July 11 but he has said he has no intention of retiring as his company reported sales growth across all markets in 2013.      His eponymous fashion group last week announced it would be stepping up investments in its brands after posting a 4.5% hike in 2013 sales to a record annual revenue of 2.19 billion euros from 2.09 billion in 2012, in spite of a sector-wide slowdown in a number of emerging markets.      European markets performed well, topped by Britain and France.      Operating profit totaled 401 million euros, up 18.2% on the previous year, and the group had available cash of 700 million euros as of December 31, last year.      Overall, the fashion company owned by its founder reported growth in all markets for all its brands - ranging from haute couture Armani Privè to Armani Jeans - after spending 100 million euros in developing its retail network last year.      The company has 2,473 stand-alone stores worldwide and said in a statement issued Friday it would keep boosting its retail network globally this year.      The group opened over 100 stores in 2013.      The company also gained full control of fast-fashion brand A/X Armani Exchange, buying the residual 50% of the line in 2013.      Armani outperformed larger rivals at constant exchange rates - reporting 8.3% growth ahead of a top fashion company like Gucci which posted 2.2% growth.      And as the fashion designer is preparing to turn 80 in July and celebrate his company's 40th anniversary next year, he announced in an interview published last week by Italian financial daily Il Sole 24 Ore he has no intention of retiring just yet.      "The double anniversary is an important goal, uniting my personal and professional life", he told the paper.      "I still have a lot of energy and my projects for the future are focusing on the creativity of collections as well as on global strategy.      "I have no intention of letting go".      "I am, however, always nurturing my team to ensure vital continuity of the company".

Gentile Lettore,

per commentare è necessario effettuare il login.

Se non possiedi un account, effettua la registrazione cliccando su "Registrati subito".
