
The Publix will be housed in a mixed use development with around 60 to 70 apartments on the top floors.

A new Publix Super Market is coming to downtown Birmingham by early next year, city officials announced Sunday. The new store is expected to continue the efforts to revitalize the inner city.

Publix plans to build a 30,000 square feet store at the corner of 20th Street and 3rd Avenue South as a part of a $30 million dollar development. The new store will also offer a full service pharmacy.

Construction is scheduled to start in late 2014 and the store is expected to open in early 2016. Up until now, Birmingham residents have not had a grocery store near the center of the city.

Those who live downtown welcome the news as well as those who work and live as far away as Montevallo.

"Possibly, we could come by here and pick up something on the way home. I think I might drop by and pickup something," Samuel Hogge, who works in downtown Birmingham, said.

John Lauriello with Southpace Properties has worked in commercial real estate for 40 years. Lauriello said there used to be 100 vacant buildings but that number has dropped to 15. He said the Publix announcement is a major plus.

"It's going to add more energy to the residential market. Add to existing inventory and soon-to-be developed inventory. It's going to get more people looking in town," Lauriello said.

Lauriello said the future growth of downtown will hinge on the city pushing some building owners to improve or sell their properties because there is a demand for space.

REV Birmingham is a non-profit organization which pushes downtown and community development. President and CEO David Fleming said the grocery store is great news but now the push needs to be on beefing up retail and office space.

"We need to focus on opportunities for people to move into downtown businesses that want to come downtown. Places for them to go and continue to have people here which support retail," Fleming said.

Fleming and others agree Publix will help with that effort. The store will be housed in a mixed use development. About 60 to 70 apartments will be located on the top floors.

"As we continue to bring businesses into the city center, that helps us generate revenues, tax revenues that then go back into our neighborhoods and our communities to help rebuild our neighborhoods," City Councilman Johnathan Austin said.

"This project is an exciting step to enhancing the area's amenities and a start to addressing the food desert issue in our City. To have Publix be a part of the city center is a wonderful addition and we can not wait to get this project started," Mayor William Bell said in a release.

Copyright 2014 WBRC . All rights reserved.

All content © Copyright 2000 - 2014 WorldNow and WBRC. All Rights Reserved.
