
A lot of factors go into asking for a raise successfully, from timing to percentages. Here's how weigh them all--and what to do if you get denied.

Asking your boss for more money is probably up there with doing your taxes and cleaning the gutters on your list of favorite things to do.

But salary freezes continue to thaw, and this may be your year to finally go for it.

At least it seems there’s a lot of money on the table for the taking. Compensation in the U.S. rose 1.9% from 2012 to 2013, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics , and senior executives who changed jobs last year averaged a 17% compensation increase, found the executive search firm Salveson Stetson Group.

Ready to speak up for what you want? Here’s what you need to know to feel confident talking to your boss--from how much you should ask for to the best time to make your request--and finally score the raise you deserve.

Cliché as it is, timing is everything--and it can determine whether or not you’re rewarded.

Typically, your company will allocate a certain amount of money for raises, which your boss must divvy up among his employees. Make sure to present your case for getting a bigger slice of the pie long before that decision has been made.

The way you initially bring up the subject of a raise depends on your manager’s personality, and you probably already have a sense of how she likes to be approached.

Other managers might prefer a more nuanced approach, where you broach the salary question in the context of another conversation, like a weekly status meeting.

Green suggests keeping a file of notes about your accomplishments to add to throughout the year--jotting down praise you’ve received, projects that were wildly successful and new tasks you’ve taken on--so that you have all the info at your fingertips.

She explained that her students had learned English well enough that within three months, some obtained employment and got promoted, some created websites emphasizing their new language skills and others had poetry printed in an ESL newspaper. “I said to [my boss], ‘I give it my all, and my students have improved as a result. I’d like a raise to match what I have been able to do,’” she remembers. And it worked. Just a few weeks later, Wade earned a raise of more than 17%.

This approach is especially effective for highly successful employees who have taken on additional responsibilities. Managers tend to know exactly what low-performing employees do because they have to follow up on everything to make sure it’s done right. But because productive staffers generally take care of their responsibilities on their own, managers may often be in the dark about their workload.

Lucas experienced this firsthand while working for a former employer. When her boss went on maternity leave, she assumed half of her workload. Fast-forward six months later: Her boss still hadn’t returned, and Lucas was going above and beyond her job description … and building up resentment that she wasn’t being fairly compensated for it.

At its essence, a raise is recognition that you are now more valuable than you were--that your skill level has improved, that you’ve accomplished more.

Hypothetically, let’s say staffers at your company received an average of 2% more last year. Requesting a 10% increase will seem over-the-top and inappropriate, but if you’ve really excelled over the year, then a 3% raise might be reasonable.

Skip sites like Glassdoor and PayScale--they’re too general--and instead figure out what salary you personally can command by talking to other people in your field, checking with recruiters (if you’re in an industry that uses them and have existing relationships) and scouring job postings (though not all listings include salary, some will provide a range) to calibrate your sense of market value.

That’s the technique that Peter Anders*, who works in finance, recently used. His job title was manager, but he was performing at the level of a vice president. His company has a rigid employee appraisal system where staffers are given a list of goals they must achieve by the end of the year; and Anders’ tasks were in line with more seasoned workers.

When you’re ready to talk numbers, there are two techniques: Name a specific sum or wait for your manager to mention it. There might be some advantage to the latter, according to Green. “[Your manager] might come back with a higher figure than you’d expected.” However, if the offer is lower than you’d like, tell your boss what you were hoping for and suggest meeting in the middle.

Either way, prepare for the meeting with a target amount in mind, and that number depends on what you’re proposing.

Threatening to leave unless you get a bigger paycheck is dangerous territory.

While some organizations give nominal cost-of-living raises every year, the vast majority of salary increases are merit-based--not on whether you have an offer from another company. “The heavy emphasis of your ask should be on the value of your contribution,” affirms Green.

*Name has been changed.
