
Amberg, Germany, May 19, 2014 - TraceParts, a world-leading digital engineering 3D content company, gives its first analysis about the 2014 edition of the Hannover Industrial Messe which took place in Germany.

It is the largest event of the technological industry worldwide where thousands of global manufacturers exhibit their latest innovations covering electronics, automation, manufacturing and renewable energies applications.

TraceParts was also exhibiting and met with key players of those markets to talk about industry best practices for Designers and Engineers. The outcome of those discussions with global manufacturers confirm that offering CAD models to prospects and customers for their new product designs is becoming a common practice for market leaders. In fact, Sales and Marketing Managers of those companies met during the show confirmed that one of the main criteria for being selected on new design projects is to give their customers all of the technical information they need, right at the design stage. And this includes solutions to offer free download of their CAD models.

Christian Baumgärtner, TraceParts GmbH Managing Director confirmed this trend by saying that "availability of CAD models is becoming a key factor for Designers to select suppliers they will work with. Indeed, we meet on a regular basis more and more engineers who do not want to redesign manufacturers’ standard parts when they can download them in few seconds from TraceParts web portal. What is rather new this year is the growing number of distributors and component manufacturers who are well aware of this. It seems that offering CAD models online had become an integrated part of their customer retention and customer acquisition strategies”.

In addition to the increasing popularity for CAD model publishing solutions, TraceParts also launched during the fair a brand new software named TraceParts Enterprise. This software is aimed at companies willing to manage and rationalize their suppliers’ 3D content. Alfred Schallert, Global Product Manager of TraceParts Enterprise explained "Our solution was designed for organizations wanting to prevent duplicate parts and avoid unnecessary data management and overhead costs. Specifying a new component in a design project when an already approved part exists will end up delaying the entire project and incur significant extra costs. Traceparts Enterprise helps preventing that risk at the stage where CAD models and technical information are being reviewed by Design Engineers”.

TraceParts is a world-leading digital engineering 3D content company, offering progressive business software solutions for over 20 years through powerful web based products and services such as CAD part libraries, electronic catalogs and product configurators, helping part vendors to improve marketing efficiencies by increasing the value of their existing digital product data.
