
The Energy Select Sector SPDR (ETF) ( XLE ), the biggest exchange-traded fund (ETF) for the energy sector in the US, has gained more than 13.8% in the past year, outperforming the S&P 500 ETF ( SPY ), which has increased 12.7% during the same period. The $9.6 billion State Street Corporation ( STT ) managed ETF has attracted around $1.3 billion in fresh inflows this year, the highest across ETFs from all sectors provided by the financial holding company.

The energy sector’s upbeat performance can be attributed to rising crude oil and natural gas prices. In the previous year, the United States Natural Gas Fund LP ( UNG ), which replicates performance of futures contracts on the New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX), has increased 11.8%. Moreover, the United States Oil Fund LP ( USO ), which tracks the performance of light, sweet crude oil traded on the NYMEX, increased 8.8% in the past year.

Currently, the energy sector is trading at a year’s forward price-to-earnings (P/E) multiple of 14.33x, which translates into a discount of 5.7% against the S&P 500 Index’s forward P/E multiple of 15.2x. In the past three years, the energy sector has been trading at a discount of 10.7%. One reason for contraction in discount of the forward P/E multiple against the broader market could be investors pouring money into energy companies through numerous energy sector ETFs since the start of this year. Inflows increased ten times during the first quarter of fiscal year 2014 as compared to the previous quarter.

Investor optimism is also being driven by the expected jump in GDP growth. According to the Federal Reserve, US GDP is expected to rise by 2.9% during 2014 as compared to 2.1% last year, the fastest rate of economic growth experienced since the economic crisis of 2008-09. Increased economic growth would lead to higher demand for crude oil and natural gas, which would result in improved revenues and earnings for the Energy sector.

Another reason investors have been diverting funds into energy ETFs is to diversify their investment across various industries in the energy sector at lower transaction costs. The Energy Select Sector ETF has an expense ratio of only 0.18%. The holdings of energy stocks, such as Exxon Mobil Corporation ( XOM ) and Chevron Corporation ( CVX ), in various Energy sector ETFs available to investors in the market have increased 38% this year, helped by about $482 million in fresh inflows from hedge funds and other investing groups and individuals.

According to consensus forecasts, global oil prices were expected to drop this year on the back of improved supply from Iran following progress in negotiations over its nuclear program. However, as of now, there has been no breakthrough in negotiations and Iran’s oil export averages 1.1 million barrels per day (bpd), close to the one million bpd agreed under the Geneva agreement in November last year. If the embargo is lifted, crude oil supply from Iran can increase to as much as 4 million bpd, which would constitute of 4.7% of global supply. Moreover, since February, Russia-Ukraine tensions along with an unstable crude oil supply from Libya, which is home to Africa’s largest oil reserves, have resulted in Brent Crude oil prices hovering around the $110, reflecting slight changes since the start of the year.

On the other hand, West Texas Intermediate (WTI), the US benchmark for crude oil, is currently trading at $102.5, up 4.1% this year. During the same period, the USO has increased by 5.3%.

Since the start of the year, Big Oil companies like Exxon and Chevron have lagged behind in terms of stock price performance. Exxon’s stock has increased just 0.6%, Chevron has declined 0.8%, while the Energy Sector ETF has increased 6.9%. The reason for the stock price decline can be attributed to a fall in revenues and missed estimates along with declining profits for both these supermajors. This happened primarily due to lower global crude oil and natural gas production because of weather-related disruptions.

During 1QFY14, Exxon Mobil saw its revenues decline 1.5% year-over-year (YoY) to $106.8 billion, and also missed analysts’ estimates of $109.8 billion by nearly 2.7%. Net income for the quarter came in at $9.1 billion, declining 4.2% YoY, mainly due to top line contraction along with weaker refining margins. (You can read Exxon’s earnings review here).

During the first quarter, Chevron also saw its revenues decline 6.2% YoY to $49 billion and missed estimates of $53 billion by 7.5%. The San Ramon, California-based company also saw its net income plummet 27% YoY to $4.51 billion. Chevron also cited similar reasons for the decline in its revenues and earnings, and said that foreign currency fluctuations also had an adverse impact. (You can read Chevron’s earnings review here).

Moreover, Big Oil has not been able to adapt to unconventional forms of exploration and production techniques, and as a result these companies not been able to take advantage of the shale revolution.

What do you think about our views on Energy Sector? Leave your thoughts in the comments section below, and an analyst will reply to you shortly.

We are a team of more than 100 financial wizards, musicians, rock stars, artists, singers, aspiring philosophers and tech geeks working hard to change the way human beings think about and interact with finance.

The trademarks, logos and service marks displayed on the Website, including but not limited to the Bidness Etc logo (collectively, Marks), are marks or registered marks of Bidness Etc and others.
