
Orange County, CA / ACCESSWIRE / May 19, 2014 / Monster Arts, Inc. ( APPZ ) a leading mobile marketing and app technology innovator, is pleased today to announce, as part of a partnership with Ambrosial Consulting Group LLC(Ambrosial Consulting), itscommencement of development of educational (preschool and pre-kindergarten) apps for children ages 3 to 5. The first 7 app concepts include pre-school age to kindergarten age math, colors, shapes and language apps that provide an engaging and educational experience for children who are learning in the classroom, at home or virtually anywhere else, and which are ready for use on iPhone and Android tablets.

Through this joint venture agreement, Monster Arts will receivefrom Ambrosial Consulting a $10,000 up frontcash payment, andwill also receive 20% of the net revenues, after online market commissions,generated over the first 3 years of the project. Ambrosial Consulting'sPresident Jennifer Haynes-Salwender, who is herself an experienced grammar and pre-school educator with 10years of experience, will supervise the creative, design,development, marketing and implementation plans for the new apps.

Indeed, the strong commitment and budgets of schools and parentstoward giving classrooms and their students this technology upgrade is undeniable and all around us, with billions of dollars being spent on such initiatives all around the country. By way of example, LA Unified School District (LAUSD) recently launched its drive to equip every student in its school system with an IPad. The cost of this program is approximately $1 billion, with half of the cost for apple tablets and the other half covering educational apps andrelated technology enhancements or upgrades, such as installing a wireless network at schools. See 8/27/13 article by Howard Blume, Los Angeles Times, “LAUSD Launches its Drive to Equip Every Student with IPADS.

Commented Wayne Irving, CEO of Monster Arts, “After extensive discussions and planning, we are now ready to go forward in full throttle mode with this exciting project. With Ambrosial Consulting’s guidance and participation, these apps will be a great compliment to educators and parents in helping to ramp up a child’s familiarity and comfort level with computing and mobile device technology. And like other non-traditional learning mediums such as television and audio, we believe that these apps can be an important component in the portfolio of teaching tools available to our educators.

Monster Arts is a leading mobile marketing and app technology innovator, designing a variety of mobile apps for purchase and download by the retail consumer and assisting business clients with online marketing through its Travel America Visitor Guide, mobile app design services, crowd funding consulting services and marketing, management, and promotions services.

Ambrosial Consulting is an education-oriented consulting company founded in 2013 by Jennifer Salwender, and to date has worked on a consulting basis with Monster Arts on other projects involving design and creative content for education-related mobile device apps and related techonlogies . In addition to heading up Ambrosial Consulting, Ms. Salwender is pre-school director at Our Saviors Lutheran School in San Clemente, California, where she manages the educational operations and curriculum design for a100-student preschool program (children ages 3to 6), and is alsothe Chairman of the Southern California Pre-School Directors Group, with more than 300 members that meet monthly to collaborate on the latest and greatest of methods, technologies, and licensing issues that face pre-school directors in some of our nation’s most affluent communities. Ms. Salwender also holds a bachelor’s degree in Early Childhood Development from California State University Fullerton.
