
New Delhi: BJP leader Subramanian Swamy who has been in the forefront of attack on the Nehru-Gandhi family has revealed that Congress President Sonia Gandhi's daughter Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has admitted that she has made multiple Director Identification Numbers applications (DIN). The Corporate law makes it illegal to have multiple DIN.

In a letter to Swamy, the secretary, Corporate Affairs Naved Masood confirmed it. He wrote "Ms. Vadra stated that it happened due to inadvertent mistakes which were unintentional".

She submitted that since default under Section 266C is compoundable under Section 621A of the Companies Act, 1956, she would like to be let off with a fine. In a letter to BJP leader Subramanian Swamy, who had made a criminal complaint in the matter, the Union Ministry of Corporate Affairs on May 16, the day the results of the 2014 election voted the Congress-UPA out of office, stated that the matter was under examination.

Former Finance Minister's son Karti Chidambaram is also accused of having multiple DINs.

According to a report in 'Pioneer' the Ministry added that scrutiny showed that the multiple DIN applications made by Karti Chidambaram were intentional and that the case prima facie attracts provisions of Section 266A of the Companies Act, 1956. The Ministry's Regional Director (NR) has been asked to seek explanations from Karti Chidambaram as per established procedure, within 15 days, after receipt of which further action, if any, would be decided. This seems to augur ill for the son of the former Union Finance Minister.

In a statement, Subramanian Swamy said that under the Companies Act, the multiple DINs of Priyanka Vadra and Karti Chidambaram were illegal as the Director Identity Number (DIN) is like a passport or driving licence number and aims to identity an individual's multiple directorships in different companies to be collated for the purposes of compliance with the Income-Tax Act. Hence multiple DINs are a criminal offence and carry six months imprisonment and a fine of Rs 50,000/.

Moreover, multiple DINs are possible only with multiple PAN numbers, which is also illegal. The Union Ministry of Corporate Affairs has found that both Priyanka Vadra and Karti Chidambaram are guilty of this offence. While Priyanka Vadra has admitted the offence and pleaded to be let off with a fine, the matter clearly warrants complete scrutiny of her financial dealings before the case is closed.

It may be recalled that the Ministry of Corporate Affairs' website showed that Priyanka Vadra had applied for and received three DIN numbers (01038703, 01840144 and 02914391), which violates both the Company Act and the Income Tax Act. As her mother-in-law Maureen Vadra also has two DIN numbers (01840680 and 01839769) a scrutiny of their corporate dealings is clearly in order before they are allowed to surrender the identities and let off with fines.

According to this letter sent to Swamy, Priyanka has agreed to pay compounded fine under relevant sections of IT act. It also states that Karti Chidambram too has erred and has been given 15 days time to reply, failing which relevant action can be taken.

CNN name, logo and all associated elements ® and © 2013 Cable News Network LP, LLLP. A Time Warner Company. All rights reserved. CNN and the CNN logo are registered marks of Cable News Network, LP LLLP,

displayed with permission. Use of the CNN name and/or logo on or as part of CNN-IBN does not derogate from the intellectual property rights of Cable News Network in respect of them.
