
Netflix, Google, Apple, Twitch. Which one of these companies doesn't fit with the others? Twitch, the startup which lets players broadcast and watch live streams of video gaming action, is not yet a huge public company. Yet it ranks among these web titans as one of the largest sources of broadband traffic during prime-time hours,  according to a new study from the cloud and network infrastructure firm DeepField.

Twitch announced today that is now has more than 1 million different users broadcasting on its platform each month. That helped it push more traffic across the web than big names in the streaming video and music business like Hulu, Amazon, and Pandora. "We don't keep track of our share of global internet traffic, so that chart was news to us," says Matt DiPietro, Twitch's vice president of marketing. "But I think it was gratifying for our infrastructure team to see, because they have been working like crazy to help us keep up."

The rapid rise in broadcasters is due in part to a new platform for Twitch's streaming service, a home-console system. Before the release of the newest Playstation and Xbox units, Twitch was for PC gaming only. "About 20 percent of our broadcasters are now coming from the Playstation 4," says DiPietro. "That shows us there is a whole new audience with a hunger for the ability to stream their games." Twitch also integrates with the Xbox One, though that feature has not officially rolled out yet.

In order to deal with its rapidly rising bandwidth, Twitch is upgrading its "points of presence" — locations where it owns or rents servers — so that it has enough horsepower near big audience clusters to deliver smooth video. "We just finished a 400 percent expansion to our Chicago site and the same in Stockholm. We are looking to do the same for our audience in Russia, Korea, and Brazil," notes DiPietro. The company is using the $20 million it raised back in September of 2013 to fund this expansion.

"To be quite honest, we can't keep up with the growth," says DiPietro with a laugh. "That's a good problem to have."

As part of the new Verge launch, prior users will need to choose a permanent username, along with a new password.

Your username will be used to login to Verge going forward.

Please login to your Vox Media account.  This account will be linked to your previously existing Eater account.

As part of the new Verge launch, prior MT authors will need to choose a new username and password.

Your username will be used to login to Verge going forward.

We'll email you a reset link.

If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.

Almost done,

By becoming a registered user, you are also agreeing to our Terms and confirming that           you have read our Privacy Policy .

Great!

Choose an available username to complete sign up.

In order to provide our users with a better overall experience, we ask for more information from Facebook when using it to login so that we can learn more about our audience and provide you with the best possible experience. We do not store specific user data and the sharing of it is not required to login with Facebook.
