
Last Modified: Sunday, May 18, 2014 at 11:47 p.m.

LAKELAND | Florida Polytechnic University will begin the process of establishing its own police department to watch over the campus, and a new chief already is on board.

Florida Polytechnic had two options in providing law enforcement officers for the school. The school could contract with a public or private law enforcement agency or establish its own police department. Last week, the board of trustees agreed to begin establishing its own department.

William Hope, who most recently served as professional standards commander at the University of Central Florida Police Department, has been hired to serve as chief of Florida Poly for an annual salary of $110,000.

During a board meeeting Thursday, member Bob Stork inquired about that situation. "So, we have a police chief who doesn't have a police department?" Stork asked.

Not yet, said Chief Operating Officer Ava Parker. There's a process, she said.

Hope, 56, has more than two decades of experience in university police work.

As police chief of the polytechnic, he will head department operations and be responsible for "developing and fostering the vision, mission, values, goals and objectives of the Florida Polytechnic University Police Department."

A resident of Sanford who is commuting for now, Hope says he is a strong proponent of leading by example. His first priority on the job will be to undergo the necessary process to set up a police department.

He told The Ledger that will involve filing the necessary application with the Florida Department of Law Enforcement to start a police department. Once the application is approved, a number will be provided by the FBI that will distinguish the Poly department from other police departments.

"Once I get that number, I will officially have a police department," Hope said.

It ordinarily takes about three months for that process. "But they said they will try to expedite it because we are expecting classes to start."

School begins Aug. 25.

Hope has a master of science degree in criminal justice from the University of Central Florida and a bachelor's degree in human services from Thomas Edison State College in New Jersey.

He hails from upstate New York originally and says he's delighted to be  working with the new university.

Because it will take some time to set up the department, Hope said he will  arrange for a security company to be hired to watch over the school "24/7," with two people on duty at  all times. That will begin July 1, when responsibility for the main building is officially turned over to the university from the construction company.

Reader comments posted to this article may be published in our print edition. All rights reserved. This copyrighted material may not be re-published without permission. Links are encouraged.
