
Entegra Technologies out of Plano, Texas, is now taking order for a new rugged business tablet that's designed to adapt to the constantly changing needs of the mobile workforce, commercial enterprise, the military and utilities sectors. Users can snap on a carry handle or back straps, attach a trackpad-packing keyboard or kickstand, or park the Crossfire Pro in a desk, vehicle or retail dock. Different modules can be installed to ramp up processing power, change the operating system, add NFC capabilities or fingerprint scanning, or incorporate a bar code scanner.

The Crossfire Pro modular business tablet features a 500-nit (daylight-readable), 1024 x 768 resolution, 9.7-inch, multitouch display topped by chemically-hardened glass that's capable of supporting touch input from finger, glove or stylus. Chunky GLS overmold side and top shock-resistant bumpers over a magnesium alloy chassis give the 2.5 lb (1.13 kg) tablet dimensions of 11 x 8.5 x 0.85 in (279.4 x 215.9 x 21.5 mm), and operating temps ranging from 14°F to 122°F (-10 - 50°C) and IP65 ingress testing should see it working indoors or out, whether it's toasty dry or wet and cold.

A Computer on Module incorporates the processor and operating system, and supports both ARM and x86 processors. The current specs show a 1.86 GHz Intel M-Series N2930 quad-core processor and Intel Gen 7 graphics, and a choice of Windows Embedded 8 Standard, Windows Embedded 7 Standard, a 64-bit version of Win8 Pro or Win7 Pro, Android or Linux operating platforms. The tablet can be supplied with up to 8 GB of DDR3L RAM and up to 256 GB of storage.

The Crossfire Pro has integrated 802.11a/b/g/n Wi-Fi and Bluetooth 4.0, dedicated GPS and is LTE-enabled, all of which is said to give it the ergonomics and mobile productivity benefits of a tablet with the cellular capabilities of a smartphone.

There are four user programmable application buttons available on the front, USB 2.0/3.0 and mini-HDMI ports, four front-facing speakers, a 2 megapixel webcam to the front, and a 5 MP AF snapper (with flash) at the back. The tablet is Blue Inside encryption-enabled, features TPM 1.2, and is reported good for up to 6 hours between charges of its hot-swap Li-ion battery.

Modularity being the name of this particular tablet's game, the Crossfire Pro boasts input/output and interface expansion boards to the side, an expansion module bay, docking connector, quick release accessory anchors, and connector pins for an 83-key clamshell keyboard with integrated trackpad to help transform the tablet into a laptop-like device. A docking module for the desk holds the tablet at a comfortable viewing angle, while providing battery charging and I/O connectivity. For mobile workers who spend a lot of time in their cars, a vehicle cradle is also available.

An mPOS module connects to the Crossfire Pro via the expansion bay and features such things as a 2D Bar Code scanner, a magnetic swipe card reader, a Chip&Pin reader, a fingerprint scanner and a Smart Card reader. A Point-of-Sale dock is also available which features a second 9.7-inch screen that faces the customer.

Entegra is taking orders now, for an expected July delivery window, and told us that "pricing varies greatly depending on the amount of units being ordered as well as the features selected – units start under US$1,000 and go up to around $2,000 for a more advanced model."
