
Undated handout file photo issued by the Royal Yachting Association of the Cheeki Rafiki yacht as the crew, captain Andrew Bridge, 22, James Male, 23, Steve Warren, 52, and Paul Goslin, remain missing after the yacht capsized in the mid-Atlantic Ocean, as Caroline Nokes, the Conservative MP for Romsey and Southampton North, has called for the American authorities to relaunch the search and rescue mission to find them. PRESS ASSOCIATION Photo. Issue date: Monday May 19, 2014. See PA story ACCIDENT Yacht. Photo credit should read: Royal Yachting Association/PA Wire   NOTE TO EDITORS: This handout photo may only be used in for editorial reporting purposes for the contemporaneous illustration of events, things or the people in the image or facts mentioned in the caption. Reuse of the picture may require further permission from the copyright holder.

The family and colleagues of four British men who went missing when the yacht they were aboard capsized in the mid-Atlantic Ocean, have urged the American authorities to re-launch their search operation.

The US Coast Guard stopped searching for the sailors despite suggestions that they could still be alive in a life raft or trapped inside the boat’s upturned hull.

The 39ft racing yacht, Cheeki Rafiki, began taking on water in the mid-Atlantic on Thursday while returning from Antigua Sailing Week in the Caribbean and contact was lost with the crew on Friday.

US and Canadian aircraft, assisted by three merchant vessels, looked for the men throughout Friday and Saturday, but called off the search on Sunday at 5am local time, amid treacherous weather conditions.

Some 4,000 square miles were scanned for the "very well-equipped" vessel's two personal location GPS beacons until no more transmissions were received from the small devices, which have a short battery life.

A passing container ship, the Maersk Kure, spotted a capsized vessel that matched the boat’s description on Saturday about 1,000 miles east of Cape Cod, Massachusetts, but did not stop to inspect it because nobody was seen on board.

Petty Officer Rob Simpson of the US Coastguard claimed that the ship "lacked the manoeuvrability, capacity and ability to help".

The missing men, Paul  Goslin, 56, Steve Warren, 52, both from Somerset, James Male, 23, from Southampton, and Andrew Bridge, 21, from Farnham, Surrey,  were all described as experienced sailors.

Speaking to The Times, Mr Male's father Graham Male said: "We just want them to continue searching."
