
Babcock, the engineering contractor which provides the workforce building    Britain’s next generation of aircraft carriers, said in its annual results    on Monday that pre-tax profits had jumped by 20pc. Investors were rewarded    with a 13pc increase in the full-year dividend.

Pre-tax profit for the year ended March increased to £218.8m on revenue up 9pc    to £3.55bn. The strong results capped off one of the busiest years in the    FTSE 100-listed group’s history.

Only last week it completed a £1.6bn deal to buy helicopter firm Avincis. The    deal will result in the company, which largely has its roots in refitting    and maintaining many of the Royal Navy’s ships and submarines, diversifying    into more international and private sector areas.

Avincis generates about two-thirds of its €582m (£474m) revenue and €135m of    its earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (Ebitda)    from continental Europe.

The helicopter deal was quickly followed by major contract wins. Babcock    announced at the end of March it has been selected as preferred bidder on a £7bn, 14-year, Magnox nuclear decommissioning contract and a day later    unveiled a contract to service the London Fire Brigade fleet of fire    engines. So, while the company reported a slight fall in its order book to £11.5bn at the end of March, from £12bn a year earlier, it should bounce    back once these contracts are signed.

The strong order book provides Babcock with guarantees over 60pc of its    revenue for the current financial year and 30pc for the year after.

Babcock’s core business performed solidly over the past 12 months and the    marine and technology division is performing well. Providing engineers on    the new Queen Elizabeth class aircraft carriers is on track and nuclear    submarine work is progressing well. The marine division reported revenue up    14pc to £1.36bn, while profit increased from £136.6m to £153.9m.

The other big opportunity for the outsourcing group is around the British    nuclear industry. The support services business, in which the nuclear    operations sit, reported profits up 3pc to £85.1m on revenue of £1.04bn.

The defence and security division that provides flight training for the Royal    Air Force and manages military bases in the Ministry of Defence estate,    among other outsourced roles, was also steady. Profit increased by 8pc to £118.6m on revenue up 4pc to £736.8m.

Peter Rogers, chief executive, said he was confident on the outlook but added    that completing such a large deal and implementing major contracts all in    the same year increased risks.

However, he added that Babcock has a good track record, having successfully    integrated VT Group (formerly Vosper Thornycroft), which it bought in 2010.

Questor was slightly concerned by the fall in free cashflow during the year,    slipping £40m to £123.6m. Babcock said that in the coming year, because of    the debt that came with Avincis, the company’s interest costs will rise to    about £60m, from £31.8m previously. Babcock is also investing more in its    cyber security development and this will result in capital expenditure    increasing to about £80m, from £68.3m in the year just ended.

The other issue Babcock has to contend with is cashflow. Because Avincis    operates helicopters it ties up more cash in the asset base when they are    purchased. This will be returned over time but it places a slightly greater    strain on cashflow. Analysts from broker Investec estimate the company will    generate free cashflow of £179m in the year ahead and that will cover    dividend payments of £119m about 1.5 times.

The dividend, which has increased by 26pc in the past two years, is forecast    to rise by about 8pc in the coming year, to 31p. The shares will go    ex-dividend on July 2 and the final dividend will be paid on August 12.

Questor downgraded the shares to a hold (£13.95, February 14) as the price was    looking a little rich and they have fallen 12pc (adjusting for the impact of    the rights issue) since then.
