
The Community Choice Credit Union Foundation awarded 20 high school seniors across Metro Detroit $5,000 scholarships – totaling to $100,000. Recipients have pledged to both attend college in Michigan and give back to the state through their future professional careers.

They are real self-starters who are out there in the community and striving to better their lives and the lives of those around them.

As part of the Community Choice Foundation Scholarship Program , 20 high school seniors across Metro Detroit won $5,000 scholarships – totaling to $100,000 – for pledging to attend college in Michigan and committing to giving back to the state by building their careers here.

The sixth annual Community Choice Foundation Scholarship Program evaluated applicants from Macomb, Oakland and Wayne Counties, as well as credit union members, based on factors including grade point average, volunteer service, creative essay response and, in most cases, financial need, with a portion of scholarships offered based on merit alone.

The selected scholarship recipients attended 19 different high schools, plan to attend 9 different colleges, and intend to major in 16 different subject areas.

An awards ceremony to honor the scholars was held on Thursday, May 8, featuring Journalist Jorge Avellan of MyTV20 as the master of ceremonies and Walbridge Chairman and CEO John Rakolta, Jr. as the keynote speaker.

More information about the Community Choice Scholarship Program can be found online at CommunityChoiceFoundation.com.

About Community Choice Foundation: The Community Choice Foundation is a 501(c)(3) charity committed to improving the communities served by Community Choice Credit Union by motivating the best and brightest students to pursue higher education and build their careers in Michigan. Since its inception in 2009, the Community Choice Foundation Scholarship Program has awarded $505,000 to 101 students from southeast Michigan.

About Community Choice Credit Union: Established in 1935, Community Choice Credit Union offers a wide variety of financial products and services for both consumers and businesses. Any individual who lives, works, or worships in the following counties is eligible to become a member of Community Choice Credit Union: Genesee, Lapeer, Livingston, Macomb, Oakland, St. Clair, Washtenaw or Wayne County, Michigan. Since 2008, Community Choice has invested more than $751,285 and 10,961 volunteer hours into its charitable Give Big efforts throughout Michigan. For more information, visit CommunityChoiceCU.com .
