
Brad Hatcher of the Richart Landscape Company adjusts a sprinkler head to make sure that it only sprays water onto grass at the Country Club of Mount Dora.

Posted: Monday, May 19, 2014 10:30 pm | Updated: 9:29 am, Tue May 20, 2014.

The problem became noticeable quickly to Mount Dora city officials and Country Club of Mount Dora employers.

Utility records showed the country club was consuming a lot of water because the timers were set too high.

Michael Quinn, Mount Dora city manager, said the city had concerns about the amount of water being used.

“Our concern as a city was not only water conservation but the fact (that) over watering was also impacting the road surface,” he said of the issue in 2012.

Since then, Douglas and other employees have started conserving water by replacing rain sensors, upgrading spray heads, instituting a cycle-and-soak program and training homeowners to conserve water.

With those new measures in place, there was a 40 percent decrease in residential water use for the 417 homes within the Country Club of Mount Dora, Douglas said.

In addition, 5.66 million gallons of water has been saved in the boulevard and common areas, according to Douglas.

As a result of their efforts, the business was honored with the Florida Communities of Excellence Award for Water Conservation.

Water conservation has been gaining traction in Lake County.

County Commissioner Sean Parks hopes to establish a non-profit association that would become a main source of information about water conservation.

This is in conjunction with the South Lake Regional Water Initiative, consisting of the South Lake Chamber of Commerce, the county and the municipalities of Clermont, Groveland, Minneola , Mascotte and Montverde.

They are working in conjunction with the Central Florida Water Initiative, to find a cost effective and alternative water source.

Further, there are other efforts taking place to better conserve water in the county.

Irrigation systems are being put in place in new developments that do not use potable water, homeowners are beginning to put in Florida-friendly landscaping including adding native species to their landscapes to reduce the amount of turf grass, and many are purchasing water-efficient appliances.

Water policy experts are warning that conservation in combination with finding alternative water sources must take place in the coming years to avoid the price of water increasing and shortages of a resource that used to be abundant.

Population growth and climate change are contributing factors to the reduction of water supplies, experts said.

There will be demand for 300 million additional gallons of water a day in 2035 in Central Florida. The traditional source, the Floridan Aquifer, can meet a demand of only 50 million additional gallons, according to water experts.

Parks said he is looking to the cities and business communities to help fund the non-profit.

“We are looking for alternative water solutions, which include reuse and storm water, but a key to the solution clearly rests with conservation,” he said.

It is imperative that homeowners no longer use potable water for irrigation, Parks said.

“Such increases in water demand by the energy, agricultural and urban sectors will increase the competition for water, particularly in situations where environmental water needs conflict with other uses,” states the report, which was prepared by a team of more than 300 experts and reviewed by federal agencies and a panel of the National Academy of Sciences.

While Florida has improved conservation efforts, those efforts are not as widespread as in California, where “the total amount of water has decreased even though the population has grown,” Chou said.

Effective conservation methods include using recycled water and collecting rain water for irrigation, and updating building codes in using alternative water sources for things that don’t require drinking water, Chou said.

Putting in native landscaping has proven beneficial in California and could be implemented successfully in Florida, Chou said.

“In areas of Florida there are vegetations that can survive and be successful with natural rainfall and don’t have to be irrigated,” he said.

Deirdre Irwin, Florida Water Star coordinator for the St. Johns River Water Management District, said she is seeing more sustainable landscaping that includes native plants.

One way homeowners can save water is to look at an irrigation timer and see how long it is set to run, she said.

“A common rule of thumb is 20 minutes for spray zones and 40 minutes for rotors,” she said, emphasizing every system is different.

Irwin also suggested hiring an irrigation professional to find ways to lower your outdoor water use.

The challenge with instituting conservation within new development is the price, Irwin contended.

1 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language.

2 Don't Threaten or Abuse. Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated. AND PLEASE TURN OFF CAPS LOCK.

3 Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.

4 Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.

5 Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.

6 Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness accounts, the history behind an article.

Welcome to the discussion.

dockhopper posted at 11:13 am on Mon, May 26, 2014.

j1ceasar posted at 8:20 am on Tue, May 20, 2014.

We're always interested in hearing about news in our community. Let us know what's going on!
