
Gazprom assured European customers it would continue to supply their gas, after its threat to halts supplies to transit nation Ukraine next month over nonpayment.

Any shortfall would be the fault of Ukraine, chief executive Alexei Miller told Russian television.

Russia has warned that it will not supply Ukraine with gas in June unless Kiev pays in advance $1.66 billion by June 2.

"Gazprom will simply supply Ukraine as much as gas as it will have bought, and to the Russian border with Ukraine we will send as much gas as Europe should get and Ukraine should transit," Miller said in an interview on Rossia 24 television.

U.S. energy giant ExxonMobil has no plans to pull out of the Sakhalin-1 project, an ExxonMobil official said Friday in response to a Russian news report.

Kommersant reported Friday that ExxonMobil might have to pull out of the project to develop the Sakhalin-1 oil and gas field in Russia's Far East if U.S. sanctions against Russia are toughened because of the Ukraine crisis.

"These rumors are groundless. This situation [sanctions] has neither an effect on our activity in Russia, nor on our investment plans in Sakhalin-1. We have no other plans than to go ahead with the project," the official said.

Energy Minister Alexander Novak said Friday that talks with Iranian Oil Minister Bijan Zanganeh in Moscow on Thursday had not produced a final agreement on a potential oil-for-goods deal between the countries.

"We did not reach a final agreement," Novak told reporters, adding that he hoped a deal could be agreed in time for an intergovernmental meeting in the autumn.

European Energy Commissioner Guenther Oettinger said Friday that Russia is Europe's main trading partner in natural gas and that there should be therefore no sanctions against Moscow's energy sector over the crisis in Ukraine.

ArcelorMittal, the world's largest steelmaker, said it opposed sanctions and that the EU steel industry was lobbying the EU not to intensify measures against Russia over its actions in neighboring Ukraine.

The West has threatened to target sanctions at key sectors such as mining and gas if the Kremlin disrupts Ukrainian elections later this month.

"Our company is not in favor of economic sanctions," Robrecht Himpe, ArcelorMittal Europe's head of business optimization said Thursday, adding that the industry was lobbying against them.

ArcelorMittal said that, as a company, it had not made any representations to governments or government officials over Russian sanctions.

Any comment deemed non-constructive, personal attacks, spam and abuse will not be tolerated and will lead to you being banned from our website.

The Russian Defense Ministry has confirmed that the ten Russian paratroopers captured by Ukrainian security services in the country's east are indeed Russian, but said they crossed the border by mistake.

Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov on Monday urged Western and Arab governments to overcome their distaste for Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and engage with him to fight Islamic State insurgents.

Russia has granted asylum to Lithuanian banker Vladimir Romanov, who is wanted on embezzlement charges, and has said it will not extradite him.

Yet another two McDonald's restaurants in Russia have been forced to shut their doors after a sanitation watchdog closed down four outlets in Moscow.

Residents of Moscow's Taganka district woke up Wednesday morning to find a Ukrainian flag attached to the Soviet star on the spire of one of the area's iconic Stalin buildings.

Two brides wed in Moscow earlier this month, with teeth-grinding authorities unable to prevent it despite a ban on same-sex marriage — because one of the brides was a man.

As Ukraine marked its Independence Day on Sunday with a military march in Kiev, pro-Moscow rebels countered by parading captured Ukrainian troops through the streets in Donetsk's central Lenin Square.

A children's fashion show in Moscow triggered outrage among bloggers after the show, titled "Children of the World Against War," depicted a child dressed up as Ukraine holding a gun to her head.

Russia ordered the temporary closure of four McDonald's restaurants in Moscow on Wednesday, a decision it said was over sanitary violations but which comes against a backdrop of worsening U.S.-Russian ties.
