
CBOSS, Inc ., a recognized global technology and software developer leader, announced today it has been awarded a contract to provide secure online payment process solutions for various agencies, departments, commissions, offices and boards of the State of Minnesota, as well as its cooperative purchasing venture members.

CBOSS was selected following a highly competitive bid process, culminating in the awarding of a four-year contract to CBOSS.  One of the company’s signature solutions is to enhance revenue cycle management through its automatic secure online payment processing and posting into the billing system.

The contract is similar to CBOSS’ management of online payment processing for the State of Ohio that includes the processing of online payments for taxes, licenses and other regulatory applications for all state agencies. In addition, CBOSS has been providing online processing of all license plate renewals for the Bureau of Motor Vehicles for the State of Ohio since 2000.

“We are proud of our long-term business relationship with the State of Ohio, and now Minnesota benefits from our secure payment solutions,” adds Hammond. CBOSS, based in Boardman, Ohio, delivers results to a range of clients in 20 states, plus Latin America.

CBOSS’ Central Payment Portal (CPP) will provide assistance to the State of Minnesota in accepting credit card and other electronic financial transactions online as payment for a variety of services such as purchasing of permits and licenses, registrations and re-occurring monthly payments.

One of CBOSS’ major strengths is its specialized knowledge of the Payment Card Industry (PCI) standards. The major credit card issuers created PCI compliance standards to protect personal information and ensure security when transactions are processed using payment cards.

To be PCI compliant, certain standards must be met: maintain a secure network; protect cardholder data; maintain a Vulnerability Management Program; implement strong access control measures; regularly monitor and test networks; and maintain an information security policy.
