
Spend up to $11.5 million over four years to provide bus routes aimed at easing traffic congestion. Details on the routes have not yet been developed, but will focus on getting city residents to outer county locations and bringing workers into the city from outer county areas.

Provide $2 million over four years for transit providers to offer additional services to enhance the use of transit to relieve congestion, such as real-time transit route information or public outreach to encourage ridership on the routes.

The terms of the settlement were negotiated in court-sponsored mediation. The suit was filed in 2012 by Black Health Coalition of Wisconsin and the Milwaukee Inner-city Congregations Allied for Hope.

Improvements to the Zoo Interchange arterials are already underway through 2014 so that those routes will be able to efficiently handle diverted and detoured traffic once the core interchange reconstruction begins.

The interchange reconstruction is scheduled to take place from 2015 through 2017. The north leg of the interchange (US 45) is scheduled to be completed by the end of 2018.

More information on the Zoo Interchange project is available on the WisDOT website at www.zoointerchange.wi.gov , on Facebook at www.facebook.com/wizoointerchange and  Twitter at https://twitter.com/WIZooIC .

On Tuesday, May 20th, Milwaukee County Board’s Transportation, Public Works and Transit Committee authorized the proposed temporary express route to extend existing transit services from Milwaukee County to Waukesha County and back — to increase access to areas of employment during the Zoo Interchange reconstruction and expansion project.

In August 2012, the American Civil Liberties Union of Wisconsin and Midwest Environmental Advocates filed a lawsuit against state and federal transportation agencies on behalf of Milwaukee Inner City Congregations Allied for Hope (MICAH) and the Black Health Coalition of Wisconsin (BHC) for not addressing the needs of persons who rely on transit during the time of the Zoo Interchange project.

Proposed Route 279 is part of a negotiated settlement between the groups and the Wisconsin Department of Transportation.

The proposed settlement will fund approximately $2.875 million annually from 2014 to 2018 for purposes of traffic mitigation in the form of transit route support in the area of the Zoo Interchange.

There will also be additional funding available for marketing/outreach efforts.

Contracts for the specific routes are still being worked out.

Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
