
Fairmont and Guangxi Detai Real Estate will develope a new hotel in Nanning, the capital and economic center of Guangxi Province, China, scheduled to open in 2019.

Fairmont Nanning marks the brand's first hotel in Southern China and will join the company's growing portfolio of luxury hotels and residences in Asia Pacific.

Fairmont Nanning, scheduled to open in 2019, will feature 350 luxury guestrooms, and five distinct dining outlets. The hotel will also offer over 3,000 square meters (32,250 square feet) of meeting and event space. Guests will be offered a wide range of recreational facilities, as well as a Willow Stream Spa, the company's branded spa product.

"Our expansion into Nanning marks another important milestone in our development strategy for China and signals continued strong growth for us in this very important market," said Jennifer Fox, president, FRHI International and Fairmont Brand. "With a footprint in this regional gateway to Southeast Asia, we will further our brand awareness in both southern China and its neighboring countries."

Fairmont Nanning will be part of a mixed-use development located in the core areas of Xiangsi Lake New Town and Nanning Hi-Tech Development Zone, which comprise the upcoming central business district of west Nanning.

The development, which will also be in close proximity to the China ASEAN Exhibition Plaza, will feature six residential towers, office spaces and retail facilities. Upon completion, Fairmont Nanning will be located on the top floors of a 370 meter (1,214 foot) tower offering impressive views of the Xinwei River.

Bordering Vietnam, Nanning is considered China's gateway to Southeast Asia and is also recognized as an important transportation hub. It is accessible by Nanning Wuxu International Airport and connected to other major cities through the Nanning Railway Station. The city plays host to the China-ASEAN Expo, an annual large-scale international economic and trade event, and is also considered the center of science and technology, education, culture and health in Guangxi Province. With its warm climate, Nanning boasts an abundance of lush tropical foliage and many parks, earning it the name "Green City". Local attractions include Guangxi Museum, the De Tian Waterfall, Mount Qingxiu and Mount Daming and Yangmei Ancient Town, which is home to architecture from China's dynastic past, particularly the Ming Dynasty.

Fairmont currently operates a number of properties in China, including Fairmont Beijing, Fairmont Peace Hotel in Shanghai, Kunshan's Fairmont Yangcheng Lake, and Fairmont Nanjing. The country continues to be a key growth market for the brand, with a number of new developments scheduled to open in the coming years, including projects in Chengdu (2015), Taiyuan (2016), Changsha (2017) and Hangzhou (2018).

Articles  appearing here contain copyright material. They are meant for your personal use and may not be reproduced or redistributed. While 4Hoteliers makes every effort to ensure accuracy, we can not be held responsible for the content nor the views expressed, which may not necessarily be those of either the original author or 4Hoteliers or its agents.
