
Protection 1, the largest full service business and home security  company in the U.S., today announced it has been recognized as a  Finalist in four major categories from the American Business Awards.  Following five weeks of preliminary judging, Protection 1 has graduated  from nominee to Finalist in the following categories: Online  Marketing Campaign of the Year, Best Facebook Page, Customer  Service Department of the Year and Company of the Year – Consumer  Products – Non-Durables.

Finalists will ultimately be named a Gold, Silver, or Bronze Stevie®  Award winner at the 2014 American Business Awards ceremony.

The American Business Awards are the nation’s premier business awards  program. All organizations operating in the U.S. are eligible to submit  nominations – public and private, for-profit and non-profit, large and  small.

The American Business Awards will be presented at two events: the ABA's  traditional banquet on Friday, June 13 in Chicago and the new product & technology awards event on Friday, September 12 in San Francisco.

Finalists were chosen by more than 150 business professionals nationwide  during preliminary judging in April and May. These specialized judging  committees will determine Stevie Award placements from among the  Finalists during final judging, to take place May 13-22.

“The final judges have a difficult task ahead of them, to rank the  Finalists, because there are so many great nominations this year,” said  Stevie Awards president and founder Michael Gallagher.

For more information, please visit us at www.protection1.com .

Protection 1, the largest full service business and home security  company in the U.S., provides installation, maintenance, and monitoring  of single-family home security systems, business security systems and  multifamily security systems. In keeping with the company’s unwavering  focus on customer service, the automated phone attendant has been  removed, allowing customers to interact immediately with customer care  personnel. In addition, Protection 1 has introduced its Tech Tracker  service as well as same-day service in most cases.

Since 2012, the company has been recognized by leading industry  publications SDM Magazine and Security Sales and Integration as Dealer  of the Year and Installer of the Year respectively  for the company’s commitment to its customers, the industry and the  communities it serves.

Protection 1 is the nation's largest provider of wholesale monitoring  services through its CMS division, and the leading provider of  multifamily security systems installation, maintenance and monitoring  through its Network Multifamily division.

Protection 1, which serves more than 1 million customers and employs  over 3,000 people in more than 70 locations across the country, has a  97.3% customer satisfaction rating and an A+ Better Business Bureau  Rating. For more information about Protection 1, visit www.Protection1.com .

Stevie Awards are conferred in five programs: The American Business  Awards, The International Business Awards, the Asia-Pacific Stevie  Awards, the Stevie Awards for Women in Business, and the Stevie Awards  for Sales & Customer Service. A sixth program, the German Stevie Awards,  will debut later this year. Honoring organizations of all types and  sizes and the people behind them, the Stevies recognize outstanding  performances in the workplace worldwide. Learn more about the Stevie  Awards at www.StevieAwards.com .

Sponsors and partners of The 2014 American Business Awards include Biz  Talk Radio, CallidusCloud, Citrix Online, Cvent, Engility, John Hancock,  LycaMobile, PetRays, and Softpro.
