
BELLOWS FALLS -- Residents adopted a nearly $2 million budget at Village Meeting on Monday and are now set to enjoy a 4.11-cent drop in the tax rate from last year.

About 60 citizens turned out to the Bellows Falls Opera House to have their voices heard on the annual warrant and overwhelmingly adopted the budget proposed by their trustees. Voters approved a budget of $1,851,602 (with $1,803,252 to be raised taxes) by a 52-13 margin and later voted 43-15 to authorize the trustees to borrow up to $42,000 -- for not more than a three-year term -- to purchase a pick-up truck for the Bellows Falls Fire Department.

With both articles adopted, the tax rate of the village will be .6303, down from .6714 last year.

In response to a question posed by resident Doug MacPhee, Municipal Manager Willis D. "Chip" Stearns II said parking enforcement is not a high priority and, therefore, was not budgeted for. The $1.8 million budget figure includes $6,500 Trustee Andrew Smith requested for enforcement of the village's safe building ordinance for the fiscal year starting July 1, 2014, and ending June 30, 2015.

Most of the evening's debate pertained to the article granting the trustees the authority to borrow up to $42,000 for a new vehicle for the BFFD. According to an e-mail from Fire Chief Bill Weston to Stearns in March, the pick-up truck the department currently uses had started to "knock," which he suspected would likely get worse and cause the engine to fail. There are also issues with the vehicle's heater fan motor, suspension and steering, and the back bumper was severely rusted. Stearns told the Reformer last week the vehicle is still operational, but it would not make sense to put any more money into it.

At Village Meeting, Stearns explained the current truck was purchased 12 years ago for $14,000 and the village has had to pump another $14,000 into it for repairs and maintenance. He said it has 136,000 miles on it. He also said he expects Bellows Falls to keep the new vehicle for at least 15 years.

Resident Joe Brissette objected to the $42,000 figure and made an amendment to change it to $25,000 for a four-door Dodge that Trustee Stefan Golec said he has done some research on. Clark Barber seconded the motion but the amendment was defeated by a 14-32 vote.

Fire Chief Bill Weston explained that the $42,000 includes installation of essential radio equipment, lights and lettering and is not "just for the pick-up itself."

Trustee Colin James spoke in support of the article pertaining to the $42,000 for a new truck, saying the fire department has needed it for several years. His colleague Charlie Hunter said the trustees have spent a lot of time talking about this issue and, like always, have taken the taxpayers' wallets into consideration.

"It's a purchase that needs to be made at some point," he said from the front of the opera house.

Resident Mary Barber mentioned she thought fire department equipment came out of a separate fund and asked for some clarification. Stearns said major fire apparatus is bought by the town, but a pick-up truck does not fit the criteria.

Before the meeting got down to business, the trustees honored Donna Harty, who recently retired from municipal government after 34 years. The trustees also thanked Village President Roger Riccio, who is not running for re-election on Tuesday, for his service.

Stearns also told the crowd the grand list, as of 4 p.m. on Monday, was $2,927,554.

Welcome to your discussion forum: Click the login link below to sign in with or to set up a Disqus account or to access your social networking account. When you do, your comment should be posted immediately, provided it meets the guidelines. ( What are the guidelines? .) Report abuse by flagging a comment (mouse over the comment). Comments made here are the sole responsibility of the person posting them; these comments do not reflect the opinion of The Brattleboro Reformer. So keep it civil.
