
Where have you been hiding? We need your sharp knife to size up some spammers at Muktomona.

"I speak for the trees, for the trees have no tongues."

Amartya Sen would probably cease to call him an Indian in protest of Modi being the PM.

Agree, Mr. Roy!. People' mandate needs to be respected when the election was totally free and fair by any criteria. I do not think Modi needs to apologize for being a damn Hindu. The person should be given a chance to serve his country. He is not another Morsi or Khomeni type, who will go for quick constitutional change to make India as a Hindu Rashtra. Neighbor countries should rather solve their own damn minority cleansing problem before accusing Modi for being too communal. The hypocrisy needs to be addresssed.

"I speak for the trees, for the trees have no tongues."

I believe - religious minorities will be better off with BJP in power in India. Leaders of Islamic groups congratulated Modi for his success. Do you know that - BJP has many Muslim leaders, including Spokesperson of BJP.

Brother Bipul,

Please do not guarantee anything. In regards to nationalism BJP is not any different than BNP or Pakistan's Muslim league. Most Bangladeshi minorities hate BNP/Jamat regime but that does mean if BNP/Jamat ever participate and win the election, they will exterminate all the minorities. That is a preposterous idea. Wait and watch Modi cutting the red tape for Indian businesses. Since, everything is seen through the prism of religion, he would not have a smooth path but with his great majority, he will push for the real reforms. Not letting BJP come to the power should not be anybody's business and that would have created real problem in the society. I think Indian Muslims are very educated and will do right thing to work with him. He will put Muslims in his cabinet and that would set the tone.

With the same breath, I would ask our PM to call for an early election and go for true mandate for greater good of the country. I know, you will have problem with that but in long run, that would be big thing for Bangladeshi democracy. We have to start respecting people's mandate. There is no alternative to it. We have to bite the bullet soon or later.

Dear Shah Bhai,

Your disagreement is respected but we have to see, and you will see the result within 6 months, what N Modi will do with India, I can guarantee you that soon all over the India cross country will have riot and N Modi will be responsible for that, so we need to wait,

Mr. Nahar,

I am sorry to disagree with you. India has been good democracy since 1947 and it has gone through many elections and many leaders have come and gone in six decades. Modi might be communal person but we got plenty of those types amongst our Awamis, BNPs and JPs. The examples are just too many to name here. India needed a change from Congress dynastic rule and voters have chosen Modi to lead their country. Indians are more clever than you think. Modi will be molded as according to the Indian constitution and he will do great things for India. If not, Indian voters will boot him out before his term. I understand, you are an Awami devotee but that does not mean you are automatically right. Thank you. Change is great and it is a must medicine in the politics!

Western internal propaganda make N Modi win Indian election, they spent billions of billions dollar for these, and now India will be 20 years behind by N Modi's leadership.

N Modi is a fanatic, fundamentalist, arrogant, he cannot offer anything good to India.

"I disapprove of what you say, but I will defend to the death your right to say it".
