
GoPro Inc., a maker of wearable cameras that have become popular with professional athletes, has publicly revealed its paperwork for an initial public offering of stock.

GoPro has carved out a niche in the competitive consumer-electronics business. Its cameras compete with those made by well-established companies such as Canon Inc. 7751, +0.21%   and Nikon Corp. 7731, -0.33% among others.

The company, based in San Mateo, Calif., said in February that it had confidentially filed with securities regulators for the offering.

GoPro’s first-quarter revenue dropped to $235.7 million from $255.1 million a year earlier, despite a long-term growth trend. Revenue for 2013 was $985.7 million, up 87% from the prior year. The company’s net income has followed a similar trend, reaching $60.6 million last year.

GoPro is selling shares of Class A common stock, which have one-tenth the voting power of the Class B shares held by company executives and investors. Existing stockholders may also sell shares in the offering, the filing indicates.

The total offering size could reach $100 million, but that figure is a placeholder and is likely to change. J.P. Morgan, Citigroup and Barclays are leading the offering.

A portion of the IPO proceeds will repay a loan with an outstanding balance of $111 million.

Copyright ©2014 MarketWatch, Inc.  All rights reserved.

Intraday Data provided by SIX Financial Information and subject to terms of use .                 Historical and current end-of-day data provided by SIX Financial Information. Intraday data                 delayed per exchange requirements. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones & Company, Inc.                 All quotes are in local exchange time. Real time last sale data provided by NASDAQ. More                 information on NASDAQ traded symbols and their current financial status. Intraday                 data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, and 20 minutes for other exchanges. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM)                 from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. SEHK intraday data is provided by SIX Financial Information and is                 at least 60-minutes delayed. All quotes are in local exchange time.
