
Colorado has marked an incrase in job growth during April and has added around 13,000 jobs in the past month, bringing employment down up to 6 percent, the lowest point achieved since November 2008. This information has been provided by the Colorado Department of Labor and Employment.

"This is such a strong showing," has explained economist Alexandra Hall to the media. "We have a nice, strong economy."

There are plenty of people who are in the process of moving to Colorado and they also have contributed to the increasing job demand in certain service sectors, such as restaurants, tourism, and hospitality (the latter has contributed to the addition of 4,500 jobs). Other industries that have contributed to the increase of jobs is education and nursing, and they have contributed to the economy thanks to their addition of up to 3,800 jobs. Business services, on the other hands, have contributed to the addition of a batch of 2,400 jobs, and the financial industry has marked the adding of around 1900 jobs. The construction industry has boosted the employment growth through the addition of another 1,500 jobs.

People have attributed the addition of jobs to several major factors, such as an increased immigration to this dynamic state. Families who have moved to the state look for housing, which has created the need for costruction jobs. Young families who move to Colorado boost the need for education jobs.

Broomfield economist Gary Horvath has explained that he hopes that Colorady economy preserves its strong performance through the addition of around 70,000 jobs by the finale of the year.

"However, there is a downside," he said. "Barring a recession, the (unemployment) rate is likely to continue to drop to the 4 percent range over the next couple of years and remain at that level. We have very quickly shifted from an employer's market to a job-seeker's market."

You have already subscribed. Thank you.

© 2014 Jobs & Hire All rights reserved. Do not reproduce without permission.

In 1988 John Burke was a 26-year-old broker at Merrill Lynch whose main method of finding new clients was cold calling from a phone book.

Copyright © 2014 Jobs & Hire All rights reserved.

Use of this Web site constitutes acceptance of our Terms and Conditions of Use and Privacy Policy.
