
Advantage Engineers, LLC was recently awarded a contract to provide engineering services for the Universal Service Administrative Company (USAC). The contract will support the Federal Communications Commission’s (FCC) Connect America Fund initiative.

The firm’s telecommunications engineering knowledge and resources allows them to verify financial models, analyze RF data, and confirm construction methodologies.

Advantage Engineers, LLC was recently awarded a contract to provide engineering services for the Universal Service Administrative Company (USAC). The contract will support the Federal Communications Commission’s (FCC) Connect America Fund initiative.

Advantage Engineers will review Mobility Fund annual reports and disbursement requests submitted by carriers, as well as on-site coverage and performance verifications of carrier compliance with FCC rules. The firm’s telecommunications engineering knowledge and resources allows them to verify financial models, analyze RF data, and confirm construction methodologies.

The FCC adopted comprehensive reforms of its Universal Service Fund (USF) and Intercarrier Compensation (ICC) systems to accelerate broadband build-out to Americans living in rural areas who currently have zero access to robust broadband infrastructure. This reform will expand the benefits of high-speed Internet to millions of consumers in every part of the country. It transforms the existing USF into the Connect America Fund (CAF). The reform will not only drive economic growth, but will expand the online marketplace nationwide.

Advantage Engineers provides expert consulting and engineering services to design, procure, and deploy communications networks for commercial and government clients. Employing more than 150 engineers, project managers, site acquisition specialists, technicians, and scientists, Advantage provides network development services that include program planning, network assessments, engineering, OSP/ISP engineering, real estate, regulatory support, and project and construction management. From their Mid-Atlantic offices, the firm provides services to government agencies and private clients throughout the United States.
