
One pound in every 10 spent in the UK disappears into a vast “shadow economy”, a report has revealed.

A staggering £100billion worth of sales are raked in by firms every year, yet never disclosed to the authorities.

The widespread evasion could be depriving the country of £40billion – enough to pay for the Government’s combined bill for housing, environment and transport.

The figure relates to the 2011-12 tax year and could be as high as £47billion now.

The loss has been exposed by veteran tax campaigner Richard Murphy. Analysing data from HM Revenues and Customs and the European Union, the report exposes for the first time the scale of tax evasion by firms not declaring their income.

More than three million companies are registered in the UK - yet only 1.1m disclose an income.

The study estimates that of the remaining 1.9m, at least 400,000 are trading but never submit accounts to Companies House or file tax returns.

They are able to this because of lax controls and failure to clamp down on companies that break the rules, it says.

Murphy, of Tax Research UK, said: “HMRC is not trying to collect the tax that is due.

John Christensen, director of the Tax Justice Network, said: “We have a government so intent on cutting what it considers red tape we have ended up with rampant fraud.

The discovery comes amid growing anger at the vast sums lost to the Treasury by clever accounting.

Take That’s Gary Barlow, his manager Jonathan Wild and bandmates Howard Donald and Mark Owen were found last week to have poured £66million into a massive tax-avoidance scheme.

Other stars, including Jimmy Carr and Chris Moyles, have also been rocked by tax-dodging revelations.

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).
