
he is expecting the industry, and Sofitel, to scramble once more with so many new hotels waiting in the wings to open in the near future.

Looking at the company’s plans for China, Mr Molliet, who is also vice president of Greater China, says eight more properties will open between now and 2017, in Mainland China, with four more still under discussion. Macau will continue to serve as Sofitel’s Greater China regional office,

at least for the next two to three years, as many of Sofitel’s developments target the south of the country.

Going back to the fundamentals, in 2009 we had to make a decision.

I was based in Shanghai, in the corporate office, with a small team, and we were looking at our development in China. In China, we were looking at our development over the next four to five years. We found that most of the development of our hotels would be in southern China, areas that are close to Macau.

Also, the second factor was that a lot of our hotel owners — we’re a management company, and don’t own our hotels — are based in Hong Kong.

The third factor was that we had a rule in the company that the regional offices for China, the Middle East or Thailand would all be based in hotels. It lends a certain degree of credibility. It means that, for example, myself, even though I’m in charge of China, I’m also in charge of this hotel. I have together with my team to run a good operation, making it a flagship hotel that performs well – [in this way] we can use the hotel as a pilot model and that’s one of the reasons we choose to have regional people based in hotels.

We know the owners in Macau very well and they are very happy to have a regional office here, so we naturally chose Macau. It’s proven to be an excellent decision. In the last five years, the business in the hotel has grown double digits, so it has been very good for the owner. The owner gets a leadership team, more experience than perhaps from another hotel — we’re not just hotel people, we’re also regional people.

Yes, it’s still relevant, even more so than before.

Development is definitely happening in the south and it’s still ongoing. We have committed to eight hotels in cities like Hainan, Foshan, Changsha, Guiyang and Kunming, where we need to service not only hotels but owners. And a lot of the owners are based in Hong Kong. We also have hotels in the pipeline, not confirmed yet — two more big projects in this region.

Macau was difficult in 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012. It’s been challenging but we have constantly increased our market share. This year, for the past four to five months, we’ve seen the business in Macau going up.

Macau side is in competition with Cotai. You know Cotai hotels - the Sheraton has 4,000 rooms to fill that still aren’t full. They’re not filling up the hotel at 90 percent every night, so they’re very aggressive in their promotions. Basically, all the Sands hotels are very aggressive in their promotions, as they have a lot of rooms to fill. So, even though demand is growing, it’s not growing enough to fill all the hotel rooms.

If you look at the statistics, not every hotel is running at 90 to 93 percent, like we are right now. As far as we’re concerned, we’ve seen the business increasing every year, double digit in terms of revenue, and we’ve seen our market share increasing.

We have 19 hotels in Mainland China, all in very well established capital cities and we have key secondary cities. The Chinese people know the Sofitel name. So, when they come to Macau, some people want to see The Venetian because it’s a legend, some people want to stay at Wynn because it has a great reputation, but they know with the Sofitel name they’ll have the assurance of quality. The name has helped a lot to get to that level of occupancy.

Also, in five years, what we thought might be a handicap was the location. In the last two to three years, however, it has turned out to be a point of advantage. We have 25 percent repeat guests from Hong Kong and Mainland China and people like to be here; they walk into the hotel and they have warmth, within walking distance from the old town, from all the attractions over here, there’s a market for that.

The mix has changed over the past few years. We used to have half Hong Kong and half [Mainland] Chinese but slowly we’re shifting to a much bigger chunk of Mainland China guests.

We get a lot of individuals staying here; they read the reviews, they know the brand, they’re comfortable, and they choose us because of who we are. We get a lot of couples, we get families, but less. It’s more couple-oriented; a very high repeat clientele, from Hong Kong. Our mix from Hong Kong is about 35 percent. And from the Hong Kong chunk we get 35 to 40 percent repeat guests. In Macau, we’re almost like a boutique hotel, if you compare us with the big ones.

The two main indicators are demand and supply. We had the Hard Rock Hotel first then the Hyatt, followed by the Holiday Inn and Conrad, followed by the Sheraton. We’re talking about big numbers every time.

We had in 2011/2012 a situation in which you had all those Cotai hotels opening, 8,000 more rooms coming onto the market in a relatively short period of time. That created a sort of vacuum effect for the whole of Macau, whereby the buyers, the online travel agents had a choice. Everybody was desperate to fill their hotel, rates were going down, and that put a lot of pressure on business in general.

In 2013, all those hotels had opened and they all did a lot of marketing. Each big casino hotel did a lot of marketing, promoting the hotel and creating additional demand for Macau as a destination. Suddenly, there’s a good story to report about Macau. It created a big buzz, and spread all over the two-hour flight region.

Today, those big hotels are ramping up the business to a level that they’re still not full but they’re reaching acceptable levels. That’s why we’re enjoying a reasonable amount of business today. We should be in a relatively okay situation until the next wave of hotels opens.

My guess is that next year nothing big will open. And, in 2016, suddenly, you’ll have a lot of interesting things happening - phase three of Galaxy Macau, The Parisian; then in 2017 you’ll have a tsunami of rooms arriving on the market.

t will affect everybody. It’s like a vacuum effect. People are talking about 70,000 rooms coming onto the market, in 2016, 2017 and 2018. For Macau to absorb that, it’s not going to happen overnight. When those rooms arrive, hotels will automatically see a decrease in occupancy.

Cotai will be the first one affected. All the people that come down will want to try a new hotel. But the good story is that every time you have a new hotel-casino opening, it’s a new story for the market, it creates marketing for the destination. It will increase and eventually it will balance again.

We have fewer rooms to fill than some of those big casinos. So, we can control those variations. This destination we have here will become more attractive. We are kind of unique in our own little market.

We’ve built a very solid reputation, consistent quality. Again, geographically we’ll be less affected here than on Cotai. The competition will be cutthroat on Cotai side, here we’re a bit more preserved. People that come here choose to come here, to this side, Macau side.

There are no plans to expand for the time being. We’ve just opened a Chinese restaurant. The spa has been extremely successful and it really helps the experience. We aim to keep it this way, and we’re constantly sourcing new ideas.

Our point of touch from all the other hotels is the French touch of elegance that goes with Sofitel, it’s the marketing approach of the brand. We want guests to experience the French touch, we create cultural events.

A lot of casino-hotels are in fact more like a commodity for the casino. It means that obviously most of the money is made on the casino side but the casino needs the hotel for the players. A big percentage of the hotel inventory is reserved for the casino. And on weekends it can go up to 70 to 80 percent for the gaming.

In our case, we allocate very few rooms to the casino. Our casino clientele, we have some high rollers but it’s not a huge casino, and we don’t require so many rooms for the casino. About 10 percent of our inventory goes to the casino, so we still have 90 percent of rooms to fill. We deal mainly with high-end gaming. These are the people we keep in the hotels.

We have eight properties sealed; plus there are another four in the pipeline right now.

No, they’re spread. Altogether, we have 12 properties either signed up or in the pipeline, due to open earlier next year, with the latest in 2017. It should bring our inventory up to 35 hotels by 2017.

The biggest challenge is that for the last few years there have been huge plans for development in China, by developers. It has slowed down a little bit in the main cities but in all the secondary cities and third tier cities in China you have a huge number of hotels opening.

We’re entering a market that’s over-supplied. The demand in China has slowed down, especially in the luxury sector. We used to enjoy big business from government, from government-related companies, even corporations that used to work with the government; all of this has slowed down, even the banquet business. The challenge for us is that we’re opening up hotels in a very competitive market and we have to be very smart to come up with unique hotels, strong brands and strong image.

Yes. I cannot give you specifics but we’ve always looked at Hengqin island. We’re looking at some opportunities there now.

Not today but we’re actively looking.

But going back to Greater China, it’s interesting what has happened, actually, worldwide. The company Accor, based on the work that has been done by Sofitel in the last seven years, has repositioned the brand.

Accor decided seven years ago to create a luxury brand for Sofitel - they took it up year by year to a higher level. A lot of work was involved, cleaning up the network - from 206 hotels in 2007 down to 118, so we cut down almost by half, we kept only the best ones and opened 50 hotels worldwide, all brand new with new standards. It’s been a success story.

Because of that, Accor said that it has other brands - upscale brands like Pullman, MGallery (small boutique brand) - and those brands that did not benefit from the same level of dedication that Sofitel had at the time. Let’s benefit from the expertise of Sofitel [they said] and let’s create a new segment called luxury upscale brands.

So, we have a new entity within Accor, with experts on luxury upscale brands. What is even more interesting is that before the head office for all those brands was based in Paris, with all the decisions on the brands coming down from Paris. And then this decision was made six months ago that the head office for luxury upscale should no longer be in Paris but should move to Asia. Asia has the largest concentration, within Accor, of hotels. Over half of the inventory in Asia are luxury upscale brands.

In Singapore.

Asia today has the best architects in the world when it comes to luxury upscale. The biggest development of 5-star, luxury hotels is in Asia.

It was a smart move. The head of luxury brand marketing is a Chinese Dutch, so he understands Asia very well but at the same time he understands Europe.

We want to keep the French DNA but we also need to learn and be in the middle of where the action is, which is in Asia. They just moved in two weeks ago and they’re setting up a team of 40 people; experts in branding, human resources and marketing, and they’re all top guys in the business. If you put all the brands together, on average, half of them are in Asia Pacific, with the rest spread around the world.

For the Sofitel brand, which I’m responsible for in Greater China, it doesn’t change much. Because we have such a large critical mass of hotels in China, we decided ‘Let’s keep the Sofitel team, focused on the Sofitel brand’.

Our structure here works extremely well; all the people involved, we all have advantages in being here. As long as we don’t look at too many hotels we can continue in this way. We’re comfortable for two, three more years.
