
A recent PWC report and figures from the Ulster Bank confirm that Northern Ireland’s economy is still lagging behind the rest of the UK.

One problem which is highlighted again and again is our lack of competitiveness.  Northern Ireland lags well behind the Republic of Ireland and the UK as a whole in this regard. PWC has also reported on OECD figures  showing Northern Ireland ranks 42nd out of 145 countries and we are well below the Republic of Ireland (27th) and the UK as a whole (8th).

NI Conservatives have been calling for action from the Executive to avoid falling even further behind. This means a ‘can do’ culture across Stormont departments, a single department charged with masterminding an economic plan and a long-term plan to rebalance the economy.

l More enterprise zones, featuring fast track planning and an emphasis on exports. The Executive has powers to create these, but as yet only one has been set up; in Coleraine, at the insistence of the Conservative-led Government.

l A pipeline of infrastructure projects to exploit the monies which George Osborne has made available, based on a realistic timetable, with an emphasis on road and railway improvements.

l Publish DETI’s reports into the benefits of devolving Air Passenger Duty and cutting red tape immediately.  Then let’s get on with implementing necessary reforms.

l Harmonise Northern Ireland’s employment legislation with the rest of the UK.  Our companies are currently operating with one hand tied behind their back when it comes to employment law.

Making our economy competitive is essential to start creating the type of private sector jobs which will keep people in work for the long term.  Stephen Farry, minister at the Department of Employment and Learning, admitted there is no consensus for change and, currently, he can only tinker at the edges, but the status quo is simply not an option. Devolving Corporation Tax could be an important boost for our economy, but if the building blocks of competitiveness are not put in place, then we’ll not be in a position to exploit fully any reduction in business taxes.

The Executive simply must adopt policies aimed at rebalancing and growing the economy, to create a virtuous cycle of prosperity.

Let’s put aside the tribal politics of the past – it’s about jobs, jobs and more jobs.

© 2014 Johnston Publishing Ltd.

This website and its associated newspaper adheres to the Press Complaints Commission’s Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion, then contact the Editor by clicking  here .

If you remain dissatisfied with the response provided then you can contact the PCC by clicking here .

Belfast Newsletter provides news, events and sport features from the Belfast area. For the best up to date information relating to Belfast and the surrounding areas visit us at Belfast Newsletter regularly or bookmark this page.

For you to enjoy all the features of this website Belfast Newsletter requires permission to use cookies.

Cookies are small data files which are sent to your browser (Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome etc) from a website you visit. They are stored on your electronic device.

This is a type of cookie which is collected by Adobe Flash media player (it is also called a Local Shared Object) - a piece of software you may already have on your electronic device to help you watch online videos and listen to podcasts.

Yes there are a number of options available, you can set your browser either to reject all cookies, to allow only "trusted" sites to set them, or to only accept them from the site you are currently on.

However, please note - if you block/delete all cookies, some features of our websites, such as remembering your login details, or the site branding for your local newspaper may not function as a result.

A tool used by some of our advertisers to target adverts to you based on pages you have visited in the past. To opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

Our sites contain advertising from Google; these use cookies to ensure you get adverts relevant to you. You can tailor the type of ads you receive by visiting here or to opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

This is used to help us identify unique visitors to our websites. This data is anonymous and we cannot use this to uniquely identify individuals and their usage of the sites.

This comes from our ad serving technology and is used to track how many times you have seen a particular ad on our sites, so that you don't just see one advert but an even spread. This information is not used by us for any other type of audience recording or monitoring.

ComScore monitor and externally verify our site traffic data for use within the advertising industry. Any data collected is anonymous statistical data and cannot be traced back to an individual.

Our Classified websites (Photos, Motors, Jobs and Property Today) use cookies to ensure you get the correct local newspaper branding and content when you visit them. These cookies store no personally identifiable information.

We use Grapeshot as a contextual targeting technology, allowing us to create custom groups of stories outside out of our usual site navigation. Grapeshot stores the categories of story you have been exposed to. Their privacy policy and opt out option can be accessed here.

Our partner for Newspaper subscriptions online stores data from the forms you complete in these to increase the usability of the site and enhance user experience.

Add This provides the social networking widget found in many of our pages. This widget gives you the tools to bookmark our websites, blog, share, tweet and email our content to a friend.
