
A pervert school teacher is facing jail after he was convicted of sexually abusing four teenage girls over Facebook.

Alexander Thomas, 30, from Swindon, Wiltshire, used the social network site to groom the sixth form students - asking them to send him semi-naked photographs, a court heard.

The PE and Business Studies teacher was convicted by a jury at Swindon Crown Court of five counts of inciting a child to engage in sexual activity while in a position of trust.

He was bailed for sentencing on June 13.

Judge Mousley told him: 'You will be bailed between now and then and that will be unconditional.

'You must not take that as an indication there will not be a prison  sentence.

'A custodial sentence is a probability at least in this case and may well be a certainty.'

Thomas was arrested in October 2012 after teachers at his school became aware of rumours circulating between pupils.

In a police interview, he admitted being in contact with four girls, aged between 16 and 17, but denied any sexual contact.

He admitted having a topless picture of one of the girls.

Prosecutors said Thomas asked them to send him photographs of themselves in their underwear.

A jury cleared him of directly engaging in sexual activity with two of the girls - but convicted him over his use of Facebook between August 2010 and October 2012.

Judge Tim Mousley QC told the teacher he was likely to be sent to prison when he returns to the dock for sentencing on June 13.

Speaking outside court Wiltshire Police’s child abuse investigator Detective Constable Angela Spray said: 'Thomas worked as a secondary school teacher in Wiltshire where he systematically abused the position of trust he was in to prey on vulnerable, underage children for his own sexual gratification.

'Thomas groomed his victims and encouraged them to engage in sexual acts after gaining their confidence and trust.

The comments below have been moderated in advance.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
