
A GREEN organisation in Oxford is to offer residents shares in a clean energy scheme worth more than £2m.

Low Carbon Hub plans to roll out a scheme across the county, in which solar panels will be installed on the roofs of school and business premises, with the electricity generated sold for a profit.

People will be able to offset their investment against income tax – effectively a 30 per cent discount on the money they put in.

Non-executive director Wendy Twist said that one third of the profits would be pumped into community clean energy projects, with the rest split between investors and the hosts. She said: “You do not have to be a rich person to be part of this. We want Oxfordshire’s green energy assets to be owned by the people of Oxfordshire.

Investors can expect a five to six per cent return, she said, and shares will be withdrawable.

She added: “We want as many people as possible to take part.

More than 20 schools across the county have signed up to the solar scheme.

Mrs Twist said Low Carbon Hub is currently in talks with a number of private firms, with Witney furniture shop Wesley-Barrell one of the first to sign up.

Projects are already under way, including a 140kW set of solar panels on the roof of the Oxford Bus Company ’s garage in Watlington Road, Cowley.

The array of 540 panels at its building is the biggest of its kind in Oxford.

Finance director Luke Marion said: “The project has already been a huge success on a number of levels.

Low Carbon Hub has also supported a scheme at St Barnabas Primary School, in Jericho, Oxford, to install a solar panels on school roofs.

Headteacher Fiona Hawkins said: “It was a mutually beneficial offer, they get our roofs and we get a 13 per cent discount on the energy.

The shares will be issued in the autumn from The Low Carbon Hub Industrial and Provident Society, with surplus profits going to community projects backed by The Low Carbon Hub Community Interest Company.

We want you to enjoy your visit to our website. That's why we use cookies to enhance your experience.  By staying on our website you agree to our use of cookies. Find out more about the cookies we use .
