
This account is pending registration confirmation. Please click on the link within the confirmation email previously sent you to complete registration.

NEW YORK ( TheStreet ) -- Shares of KKR & Co. LP  ( KKR ) are up 2.54% to $22.99 after it was reported that the investment firm is close to a deal to buy Singapore's Goodpack Ltd, the world's largest maker of intermediate bulk containers, which has a market value of $1.1 billion, sources told Reuters.

If successful, the purchase would be the first of a listed company from KKR's latest Asia fund, which raised $6 billion.

"We rate KKR & CO LP (KKR) a BUY. This is based on the convergence of positive investment measures, which should help this stock outperform the majority of stocks that we rate. The company's strengths can be seen in multiple areas, such as its robust revenue growth, increase in stock price during the past year, increase in net income and expanding profit margins. Although the company may harbor some minor weaknesses, we feel they are unlikely to have a significant impact on results."

KKR's very impressive revenue growth greatly exceeded the industry average of 5.1%. Since the same quarter one year prior, revenues leaped by 87.1%. This growth in revenue does not appear to have trickled down to the company's bottom line, displayed by a decline in earnings per share.

Compared to where it was a year ago today, the stock is now trading at a higher level, regardless of the company's weak earnings results. Turning our attention to the future direction of the stock, it goes without saying that even the best stocks can fall in an overall down market. However, in any other environment, this stock still has good upside potential despite the fact that it has already risen in the past year.

KKR & CO LP's earnings per share declined by 5.8% in the most recent quarter compared to the same quarter a year ago. This company has reported somewhat volatile earnings recently. But, we feel it is poised for EPS growth in the coming year. During the past fiscal year, KKR & CO LP increased its bottom line by earning $2.29 versus $2.23 in the prior year. This year, the market expects an improvement in earnings ($2.74 versus $2.29).

The net income growth from the same quarter one year ago has exceeded that of the Capital Markets industry average, but is less than that of the S&P 500. The net income increased by 8.6% when compared to the same quarter one year prior, going from $193.44 million to $210.04 million.

The gross profit margin for KKR & CO LP is rather low; currently it is at 15.74%. Despite the low profit margin, it has increased significantly from the same period last year. Despite the mixed results of the gross profit margin, KKR's net profit margin of 37.40% significantly outperformed against the industry.

To begin commenting right away, you can log in below using your Disqus, Facebook, Twitter, OpenID or Yahoo login credentials. Alternatively, you can post a comment as a "guest" just by entering an email address. Your use of the commenting tool is subject to multiple terms of service/use and privacy policies - see here for more details.
