
To decipher the latest housing data for you, our reporter Tracey Chang spoke to a few industry experts to get their take on what's ahead for China's property sector.

China’s new home prices grew at a slower pace in April compared to the month before, prompting the easing of property restrictions in some of the country’s major cities.

As one of the most watched economic indicators of the country, April’s housing data showed moderation in China’s housing market. The numbers came amid chatters about a possible housing slump or even a burst of the property bubble, but real estate experts say the recent numbers are not a cause for concern.

Policymakers are already taking precaution to avoid a sudden drop in housing prices, but the effect of these measures have yet been realized.

The Chinese government is no stranger to regulating the country’s property sector, as many purchasing restrictions were implemented over the last decade. But this time around, decision makers are taking a different approach.

"Our new government is using different methods to regulate the housing market compared to the previous administration. We are not going to see massive stimulus to lift the housing market like we saw back in 2008. Our new government wants to do reforms and implement structural changes to regulate the housing market." 515J Group vice president Chris Hu said.

Home buyers put their planned purchases on hold, as they anxiously wait for clearer policy directions.

"Newest measures we can expect have a lot to do with liquidity, we are already seeing the central bank sending clear signals to ease the housing market liquidity. So in the short term we are seeing some price fluctuations, but I think policymakers will tweak policies and is ready to appropriately rolling out measures to stabilize the housing market. Overall I am staying fairly optimistic." Hu said.

China's real estate market is indeed showing signs of cooling down, and most industry experts are expecting the government to issue more policies in the near future to stabilize the country’s property sector.
