
The latest is something of a shocker: researchers say e-cigarettes appear to increase the virulence of drug- resistant and potentially life-threatening bacteria, while decreasing the ability of human cells to kill these bacteria.

"As health care professionals, we are always being asked by patients, "Would this be better for me?" lead investigator Laura E. Crotty Alexander, M.D., said. "In the case of smoking e-cigarettes, I hated not having an answer. While the answer isn't black and white, our study suggests a response: even if e-cigarettes may not be as bad as tobacco, they still have measurable detrimental effects on health."

Crotty Alexander and other researchers at the VA San Diego Healthcare System (VASDHS) and the University of California, San Diego (UCSD), tested the effects of e-cigarette vapor on live methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) and human epithelial cells.

MRSA commonly colonizes the region of the nasal passage where the bacteria and the cells that line the passage are exposed constantly to inhaled substances such as e-cigarette vapor and cigarette smoke.

"The virulence of MRSA is increased by e-cigarette vapor," Crotty Alexander said. Exposure to e-cigarette vapor increased the virulence of the bacteria. However, she added, the vapor did not make the bacteria as aggressive as cigarette smoke exposure did in parallel studies her group conducted.

Scientists have been warning of potential health hazards in e-cigs for years but the popularity of the devices has continued to grow amid light regulation.

In 2010, researchers at UC-Riverside concluded that e-cigarettes are potentially harmful and urged regulators to consider removing e-cigarettes from the market until their safety is adequately evaluated.

Last month, a  CDC study  reported that calls to poison control centers shot up from 1 per month in September 2010 to 215 per month in February 2014. The number of calls per month involving conventional cigarettes did not show a similar increase during the same time period.

Also in April, a study published in the academic journal  Clinical Cancer Research  finds that the vapor from e-cigarettes damages human cells in much the same way as the smoke from traditional cigarettes. Scientists at Boston University grew a batch of human bronchial cells in the presence of e-cig vapor and another batch in the presence of tobacco smoke. The result: the two batches of cells showed similar patterns of gene expression, which can cause the mutations that lead to cancer.

To conduct the e-cigarette vapor experiment, the researchers grew MRSA in culture with vapor concentrations similar to inhalers on the market. They tested first for biochemical changes in the culture known to promote pathogen virulence and then introduced epithelial cell- and alveolar macrophage-killing assays.

The researchers looked at five factors that contribute to MRSA virulence: growth rate, susceptibility to reactive oxygen species (ROS), surface charge, hydrophobicity and biofilm formation. In particular, e-cigarette vapor led to alterations in surface charge and biofilm formation, which conferred greater resistance to killing by human cells and antibiotics.

Crotty Alexander said that one possible contribution to the increased virulence of MRSA was the rapid change in pH induced by e-cigarette vapor. Exposure changed the pH from 7.4 up to 8.4, making the environment very alkalotic for both bacterial and mammalian cells. This alkalosis stresses the cells, giving them a danger signal, leading to activation of defense mechanisms. The bacteria make their surface more positively charged, to avoid binding by the lethal antimicrobial peptides produced by human innate immune cells. The bacteria also form thicker biofilms, increasing their stickiness and making MRSA less vulnerable to attack.

These changes make MRSA more virulent. However, when MRSA is exposed to regular cigarette smoke, their virulence is even greater.

Cigarette smoke induces surface charge changes 10-fold greater than that of e-cigarette exposure, alters hydrophobicity and decreases sensitivity to reactive oxygen species and antimicrobial peptides.

In a mouse model of pneumonia, cigarette smoke exposed MRSA had four-times greater survival in the lungs, and killed 30% more mice than control MRSA. E-cigarette vapor exposed MRSA were also more virulent in mice, with a three-fold higher survival.

Unfortunately, while e-cigarette vapor is increasing bacterial virulence, Crotty Alexander has found that the vapor is also decreasing the ability of human epithelial cells to kill pathogens.

The study was presented at the 2014 American Thoracic Society International Conference.

Nice theory, except for the fact that one of the main ingredients in e-liquid (propylene glycol) is used in the ventilation systems of every hospital/clinic/nursing home in the civilized world because it MITIGATES the transmission of airborne viruses and pathogens.  In other words, if this story is true, your local hospital has been secretly trying to kill all its patients for the last 30 years.  Oh, and just for a bit of anecdotal fun, I haven't come down with a single cold/flu virus, or any bacterial infection, or any illness of any kind in the year-plus since I switched from smoking to vaping.

Have to agree with everyone else.  This study makes no sense.  Especially since I have started making my own.  I know exactly what I am vaping and Propylene glycol and vegetable glycerin are also in lots of food bought at any grocery store.  I don't use nicotine at all and haven't for several years.

Advertisements on this site are placed and controlled by outside advertising networks. ConsumerAffairs.com does not evaluate or endorse the products and services advertised. See the FAQ for more information.

Partner with ConsumerAffairs for Brands If your company has a page on our site, we invite you to sign up for a Starter Account today to respond to your customers directly. Alternatively, you may call us at 1-866-773-0221.

For more information, see about us , FAQ and privacy policy . The information on this Web site is general in nature and is not intended as a substitute for competent legal advice. ConsumerAffairs.com makes no representation as to the accuracy of the information herein provided and assumes no liability for any damages or loss arising from the use thereof.
