
WASHINGTON, May 19, 2014 /PRNewswire/ Enlightened, Inc. ("Enlightened"), a leading provider of Information Technology (IT) consulting services, announced today the company will co-host the Prince George's County Small Business Conference taking place on May 21 st, 2014 at Metro Points Hotel in New Carrollton, Maryland. The US Department of Housing and Urban Development National Capital Area Office, The Prince George's County Chamber of Commerce, and Enlightened have partnered as co-hosts of the conference to connect small businesses in Prince George's county with representatives from the Federal Government. This includes SBA-certified small businesses, small disadvantaged businesses, women-owned, service disabled veteran owned and HUBZone businesses.

Antwanye Ford, Enlightened President & CEO and Chairman Emeritus of the District of Columbia Chamber of Commerce will deliver the keynote address and Deborah Scott Thomas, President & CEO of Data Solutions & Technology Incorporated will open the event as the day's featured speaker. Ms. Thomas, whose business is headquartered in the county, will speak to the small business attendees who have been in business for 3-5 years, on how to successfully engage with federal government representatives and how to grow those relationships into contract wins and work that will help sustain their business growth.

Participants will also partake in a panel session on "How to Become a Sustainable Business and Capture Federal Contracts", and they'll have a choice between two of three breakout sessions led by industry and government experts from GSA, DoD, DHS, SBA and USDA.

"Enlightened is proud to co-host the small business conference with HUD and The Prince George's Chamber," said Andre Rogers, Enlightened's Vice President and CFO. "Now in our 15 th year in business, we've benefitted greatly from attending events like this, which have helped us realize the success and growth we've needed to bring valuable resources to our colleagues in the county."

Enlightened is an award winning company that provides Cyber Security, IT and management solutions to resolve complex business problems for federal, state, and local government agencies. Enlightened holds GSA IT-70 and MOBIS schedule contracts, and is certified as a HUBZone and Small Business by the Small Business Administration. For more information please visit www.enlightened.com .

SOURCE Enlightened, Inc.
