
President Ilham Aliyev of Azerbaijan and top leaders of the Vietnamese Party, National Assembly and Government on May 19 shared the view that the President’s visit will create a fresh driving force for the two countries’ relations.

President Ilham Aliyev stated that Azerbaijan regards Vietnam as its close and trustworthy partner in Southeast Asia while meeting with Party General Secretary Nguyen Phu Trong.

Aliyev shared his satisfaction with Party chief Trong about the outcomes of his talks with President Sang, confirming that his country will work more closely with Vietnam in a broad spectrum of areas, especially in Party affairs and at regional and global forums.

He also expressed his displeasure at China’s ongoing illegal acts in the East Sea, and hope that parties concerned will peacefully settle the dispute in accordance with international law and commitments.

Trong, meanwhile, said he greatly expects to see an upgraded level of bilateral ties across the board via different State, Party and National Assembly channels.

In a separate meeting with NA Chairman Nguyen Sinh Hung, Aliyev informed that he is accompanied by top business representatives interested in partnership opportunities in the country, with many active in oil and gas, education, and transport.

The guest concurred with Hung in improving the efficiency of collaboration between the two legislatures, both bilaterally and multilaterally.

The top legislator voiced his confidence that Aliyev’s visit, the first since he took power, will give a fresh impetus to Vietnam – Azerbaijan dynamic and productive links.

Receiving Aliyev the same day, Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung pledged to direct the realisation of agreements reached at the talks between his guest and President Sang.

He proposed facilitating all-level visits and stronger support at international forums, especially at the United Nations, between the two countries.

Both sides need to intensify join work across trade, investment, education and tourism, Dung said, adding that Azerbaijan should support the Vietnam National Oil and Gas Group in running long-term operation in the country in the future.

To lift two-way trade to a more impressive figure, Aliyev assured PM Dung that Vietnamese investors in the Eurasian country will enjoy an auspicious environment.

Joint cultural activities to raise mutual trust were also put forward by him.

© Copyright, VietnamPlus, Vietnam News Agency (VNA).

Editor-in-chief, Mr. Le Quoc Minh. Licence No. 1374/GP-BTTTT dated September 11,         2008 by the Ministry of Information and Communications.
