
Posted: Monday, May 19, 2014 10:00 am | Updated: 6:30 pm, Sun Jun 8, 2014.

A deadly disease has been confirmed to have been transmitted for the first time on U.S. soil and a Purdue research team is working on a cure.

The Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) was first discovered about a year ago in Saudi Arabia and shares some similarities with the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS), which was first identified in Asia.

”MERS, the virus itself, is a coronavirus and there are coronaviruses that infect a number of different animals and humans — they are all around the globe,” said Andrew Mesecar, a Purdue professor and head of Purdue’s MERS research team.

The Center for Disease Control (CDC) confirmed three recent cases of MERS in the country, which marks the first occurrences of the virus in the U.S. The first case was imported from Jeddah, Saudi Arabia to Indiana and the second case from Riyadh, Saudi Arabia to Orlando, Fla.

The CDC reported on Saturday the first known human-to-human transmission of MERS in the U.S., believed to have been transmitted from the first case during a business meeting in Chicago.

”Prior to being admitted to the hospital, the Indiana patient had extended face-to-face contact on April 25 with a business associate in Illinois ... This business associate, who is an Illinois resident, has been identified as having evidence of apparent past infection with MERS-coV,” David Swerdlow, associate director of medical epidemiology for the CDC told reporters during a telephone briefing.

Barbara Reynolds, the director of the division of public affairs for the CDC, added the importation of MERS from abroad is not a surprise for the CDC. They have been expecting its introduction into the U.S. since the discovery of the disease.

It is currently not known how the disease is transmitted, but the CDC said the disease might be transmitted originally from camels to humans, then by respiration and nasal excretions between humans.

According to Reynolds, there is currently no treatment for the disease aside from treating the symptoms of a fever, cough and shortness of breath. She said there are efforts around the world to find treatment and vaccine for the disease that claims the life of 30 percent of its victims.

Mesecar’s team at Purdue has been working on finding a treatment for MERS since the disease was discovered.

Mesecar said it will take at least 10 years to find a true cure for the disease.

The CDC emphasized the disease is not currently a danger for most people and the CDC website said people should not change their travel plans because of the disease. Mesecar mentioned that though the disease is not currently a danger to the U.S. public, that could change.

”With any virus that is potentially lethal, and with a respiratory virus especially, the virus could potentially become more infectious if it mutates, so that’s why we are keeping a close eye on it,” Mesecar said.
