
Eliceo Cortez is back in his mother's arms after a guidance counselor spotted him on Oriental Blvd. near Leonard M. Goldstein High School in Manhattan Beach on Monday, cops said. Eliceo's mom said her son was sleeping in parks and eating whatever he could while he was missing.

Alex Rud for New York Daily News Eliceo Cortez, a 14-year-old autistic boy missing since Friday, hugs mother Nancy Reavis at the door of their Brooklyn apartment.

There's no place like home.

Eliceo Cortez, an autistic teen who vanished for three days, is back safe and sound after an odyssey that included sleeping in city parks, scrounging for food and playing games at Dave & Buster’s in Times Square, his mother said.

The 14-year-old, who has difficulty speaking, was returned to his home — and his mother’s arms — Monday after being spotted by a counselor near his school back in Brooklyn.

I found your son! I found your son!

Asked how he felt, the 6-foot-1 ninth-grader only smiled and said “bueno.” Asked if he was hungry, he nodded, adding in Spanish that he wanted homemade soup.

Alex Rud for New York Daily News Eliceo Cortez went missing after boarding a city bus outside his Brooklyn high school Friday.

Courtesy Cortez Family Eliceo Cortez usually never goes anywhere alone and didn't have any money during his ordeal, his family said.

A police source said Eliceo told cops he snatched up snacks at newsstands during his odyssey.

Eliceo, who disappeared from Leon M. Goldstein High School Friday, was spotted near the school in the morning by a guidance counselor who was driving to work.

“I found your son! I found your son!” Reavis said the counselor announced upon calling her on the phone.

The teen was last seen Friday getting on the B49 bus near the school, police said. They believe he also rode subways.

He usually takes a school bus home.

His mother has been frantic, distributing photos and waiting for possibly dreadful news.

“I was not sleeping. My stomach was killing me, my migraines,” she trailed off.

The mom said her son managed to tell her about his ordeal.

She said he never went anywhere alone and he didn’t have any money.

Eliceo's mom said she thought of the tragic case of Avonte Oquendo, 14.

She said she thought about the tragic case of missing teen Avonte Oquendo, who was also autistic and disappeared after leaving his school.

“When they told me he was spotted on the bus, it reminded me of Avonte,” she said.

Avonte, also 14, disappeared from his school on Oct. 4. Cops searched for him on subways that he sometimes frequented.

In January, his remains washed up on a shore in northern Queens. His family plans to file a $25 million wrongful death suit against the city.

Reavis blames Eliceo’s school for his disappearance.

She said she’s been asking for months for an aide to monitor him. She said school officials told her to wait.

“I told them, ‘Something is going to happen one day. Then you will do something,’ ” she said.

Education Department spokeswoman Marge Feinberg said she couldn’t comment on the specifics of the case.

© Copyright 2014 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.
