
FuseExpertise previews its IT Firm Profit Practices - a collection of business processes, products and services that IT firms should consider using to leverage their business and become competitive.

You need to react to the new competitive landscape, improve your business and attract and engage your customers in more effective productive ways.

A majority of conference attendees at Blue Mountain confirmed both their recognition and desire to transform their business to meet the new realities of cloud, consumerization of IT, mobility and ever increasing security risks. Julian Lee, CEO of TechnoPlanet, passed on more than 25 years of channel expertise to a highly engaged audience of VARs and MSPs and ITSPs.

“Regardless of what you call yourself, you need to react to the new competitive landscape, improve your business and attract and engage your customers in more effective productive ways,” Lee advised the crowd.

Modelled after VAROfficeSuite(TM), IT Firm Profit Practices(TM) is a collection of over 30 business processes, products and services that IT firms should consider using to leverage their business and become competitive.

“There is no question that a large number of existing firms will fail, but at the same time there is an opportunity for progressive firms to dramatically scale and take advantage of the opportunities that change always brings,” said Keith Taylor, VP of Business Development for FuseExpertise .

A business IT assessment is the top category for IT Firm Profit Practices. FuseExpertise for IT Health for SMBs and SMEs is the defacto solution for IT firms to engage their clients, identify risks and opportunities and set out client improvement plans. Going far beyond traditional IT assessments, FuseExpertise is really providing every IT firm with a free consultant on staff through its software and content.

In addition, select vendors were given a sneak peak at how FuseExpertise can be substantially more effective for installation and configuration documentation, needs-based sales content and trickle publishing of 'did you know' tips to IT firms and their customers.

“Vendors have tremendous expertise, yet their content is largely the big read. FuseExpertise makes that content operational – you can distribute and consume in bite sized chunks checklists, quality assurance and sales guides. Traditional publishing of product content is dead. It needs to be immediately available, useful, repeatable, and provide accountability - checklists for perfect installations,” added Julian.

FuseExpertise is the leading provider of Expertise Management Software(TM). Though it is the most important corporate asset, expertise is poorly captured, re-used and deployed. Professional, productivity, operational and intelligence expertise are the four pillars of a successful company. Employers typically pay over and over again for the same expertise and suffer dramatic losses in expertise whenever they experience turnover – it takes six to nine months for a knowledge worker to achieve the same level of proficiency as their predecessor. FuseExpertise transforms expertise from a costly expense to a valuable asset that grows in value and importance. FuseExpertise provides powerful, patent and patent pending traits that make FuseExpertise 'business essential’ Collaborative Business Improvement Software(TM). Coupled with subject matter expert content, FuseExpertise can greatly leverage employees, managers, consultants, authors and publishers - anyone and any organization that has or needs expertise.
