
Swiss voters overwhelmingly rejected a nationwide referendum Sunday  that would have set the nation's minimum wage at $25 an hour and created  the world's highest paid unskilled workforce.

Final results from  Sunday's vote showed 76.3% of voters opposed the Decent Salary  Initiative, which would have had the greatest impact on immigrants  working in such jobs as agriculture, housekeeping and catering.

The  vote came days after hundreds of fast-food workers walked off their  jobs in many U.S. cities and in more than 30 countries in a protest for  higher wages.

Union leaders in the nation of 8 million people  promised to continue to fight against low pay. Trade Union Federation  chief economist Daniel Lampart said the results do not mean that the  Swiss back wages that would keep people in poverty.

"People want collective bargaining agreements to guarantee good salaries," he told the website swissinfo.ch .

Switzerland, however, features some of the  world's highest prices. The country does not have a minimum wage law,  so pay scales are determined by employment contracts or collective  bargaining. However, 90% of Swiss workers earn more than the proposed  minimum and are already among the highest paid in the world.

The  Swiss Business Federation, Economiesuisse, said the results show that  the Swiss people wouldn't tolerate government intervention in a  free-market economy. "We were able to show that the initiative hurts  low-paid workers in particular, the group's president, Heinz Karrer,  told the website.

Forcing employers to hike wages can mean other  cuts — including jobs. At 3.2%, Switzerland's unemployment rate is among  the lowest globally.

Swiss Economics Minister Johann  Schneider-Ammann warned that "if jobs are being cut, the weakest suffer  most." Some workers who make less than $25 an hour had opposed the  referendum.

Luisa Almeida is an immigrant from Portugal who works  in Switzerland as a housekeeper and nanny. Almeida's earnings of $3,250 a  month are below the proposed minimum wage but still much more than  she'd make in Portugal. Still, she did not support the referendum.

"If  my employer had to pay me more money, he wouldn't be able to keep me on  and I'd lose the job," she told USA TODAY days before the vote.

But  Patrick Belser, Senior Economist in the Wage Group of the International  Labor Office in Geneva, says the initiative had some merit.

"International  experience has shown that minimum wages can prevent labor exploitation  without any negative effect on the economy," he said.

Last year,  Switzerland passed a measure to curb "excessive" bonuses for executives,  but later voted down a proposal to reduce the income gap between lowest  and highest salaries.
