
Oleg Alex Cusnir (photo provided).

What led to the murder of a 27-year-old found dead in his burning truck is still a mystery to Mounties, who are appealing for help tracking the man’s last movements.

Oleg Alex Cusnir, a resident of Innisfail, was discovered dead about 2:30 p.m. Thursday as RCMP were investigating a report of a vehicle burning in a field off of Range Rd. 273, near the town, which is about 110 km north of Calgary.

RCMP Staff Sgt. Ron Campbell said how or why the man ended up dead in the remote area is still unknown.

“We have no motive, we have no suspects,” he said.

Campbell said Cusnir was known to police, but that’s not believed to be connected. “In a minor way, yes, he was known to the local detachment,” he said.

Innisfail RCMP Staff Sgt. Chris Matechuk told reporters Sunday they do have persons of interest they are pursuing, though they are not considered suspects.

Cusnir was found inside his Ford F-350, which was ablaze when police arrived.

His death was deemed a homicide Friday, but the cause of death is being withheld.

Matechuk could not say whether Cusnir was killed in the field or somewhere else, or if he was murdered the day he was found.

“Mr. Cusnir was not related to the property where he was found,” Matechuk said.

There’s no indication the incident was a targeted attack, but he said there are no concerns for the public.

“We have no information that would cause us to believe the public or community is in any danger at all,” he said.

Cusnir had only moved to Innisfail in September from Saskatchewan and was employed, Campbell said.

Mounties will examine his truck for evidence later this week. Anyone with information is asked to call the Innisfail RCMP detachment at 403-227-3341, or Crime Stoppers at 1-800-222-8477.

By adding a comment on the site, you accept our terms and conditions and our netiquette rules .

What led to the murder of a 27-year-old found dead in his burning truck is still a mystery to Mounties, who are appealing for help tracking the man’s last movements.

Oleg Alex Cusnir, a resident of Innisfail, was discovered dead about 2:30 p.m. Thursday as RCMP were investigating a report of a vehicle burning in a field off of Range Rd. 273, near the town, which is about 110 km north of Calgary.

RCMP Staff Sgt. Ron Campbell said how or why the man ended up dead in the remote area is still unknown.
