
Edmonton-Strathcona MLA Rachel Notley is considered an early front-runner to replace outgoing Brian Mason as leader of the provincial NDP.

With no potential female candidates stepping forward as nominations opened this past week, the Progressive Conservative party leadership race is shaping up to be one dominated by men. Nominations for the PC party leadership opened Thursday and, so far, only two men — former federal Conservative cabinet minister Jim Prentice and Calgary MLA Ric McIver — have declared their intentions to become the next leader and Alberta’s next premier.

A third potential candidate, Jobs Minister Thomas Lukaszuk, has said he is interested in a bid but hasn’t made a decision. Diana McQueen, the only woman holding a senior cabinet position in the Tory government, said last week she won’t seek the leadership.

Kelley Charlebois, the party’s executive director, says there is still time for women to enter the race.

If women are going to seek the top leadership position of a party, they need to be given opportunities to fill other leadership roles within government and caucus, says Linda Trimble, a professor at the University of Alberta who studies the representation of women in politics.

The 58-seat Tory caucus includes 17 women, or about 29 per cent. But when looking at cabinet, that ratio drops by about half.

With Alison Redford’s resignation as premier and Donna Kennedy-Glans’ move to sit as an Independent, the representation of women in the Tory cabinet suffered. Of the 26 members, two hold full portfolios — McQueen in Energy and Heather Klimchuk in Culture. The remaining two women, Sandra Jansen and Teresa Woo-Paw, hold associate minister positions.

Parties have to put more work into candidate recruitment, Trimble said. During the 2012 race, 27 per cent of PC candidates were women.

“I think that parties, and particularly party leaders, have to actively recruit women, because women are often reluctant or don’t see themselves as potential candidates and need to be convinced,” she said.

Increasing female participation in politics is a “long-term project,” said Mount Royal University policy studies professor Lori Williams. She suggested the “adversarial” nature of politics as a potential deterrent for female candidates.

With Brian Mason announcing he’ll step down as NDP leader in October, that party is also gearing up for its own leadership race. Edmonton Strathcona MLA Rachel Notley, who hasn’t decided if she’ll take the plunge, is already widely viewed as a front-runner, and farmer Mandy Melnyk has indicated she’s interested in a bid.

Notley, the sole woman among the NDP’s four elected MLAs, says the importance of recruiting women as election candidates can’t be overstated.

“I will say that it helps to have a woman that’s doing the recruiting,” said Notley, who will serve as the co-chair of the party’s election planning committee ahead of the 2016 election. During the 2012 race, about 45 per cent of the NDP’s candidates were women. The party has a policy of aiming for gender equity among candidates.

It’s important to provide mentorship to women, but also to be persistent in your recruitment efforts, Notley said.

The potential for having two opposition party leaders who are women could have a significant impact on provincial politics, Williams said.

“When you get those kinds of numbers across the board, there’s a chance it could change the way politics is done,” she said.

Wildrose leader Danielle Smith spent an evening in Edmonton last week speaking to Equal Voice, an organization that aims to encourage more women to participate in politics.

“Part of it is being a woman in a leadership role attracts the attention of women. I’ve had countless women tell me that,” Smith said. She noted two of the most visible members of her caucus — Calgary Fish Creek MLA Heather Forsyth and Innisfail-Sylvan Lake MLA Kerry Towle — are women. They are also the only other women in the 17-seat Wildrose caucus. The party also ran the lowest percentage of female candidates — about 14 per cent — in the 2012 race.

Unless a female dark horse candidate emerges before Tory nominations close May 30, Alberta’s next premier is certain to be a man. After seeing a record number of women in the premier’s club — six — across Canada, the country could end up with just one after voters in Ontario go to the polls next month.

Edmonton-Strathcona MLA Rachel Notley is considered an early front-runner to replace outgoing Brian Mason as leader of the provincial NDP.
