
Quebec Premier Philippe Couillard and his government begin work on passing bills in the National Assembly on Tuesday. The legislature sits until June 13.

QUEBEC — The Quebec National Assembly resumes sitting on Tuesday for the first time since the April 7 election, when Quebec voters chose a majority Quebec Liberal government headed by Philippe Couillard, rejecting Pauline Marois and her minority Parti Québécois administration.

The first order of business Tuesday will be choosing a Speaker. Jacques Chagnon, Liberal MNA for WestmountSaint-Louis, served as Speaker, maintaining order during assembly debates, under the last government of Jean Charest and in the 18 months when Marois was premier. He wants to remain in the role and so far no other MNAs have challenged him.

The Speaker, known in French as “le Président de l’Assemblée nationale,” is elected by a secret ballot of MNAs, unless there is only one candidate, who is acclaimed.

On Wednesday, Couillard will make his opening or inaugural address, setting out his agenda for the four-and-half years before Quebec’s first fixed-date election, Oct. 1, 2018.

“An inaugural address, as you know, is not telling people what we will do for this coming session,” Couillard said. “It is to tell them what the plan is for a government for the next four and a half years, and this is what I will do.

The actual business of the assembly, including question period when opposition members get to grill Couillard and his ministers, does not start until Thursday.

The whole spring sitting, cut short by the election and the change of government, will only last four weeks, ending with the statutory adjournment on June 13.

But Jean-Marc Fournier, who as government house leader decides the assembly agenda, said in an interview that while the assembly proper will be adjourned, MNAs will continue to work in committees, studying and approving the government’s spending estimates for 2014-2015 until about July 8, when the full assembly will be recalled for one day to vote approval of the government’s spending plans.

The Marois government presented a 2014-2015 budget in February, setting the scene for the election. Rather than losing a confidence vote on her budget, which the Liberals and Coalition Avenir Québec said they would oppose, Marois called the April 7 election and her budget was not adopted.

Liberal Finance Minister Carlos Leitao will likely present his budget in the first week in June, leaving time for its adoption.

“Our 2014-2015 budget is an important budget, but I would say that the 2015-2016 budget is just as important,” Couillard told reporters, saying the second Liberal budget, which spending controls will ensure is balanced, will reflect a restructuring of Quebec’s tax system and a revision of government programs to bring down costs.

Without cost controls, Quebec would face a $5-billion deficit this year and a $7-billion deficit next year, he said.

The legislative menu in this short session will be lean, with the government going ahead with its commitment to re-introduce and quickly adopt Bill 52 on end-of-life care, as well as a bill to create the position of inspector general for the city of Montreal, a position Montreal Mayor Denis Coderre has already filled, naming prosecutor Denis Gallant.

Fournier said in an interview that the bill on the inspector general will be essentially the same as the PQ bill on the inspector general, which died on the order paper, along with Bill 52, when the election was called.

Bill 52 was piloted through the assembly, to the brink of adoption by PQ junior health minister Véronique Hivon.

The Liberal version will bear the name of Liberal Health Minister Gaétan Barrette, but Fournier said, in an unprecedented move, he has proposed that the final bill bear the names of Barrette and Hivon.

Hivon first proposed the idea in 2009 when she was a PQ opposition member. Then-premier Charest agreed and Hivon was co-chair of a committee that held province-wide consultations.

When the PQ formed a government in 2012, Hivon presented Bill 52 and the collegial spirit continued, with members of all parties in the assembly shaping it by consensus.

Fournier said MNAs won’t always agree, “but they (the public) want us to be able to speak respectfully.

“I think these are important efforts to change the tone,” Fournier said.

Another initiative, he said, is to allow consideration of opposition bills. He recalled that during the leaders’ debates, Québec solidaire MNA Françoise David made a pitch for her bill to help seniors stay in their homes, an idea the three other leaders were quick to endorse.

As a rule, opposition members present bills that as a courtesy are adopted on first reading, then forgotten.

Fournier said he will offer David a chance for a second-reading debate on her bill.

“I’m not saying we will vote for it,” Fournier added, but the new practice will give opposition members more exposure for their ideas.

Quebec Premier Philippe Couillard and his government begin work on passing bills in the National Assembly on Tuesday. The legislature sits until June 13.
