
Shell Petroleum Development Company (SPDC) has offered Niger Delta youths yet another chance to start their own businesses through the 2014 edition of the LiveWIRE programme, being sponsored by the SPDC - operated Joint Venture.

Introduced in 2003, LiveWIRE Nigeria is a flagship programme that provides access to training, business development services and start-up capital to establish and expand youth-owned businesses. Shell’s Corporate Media Relations Manager, Mr. Precious Okolobo said in a statement at the weekend that to date, the programme had trained nearly 6,000 Niger Delta youths in enterprise development and management.

SPDC’s General Manager in charge of Sustainable Development and Community Relations, Nedo Osayande said the LiveWIRE programme had become the main means of support for youths in the Niger Delta to start their own businesses.

“The success stories of several young entrepreneurs are really inspiring, and we’re delighted that more youths will take up the opportunity in the 2014 edition,” Osayande said.

Under the 2014 programme, youths in Delta, Bayelsa and Rivers states have been given a chance to benefit from start-up funding and a wide range of support services including training workshops and business awareness sessions.

In 2011, SPDC commenced the implementation of a partnership with the Niger Delta Development Commission to expand the LiveWIRE programme with a focus on the economic empowerment of young women.

Through this partnership, the LiveWIRE model has been used to create employment opportunities for over 1,600 women between the ages of 18 and 35.

A highlight of the LiveWIRE programme is the Young Business Leaders Awards for managers who have been in business for up to two years, and can show good progress in service delivery, financial growth, employment generation and improvement in management strategies. The generous cash awards are expected to help the young people further expand their businesses.

Shell companies in Nigeria have reiterated that employment generation for young people is just one aspect of the social investment portfolio of Shell companies in Nigeria.

In 2013 alone, the SPDC JV and Shell Nigeria Exploration and Production Company (SNEPCo) said it spent more than $100 million on voluntary social investment activities.

This investment portfolio, according to the oil major, made Nigeria the largest recipient of social investment by the Shell Group globally.

Please leave your comment below. Your name will appear next to your comment. We'll also keep you updated by email whenever someone else comments on this page. Your comment will appear on this page once it has been approved by a moderator.

Please enter some keywords that you'd like to search for. Your results will be displayed below.

THISDAYLIVE cares about you, help us to report better!
