
But, Hudak has made some very serious mistakes,Republican style; he promised one million jobs would be created if he was Premier over the next eight years,and he promised to lay off 100,000 civil servants.

Both of those predictions are going to come back to  bite him on the ass, especially in Toronto where the public sector Unions have a lot of power.

On the plus side, Hudak has promised an inquiry into the gas plant cancellation scandal,and hopefully all the others,which should keep a few retired Judges busy for years.I wonder if they're already drawing straws among the ranks to see who takes the "hit" if worse comes to worst.

I suppose I'm a cynic, but I believe Ontarians will stick with the Liberal devils they know.

Then again,I predicted Boston would beat Montreal in six.

A month ago I would have agreed with you but Hudak is coming into his own of recent date.

If he can keep the momentum up he may just become our next Premier. Fingers crossed.

Glad to hear this about Hudak.

Mind you, right now I'd rather vote for one of the American Red Squirrels at my bird feeders than the hapless Wynne or the duplicitous Horwath.

Don Morris I do not know you, but I do know Tim Hudak. When my small rural community was in Tim Hudak's riding I spent a rainy day delivering flyers.

One of the interesting happenings as I knocked on the door of residences I was delivering flyers to, those where I knew the householder normally supported a Liberal Candidate, from my own Municipal political experience. Municipal voting, thankfully less partisan than the other levels of Government.

These partisan households would make an obvious effort to delay my task. Ostensibly to reduce the time available for the task of delivering Tim Hudak flyers. This action is the mindset of people who think all and anything they do for the Liberal Party will  personally benefit themselves. There is no other option for them and there is no community benefit line they will not cross to have a Liberal elected.

Don; Your comments dismay me. You have conveniently or possibly through a true unawareness, ignored the ongoing saga of the Dalton McGuinty Adminisration, Which Wynne was a significant partner.

The lies started with New Health Fees; remember these were not taxes, so just move on as the continual reach into your pocket continued. I believe McGuinty became McPinnichio at that time. But the Ontario/Canada Liberal Party spinners managed to turn him back into Premier Dad with the help of the ongoing complicit media.

It seems every Journolist in Ontario sees a future employment as a Liberal, not a member-cough;cough of the Liberal Caucus, but a full fledged Liberal Senator. The steady erosion of progressive writing opportunities affecting the Journolist integrity.

Don; I almost feel like I have knocked on your door to deliver a Tim Hudak flyer; Don; I say again how can you believe any Ontario voter would vote for a Liberal Candidate unless they have a Natural Gas Generating Plant being built in their riding. One that can be cancelled at $500,000.00 a pop. That's over one Billion $$ for two and let me help you do the math if their are more ridings to be won over with Taxpayer dollars just multiply the number of ridings by a half a billion per riding.

No Don, old buddy of mine, guess I am starting to understand your Wynning agenda better, It really is difficult to believe the Ontario voters will not recognize a genuine approach to Leadership offered By Tim Hudak after the steady drip by drip failures of the Liberal Party of Ontario/Canada. Cheers;

mike, timmy has about ZERO leadership skills, and there in lies the problem. John Tory is also a "nice" guy, and business smart but politically a dud. It's about time the PCs became conservatives and start choosing leaders. they have been as bad a s the federal lieberals in choosing duds for leaders. The PC candidate in my area may as well be a liberal.

Too early.

hudak doing better than last time.   He watched a double digit lead evaporate by doing nothing.   SO if he has learned his lesson, one Harper leaned, that policy keeps you the initiative with you then good.

But, it all comes down to debates.   Ontarions want change, but if Tim looks like an idiot in the debates it wont work.   Not sure Aunt Kathleen can look any better.   Right now it is a coin toss till the debates.   The NDP had the most opportunity and has done the worst.   NDP running to centre and Liberals runnign left.

Remember, a three way split in the overall vote is what yielded an NDP majority.   Just the way the votes broke.   The conditions could yield that result.   It also could yield a conservative majority if Hudak performs well in debates.

If Andrea Horwath was a a conservative then the Cons would have this in the bag.

I think Wynne is done...one way or another.

OR, you could stay home and not vote at all.

What good does it do to be second-guessing Hudak this close to the election?  Let him be, and think positive thoughts for Ontario's future.

Hudak has had game in the last week. And the media are far more supportive than they were last time.

I am almost certain he will a minority, with potential for majority if he does well in the debates or Wynne really blows it.

Hudak ran a wimpy campaign the last time. I recall screaming at the computer "Talk about Liberal scams"! He didn't.

He learned his lesson (or took lessons from Vic Fedeli) and is keeping the spotlight on e-health, ORNGE, and gas plants. He has grown a pair.

I've never personally met Tim Hudak, but know 3 people who have met him, and all 3 have fully functioning BS detectors - and all 3 told me they were "surprised" by his genuine likeability, his warmth, his humor (no kidding; they ALL mentioned Hudak's sense of humor!) ...so I'm inclined to believe this guy's blog post.

Hudak did not perform well in the last campaign. No excuses, but his young daughter was VERY unwell at that time and was hospitalized at Toronto Sick Children's Hospital, which might partially explain his performance last time. He is doing MUCH BETTER this time. The NDP (and Toronto Red Star) are howling for "3 more debates" than are currently scheduled, which I hope does NOT happen. The Media Party who "moderate" those debates would of course throw grenades at Hudak for 2 hours. He's doing fine ... stay the course, Tim, and keep lobbing conservative policy grenades once or twice a week ... a big one would be a promise to sell off / privatize the LCBO monopoly and empower thousands of retail entrepreneurs who would like to open Ontario liquor stores.

If Hudak does NOT win, the entire country will be in deep kimchee.

We on the right tend to consider our leaders as human, we thoughtfully praise or criticize when appropriate.  We don't accept all pronouncements from conservative leaders as gospel.  The left uses this natural tendency of the right as a wedge to call conservative leaders "weak" to drive away support from the right wing parties.

On the Left they deify their leaders, they will not criticize even the stupidest pronouncements.  The lefty press narrative is that a leader is weak if folks don't blindly follow.  It is what happened to Hudak in the last election.  It happened to Romney.  It happened to Harper in 2004.  It almost worked for Stephane Dion as there were practically no dissenting Liberals during the 2006 election, but once over, he was the "worst Liberal leader ever."

Hudak will make a much better premier than any Liberal.  I expect that there are at least 100,000 Ontarians who would run the province better than Wynne.

I believe those who criticize Hudak with non-specific statements have fallen for the MSM narrative.

Stay strong Ontario.  The way out of the wilderness is at hand.

I'll send you one free. Thanks for the idea!

Mike,I live in BC, and have no agenda concerning Ontario politics. I DO NOT support Wynne,or Horwath,or the Liberals or the NDP, but I have been around long enough to see crooks re-elected time and again by allegedly intelligent voters, at  the Federal, Provincial, and civic  level.

I merely expressed an opinion, that though Hudak may be a nice guy, Ontarians, especially those in Toronto, will vote automatically for the Liberals. Hudak is making some BIG mistakes by making non-credible promises about job creation  and talking about public sector layoffs in a Province that has one million Provincial government employees, and thousands more staunch Union fellow travellers in the private sector.

As to Wynne and McGuinty,if there was any justice in this world, both would be in Court for their machinations on ORNGE,Gas plants,etc., not on the campaign trail or instructing at a university, respectively.

Mike, old buddy,use your energy to continue door knocking,and hopefully, you and the Conservatives can convince enough voters that the Liberals need to be booted out.

But I doubt it.

I saw Hudak last election I thought what a chump , just another red Tory.

This times he has definatly developed a thicker skin , a little bit of bite to his bark and all in all moving in the right direction.

I doubt that Tim can change the massive bloated bureaucracy that seems to grow no matter who's in charge but anything's got to be better than Wynne. Considering he's bucking the unions, all civil servants, the teachers, the gay lobby, the green lobby, the Indian lobby, the CBC zombies and Toronto voter drones he's in a uphill battle to get enough votes from the disillusioned and apathetic remnants of citizens that still give a damn. Time will tell and I'll keep my fingers crossed but remember that this is the same herd of Provincial sheep that thought McGuinty deserved a second term.

"I..told..you..that..is..not..correct"

I'm astounded at the way the media and the people of Ont. are so blasé about this election. It's not about Hudak, or Hogvat or picking or being on the side of a winning "team", IT'S ABOUT THE SURVIVAL OF THE PROVINCE!

Another Klepto-Prog government will hollow out the province's treasury, tank its productive capability and saddle it with a debt which will guarantee perpetual corruption and banana republic politics. If you are near retirement age, you had better care about this election, because a bankrupt Kleptocracy will be drooling over your pensions and savings and taxing everything that moves or stands. Health care will deteriorate with fees and rationing. The province will become an extension of the US rust belt.

Back in Justinian's time (goggle it). Byzantine chariot racing fans polarized into "red" and "green" factions.....to the extreme of political polarization and civil war.....the issue was simple.... they're "red"...we are "greens"...that was it...yet a civil war occurred which nearly brought down the empire.

Those with Bush Derangement syndrome (BDS) have no knowledge(or care) of issues or Bush' character....but just resentment that he got elected rather than their brand.....same with Harper, Palin, Hudak etc.

That's why we call it DERANGEMENT SYDROME.....they are deranged.

Yep,they ARE deranged,and there are a lot of 'em.

Interesting links just above. Tasha is a dolt, has been for a long time. Squealing in this one about increasing class sizes by a couple of students. More to the point, she's hardly a "small-c conservative" as she claims when she's overtly putting personal interest above that of the province and ALL its needs.

Warren is right in Don's link. This is the same group of dolts who drove Paul Martin's campaigns off the rails. Absolutely visit the Kinsella link for a showcase of the three TV ads likely to kick off tonight. You'll find that you agree with Warren about which one is clearly the poorest.

Don, there's one other thing that Warren left out. The only ideas that are being talked about in this campaign are Hudak's. Wynne says at the beginning of her ad that she's not into personal attacks, and then promptly condemns what the PCs have said. That it's not a personal attack will be missed by most viewers.

When your only campaign lines are attacking the other party or parties, that's not the way that elections are won. Hudak is making a straight-forward pitch to conservative voters. "Vote for me and I will shrink government." It's always about getting out your own voting base.

I met Hudak at a meet-and-greet ages ago, like nearly ten years ago. My impression, just one more doofus lawyer. Impression confirmed in the last election.

But as we all know, Ontario is filled with people who can't remember the last election and can't count past ten with their shoes on.

This election, due to the fact that I do not watch TV or listen to radio AT ALL, EVER, I have heard -nothing- from the PCs or Hudak. There are no lawn signs out here in Hooterville either, everybody will vote PC because the alternative is more windmills and more OPP nonsense in Caledonia.

This means that the PCs are missing out on the internet -again-, and letting the Lamestream Media define them -again-. Which is about what I would expect out of a doofus lawyer like Mr. Hudak.

It remains to be seen if the Ontario Liberals have been bad enough for the Great Unwashed to throw them out. For sure Hudak has given us nothing to vote him -in- for.

Personally I'll vote PC because I'm not a fool. The alternatives are too catastrophically bad to even contemplate. But the PCs are a bunch of doofus lawyers. Not bad men, just uninspired doofuses.

Don,

Until this moment       I have been forced       to listen while media        and politicians alike       have told me       "what Canadians think".       In all that time they       never once asked.

This is just the voice       of an ordinary Canadian       yelling back at the radio - "You don't speak for me."

I am not a registered charity. I cannot issue tax receipts.
