
On Abortion, Justin Trudeau Looks To His Father's 'Deeply Held Personal Views'

OTTAWA - Liberal Leader Justin Trudeau says he is following an example set by his famous father when it comes to his position on election candidates and abortion.

In an email to supporters Monday, Trudeau offered a "personal reflection" to anyone who has concerns about his decision to turn away new candidates who are unwilling to vote pro-choice on relevant Liberal legislation.

"I had an extraordinary example in a father who had deeply, deeply held personal views that were informed by the fact that he went to church every Sunday, read the Bible regularly to us, and raised us very religiously, as Catholics," Trudeau wrote.

"But at the same time my father had no problem legalizing divorce, decriminalizing homosexuality and moving in ways that recognized the basic rights of the people.

"He too held fast to his beliefs. But he also understood that as leaders, as political figures, and as representatives of a larger community, our utmost responsibility is to stand up for people's rights."

Trudeau says he shares his father's view of leadership in that regard.

"Canadians of all views are welcome within the Liberal Party of Canada. But under my leadership, incoming Liberal MPs will always vote in favour of a woman's fundamental rights," he wrote.

"When it comes to actively supporting women's rights, our party must speak with one voice."

Toronto's Roman Catholic archbishop, Cardinal Thomas Collins, has written to Trudeau, urging him to allow candidates to be faithful to their conscience.

Trudeau says while he welcomes input from the prelate, his party is committed to the values laid out in the Charter of Rights and Freedoms.

HIGHLIGHT: Edmonton comes in second to last place in areas of women’s political representation — currently one woman is elected at the municipal level.

HIGHLIGHT: Women earn about $14,000 less per year than men in Oshawa for all jobs, and there is a higher than average number of sexual assaults per year.

HIGHLIGHT: Men outnumber women in jobs in trades and apprenticeships at a rate of more than two to one.

HIGHLIGHT:  Calgary has one of the worst records among the top 30 cities for promoting women into senior management positions. Women only hold 22 per cent of these jobs.

HIGHLIGHT: The rate of sexual assaults reported to the police in Kitchener-Cambridge-Waterloo areas is slightly higher than the national average.

HIGHLIGHT: The people of London (about 66 per cent of men and 62 per cent of women), identify their health as good or excellent.

HIGHLIGHT: Compared to other cities on this list, both men and women report high levels of stress.

HIGHLIGHT: Women living in Vancouver have the highest life expectancy compared to other cities.

HIGHLIGHT: Winnipeg has the highest rates of police reported incidents of sexual assault compared to the rest of these cities.

HIGHLIGHT: Regina has one of the best records for women's representation in senior management positions — even though men still outnumber women.

HIGHLIGHT: More than a quarter of women in Hamilton (28 per cent) identify their lives as highly stressful.

HIGHLIGHT: Halifax scored the highest in terms of having the smallest gap for men and women's employment.

HIGHLIGHT: Even with one of the smallest populations on this list, Sherbrooke, Que. has nearly equal levels of employment for men and women.

HIGHLIGHT: Women can expect to earn the most money in Ottawa-Gatineau.

HIGHLIGHT: The wage gap in Toronto is smaller than average — women earn about 77 cents on the male dollar.

HIGHLIGHT: Victoria has one of the highest rates of women holding senior management positions — 33 per cent.

HIGHLIGHT: Women are more likely to have diplomas (high school, college and university) than men in Montreal.

HIGHLIGHT: St. John's has one woman for every two men in top management jobs. However, it is also the only city with no female city councillor.

HIGHLIGHT: Four out of 11 city councilors are women.

HIGHLIGHT: At the number one spot, Quebec had the highest scores in areas of women's leadership and the lowest rate of police-reported sexual and domestic violence cases.

Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day..

Use this form to alert a HuffPost editor about a factual or typographical error in this story.

Thank you!
