
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .

If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .

Jakarta:  Joko Widodo, the man most likely to become  Indonesia's next president, has gone back to the future in his choice of running mate, picking a significantly older former vice-president for the job.

Jusuf Kalla, 72, served as vice-president in the first term of the incumbent, Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, between 2004 and 2009. He will add age, experience, parliamentary clout and regional variety to the candidacy of the relatively youthful Mr Joko, 52, known universally by his nickname, Jokowi.

The July 9 presidential election now looks almost certain to come down to a battle between two camps: Mr Joko and Mr Kalla against former special forces general Prabowo Subianto and former minister Hatta Rajasa — though the second pairing is not confirmed and a third ticket is still an outside possibility.

Recent surveys show Mr Joko and political warhorse Mr Kalla topping the polls even though Mr Joko has built his image on being an anti-establishment newcomer.

Mr Kalla is the ultimate political survivor and has long been touted for the job. As a native of South Sulawesi, he offers to broaden the regional credentials of Mr Joko, who is from Central Java.

However, Mr Kalla is such a strong-willed and independent performer that some fear he might undermine the younger man, as he was accused of doing to Dr Yudhoyono.

“SBY had trouble with him being impatient, outspoken and showing him up as vice-president,” says ANU Indonesia expert Greg Fealy.

“This fear in Jokowi’s camp is worse. He is younger and untested at the national level and the fear is that Jusuf Kalla would be overbearing, condescending and might speak out of turn,” Professor Fealy said.

After the fall of the New Order government, he was appointed industry and trade minister under president Abdurrahman Wahid. However Abdurrahman sacked him for corruption in April 2000, though he never presented evidence for the charge.

After Abdurrahman was himself removed from office the following year — partly due to such sackings — Mr Kalla became part of Megawati Sukarnoputri’s cabinet as the minister of people’s welfare. He set about successfully resolving a number of violent sectarian conflicts, including those in Poso and Ambon.

At the 2009 election, however, Dr Yudhoyono did not appoint him running mate for a second term.

Professor Fealy said Mr Kalla was acceptable to both the  mass-participation Muslim groups in Indonesia, Nahdlatul Ulama and Muhammadiya. He was also adept at pushing results through Indonesia’s corrupt and fractious parliament.

“He knows how to get things done; to set up a team who can smooth legislation through the parliament,” Professor Fealy said.

General Prabowo has not yet formally announced his running mate, but has formed a coalition with the National Mandate Party led by Mr Hatta and appears almost certain to invite him to be the vice-presidential candidate.

Mr Hatta, also described by Professor Fealy as a “machine man",  recently resigned as coordinating economic minister in Dr Yudhoyono’s cabinet so he could contest the election.

Daredevil wingsuiters take on 'epic challenge'

Onlookers cheer as two Dutch wingsuiters jump from a helicopter and soar around the Euromast building in Rotterdam.
