
By Mike Freeman 9:58 a.m.May 19, 2014Updated10:02 a.m.

Jerry Daviess hesitates when describing what his company does, trying to make it understandable to a layman.

Quantum Design makes complex scientific instruments used in fundamental research of materials, he said. The privately held firm has been doing so in San Diego since 1982 — largely under the radar.

Its instruments are used by universities and research labs worldwide to analyze and determine the characteristics of materials, often at very extreme temperatures. All of the company’s core products are manufactured in San Diego. Roughly 75 percent of its business involves exports to other countries.

Quantum Design not only sells its own instruments worldwide, it also distributes research instruments made by others through a series of sister companies operating under the Quantum Design International umbrella, said Daviess.

That means Daviess, who was named chief executive of Quantum Design in February after nearly 20 years with the firm, spends a lot of time in airports.

He was largely responsible for spearheading Quantum Design’s international expansion that includes operations in Japan, Korea, China, Brazil, India and other locales. In 2010, Quantum Design received the Presidential “E” Award from the Obama administration for excellence in exporting.

When Daviess started with Quantum Design as director of sales and marketing, its revenue totaled about $6 million. Today, revenue has grown to $140 million. Of that, about $56 million stems from sales of Quantum Design’s scientific instruments made in San Diego.

Manufacturing is supposed to be difficult in San Diego. Yet Quantum Design recently expanded into a 58,000-square-foot factory in Sorrento Mesa. Daviess referred manufacturing questions to company President Greg DeGeller, who said the reason the company stays here is that most of its supply chain is based locally and that it would be expensive to replace.

In addition, the firm’s workforce knows what it’s doing, he said.

Daviess spoke recently with U-T San Diego about the company. Here are some excerpts.

A: It is important to understand that our instruments are used in fundamental research. When you start talking about applications, that sometimes is a difficult bridge to cross.

If you were to talk about applications, for semiconductor chips, for example, you have to characterize materials for how well they perform under certain conditions. And our instruments allow those types of materials to be characterized. It could be materials for semiconductors. It could be materials for magnetic storage.

So if you remember the days when disc drive platters were 14 inches in diameter and now they are 3.5 inches in diameter and they store tens of thousands times more information. The ability to do that, among other things, is a function of the material those drives are made of. And our instruments enable those materials to be characterized under environmental ranges and different temperatures.

Upgrade your browsing experience with a paid subscription to the U-T.
