
Spot satellite emergency signalling devices have saved 3000 lives to date – but are they an essential piece of kit for the outward bound, or a darned nuisance that is unleashing a bunch of idiots into the most unspoiled and peaceful places on the planet, especially in Canada.

The company that makes them proudly announces that SPOT products have been used to initiate 3,000 rescues around the world since the technology’s launch in 2007. “With over 200,000 units in service, SPOT is now averaging a rescue a day; approximately one-third (829) of all worldwide rescues to date have taken place in Canada,” the company announced.

SPOT says it delivers affordable and reliable satellite-based connectivity and real-time GPS tracking, completely independent of cellular coverage. But its prices are absurdly high.

SPOT products offer users peace of mind by allowing them to track their assets, utilize location-based messaging and emergency notification technology and to make calls beyond the boundaries of cellular. SPOT products work around the world, including virtually all of the continental United States, Canada, Mexico, Europe and Australia, portions of South America, Northern Africa, North-Eastern Asia and thousands of miles offshore of these areas. Over the past seven years, boaters, hunters, recreational pilots, hikers, snowmobilers, fishermen, campers and off-road travelers and outdoor enthusiasts have come to depend on the lifesaving capabilities of SPOT.

One of Canada’s most recent SPOT rescues occurred this spring in Kananaskis, Alberta. College student Jamie Waine was on an adventure trek to Bull Creek Hill with friends. Having reached the top of the lookout, Jamie slipped on some rocks and broke her ankle. Outside of cell coverage range and with evening approaching, the group used a SPOT Gen3 to send an S.O.S. message to GEOS International Emergency Response Coordination Center (GEOS) that included Jamie’s GPS location coordinates. Rescue personnel were dispatched to the scene.

SPOT continues to innovate with products and services that deliver peace of mind, reliable connectivity and accurate GPS tracking solutions that are relevant to millions of users around the world, such as: SPOT Gen3(TM) (SPOT Satellite GPS Messenger) is a rugged and affordable GPS tracking device providing off-the-grid messaging, emergency alerts, extended battery life, and extreme GPS tracking at 2 1/2 minute intervals. SPOT Global Phone is the most affordable satellite phone available in retail ($499), allowing users to make calls virtually anywhere beyond the boundaries of cellular. SPOT Trace(TM) is a GPS tracking device which uses 100% satellite technology to track anything, anytime, anywhere. SPOT Trace ensures that users never lose sight of their car, boat, motorcycle, ATV or other valuable gear. The SPOT App is a convenient web-based interface allowing users to easily view their SPOT messages, show their track (location) points, and monitor their assets via smartphone or tablet.

The ability to send S.O.S. notifications to GEOS and emergency dispatch services are included in the SPOT Basic Service plan. Additionally, SPOT offers the GEOS Member Rescue Benefit, for as low as $1.99 a month on an annual basis, which covers additional expenses associated with search and rescue efforts. The GEOS International Emergency Response Coordination Center is staffed 24/7 with dedicated and highly trained operatives who have access to emergency responders worldwide, to ensure timely and efficient response to each emergency situation.

In Canada, SPOT is available at retailers including MEC (Mountain Equipment Co-op), Sail, London Drugs, Atmosphere, at independent electronics dealers across Canada and online.

Good artical. I will be moving off grid soon, I’m 60 and will be mostly on my own.  I will be using chainsaws etc. everyday and if I cut into my leg a good one I will feel much better knowing all I have to do is push a button to get assistance.  I don’t agree with the “only the rich can afford it” I’m far from wealthy, but will feel rich living off grid.

Creative Commons license, which allows you to utilise all the information on this site for non-commercial purposes, providing you credit the information with the word 'off-grid.net', which should be written as one word and accompanied by a link to our web site.

Have you decided to go off the grid and looking to make the move? We can help you find the ideal off-grid community and want to film you as you make the transition.

Off-Grid.net is investigating the Utility companies --power, water and waste.
