
Share This Story!

Recent time spent on the campaign trail with incumbent U.S. Sen. Thad Cochran and state Sen. Chris McDaniel as the June 3 primary nears highlights their differences.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Recent time spent on the campaign trail with incumbent U.S. Sen. Thad Cochran and state Sen. Chris McDaniel as the June 3 primary nears highlights their differences.

Their styles couldn't be more different — the two men squared off in the Mississippi GOP primary for the U.S. Senate.

One is a 76-year-old, six-term incumbent noted for courtliness and low-key effectiveness as a Senate power broker, who has the backing of the state Republican and business establishment.

The other is a 42-year-old, firebrand state senator, a rising political star who has bucked the Republican establishment and stirred the conservative, tea party base calling for a change in Washington.

Recent time spent on the campaign trail with incumbent U.S. Sen. Thad Cochran and state Sen. Chris McDaniel as the June 3 primary nears highlights the differences.

The people gathered on the state Capitol lawn are mad, all fired up, just judging from their T-shirts and signs: "Audit the IRS," "Don't Tread on Me" and "Retire Thad Cochran."

They're here for a Tea Party Express rally and a keynote stump speech from their candidate for U.S. Senate, state Sen. Chris McDaniel.

The turnout is so-so, about 70, including some from the national tea party bus and campaign. But their enthusiasm makes up for their numbers. They chant along, "Don't Tread on Me!" after warnings from opening acts that socialism is creeping in and "they'll own our houses, own our food." Helping keep capitalism alive, tea party folks have tables set up selling any number of T-shirts, books, CDs and other items for patriots.

The duo Rivoli Revue sings a stirring song to the tune of "Secret Agent Man" that warns the country will soon be "the U.S.S. of A."

McDaniel arrives and glad-hands as he awaits his turn on stage, posing for photos with supporters, autographing campaign signs, talking with media even though his campaign handlers said he probably wouldn't be able to beforehand.

He's already had a full day of campaigning, starting that morning on the Coast and working his way to Jackson.

His itinerary will carry into the night — a pro-life banquet, ending with a meet-and-greet in Brandon. Out-spent campaign media-wise about 3-1 (although tea party super PACs have pumped money into the race), McDaniel has relentlessly toured the state for weeks, sunup to sundown, shoe-leather campaigning.

But as he takes the stage, the 42-year-old shows no sign of waning, appearing in his element. He exudes energy as he fires up the crowd, speaking in his customary long, fast bursts — no Mississippi drawl here — pausing to let the crowd applaud, cheer and at one point start yelling "hear, hear!"

The lane around the modern, impressive campus of Pioneer Health Services in Magee is lined with Sen. Thad Cochran campaign signs, and Pioneer founder Joe McNulty and other officials are there to greet Cochran as he gets off his RV.

The 76-year-old, six-term incumbent makes his way through a long line of well-wishers, shaking hands, chatting and hearing time and again, "I don't know if you remember me," and "you helped us with …" in Washington over the years.

Cochran makes his way to a company auditorium, where about 100 employees are gathered. McNulty extols Cochran's decades of service to Mississippi and his industry as he introduces him.

Cochran takes to the podium and praises the company, which has grown since its founding in 1996 to more than 2,000 employees, managing hospitals in five states. He vows to continue support for such Mississippi ventures, job creation and to "make sure our interests here in Mississippi are represented in Washington."

"I wanted to come here and let you know I'm running for re-election," Cochran says, in a tone so low-key it draws laughter. He follows with a joke about when Mississippi leaders first approached him, then a young lawyer, to run for Congress in 1972. He said he asked his wife, "What would you think about being married to a United States congressman?"

"She said, 'I don't know. Which one?' " Cochran deadpanned to laughter and applause. "I thought, well, the worst thing that can happen is I'd win."

'Take the arrows'

McDaniel laments to his audience the demise of the Republican Party he "joined when I was just 13 years old," and Ronald Reagan was standing tall.

"Ronald Reagan talked about bold colors, not pastels," McDaniel said, a catch phrase he's been using in numerous speeches. "… That's the party we've got to restore."

He tells the crowd he respects his opponent and they should, too. Then he goes on to call Cochran liberal, a big spender and insinuate he's too old — "when he went there, Richard Nixon was your president. I'll let that sink in. It was a different era then."

The crowd eats it up, down to the closing, "You storm those gates, and I'll follow you! God bless you."

Larry Eubanks, an International Paper retiree from Star, vows, "I'm going to support Chris all that I can, see if we can get change. I want action. I want someone willing to stand up there and take the arrows. Thad's been hiding, the last few years especially, and you can't communicate with him. … He owns part of it, all the debt, he's voted for time after time."

'Solid senator for us'

Cochran continues with folksy reminiscence to his audience about his switch to the Senate in 1978, where he said he has tried to represent Mississippi's interests as best he could. His slow, steady rise in Republican ranks over decades includes former chairmanship of Senate Appropriations, one of the most powerful positions in the free world.

Cochran notes to the crowd the importance of defense, "because there are dangerous people out there who don't like us," and vows to support education and other federal programs that can help the state.

"But don't overdo it," Cochran said. "We don't need to bankrupt the federal budget. We don't need too many regulations, but we need some."

No red meat. No fiery rhetoric. Cochran never once raises his voice or mentions his opponent, McDaniel.

He closes, to applause: "I'm here to let you know I'm willing to serve another six years. … I'll do the best I can to make you proud you had a part in my re-election."

McNulty says he's supported Cochran since his '78 election to the Senate and will continue because "he's a solid senator for us."

"He looks out for the state of Mississippi," McNulty said. "He's a voice that speaks for everyone, the small businesses, the rural people. I look forward to him returning and representing Mississippi and being chairman of Appropriations when Republicans take back over the Senate."

Has McDaniel made inroads beyond his initial base? He appears to take a little umbrage at this question. He points out he's just talked to 10 local GOP groups in as many days across the state and been well received.

He notes his supporters appear to be substantially more fired up than Cochran's, more likely to vote.

And, he makes clear, he is a full-fledged Republican, not just a tea party candidate.

"I'm a two-term Republican state senator," McDaniel says. "I've been a Republican for my entire life. I've fought for Republican candidates. I've given money to Republican candidates. I've been a member of Republican executive committees, and I've been a delegate to the state convention. It is not simply a tea party movement. It's a conservative movement. … Anybody who considers themselves conservative, those are our people."

And once the primary is over, McDaniel said, "everything will be fine again, and we'll all be on the same team again."

On the campaign RV with a few staffers after the Pioneer event, Cochran hears his itinerary: a meet-and-greet stop at a large car dealership in Collins, lunch on Main Street and "iced tea with local folks," then on to a ribbon cutting and speech at his campaign headquarters in Hattiesburg. Much of his ground game has been similar, low-profile affairs, with his campaign ads doing the heavy lifting against his opponent.

He's been touring the state off and on when Congress is out and says, "I think it's going very well. … I enjoy the campaign trail." He recounts how he surprised some folks at a small social event at a Jackson home the night before. An accomplished player, he spied a piano in the house, sat down and belted out "a boogie-woogie piece that had somehow been tucked away in my repertoire."

"I haven't thought about him," Cochran says. "I've thought about my own campaign, and I'll let him take care of his own campaign. … I have a record of service and performance in the job that is generally well-known, people appear to be reasonably pleased, and I'm encouraged with the amount of support there seems to be for my re-election."

Otherwise, it's hard to get Cochran to say much about McDaniel or the nitty gritty of campaign politics.

McDaniel has questioned how engaged Cochran is in his own campaign, insinuating others are running it and have "gone negative." Cochran bristles a little at the question of how engaged he is.

"They can't do it without me," Cochran says.

And what about the tea party? Cochran famously, early in this campaign, caught flak for saying he didn't know much about it.

"There's competition from some of the tea party folks who might seem a little shrill at times," Cochran said. "But I think the good judgment of the majority is going to prevail in the long run, going to maintain a free and open system for competitive ideas."

As McDaniel arrives at a meet-and-greet at the clubhouse of a Brandon neighborhood that night, among those he meets is a Washington bureau chief from the Japanese Kyodo News.

Tsukasa Arita later notes he's there because "everyone in Washington is saying this is the race to watch." It's been billed in national media as most opportune for a tea party challenger to topple a powerful, established Republican.

People are waiting on McDaniel as he enters the clubhouse. These are the folks the Cochran campaign worries about. They're middle or upper-middle class, nary a Don't Tread on Me T-shirt in the bunch, and not necessarily tea party folk, just Republicans wanting a change.

But it's a small gathering — about 25 total, including a few organizers or campaign volunteers.

McDaniel quickly engages them, tells them "the people of this state are waking up."

Of Cochran he says, "After 42 years the city has changed the man more than the man has changed the city. … Name one fight he has led against Obama."

He says Cochran has supported pork-barrel spending and that "we're supposed to just say thank you."

"It was your money in the first place, before they took it to Washington," McDaniel said. "I want you to keep your money. I can't spend your money better than you."

Cochran took his own sweet time in announcing his re-election bid this go-'round, waiting until December before the March deadline.

He explains: "I had to think about whether I was healthy enough, energetic enough and how I felt about making a commitment to serve for another six-year term. Frankly, I feel good, have a high level of energy and enthusiasm. … More and more people told me, 'You've just got to run — you're in a place of importance and influence that can't be equaled, so you should run again.' "

He's obviously irritated by questions of whether he's planning to serve another full six years.

"That's how long the term lasts, isn't it?" Cochran said. "I don't have any intention of misrepresenting that. I intend to serve as long as I am healthy and capable."

'This is Mississippi'

Bipartisanship is clearly not a focus of the McDaniel campaign, nor is bringing home the bacon to Mississippi.

"Senators (Ted) Cruz and (Mike) Lee, they're not going up there to join hands across the aisle," McDaniel tells his audience.

McDaniel says that "every state in the union is to a certain extent addicted to federal spending."

"And that means every state is going to have to make sacrifices to save this union. … The body as a whole, once they see the people waking up, will respond. We win in Mississippi, and they all wake up. A win in Mississippi means business as usual is dead."

McDaniel announces he's been endorsed by the American Conservative Union that day and says the group gave Cochran the second-lowest ranking of any Republican, save Sen. Susan Collins of Maine.

"This is not Maine," McDaniel says. "This is Mississippi, and we have to learn to fight like Mississippians if we are going to regain this country."

As Cochran's RV pulls into the car dealership in Collins, where he'll meet and greet employees and others from town, no speeches, he notes it's hard to define the current state of affairs in Washington. With "a lot of competition in ideas and interests," he said, partisanship has "gotten more sharply defined."

"Competition is a healthy ingredient, and competing ideas are good for the country. … That's the way it ought to be."

"But I think camaraderie and mutual respect will carry the day," Cochran said, "and we'll see government working together again, particularly in national security. We don't need to be divided when it comes to our peace and security and trade opportunities for our country. That needs to come first."

Cochran said he's optimistic Republicans will regain control of the Senate this midterm, and he looks forward to regaining the Appropriations chairmanship if so.

"I like being chairman of the committee better than being a ranking minority member," Cochran said. "Being able to select members of the staff and help set the agenda for the U.S. Senate is a very important role and one I feel comfortable with because of my experience."

Cochran said: "The people will make the decision on election day. I think my experience serves the state's interest very well, whereas a new person who has not had the benefit of the experiences and challenges of representing the state in Washington will have a learning curve."
