
Christopher Jones was prosecuted by the Health and Safety Executive (HSE) after a concerned member of the public videoed the incident at Shadlock Skips on Newchurch Road on 1 May 2013.

The owner of a skip hire firm has been fined after he was filmed putting an employee’s life in danger by lifting him in a digger bucket.

Christopher Jones was prosecuted by the Health and Safety Executive (HSE) after a concerned member of the public videoed the incident at Shadlock Skips on Newchurch Road, Bacup on May 1 2013.

Burnley Magistrates’ Court heard that Mr Jones, 44, and an employee had been trying to remove a small piece of damaged plywood above the main shutter doors.

No measures were put in place to prevent the worker falling around four metres from the bucket to the ground below.

The court was told much safer methods of carrying out the work were available on the site. These included attaching a man-riding cage to the front of the vehicle or simply using a ladder.

Mr Jones previously received a warning from HSE less than two months before the incident after the same employee was witnessed riding on top of a fully laden skip wagon as it reversed into the site.

Christopher Jones, of West View Road, was fined £5,000 and ordered to pay £1,039 in prosecution costs after pleading guilty to a breach of the Work at Height Regulations 2005 on 16 May 2014.

Speaking after the hearing, HSE Inspector David Myrtle said: "Falls from height are a major cause of workplace deaths in Great Britain. It’s for this reason that HSE takes work at height seriously and expects employers, such as Mr Jones, to do the same.

“He knew that raising his employee in the bucket of the telehandler was wrong but thought that since the job would only take a minute it would be ok.

Join us on social media.

For the latest local news straight to your Twitter, Facebook feed or e-mail inbox.

Is there something happening in your area you would like us to report on? You can contact the newsdesk via the following details.

The Rossendale Free Press and www.rossendalefreepress.co.uk conform to the newspaper industry's voluntary Code of Practice, administered by the Press Complaints Commission.

If you feel we have made an error in a report, or have fallen below our usual high standards, please write in the first instance to: Gareth Tidman, editor, Rossendale Free Press, Mitchell Henry House, Hollinwood Avenue, Chadderton, Oldham OL9 8EP.

M.E.N. Media is one of the north west's largest media providers and reaches 7 out of 10 people in Greater Manchester every week.

Online our editorial websites welcome 2.4million unique users who experience 12.4million page views every month.

Our 20 local weekly newspapers include the Stockport Express, Rochdale Observer, Salford Advertiser, Oldham Advertisers and Wilmslow Express.

Plus, we have the flagship Manchester Evening News - Britain's largest circulating regional daily with up to 130,485 copies and the free morning newspaper, The Metro, published every weekday which delivers more than 200,000 readers in Greater Manchester.

Greater Manchester Business Week is the region's number one provider of business news and features, targeting a bespoke business audience with 12,687 copies every Thursday.

Every month, M.E.N. Media's print products reach 2.2 million adults, spanning from Accrington in the north to Macclesfield in the south.

Gareth Tidman has been the editor of the Rossendale Free Press since 2011.

He has 15 years' experience as a journalist in a career that has spanned Lancashire, Cheshire and Yorkshire, and he has been nominated for a number of press awards as an editor.
