
), manufacturer of the award winning, ultra-premium "Marani Vodka," announced today that the company's CEO, Margrit Eyraud, was featured in an exclusive interview with CEOLIVE.TV.

CEOLIVE.TV focuses on undervalued small and mid-cap public companies and features in-depth interviews with their Management Team and Board.

In the interview, Ms. Eyraud discussed the company's history and development of its signature product, ultra-premium "Marani Vodka."

She also detailed Marani Vodka's extensive distribution, including $105 million in international distribution alone. Ms. Eyraud discussed Marani's US distribution and the recently announced agreement with Costco stores in California as well as development of other premium products in the pipeline including an expanded line of Armenian Brandies.

About Marani Brands Inc.

Marani Brands, Inc. develops, positions, markets and distributes fine wine and spirit products in the United States. Its signature product "Marani Vodka" is an ultra-premium vodka manufactured exclusively for Marani in Armenia. It is made from late-harvest Armenian winter wheat, distilled three times, filtered twenty-five times and then, through a proprietary process, is aged in oak barrels lined with honey and skimmed dried milk to give it its unique taste. Marani Vodka was awarded the Gold Medal in the prestigious International Spirit Competition, held in San Francisco, California, in both 2004 and 2007 and the coveted Star Diamond Award by the American Academy of Hospitality Sciences in 2008 and 2009. Please enjoy Marani brands responsibly and in moderation.

Forward-Looking Statement Any statements made in this press release which are not historical facts contain certain forward-looking statements; as such term is defined in the Private Security Litigation Reform Act of 1995, concerning potential developments affecting the business, prospects, financial condition and other aspects of the company to which this release pertains. The actual results of the specific items described in this release, and the company's operations generally, may differ materially from what is projected in such forward-looking statements. Although such statements are based upon the best judgments of management of the company as of the date of this release, significant deviations in magnitude, timing and other factors may result from business risks and uncertainties including, without limitation, the company's dependence on third parties, general market and economic conditions, technical factors, the availability of outside capital, receipt of revenues and other factors, many of which are beyond the control of the company. The company disclaims any obligation to update information contained in any forward-looking statement. This press release shall not be deemed a general solicitation.

Zeitverzögerung der Kursdaten: Deutsche Börsen +15 Min. NASDAQ +15 Min. NYSE +20 Min. AMEX +20 Min. Dow Jones +15 Min.
