
Kentz, the engineering and construction group, is pleased to announce that it has completed the purchase of the business of Alegro Projects and Fabrication Ltd ('Alegro'), an organization offering fabrication and construction services to the industrial sector in Western Canada.

Alegro designs, fabricates, and installs piping, structural steel, and storage tanks, along with a range of other oilfield equipment. The Company has been in operation since 2004 and is based in Nisku, Alberta.

Alegro has completed a number of significant facilities projects in Alberta, for clients in a variety of sectors; in particular oil and gas.

One of Kentz's strategic objectives outlined in its 2013 & Beyond strategy, was to acquire SMP capabilities, to augment its existing electrical and instrumentation (E&I) expertise, and to support Kentz as it evolves as a multi-disciplined construction contractor within the Canadian region. This will enable Kentz to target, self-perform and execute multi-disciplined construction opportunities as a prime construction contractor, as the company does in many other regions globally.

CERI estimates capital investment in the Canadian oil sands to add up to $207 billion over the 2013-2022 period, and this estimate excludes additional maintenance, repairs and operational expenditures. This acquisition further supports Kentz's capability to significantly target a larger portion of the capital expenditure.

Paul Knowles, Director for Kentz's Construction Business Unit in Canada, said;

"The addition of Alegro to our existing E&I construction business in Canada, creates a wealth of opportunity for Kentz in the Canadian oil and gas construction market place. Alegro has a strong record of delivering for its clients and has a strong cultural fit with Kentz; I welcome all at Alegro onboard and look forward to working with them.

"The addition of further construction capability was a key strategic growth initiative identified by Kentz and combined with our engineering and technical services, gives us a rounded offering to existing and new clients across the region."
