
Under this new agreement GDF SUEZ commits to deliver 270,000 tonnes per year (tpa) of liquefied natural gas (LNG) to Tohoku Electric Power. The long term contract will start in 2018 and last for a 20-year period.

Volumes will be supplied with natural gas from the US which will be liquefied in the Cameron LNG plant. GDF SUEZ will be one of the first companies to supply Asia with American LNG, thanks to its LNG carrier’s fleet and a diversified LNG portfolio.

The Cameron LNG export project which partners are GDF SUEZ, Sempra, Mitsubishi and Mitsui has received conditional approvals from the US Department of Energy (DOE) and partial agreement from the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) and is likely to be finally sanctioned within the course of this year.

GDF SUEZ is a global LNG player and the main LNG importer in Europe. GDF SUEZ has the third largest LNG supply portfolio in the world, supplied from six different countries, and representing 16 million tonnes per year. It controls a large fleet of 14 LNG carriers under mid and long term charter agreements. The fleet is permanently optimized to satisfy GDF SUEZ long term commitments and short term opportunities. The Group has also a significant presence in regasification terminals around the world, including FSRU’s and in liquefaction projects.

GDF SUEZ (gdfsuez.com) develops its businesses (power, natural gas, energy services) around a model based on responsible growth to take up today’s major energy and environmental challenges: meeting energy needs, ensuring the security of supply, fighting against climate change and maximizing the use of resources. The Group provides highly efficient and innovative solutions to individuals, cities and businesses by relying on diversified gas-supply sources, flexible and low-emission power generation as well as unique expertise in four key sectors: independent power production, liquefied natural gas, renewable energy and energy efficiency services.GDF SUEZ employs 147,200 people worldwide and achieved revenues of €81,3 billion in 2013. The Group is listed on the Paris, Brussels and Luxembourg stock exchanges and is represented in the main international indices: CAC 40, BEL 20, DJ Euro Stoxx 50, Euronext 100, FTSE Eurotop 100, MSCI Europe and Euronext Vigeo (World 120, Eurozone 120, Europe 120 and France 20).

Newswire Today - PRZOOM / PRTODAY disclaims any content contained in this article. If you need/wish to contact the company who published the current release, you will need to contact them - NOT us. Issuers of articles are solely responsible for the accuracy of their content. Our complete disclaimer appears here .

IMPORTANT INFORMATION: Issuance, publication or distribution of this press release in certain jurisdictions could be subject to restrictions. The recipient of this press release is responsible for using this press release and the information herein in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations in the particular jurisdiction. This press release does not constitute an offer or an offering to acquire or subscribe for any GDF SUEZ securities in any jurisdiction including any other companies listed or named in this release.
