
JERSEY CITY, N.J., May 19, 2014 (BUSINESS WIRE) -- Scivantage ®, a Global FinTech 100 technology provider of information-enabled software dedicated to transforming complex information and processes into intuitive user experiences for the financial services industry and Stevens Institute of Technology, a premier, private research university in Hoboken, N.J., announced today the launch of the Scivantage FinTech Incubator Program . The Scivantage FinTech Incubator Program is a 12-week program that empowers entrepreneurs and early-stage startups to develop dynamic and disruptive technology that will transform the Financial Services industry.

The Scivantage FinTech Incubator Program aims to support and accelerate the launch of next generation financial technology products, enabling entrepreneurs and early-stage startups to drive a new era of financial services innovation. Students, faculty and alumni of Stevens Institute of Technology, known for its programs in computer science and financial analytics, will be encouraged to participate. At the end of the 12-week Incubator Program, each of the selected entrepreneurs will present at the Scivantage Incubator Demo Day, where leading FinTech executives and investors will be in attendance.

Applications for the current cycle must be submitted by 5PM EDT on June 13, 2014, and pitch day finalists will be selected on June 20, 2014. Entrepreneurs and startups with an idea that will make a positive impact on the financial services industry can apply today . Learn more about this program at www.scivantageincubator.com .

The Scivantage FinTech Incubator, offered in collaboration with Stevens Institute of Technology, is a rolling 12-week program that empowers entrepreneurs and early-stage startups to develop dynamic and disruptive technology that will transform the Financial Services industry. The program aims to support and accelerate the launch of next generation products, bringing important ideas to market. For more information, visit www.ScivantageIncubator.com .

Scivantage® is a Global FinTech 100 technology provider of information-enabled software dedicated to transforming complex information and processes into intuitive user experiences for the financial services industry. With proven expertise in online brokerage, tax and portfolio reporting, and wealth management applications, Scivantage delivers intelligent and actionable information that goes beyond the boundaries of traditional financial software, helping improve investment decisions. Leading financial institutions, including broker-dealers, mutual fund companies, bank custodians, trust and prime brokers, depend on Scivantage’s cloud-based technology to achieve critical business insights, generate new revenue and build stronger customer relationships. For more information, please visit www.scivantage.com or contact us at +1.866.724.8268.

Stevens Institute of Technology , The Innovation University®, is a premier, private research university situated in Hoboken, N.J. overlooking the Manhattan skyline. Founded in 1870, technological innovation has been the hallmark and legacy of Stevens’ education and research programs for more than 140 years. Within the university’s three schools and one college, more than 6,100 undergraduate and graduate students collaborate with more than 350 faculty members in an interdisciplinary, student-centric, entrepreneurial environment to advance the frontiers of science and leverage technology to confront global challenges. Stevens is home to three national research centers of excellence, as well as joint research programs focused on critical industries such as healthcare, energy, finance, defense and STEM education and coastal sustainability. The university is consistently ranked among the nation’s elite for return on investment for students, career services programs, and mid-career salaries of alumni. Stevens is in the midst of implementing a 10-year strategic plan, The Future. Ours to Create., designed to further extend the Stevens legacy to create a forward-looking and far-reaching institution with global impact.

Copyright ©2014 MarketWatch, Inc.  All rights reserved.

Intraday Data provided by SIX Financial Information and subject to terms of use .                 Historical and current end-of-day data provided by SIX Financial Information. Intraday data                 delayed per exchange requirements. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones & Company, Inc.                 All quotes are in local exchange time. Real time last sale data provided by NASDAQ. More                 information on NASDAQ traded symbols and their current financial status. Intraday                 data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, and 20 minutes for other exchanges. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM)                 from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. SEHK intraday data is provided by SIX Financial Information and is                 at least 60-minutes delayed. All quotes are in local exchange time.
