
Share This Story!

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Personal income taxes remain Delaware's top source of tax revenue. But taxes on businesses, out-of-state corporations and casinos help pay the bills.

Now it gets serious. Delaware's estimate for tax collections fell $33 million, an assessment that is spreading gloom in the halls of state government. Monday's projection from the Delaware Economic and Financial Advisory Council was as bad as everyone feared. The state's legislators now will have to build a budget with cuts in mind.

The advisory council's May report is the forecast the 2014-15 budget is based on. The gap between estimated revenues and expenditures is now at $41 million. The Legislature has one last hope: the advisory council's June forecast.

Senate Minority Leader Gary Simpson is calling for a 2 percent spending cut for all state agencies. "Two percent is not that much," he was reported as saying. No, it is not. However, an across-the-board cut is not always the best method. We have to face facts: Like all institutions, some departments of state government are more successful and effective in spending their money than others. It would make sense to cut the less effective ones. However, unlike many other institutions, state government funding often favors the departments with the mightiest political pull rather than overall effectiveness.

Every section of every department has its lobbyists as well as its champions in Legislative Hall. If the budget writers in the Legislature cannot split their differences, then the more powerful constituencies will win. That is why across-the-board cuts are easier to take politically.

Leaving aside the overall effectiveness of state government agencies, the current problem is revenue. The economy is sluggish. Many people are out of work. Some are getting unemployment benefits, while others have given up. While many people are working, they are working at lower wages than they once did. In addition, hours have been cut in many places. The upshot is that the state's income tax revenues are down. So are corporate taxes.

Delaware's old reliables – unclaimed property and gambling revenues – are down. Corporations have been more reluctant to turn over unclaimed property, such as uncashed gift cars, to Delaware. In fact, Delaware's aggressiveness in pursuing that money is fueling a counterattack from the corporate world. Gambling money from the state's casinos is falling because of competition from new gambling venues in nearby states.

The final budget must be a balanced one. Therefore, expect some tough political fights in the months ahead.
