
A: The Niagara Falls Illumination Board determines what causes and events are commemorated with a special lighting of the Canadian and American Falls.

They include charitable and public interest causes and occasions, such as marking the death of former Federal Finance Minister Jim Flaherty with green lights in April and the upcoming World MS Day with orange and red lights on May 28.

Niagara Parks Commission Chair Janice Thomson explained in an email that the board, which includes the commission, received a request to light the falls in celebration of the launch of the Outlet Collection Mall in Niagara-on-the-Lake.

She said the board agreed to the request because the mall has resulted in significant investment and job creation to the area, and is the largest open air shopping centre in Canada.

The board is made up of the commission, the New York State Office of Parks, Recreation and Historic Preservation, cities of Niagara Falls Ontario and New York and Ontario Power Generation.

It was established in 1925 and funds the nightly illuminations.

The first request for a public commemoration was made by Estee Lauder in 2004 to honour breast cancer survivors as part of the company’s global illumination initiative. After the Falls went pink for that event, the requests by others flooded in. There were so many, the board had to develop a policy on charitable lighting and recruit Niagara Parks Commission staff help deal with the volume of requests.

A: The signs have been put up temporarily by the contractor while the highway is resurfaced from Fruitland Rd. to Centennial Pkwy.

Ministry of Transportation spokeswoman Astrid Poei said contractor Rankin Construction pup the signs at various locations along the route as a due diligence measure. It’s part of the company’s environmental plan for how it approaches refueling, maintenance and washing.

Fact finder!

If you already have an account on this newspaper, you can login to the newspaper to add your comments.

By adding a comment on the site, you accept our terms and conditions and our netiquette rules.

Share your story, photo or video about something you've seen.

Choose among a variety of subscription packages and stay up to date with convenient home delivery and our on the go digital e-edition.
