
The Ogun Government has said 45 new firms had commenced business in the state in the last three years.

The Commissioner for Commerce and Industry, Mr Bimbo Ashiru, said this in Abeokuta, noting that the firms include May and Baker Plc; Dangote Cement Plc;, Lafarge WAPCO Nigeria; Viju Milk Nig. Plc and Atlantic Ocean Distilleries Nig. Ltd, among others.

Ashiru explained that additional 32 genuine investors who had signified interests to invest in the state were currently being considered.

He said Ogun had been opened up for business since it had hosted captains of industries from across the world during the March, 2012 investment forum.

"The forum was organised to facilitate industrial development and it also afforded the state to showcase its vast potentials.

"As a fallout from the forum, about 500 firms applied to invest in the state while we penciled down those we considered genuine," he said.

According to him, I can tell you today that Ogun has the largest concentration of industries n Nigeria.

"Ogun is the investment destination of choice and now everybody wants to invest in the state.nThis is one state where President Goodluck Jonathan continually comes to commission industries.

"The last one was P&G which is the largest investment of the U.S in Nigeria which is worth 300m dollars," he said.

Ashiru said that the ministry of commerce had witnessed an increased revenue generation since 2011 when Gov. Ibikunle Amosun assumed power.

"The ministry's annual revenue collection when this administration took over in 2011 was N30.05 million. The average monthly collection of the ministry in 2013 was N43.62 million, representing a 1,282.72 per cent increase," he said.

Please leave your comment below. Your name will appear next to your comment. We'll also keep you updated by email whenever someone else comments on this page. Your comment will appear on this page once it has been approved by a moderator.

Please enter some keywords that you'd like to search for. Your results will be displayed below.

THISDAYLIVE cares about you, help us to report better!
