
Share This Story!

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

I read with great interest C. David Pomeroy’s April 21 guest commentary, “Tar Heels played big role in Texas history.’’ As a native son of the great state of Texas, I have a particular interest in the important role that so many sons of North Carolina played in founding the Republic of Texas (nine died at the Alamo) and, later, in the transition to statehood.

My fourth great grandfather, William Henry Agan, was born in Dublin, Ireland, in 1794 and came to the United States through the Port of Charleston. He owned and developed land in Horry County, South Carolina, and both he and his son, William M. Agan, fought for the Confederacy during the Civil War. William Agan lived in Cherokee County, Georgia, fought with Company A of the 43rd Infantry Regiment (the “Cherokee Van Guards”), and was a prisoner of war in Chattanooga. After the war, he moved west with his family to Arkansas.

His son, Andrew James Agan, was born in Hope, Arkansas, and his son, Arthur C. Agan (my great-grandfather), married Mattie Bell Todd (my great-grandmother) and settled in Corpus Christi, Texas, where both of my parents were born and raised. Mattie Bell Todd was the daughter of James Wesley Todd, another South Carolina native who moved west to Arkansas.

I say all of this because I want to express my sincere appreciation for Mr. Pomeroy’s recognition of the contributions that so many outstanding North Carolinians made in establishing  Texas, the place called home by my parents, my grandparents and my great-grandparents. Since moving to Asheville with my family over eight years ago, I have, in the course of working for my clients as a lawyer, had the great privilege of improving the law of the state of North Carolina — in the areas of civil appeals and police misconduct. I am proud to have been able to contribute to the development of the law of this great state, which has given so much to me and to my family.

Steve Agan is an attorney practicing civil law in Asheville and has two daughters at Isaac Dickson Elementary School.
