
British  Telecom has announced plans today to create 1,600 new engineering jobs  amid moves to improve customer service, install lines and fix faults  more quickly.

BT’s Openreach business said it expected a significant number of the new jobs to be filled by ex-servicemen and women.

The company stressed it was keen to take on more women engineers.

Openreach  chief executive Joe Garner said the new recruits will be a welcome  boost to BT’s efforts to roll out fibre broadband across the country.

‘We are also keen to recruit women - as I'm keen to dispel the myth that being an engineer is an exclusively male vocation.

Prime  Minister David Cameron said: ‘Supporting business, creating jobs and  providing a better future for hardworking people is a crucial part of  our long-term economic plan.

Openreach has recruited more than 1,600 former servicemen and women over the past three years.

In another boost for jobs in the engineering sector, luxury carmaker Bentley said today its is creating over 140 jobs, including its biggest intake of apprentice for 10 years.

Bentley boost: The luxury carmaker is creating over 140 jobs, including the biggest apprentice intake for 10 years.

More than 50 apprentices will be taken on at the car company's headquarters in Crewe, as well as 90 engineers.

Bentley is expanding its model range under an £800 million investment over three years.

The announcement follows a record year in 2013, when Bentley built more than 10,000 models, the highest in its 95-year history.

The recruitment drive for engineers came as a report showed the number of job vacancies in pubs and bars has leapt by a third in the past year, with over 13,400 jobs advertised.

Jobs site Caterer.com said most vacancies advertised in the past 12 months were for managerial staff, although there had been a big increase in demand for chefs.

Ian Burke of Caterer.com said: ‘The data from our website is clearly telling a positive story and the hospitality industry as a whole has reason to be optimistic.'

More jobs in the sector were advertised in the past year than before the recession in 2008, said the report.

Last week Britain's unemployment rate fell to its lowest level in more than five years in the first quarter of 2014 as the number of people in work reached a record high fuelled by more self-employment.

The Office of National Statistics showed unemployment fell by 133,000 to 2.2million in the three months to March, the lowest level since January 2009.

More than 30.4million people are now in work - the highest since records began in 1971 - while self-employment has also reached a record high of 4.5million.

By posting your comment you agree to our house rules .
