
The crew of the Cheeki Rafiki, a 12-meter yacht headed to the United Kingdom from the Caribbean, contacted the shore to report that the yacht was taking on water on Friday, May 16.

James Male, 23.

Paul Goslin, 52.

Steve Warren, 52.

(CNN) -- The U.S. Coast Guard said Sunday it has suspended its search for four British sailors missing since Friday.

The 40-foot (12 meters) Cheeki Rafiki was sailing from the Caribbean to the United Kingdom Thursday when it began taking on water, according to the yacht's managing agent.

"Unfortunately, we lost contact during the early hours of Friday morning, and we believe the crew abandoned to the life raft," Doug Innes said in a statement.

Royal Yachting Association identified the missing yachtsmen as skipper Andrew Bridge, 21; Steve Warren, 52; Paul Goslin, 56; and James Male, 23.

The Coast Guard's Boston-based 1st District coordinated a multinational search of 4,146 square miles for the crew.

"Although the search efforts coordinated by Boston were exceptional, we are devastated that search has been called off so soon after the abandonment to a life raft," Innes said.

The Coast Guard said in a Sunday news release that a merchant vessel located an overturned hull the day before that matched the description of the Cheeki Rafiki, but there was no sign of the sailors.

"We appreciate the assistance of the U.S. Air Force, Canadian and the three merchant vessels helping us to conduct a thorough search so far from shore," said Capt. Anthony Popiel, 1st Coast Guard District chief of response. "We are extremely disappointed that we were not able to locate the sailors during the course of this extensive search. Our thoughts and prayers are with their families during this difficult time."

Innes describes the Cheeki Rafiki on his company's website as "a performance racer/cruiser and suitable for both the inshore and offshore circuit" and that she is "equipped for trans-Atlantic sailing and racing."

An ISIS attack against the United States or Europe is a question of timing -- "not of inevitably, not of intent," says a former head of the CIA.

A young boy kicks off his vacation by dipping his toes in the ocean and makes a startling find.

Investigators now believe there are two masked ISIS fighters in the James Foley execution video -- one who made the speech and one who killed him.

Facebook has announced that they'll be cracking down on the sharing of "clickbait" content. CNN's Brian Stelter explains.

Michael Brown's family and friends ask for a day of silence and peace as they lay the teen to rest.

James Dawes: Evil is the strongest word we have to prepare ourselves to kill others.

Acclaimed actor-director Richard Attenborough has died at 90, the actor's agent said.

The Ebola outbreak causes fear and violence among the poor in Liberia. CNN's Isha Sesay reports.

Spooks have left their mark on a once-divided city still thought to be an espionage hotbed.

China's ancient capital of Nanjing has been the birthplace of many of the country's most intriguing traditional arts.
