
BECOMING one of the elite members of Qantas’ Platinum One frequent flyer club is no easy feat.

For starters, you need to earn a minimum of 3,600 status credit points each year. And when you think that an economy fare from Brisbane to Hong Kong generates a mere 30 points and the long haul Sydney to Los Angeles flight just 90 points, that’s a lot of flying.

Australian importer, David Bloustein, is part of this elite group swapping the boardroom for the airport lounge where making business decisions 36,000 feet up in the air is the norm.

Owner of Jarritos Australasia, his company imports a range of tropical fruit flavoured sodas from Mexico called Jarritos. An institution in Mexico, Jarritos is relatively unknown in Australia, New Zealand and South East Asia and he has been importing it for five years now.

We chat to him about life in the sky and how to be a smarter traveller.

Several times a fortnight. Some more than others. All of Australia, New Zealand, South East Asia, US and Mexico regularly.

As far forward as possible, or the upper deck as it’s much quieter.

Always ask for a window seat to catch any amazing views and cities from above.

Flexible work hours allows for off peak travel when crowd avoidance is much easier.

Dallas Fort Worth for its good transit to the US or Latin/South America. It’s a huge airport but easy to navigate and quicker to clear than LAX (Los Angeles).

Changi in Singapore is very efficient for entering or exiting Singapore. And Sydney for the views on take off and landing.

Always take a change of clothes and basics like a toothbrush just in case luggage gets waylaid. When you travel as often as I do, it’s bound to happen sooner or later.

Learn your passport number, it saves taking it in and out of your bag all the time.

Build membership status with one airline to gain benefits. I’m with Qantas Platinum One.

Take the time to know your itinerary, aircraft and airports to request better seats, know the shortcuts in airports and avoid older aircraft where possible.

Eat as healthy as possible in the days leading up to travel.

Enjoy the privacy while flying to get things done that you’ve been delaying doing.

Always check your ticket to understand the fare rules. Know what you’re buying.

For longer trips, full medicine kits — you only ever need it when you don’t have it.

Compatible technology for work and communication that allows you to minimise cords, chargers, and converters. Plus it lets you work anywhere in the world without anyone needing to know where you are.

Noise reduction headphones — particularly ones that are comfortable to leave on when sleeping.

Travel bags in different sizes for all occasions — Crumpler bags big or small are very functional and also look better than your average travel bag.

Runners and an exercise resistance band — don’t let travel be the excuse to get lazy.

A stash of Caramello Koalas and Tim Tams — guaranteed rock star status for friends, family or work colleagues. They never let you down.
