
Participate in Share Chat.

WASHINGTON (Alliance News) - Crude oil prices are higher Monday morning amid persisting worries about possible supply disruptions from Russia due to the conflict in Ukraine.

Concerns about Libyan shipments also support crude oil's rise.

Crude oil futures for July delivery are up USD0.67 or 0.65% at USD102.25 a barrel.

On Friday, crude oil futures edged up for a weekly gain of 2%.

Meanwhile, natural gas for July is up USD0.050 or 1.12% at USD4.463 per million btu this morning.

Investors will be looking ahead to some crucial economic reports this week, including the US housing data for April and the minutes of the Federal Oper Market Committee's April meeting.

The US jobless claims report, the flash estimate of Markit's US manufacturing purchasing managers' index for May, the Conference Board's leading economic indicators index for April, a couple of regional Federal Reserves' manufacturing activity readings and announcements concerning the Treasury auctions of 2-year, 5-year and 7-year notes round up the economic events of the week.

Investors will also be watching out for several Fed speeches scheduled for the week, including one from Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen.

Datafeed and UK data supplied by NBTrader and Digital Look.      While London South East do their best to maintain the high quality of the information displayed on this site,

we cannot be held responsible for any loss due to incorrect information found here. All information is provided free of charge, 'as-is', and you use it at your own risk.

The contents of all 'Chat' messages should not be construed as advice and represent the opinions of the authors, not those of London South East Limited, or its affiliates.

London South East does not authorise or approve this content, and reserves the right to remove items at its discretion.

This site requires cookies in order to give you the best user experience. By using this site, you are agreeing to the use of cookies.
