
In with the new and out with the old.

Workers at a string of Harlem apartment buildings say their cold-hearted new bosses fired them last month without warning and ordered them to vacate their apartments two weeks later.

Eight staffers — including four porters and four superintendents — lost their non-union jobs after C&C took over the management of 19 buildings in March.

McClain, who moved into the building in November, said he was illegally evicted after he was fired and management locked all his furniture and three big-screen televisions in a basement. The company also took $3,000 worth of tools he said he owned.

They can’t just kick me out like I’m a dog.

The disgruntled father of two children filed a lawsuit Friday against C&C, alleging illegal eviction and seeking $50,000.

The others — who say they are still living in the buildings — complain they had no prior indication they were on the chopping block, and say they were wrongfully fired.

“They still owe us for jobs we’ve done,” said former super Eric Hoffman, adding the workers are reviewing their legal options. “We want a severance package.

Hoffman, 60, says the East Harlem-based management company also locked away $30,000 worth of tools he bought.

Bruce Cotler Greg McClain (pictured with his nieces Keyaries, 5, and Kanyia, 3) is suing C&C Management, saying the East Harlem-based company fired him, locked him out of his apartment and locked up his belongings.

Hoffman’s brother, Edgar Hicks, 57, worked as a super at another building on Edgecombe Ave. since 1997, and said he’s unsure how he’ll make a living now.

C&C stood by its decision to let the workers go, citing complaints from residents about their performance.

The company spent a month assessing each employee’s performance, a company spokesman said.

“Once the evaluation was complete, ownership was consulted and it was determined that the staff members would be released from their employment, and replaced with a team capable of fully meeting the needs of the property and residents,” he added.

© Copyright 2014 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.
