
THERE IS A DIRTY SECRET the Marin Community Choice Aggregation program is working aggressively to hide — the power it supplies in partnership with Shell Energy, a subsidiary of Shell Oil, is dirtier than the power it replaced.

Shocking that a program calling itself Marin Clean Energy is actually increasing greenhouse gas emissions.

The staff at the Marin Energy Authority, and its loyal political supporters, bridle at any criticism. If you challenge their "promise" or "pledges" or "goals" they attack your motivations.

In our case, they even challenge our right to challenge their claims.

The facts might explain their sensitivity:  The data available show they are increasing greenhouse gas emissions.

Documents on file with state Energy Commission and posted on the MCE website show that the power Marin buys from Shell is 23 percent emission-free — which sounds good until you consider that the old energy mix Shell replaced is much more emission-free.

MCE, and its partners at Shell Oil, rely heavily on Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs) for their so-called "green" power.

RECs aren't green power; they're not power at all. RECs are financial instruments bought and sold by energy brokers across the country — pieces of paper that signify the "attributes" of renewable energy that was produced at some time in some location.

Buying RECs does not mean the electricity customers receive is clean or renewable. The reality, according to many experts and environmentalists, is that RECs aren't worth the paper they're printed on.

It is true that the California Public Utilities Commission currently recognizes RECs as renewable. Early on, many thought RECs would create a funding stream to enable the development of real green power sources. But because RECs are so cheap, sufficient funding has never materialized. And the CPUC acknowledges its declining value, reducing the maximum holdings to 15 percent this year and only 10 percent by 2018.

The actual power Marin customers receive is generated mostly from polluting sources, a large portion of which is called "system" power. That's why so many environmentalists have derided RECs as "greenwashing."

According to Daniel Press, professor and chair of the Environmental Studies Department at UC Santa Cruz, RECs are nothing more than "marketing gimmicks" and "a feel-good scam" that do little besides paying the salaries of the people who produce them.

At the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers Local 1245, we have a personal and professional interest in promoting California green power. Our members live here — and we all benefit from an environment that is getting cleaner. And our members work at California power-generating sites.

We think that if we are asking Californians to invest in green energy, California workers should benefit from that investment, not out-of-state corporations like Shell.

That's why we are standing up to challenge the false claims of the Marin CCA — and we will continue to do so.

We are supporting legislation — AB 2145 — that would hold CCA's like Marin's accountable to the same standards of review — and truthfulness — that existing utilities must meet.

The Marin Energy Authority is attacking our right to do this — accusing us of colluding with PG&E. The charge is ridiculous.

We are using our own resources to inform the public. But this behavior is typical — if you dare to even challenge MCE on the inconvenient truth behind its dirty power they resort to attacking your right to speak.

Marin Clean Energy should not be allowed to hide from the truth. A so-called "green" power program should not be allowed to increase greenhouse gas emissions.

Hunter Stern is a business representative for International Brotherhood of Electric Workers Local 1245, which represents more than 19,000 energy workers.
