
Anglo American chief executive Mark Cutifani. Photo: Leon Nicholas.

London - Anglo American chief executive Mark Cutifani contends he’ll double profitability once he cleans up his sprawling company in the coming years -- and then he’ll be able to increase it again.

“A company like ours should be delivering 20 percent return on capital through the cycle,” Cutifani said in a May 16 interview at Bloomberg headquarters in New York.

The coal miner turned chief executive started a review of assets a year ago after joining London-based Anglo, the world’s fifth-largest mining company with iron-ore, platinum, diamond, copper, nickel and coal operations from Australia to Brazil.

He has set a goal of improving Anglo’s return on capital to at least 15 percent by 2016 from about 8 percent in June, and he’ll consider disposing of any asset that pulls down the average.

Out of 69 Anglo assets, 31 are delivering just 2 percent of earnings before interest and taxes, Cutifani said.

The new management team has seen signs of improvement in 15 of the 31 assets in the past year, while 16 “still have a lot of work to do,” Cutifani said.

“We told them if you can’t deliver, you won’t survive in the portfolio,” he said.

Anglo plans to cut senior-level jobs at its South African office, the Johannesburg-based Sunday Times reported yesterday.

Employees at the office were asked to apply for voluntary severance or early retirement, the newspaper said.

Anglo has declined 48 percent in London trading in the past three years, compared with a 32 percent drop in the five-company Bloomberg Industries Global Diversified Mining Competitive Index.

The stock fell 0.4 percent to 1,555.5 pence at 9:30 a.m.

Before he joined Anglo, the company had already lost its market credibility, missed operating targets and lost shareholders because it couldn’t deliver on time and on budget, Cutifani said.

“The first thing to demonstrate is that we can turn around this business,” he said.

Minas-Rio, scheduled to ship its first ore by the end of the year after $8.8 billion of capital expenditures, was 88 percent completed at the end of March and is projected to reach full annual capacity of 26.5 million tons in 2016.

Production at Minas-Rio could be increased to 30 million tons, Cutifani said.

“I want to see that done with that capital and better margins,” he said.

Cutifani listed his priorities as reducing debt, continuing to pay dividends and investment.

He said he prefers to invest in copper, niobium and phosphate expansion projects instead of Minas Rio’s iron ore.

“Short-to-medium-term prognosis for nickel is very, very good,” he said.

Anglo may offer Barro Alto to Brazil’s largest miner Vale, Deutsche Bank said last week.

“I think we’ll be able to talk with people about possibilities in our nickel business,” Cutifani said.

The company is planning to fix the mine’s furnaces -- which interfered with the company reaching output targets in 2012 -- and benefit from rising nickel prices, he said.

Nickel on the London Metal Exchange reached $21,000 a ton on May 13, the highest since February 2012.

Anglo also is facing setbacks at its platinum operations in South Africa.

The Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union called more than 70,000 miners out on strike on January 23, including employees at Anglo unit Anglo American Platinum.

The company has lost about a third of its production since then.

A key issue to ending the strike is resolving the intimidation of workers who wish to report for their shifts, Cutifani said.

“Our view, based on talking to most of the employees, is that the majority of people want to come back to work,” he said.

Login and register, if you haven’ t already.

© Copyright 1999 - 2014 Independent Online, a division of Independent Newspapers (Pty) Limited. The copyright in the literary and artistic works contained in this online news publication and its other related and connected websites, as well as in the published editions of group newspapers, their supplements and any other content or material, belongs exclusively to Independent Newspapers (Pty) Limited unless otherwise stated.
