
Get alerts when there is a new article that might interest you.

The Weekly Standard reserves the right to use your email for internal use only. Occasionally,           we may send you special offers or communications from carefully selected advertisers we believe may be of benefit to our subscribers.           Click the box to be included in these third party offers. We respect your privacy and will never rent or sell your email.

Please include me in third party offers.

Demonstrating a surprising and uncharacteristic faith in the private sector, Obama initially set aside 1/340th of NASA’s $17 billion dollar budget for entrepreneurs to develop vehicles for manned space travel. This political sleight-of-hand worked.  Republicans who would ordinarily have objected to an extended disruption of manned space flight because it would appear to diminish American leadership in space objected less than they did when in a parallel maneuver Obama appointed a Republican senator, Chuck Hagel, to be secretary of defense. Manned space flight is expensive because it demands redundant systems that can supply human needs and protect them against such perils as cosmic radiation and the effects of prolonged weightlessness.  Since the decision to end Constellation, NASA has increased the money it invests in commercial solution to about 4 percent of its current budget.  The money that went into the Apollo lunar program in 1969, the year that men first landed on the moon, amounted to 54 percent of NASA’s budget. So, private entrepreneurship or not, the next time NASA plans to send American astronauts into space aboard a large world-class American rocket is at a yet-to-be scheduled time in the 2020s.

Absurdities multiply in this slow descent from the prestige that the U.S. enjoyed as a result of President Kennedy’s determination that American should land on the moon first.  When the 2008 Obama campaign announced that it would cut funds for space exploration it added that money could be better spent on education. They hadn’t done their homework. American graduate degrees in engineering rose and fell in concert with the manned space program achieving a high point in the same year that Apollo 11’s lunar lander, Eagle, landed on the Sea of Tranquility.  The shield that protects the spacecraft on its very high-speed return through the atmosphere is one of manned space flight’s many challenges, especially beyond low-earth orbit.  There is no federal program besides manned space flight that is more certain to encourage cutting-edge technology and increase the demand for advanced degrees in engineering.  And the hiatus in manned space exploration until some unspecified date in the future encourages the departure of the skilled base of scientific/technological expertise that will have to be built again if the U.S. decides to reconstruct a manned space program to equal the nation’s previous achievements.
