
The Coast Guard says it has suspended its search for four survivors from the Cheeki Rafiki, a  yacht that apparently capsized in the ocean with four people aboard 1,000 miles off Massachusetts.

The Coast Guard said in a statement issued Sunday night that the two-day search had been suspended at 5 a.m. Sunday.

“Despite the deep considerations that go into suspending a search, the decision is never easy. With sincere compassion for the families of these four men, our thoughts and prayers are with them all during this difficult time,” Captain Anthony Popiel, chief of response for the First Coast Guard District said in the statement.

The Coast Guard learned of the boat’s distress at 12:30 a.m Friday. The agency immediately launched sea and air efforts to locate the crew of the boat, the statement said.

Locator beacons activated by the crew indicated they were 1,000 miles east of Massachusetts on Friday morning, the statement said. Rescue crews encountered 50-knot winds and 15-foot seas in the area.

At about noon Saturday, a freighter found an overturned hull that matched the description of the Cheeki Rafiki, but could not find any sign of the sailors. Searches continued through the afternoon and night and into the next morning, the Coast Guard said.

The Coast Guard said it uses a survivability model during searches that takes into account weather, emergency equipment, and the anticipated condition of those being searched for.

“Based on the extreme conditions at sea, but assuming best-case emergency equipment, the estimated survival time past the time of distress was approximately 20 hours. Crews searched for 53 hours,” the statement said.

Air crews from North Carolina, Georgia, and Canada searched more than 4,000 square miles of ocean and worked with commercial liners, the Coast Guard said.

British media reported that four British men were aboard the performance yacht, bringing it to the United Kingdom after a regatta in the Caribbean.

You can now read 10 free articles.

Read it all, now.

Don't miss any of your favorite stories again. Read the stories that matter to you as much as you want, whenever you want when you subscribe to BostonGlobe.com.

The login information you entered does not match an account in our records.

To activate FREE access as a home delivery subscriber start here.

If you don't have a subscription, you can view our digital offers here.

Please check your e-mail for a message from BostonGlobe.com with the subject line "BostonGlobe.com password request." Click the link in the e-mail to choose a new password for BostonGlobe.com, and note that your new password will also be used for your Boston.com membership.

Enter your e-mail address below. We’ll send you an e-mail with a link to reset your password.

Continue reading by subscribing to BostonGlobe.com for just 99¢ .

Continue reading by subscribing to BostonGlobe.com for just 99¢ .

Stay informed with unlimited access to Boston’s trusted news source.
