
MANAMA: The Central Bank of Bahrain (CBB) is in the process of finalising regulation governing Sharia advisory services companies, it has emerged. These entities would be defined as ancillary service providers, CBB executive director for financial institutions supervision Abdul Rahman Al Baker said.

He was speaking during the opening of the World Islamic Financial and Funds Markets Conference (WIFFMC 2014) yesterday.

Mr Al Baker said this would allow small Islamic investment institutions and collective investment schemes to outsource their Sharia review to these entities in order to enhance their operation and reduce the costs of such services.

The services provided by the companies would include the evaluation of financial institutions' level of compliance to the Sharia principles as well as the issuance of Sharia pronouncements on any aspect of the Islamic financial institutions activities and operations, he added.

His address focused on key regulatory reform initiatives to improve stability, build scale and expand the horizons for Islamic investments.

"Increasingly, more countries are looking to tap into Islamic finance as the industry continued to evolve and market players should act to meet this growing need globally," he said.

Listing priorities for the industry, he said there was a need to build a system that would facilitate efficient capital and trading flows.

"It is also critical for Islamic financial institutions to better understand the clients and their needs for financial products and services.

"It is also important to adopt proper corporate governance in order to enhance the confidence of the investors and to ensure that markets are fair, efficient and transparent."

An adequate numbers of professionals well-versed in both the capital market and Sharia knowledge were critical to further development of the Islamic investment industry, he said.

Another critical issue, according to him, that needed to be addressed was the development of robust national and international liquidity infrastructure.
