
Law enforcement hopes to avoid future uncertainty.

Independent oversight is necessary for accountability in police departments.

MANCHESTER • The De Soto softball team picked up right where it left off while finishing third in Class 3 last season.

WASHINGTON • The Affordable Care Act's opening act was hard enough, and the health-care law's second year isn't looking much easier.

Directors of the state-run health insurance marketplaces, who spoke on a panel in Washington on Friday, worry about keeping the customers they have. And they know it will be a challenge to boost enrollment in 2015, when the Congressional Budget Office projects that the marketplaces will cover 13 million people.

"The low-hanging fruit, we picked," said Peter Lee, executive director of California's exchange, which surpassed initial targets by signing up 1.4 million people this year. "It is going to be an issue getting people who were not historically insured across the finish line."

Lee, joined by exchange directors from Kentucky and Maryland, talked Friday about the challenges they face as the health-care law moves past its start-up phase, as well as their plans for making the exchanges easier places to shop for coverage.

The directors say low health-insurance literacy, particularly among the previously uninsured, is a hurdle. For example, out-of-pocket costs can exceed expectations, especially under the high cost-sharing design in many Affordable Care Act plans.

"We have an education challenge of what it means to be an informed consumer of an insurance product," Lee said. "We don't have many good models out there."

The exchange directors are reconsidering the role of in-person assisters, including navigators, whose main job was to help people get enrolled. The directors think the navigators may be able to help customers as they start to use their insurance coverage.

Directors are also looking to other improvements for the 2015 enrollment period, scheduled to start in November. Kentucky's exchange, which was held up as an early success, said it has failed in one major area: the small-business exchange, known as SHOP.

Only 54 Kentucky businesses signed up about 500 employees in the state's SHOP, exchange director Carrie Banahan said. Other successful states have had lackluster enrollment in the SHOP exchanges — they offer limited advantages over the current insurance market for small businesses, and many employers renewed their health plans early last year. Banahan blames Kentucky's low SHOP turnout on clunky software.

"The [insurance] agent community did not like the SHOP functionality, so they steered everybody away," said Banahan, adding that the state has hired Deloitte to build a better enrollment platform next year.

Covered California, meanwhile, wants to let people pay their premiums when completing an application instead of waiting for a bill from their insurer.

And the troubled Maryland exchange, which is dumping its enrollment system, has one major goal in mind for 2015. "Have a better website," said Carolyn Quattrocki, the exchange's interim director.

Copyright 2014 stltoday.com. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Username & Password Required!
