
Malaysian Airline System Bhd’s (MAS) biggest union says that it has a rescue plan of its own for the embattled airline, complete with a top management line-up that can save the flag carrier where others have failed.

Faced with the prospect that the airline will be allowed to go bankrupt and rebuilt from the ground up, the MAS Employees Union of Peninsular Malaysia (MASEU) said it is not too late to save the carrier but with a management of the union’s own choosing.

MASEU executive secretary Mohd Jabbarullah Abdul Kadir said the union can name people who can lead the company out of the red but refused to reveal the names.

“We have a list of people whom we can propose to the government to run the airline, together with experienced staff that can handle various business units under a single MAS umbrella which we believe can turn the airline into profit within a year,” Jabbarullah told The Malaysian Reserve.

“We are very confident with the list of nominees that we have to effectively manage the airline and the government must give the opportunity to experienced MAS staff who are well experienced in running the business and turning it into profitability within a year.

“We do not believe bankruptcy is the (only) option as there are many other viable options for the airline to make profit,” he said.

The union blamed the current management for failing to bring the airline around and has appealed last Friday to the government to remove three top executives including CEO Ahmad Jauhari Yahya. Mohd Jabbarullah said the 13,500- strong union will “fight tooth and nail” to prevent the national carrier from being run into the ground or being taken over.

MAS’ powerful unions held sway in restructuring plans in the past but indications that the government is serious and has the will to go the distance have surfaced in quick succession.

Last Thursday, soon after MAS reported that its net loss had expanded to RM443.4 million in the first-quarter from RM278.8 million previously, Prime Minister Datuk Seri Mohd Najib Razak told the Wall Street Journal that it might be too late to save MAS in its current form.

Last Friday, acting Transport Minister Datuk Seri Hishammuddin Hussein told a press conference that the government will not step in to save the airline following its dismal performance.

MAS’ restructuring, the latest of many to save the airline, had been going on even before flight MH370 from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing went missing on March 8, but the fallout from the disappearance has put a big obstacle in its road to recovery.

A plan has emerged that MAS management is planning to divest its non-airline business and raise money for a restructuring that would see the flag carrier reduced into a lean company that can better survive increasingly challenging times for the airline industry.

Last week The Malaysian Reserve reported part of the restructuring will include big layoffs that would remove some of the teeth from its powerful unions, which have strongly opposed the move and blamed the woes on mismanagement at the top.

Mohd Jabbarullah said business strategies that were taken to turn the airline profitable had in fact driven it to the brink of bankruptcy.

“MAS is not an airline that should adopt practices from low-cost carriers and should have been seen as an airline that is at par with global players such as British Airways, Cathay Pacific Airlines and Qantas,” he said last Friday.

He was referring to the short-lived share swap deal between MAS and AirAsia Bhd in 2011, whereby both carriers saw cross holdings with MAS holding a 10% stake in AirAsia while AirAsia‘s stake in MAS at 20.5%.

The deal was later rescinded after MASEU opposed the deal, claiming it had resulted in job losses at MAS. In September 2013, both carriers were fined RM10 million each by the Malaysian Competition Commission for not completing the deal.

MASEU is also opposed to MAS copying from successful foreign airlines, and an idea suggested by the airline’s former chairman Tan Sri Dr Munir Majid that it should consider merging with other international airlines.

Recent news reports indicated that MAS is planning to sell MAS Engineering, the airline’s maintenance, repair and overhaul (MRO) division which the union estimated to be worth some RM7 billion, to raise capital to remain operational.

As expected, the union is against the idea of MAS selling its MRO division, saying that the current employees within the division have the experience and the ability to run the unit’s operations and make it profitable.

Mohd Jabbarrullah said there is also the problem on what to do with MAS-GMR Aerospace Engineering Co Ltd (MGAE), the MRO joint- venture company between Malaysian Aerospace Engineering Sdn Bhd and GMR Hyderabad International Airport Ltd in India if MAS decides to sell its local MRO unit.

He said despite the current condition of MAS, the union will continue to push the government to intervene in the ongoing management restructuring programme and assign top leadership and management positions to employees who are capable of running the airline's business and turning it back into profitability.

According to aviation market intelligence CAPA - Centre for Aviation report, the outlook for the rest of 2014 and beyond for MAS is bleak, necessitating a thorough review.

As is always the case with MAS’ restructurings, the outcome will largely hinge on how deep the MAS executive team is allowed by the government to restructure, it said.

Please enter the following characters you see into the textbox below.
