
This week the Small Business Administration celebrate National Small Business Week in cities across the country. Events in San Francisco, Kansas City, Boston and Washington DC are joined by free webinars designed to help small business owners and entrepreneurs improve their businesses.

Locally, TMC Financing is Clark County’s leading provider of SBA 504 loans that help small business owners build or expand their facilities. From restaurants and wedding chapels to healthcare facilities and law firms, TMC Financing has helped dozens of Southern Nevada entrepreneurs grow their businesses in recent months.

According to the SBA, more than half of Americans either own or work for a small business, and they create about two out of every three new jobs in the U.S. each year.

The SBA has been sponsoring National Small Business Week since 1963. For more information, visit  www.sba.gov/nsbw . Events and free webinars are being offered throughout the week with topics including customer loyalty, practical marketing and benefits.

The U. S. Small Business Administration (SBA) 504 Program offers businesses below-market, fixed rate financing for the acquisition, renovation or construction of commercial real estate. SBA 504 loans provide long-term stability for businesses with the ability to retain working capital, which can be used to further grow the business and create new jobs. The typical loan structure for an SBA 504 loan comes from a first mortgage with a conventional lender and a second mortgage from a certified development company (CDC).

TMC Financing provides Small Business Administration (SBA) 504 real estate financing and is the leading Certified Development Company (CDC) in Northern California and Southern Nevada. During the past 30 years, TMC has provided over $7.5 billion in SBA 504 financing for more than 4,500 businesses. This financing has resulted in the creation of over 33,000 jobs. TMC has been ranked in the top five Certified Development Companies nationwide for over a decade. TMC’s experienced team works directly with borrowers, lenders and real estate brokers to tailor financing packages that meet SBA program guidelines and the borrower’s credit capacity. For more information, visit  tmcfinancing.com .
