
Use our UAE loan calculator to determine how much your monthly repayments could be with a Citibank personal loan .

National Bonds Corporation (NBC), the leading sharia'a-compliant savings and investments company in the UAE, has won the Distinction Employee Engagement MENA HR Excellence Award for 2014 at the 6th Annual MENA HR Excellence Awards 2014 that honors outstanding achievements and impactful human capital strategies in the region.

National Bonds was honored in the Distinction in Employee Engagement category for engaging employees through fostering a corporate culture, employee engagement surveys, onboarding, flexibility, transparency, recognition and team building.

NBC's Employee Engagement programs initiated by its HR department have helped strengthen the capacities and competencies of the organization's staff. An internal HR survey prepared by National Bonds Corporation in 2013 recorded 78.2% employee satisfaction levels and 82.4% employee commitment.

Saif Al Shehhi, Executive Director of Human Resources and Administration at National Bonds Corporation, said: "We are honored to receive this prestigious award as it reiterates our sincere commitment towards the well-being of our employees. Our employee engagement strategies focus mainly on stimulating and supporting employees to encourage them in delivering the best products available in the market. Such concerted efforts have led NBC to achieve the best customer satisfaction levels possible."

He added: "National Bonds Corporation comprises more than 180 employees of different nationalities who share our core commitment and passion for the financial wellbeing of our customers via the products & services we offer. We are always keen to empower our employees with the necessary tools, training plans and knowledge to be the best in their fields. We also aim to enhance the capabilities of UAE citizens who aspire to work in the financial and investment sectors. These strategies have helped us achieve significant success that is validated by the high satisfaction rates received from our bondholders."

Some of the key initiatives designed by National Bonds Corporation's HR department include 'Tawasol' that contributes to strengthening interaction between employees through internal and social activities, 'Ibdaa' where a committee reviews employee suggestions to improve the workplace environment, 'Jawda Communication' that helps communicate internal ideas related to business excellence and creativity. At the end of each fiscal year, NBC celebrates the achievements of employees who successfully complete training programs for career development.

© Dubai City Guide. All rights reserved. No part of this site may be reproduced without our written permission.
