
Login or Signup now to share stories and leave comments.

Login or Signup now to share stories and leave comments.

From there, the eggs are extracted inside the shack by a team of people and moved to a sterile portion of the site, per Food and Drug Administration rules, which highly regulate caviar.

The caviar is moved to be flash frozen before being transferred to a cold storage facility for 60 days, where it is graded for sale.

Processed caviar is sold off to the highest bidder and attracts the most prolific caviar connoisseurs from New York and Chicago, to Japan, Australia and other countries. For the most part, the entire yearly supply is always sold.

“This is actually some of the best caviar in the world,” Voll said.

He’s in his third year managing the site, taking over after his wife stepped aside. The couple has tried to leave the caviar business multiple times since the state’s oil boom ramped up production and drove down the unemployment rate in Williams County to about 1 percent.

They own Executive Services, a staffing agency that helps companies find workers. Paddlefish season coincides imperfectly with the time of year their business booms, as workers return to North Dakota after the winter months passed.

Voll said there are challenges to the job and managing personalities - he jokes he always has to police the staff’s Dilly Bar stash - but helping the project’s goal to improve the community is what keeps him around.

About 20 percent of the sold product goes to the North Dakota Game and Fish Department to continue its management of the resource, education and research. Of what’s left, 50 percent goes to the historical groups, and the other 50 percent goes to the chamber.

Criteria for earning a grant are tough, but the basic guidelines are the project must be with a nonprofit organization and have a historical, cultural, recreation or resource-based cause.

Meske is hoping the project can build on itself in the future, but more for educational purposes.

The ancient paddlefish has long been a staple of the western North Dakota and eastern Montana areas, and the annual snagging seasons brings in hundreds of anglers, campers and tourists.

They’re here not just for the sport, but for the tradition of the outdoors, a tradition he hopes will continue to make North Dakota known for its outdoor life - and its caviar, of all things.
