
WASHINGTON/BOSTON: A U.S. grand jury has indicted five Chinese military officers on charges of hacking American companies and stealing trade secrets, the toughest action taken by Washington so far to address cyberspying by China.

China denied the charges, saying they were “made up” and would damage trust between the two nations. The Chinese Foreign Ministry said it would suspend the activities of the Sino-U.S. Internet working group.

The indictments mark the first time the United States has filed charges against specific officials of foreign governments, accusing them of corporate cyberspying.

“When a foreign nation uses military or intelligence resources and tools against an American executive or corporation to obtain trade secrets or sensitive business information for the benefit of its state-owned companies, we must say, ‘enough is enough,’” U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder said.

The suspects targeted companies in the Pittsburg area in the nuclear power, metal and solar product industries. The companies included Alcoa Inc., Allegheny Technologies Inc.,  United States Steel Corp., Westinghouse Electric Co., U.S. subsidiaries of SolarWorld AG and a steel workers union, Department of Justice officials said.

The move “indicates that DOJ has ‘smoking keyboards’ and [is] willing to bring the evidence to a court of law and be more transparent,” said Frank Cilluffo, head of the Homeland Security Policy Institute at the George Washington University.

American businesses have long urged the government to take action about cyberespionage from abroad, particularly by China.

Secret U.S. State Department cables obtained by WikiLeaks traced major systems breaches to China, Reuters reported in 2011. One 2009 cable pinpointed attacks to a specific unit of China’s People’s Liberation Army.

Skeptics noted that U.S. authorities wouldn’t be able to arrest those indicted as Beijing would not hand them over. Still, the move would prevent the individuals from traveling to the  United States or other countries that have an extradition agreement with the United States.

“It won’t slow  China down,” said Eric Johnson, dean of the business school at Vanderbilt University and an expert on cybersecurity issues.

Experts said the indictments would have some impact on those accused of hacking U.S. companies.

Your feedback is important to us!

We invite all our readers to share with us their views and comments about this article.

Disclaimer: Comments submitted by third parties on this site are the sole responsibility of the individual(s) whose content is submitted. The Daily Star accepts no responsibility for the content of comment(s), including, without limitation, any error, omission or inaccuracy therein. Please note that your email address will NOT appear on the site.

The companies included Alcoa Inc., Allegheny Technologies Inc., United States Steel Corp., Westinghouse Electric Co., U.S. subsidiaries of SolarWorld AG and a steel workers union, Department of Justice officials said.

American businesses have long urged the government to take action about cyberespionage from abroad, particularly by China.
