
LOS ANGELES, May 19, 2014 (BUSINESS WIRE) -- AECOM Technology Corporation ACM, +1.21% a leading provider of professional technical and management support services for public and private clients in more than 150 countries around the world, invites investors and other interested parties to listen to a live webcast of its presentation by senior management on May 21, beginning at 6:30 p.m. PDT.

AECOM is a global provider of professional technical and management support services to a broad range of markets, including transportation, facilities, environmental, energy, water and government. With approximately 45,000 employees around the world, AECOM is a leader in all of the key markets that it serves. AECOM provides a blend of global reach, local knowledge, innovation and technical excellence in delivering solutions that create, enhance and sustain the world's built, natural, and social environments. A Fortune 500 company, AECOM serves clients in more than 150 countries and had revenue of $8.0 billion during the 12 months ended March 31, 2014. More information on AECOM and its services can be found at www.aecom.com .

Forward-Looking Statements: All statements in this press release other than statements of historical fact are "forward-looking statements" for purposes of federal and state securities laws, including any projections of earnings, statements of plans for future operations or expected revenue.Actual results could differ materially from those projected or assumed in any of our forward-looking statements.Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements are set forth in our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2014, and our other reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.AECOM does not intend, and undertakes no obligation, to update any forward-looking statement.

Copyright ©2014 MarketWatch, Inc.  All rights reserved.

Intraday Data provided by SIX Financial Information and subject to terms of use .                 Historical and current end-of-day data provided by SIX Financial Information. Intraday data                 delayed per exchange requirements. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones & Company, Inc.                 All quotes are in local exchange time. Real time last sale data provided by NASDAQ. More                 information on NASDAQ traded symbols and their current financial status. Intraday                 data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, and 20 minutes for other exchanges. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM)                 from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. SEHK intraday data is provided by SIX Financial Information and is                 at least 60-minutes delayed. All quotes are in local exchange time.
