
Wealth managers are happy about the outcome of last week's Indian elections, which as of the time of writing saw opposition leader Narendra Modi and his Bharatiya Jahata Party decisively take power. The party has a lead of 272 seats in the lower house of parliament, defeating the Congress Party that has held power for much of the post-war period.

“It is a historic victory. Modi basically had a one-point agenda, development, and he was backed by people from all backgrounds,” Avinash Vazirani, manager of the Jupiter India Fund, said in a note.

“With an overwhelming majority, the BJP should be able to get things done. For the first time ever a single party at state level will rule all the way from Delhi to Mumbai,” he said. “There will be a clear focus on infrastructure and development. Cutting red tape will be a priority. I am expecting a simplification of the tax system, a cut in capital gains tax and dividend tax, and an introduction of GST (the Indian VAT), which has been held up for years. We should also expect privatisations, with sales of government stakes in private companies,” he continued.

“The BJP has said it is against `tax terrorism, in reference to Vodafone and other cases.  In my view, they will deliver on that, and we will get back to a stage where companies will be able to plan ahead rather than depend on government. As I have said before, Modi does not have a magic wand. But many of these things are low-hanging fruit. They can be done by a clear and decisive leadership, which the country lacked and now has,” Vazirani said.

“One of Modi’s biggest promises is that there will be continuous power, water and sanitation across the whole country. If he sorts out power, he will have sorted out all the problems with public sector banks, and more of their funding could be devoted to infrastructure spending,” he added.

According to Baring Asset Management, Modi is a “popular, reformist and business-friendly” chief minister of the state of Gujarat.

“Positively, we expect this will help to bring an end to the instability and legislative paralysis that has stymied reform efforts in recent years,” according to Ajay Argal, investment manager, Baring India Fund, Baring Asset Management, Hong Kong.

“In the coming days and weeks, investors will be watching to see the composition of the next government, which ministers will be appointed to key positions and how large the cabinet will be overall. In our view, a smaller cabinet would indicate that Mr Modi is opting for a stronger and more decisive government,” Argal said in a statement.

"Client onboarding is becoming an increasingly serious problem for wealth managers on several fronts."

Gain access to an ever growing community of senior private bankers and decision makers.
