
Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said Monday that Slovakia's agreement to allow reverse flows of gas to Ukraine from Europe did not violate agreements with Russia.

Ukraine has been trying to increase gas purchases from Europe via Slovakia after Russia almost doubled the price of gas. Moscow had suggested that reverse flows may violate Slovakia's contracts with state-controlled Gazprom.

The Finance Ministry plans to cut its domestic borrowing for this year by nearly a half to 435 billion rubles ($12.5 billion), Finance Minister Anton Siluanov said Monday.

Exhibitions organizer ITE Group said first-half headline pretax profit rose 64 percent, suffering a blow to its profits due to the crisis in Ukraine.

The rise was driven by income from its recently acquired Chinese exhibition Sinostar and changes in the biennial pattern and timing of events, the company said.

ITE Group, which organizes more than 230 exhibitions and conferences each year, said headline pretax profit rose to 18.2 million pounds ($30.6 million) for the six months ending March 31, from 11.1 million pounds a year earlier. Revenue rose 2.5 percent to 71.2 million pounds.

However, the company said it expected lower level of growth in its key Russian market and Ukraine.

Any comment deemed non-constructive, personal attacks, spam and abuse will not be tolerated and will lead to you being banned from our website.

Russia's Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said Monday Russia had told Ukraine it intends to send another humanitarian aid convoy.

Chechen leader Ramzan Kadyrov has been inducted into Russia's biggest black-leather clad biker gang, the 'Night Wolves.'

Russian diplomats say they have been excluded from an upcoming summit of NATO member countries in Wales, Kommersant reported Monday, citing an unidentified diplomatic source.

Russia's space agency, Roscosmos, has launched an independent investigation into the cause of Friday's botched launch of two brand-new European navigation satellites aboard a Soyuz rocket.

A fiscal rule that prevents Russia from raising government spending reflects "old realities" and should be relaxed, Russian Economic Development Minister Alexei Ulyukayev said in an article published Monday.

Tsars, revolutions, two World Wars and the Soviet Union — if you're interested in Russia's rich history, these are the websites to explore.

Residents of Moscow's Taganka district woke up Wednesday morning to find a Ukrainian flag attached to the Soviet star on the spire of one of the area's iconic Stalin buildings.

Hollywood star Vin Diesel has challenged Russian President Vladimir Putin to pour a bucket of ice cubes over his head, as part of a global action to raise awareness for a degenerative motor neuron disease.

Two brides wed in Moscow earlier this month, with teeth-grinding authorities unable to prevent it despite a ban on same-sex marriage — because one of the brides was a man.

A children's fashion show in Moscow triggered outrage among bloggers after the show, titled "Children of the World Against War," depicted a child dressed up as Ukraine holding a gun to her head.
