
Montpelier, VT – Paul Ralston, president & founder of the Vermont Coffee Company, as well as a state legislator, will be the featured luncheon speaker at the annual meeting of the Vermont Specialty Food Association on June 5. The popular gathering of Vermont food producers will be held in the new Event Barn at the Mountain Top Inn, Chittenden, VT.

Joining VSFA this year will be a strong line-up of program participants including Jean Kerr of Flavor Magazine with a special presentation titled, “From a Food Writer’s Perspective.” Also Tim Tully, president of Tully & Holland and head of the firm’s Food and Consumer Groups.

or visit www.vtspecialtyfoods.org.

The Vermont Specialty Food Association is a statewide organization representing over 125 food producers and 30 suppliers to the industry. It is one of the nation’s premier statewide associations for the specialty food trade, celebrating 29 years of service to the industry. A complete list of members is available at www.vtspecialtyfoods.org .

VTDigger.org requires that all commenters identify themselves by their authentic first and last names. Initials, pseudonyms or screen names are not permissible. The purpose of this policy is to encourage a civil discourse among neighbors who are willing to stand behind their identities and their comments.

As a result of our comment policy, VTDigger.org has created a safe zone for readers who wish to engage in a thoughtful discussion on a range of subjects, regardless of where they stand. We hope you join the conversation.

VTDigger.org does not share specific information about our readers with other entities. Email addresses we collect through our subscription list and comment submissions are kept private.

We use Google analytics to generate aggregated data regarding the size and geographic distribution of our readership. This information helps us gauge how many readers come to the website and what towns they live in. It does not include addresses or other identifying characteristics about our readers.

We're an independent nonprofit organization, your donation helps fund the digging, and, it's tax deductible.

Thanks for reporting an error with the story, "Paul Ralston to speak at Vermont specialty food gathering"
