
London, United Kingdom and Hanoi, Vietnam (May 19, 2014) – LogNet Systems, the provider of the Modern Billing solutions for service providers worldwide, and FPT Information System (FPT IS), the Vietnamese leading provider of billing solutions in the Southeast Asia, today announced that the two companies have won the 2014 Global Telecoms Business Innovation Award.

The Global Telecoms Business Innovation Awards recognize innovative projects in the telecommunications industry worldwide. These awards were established in 2007 and annually distinguish communications service providers and their technology suppliers.

Laos PDR.

LTC is the incumbent telecommunications service provider in Laos. The company provides fixed line, mobile and Internet services to a growing customer base of over 3.5 million subscribers and is the only communications service provider to provide full nationwide network coverage.

LogNet Systems and its MaxBill solution are delivering service providers a modern approach to billing and customer experience management. The MaxBill solution for Modern Billing enables service providers to strategically implement their innovative business models with a holistic approach to implementing business processes. Since 1996, the MaxBill solution has been helping communications, TV, content, utilities, financial and transportation service providers worldwide grow their businesses in rapidly changing and highly competitive markets. LogNet Systems is headquartered in the United Kingdom and has offices and representation across EMEA, APAC and Americas.

FPT Information System (FPT IS) is a member of the FPT Corporation and consists of 10 member companies and 1 joint-venture with Japan. The company has official presence and representatives in a number of countries thorough out the world.  It employs more than 2,700 engineers specializing in developing application software, ERP services, information technology and system integration as well as systems for handling enterprise procedures. The company has set its goal to become a provider of IT solutions and system integration in global market.

Lao Telecommunications Company (LTC) is the leading telecommunications service provider in Laos PDR. The company offers fixed line, mobile and Internet services to a growing customer base of over 3.5 million subscribers. LTC is the incumbent telecommunications service provider in Laos PDR and the only communications service provider to provide full network coverage across the entire to country. The company was founded in 1996 and is a joint venture between the government of Laos PDR and Shenington Investments.
