
FARGO, N.D. - Marco, a provider of voice, data, video and print services, has moved into a new 10,000-square-foot facility here.

FARGO, N.D. - Marco, a provider of voice, data, video and print services, has moved into a new 10,000-square-foot facility here.

Fargo is a regional hub for the company with 35 offices across North Dakota, South Dakota, Minnesota, Wisconsin and Iowa.

Marco was formed in 1973 when former IBM salesmen Gary Marsden and Dave Marquardt purchased a typewriter business based in St. Cloud, Minn. The Marco name was derived from their last names.

They branched out into copy machine sales in 1974, and when AT&T’s monopoly was split into the so-called “Baby Bells” 30 years ago, they began selling phone systems. They have provided audio visual services for 12 years as well.

Marco began doing business in Fargo in 2002.

Jonathan Warrey, vice president of sales, said Fargo became a regional hub for northwest Minnesota and North Dakota after the company purchased GR Graphics in 2008.

He said this year the region will probably do business in the range of $40 million – a third of that through acquisitions and the rest through organic growth.

The company currently employs 32 in Fargo and expects to add several new positions in the near future.

The company has come a long way since the typewriter. While few use a typewriter anymore, people are still dealing with documents, Warrey said.

They are printing and faxing less, and scanning and emailing more. The key is providing ways to scan, send, store and retrieve these documents.

He said clients may ultimately get rid of phone sets as well, but they will still need communication services.

Warrey also credits their success to employee ownership. The company has had an ESOP plan since 1989 and bought out the original founder for 100 percent ownership in 2001.

“People don’t think we’re local sometimes, but yet we have 32 employee owners in Fargo. We have all local ownership because our ESOP really shares the ownership and success with the employees,” Warrey said.

Readers can reach Wieck at (701) 241-5501.
