
The Vancouver City Council appears poised to make a bold statement by opposing not only what would be the Northwest’s largest oil transfer terminal, but also any proposals that would result in an increase of Bakken crude oil being hauled through Clark County.

A public hearing will be at 7 p.m. June 2 at City Hall. The council will likely delay voting on the resolution until June 16.

Bakken crude oil, described in the resolution as more flammable than traditional heavy crude oil, would be handled at a facility proposed by Tesoro Corp. and Savage Companies. The lease was signed with the Port of Vancouver. The resolution, which asks port commissioners to terminate the lease, “seems a little bit like a stab in the back,” port Commissioner Brian Wolfe said.

Wolfe said Monday his agency will “probably not” reverse course on the lease. He said the port doesn’t have a legal reason to terminate the binding agreement for an oil-by-rail facility capable of handling up to 380,000 barrels of crude per day.

Rescinding the contract, approved last year, could open the port to costly litigation, Wolfe said. And such a move would have a chilling effect on the port’s marketing efforts and other partnerships worldwide, he said.

The port and the city have worked together recently on numerous improvements along Vancouver’s waterfront, Wolfe said.

While Wolfe likened the resolution to a “stab in the back,” the resolution does not come as a surprise. Four of the members of the city council, Jack Burkman, Larry Smith, Bart Hansen and Anne McEnerny-Ogle, have made their opposition known. In March, Burkman, Hansen and Smith formed a subcommittee to work on the resolution.

Following Monday’s workshop, Councilor Alishia Topper said she’ll join the majority in supporting the resolution. Councilor Bill Turlay said he’ll wait until after the public hearing to decide how to vote. Mayor Tim Leavitt was out of town Monday and did not immediately return a message asking for his stance on the resolution.

A few hundred people attended Monday’s workshop at City Hall, with some people choosing to stand along the back walls in the council chambers rather than going to a room that had been set up with a live feed to accommodate the overflow crowd.

Turlay, McEnerny-Ogle and Topper asked questions about the resolution, and minor tweaks were proposed. Topper said she’d like to have more acknowledgment of the work the port has done for the city’s waterfront development project, cited as one reason to oppose the Tesoro-Savage terminal because BNSF railroad tracks border the development site.

The resolution focuses on safety risks associated with oil tank cars. It notes that while older tank cars are being phased out it will be years before all tank cars meet stricter requirements.

As a separate matter, the city will vote June 16 to formally intervene in the EFSEC process, which would give it standing to appeal if the project wins approval.

Inslee has final say on the project.
