
If you are interested in this story, you might be interested in others from The Journal Gazette. Go to www.journalgazette.net/newsletter and pick the subjects you care most about. We'll deliver your customized daily news report at 3 a.m. Fort Wayne time, right to your email.

Daniel Stephens, a vocational rehabilitation specialist with VA Northern Indiana Health Care System, checks into possible job positions for clients by talking with Ed Corbin, of TruCheck Meter Servcies at the Military Job Fair.

Last updated: May 19, 2014 11:21 a.m.

Vacasa chief strategy officer Scott Breon  asked applicants for a marketing position to  design a sales flier advertising their skills.

The attitude and actions of some 20-somethings have made more than a few small-business owners grumble.

Call it a millennial mindset.

The complaints are across the age spectrum, but younger workers seem more inclined to give human resource consultants and others fits.

The lackadaisical attitude of some applicants compounds a difficulty finding skilled employees that owners have reported for several years. In a 2013 survey of 1,200 local employers by St. Louis Community College, 56 percent cited applicants' poor work ethic as a problem.

In a survey last year by the nonprofit Seattle Jobs Initiative, nearly 35 percent of employers said most applicants for entry-level positions weren't reliable.

Part of the problem may be many young people don't fancy having to work their way up. Blame it on misconceptions about Internet billionaires under 40 who make being successful look easy, Fort Wayne job experts say.

At Vacasa, a vacation home management company, chief strategy officer Scott Breon asked applicants for a marketing position to perform a simple task: Design a sales flier showing why they're the best one for the job. He got three emails. After he posted the job again without the assignment, applications poured in.

“If you have very few requirements, you get flooded with generic responses, the same letter they sent to 100 other companies,” says Breon, chief strategy officer for the company in Portland, Oregon.

Stephens said young veterans, because of their training and experience, approach the job search with more discipline and humility.

Manpower area manager Joel Daas said he hates to use the word “entitlement” when referring to the millennial set, but there's some truth to the notion they feel opportunities should be handed to them.

And another problem involves jobseekers trying to get the best-paying positions, he said.

“They have a lot of irons in the fire,” Daas said, adding that candidates who receive multiple offers may take the best one without notifying their other prospects.

Oh, and attire can be a problem.

Ted Williams Jr. owns a pair of McDonald's restaurants in Fort Wayne. The businessman said younger applicants often have low expectations for advancement, so their attitude reflects that.

Brian Schutt is one of the frustrated bosses. His company, Homesense Heating, got about 300 applications for an administrative position, and the office manager interviewed 25 candidates. Schutt expected to meet with a dozen people in the second round of interviews, but only one showed up.

Younger applicants in particular seem to have a different work ethic, says Schutt, whose company is in Indianapolis.

Employers may be partly to blame for applicants' uncaring attitudes, says James McCoy, a vice president at Manpower. Many hiring managers never acknowledge applications. Job hunters are following their example, McCoy says.

Three-quarters of candidates surveyed last year said they never heard back from an employer after applying for a position, according to job search company CareerBuilder. Sixty percent said they went on interviews but weren't informed afterward they hadn't gotten the job.

Becky Cole has skipped second interviews or canceled when a would-be employer wasted her time or was condescending during an initial meeting. She has been looking for a job as a technical writer in St. Paul, Minnesota, since January.
