
Rogers Communications' plans to build three cellphone towers throughout Greater Sudbury has one man quite miffed.

If backed by Industry Canada, the towers will go up on Old Highway 69 in Val Therese, Radar Road in Capreol and Municipal Road 84, also in Capreol.

Daniel Paquette is concerned about the 80-metre Val Therese tower. His father, Rodolphe Paquette, owns a piece of land a stone's throw away and has filed a request with the city to rezone it and neighbouring properties (including the one Rogers wants to build on) to allow for residential development.

A letter written by Ronald Paquette, a lawyer, on behalf of Rodolphe, says he's opposed to the tower installation because it will look bad and affect future development, impact the value of Rodolphe's property and “have a detrimental effect” on the area in general.

Industry Canada requires anyone building telecommunications infrastructure to indicate whether municipalities agree with the application. However, the facilities aren't subject to zoning rules and don't require municipal approval to build.

The three applications come to city council's planning committee on May 26. Staff recommend okaying each of them.

This will be second, (third and fourth) request to planning for cellphone towers in less than a year. Last October, Minnow Lake residents were strongly opposed to letting Bell Canada build a tower at 2750 Bancroft Dr., where the Multiple Sclerosis Society is located.

Ward 11 Coun. Terry Kett and Sudbury MP Glenn Thibeault backed residents in their disapproval. Shortly after the meeting, Bell announced it would look for a spot more removed from the residential neighbourhood.

In February, federal Industry Minister James Moore said Canadians deserve more say in how cellphone towers affect where they live. At the same time, he introduced rules requiring telecommunications companies to talk with communities before building towers.

“It is essential that residents be at the centre of the process to determine the location of a new tower and it's up to the wireless industry to ensure that local voices are heard,” Moore said.

The new standards were due to come into effect by the summer.

If you already have an account on this newspaper, you can login to the newspaper to add your comments.

By adding a comment on the site, you accept our terms and conditions and our netiquette rules.

Share your story, photo or video about something you've seen.

Choose among a variety of subscription packages and stay up to date with convenient home delivery and our on the go digital e-edition.
