
Pakistan.

The judge dismissed the case after police produced a letter from the Interior Ministry attesting that the agent was allowed to carry a weapon while in Pakistan and that, therefore, any ammunition he had was legal, said lead investigator Khalid Mahmood.

In his decision, the judge also cited the small number of bullets found and said police had arrested the agent under the wrong statute, said Zahid Jamil, the man’s attorney.

The agent, identified as Joel Cox, was seized May 5 in Karachi after officials found ammunition in his luggage as he was preparing to board a flight to Islamabad.

Sensors noted high levels of toxic gas inside a coal mine days before the disaster that killed 301 workers in Turkey, but company officials took no action, Turkish news reports said Monday.

Prosecutors, meanwhile, formally arrested two more people in connection with the devastating mine fire in the western town of Soma, raising the number of suspects facing charges of negligent death to five. Those detained include executives and supervisors at mine owner Soma Komur Isletmeleri, prosecutors say.

Chief prosecutor Bekir Sahiner said 25 people were initially detained, but several were released without charges.

Several newspapers said prosecutors and inspectors probing the worst mining disaster in Turkey’s history had seized data from the mine that indicated sensors showed high gas levels in the mine as early as two days before the May 13 disaster. The reports say company officials did not record these levels on logbooks and took no precautionary actions.

offensive against suspected al-Qaeda militants in the southern areas where they have a strong presence. The ministry said officials had received tips of al-Qaeda plots in which militants were to attack government agencies disguised in military uniforms.

Death toll in Syria tops 160,000, activist group says: At least 162,000 people have been killed in Syria’s three-year-old conflict, the Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said, including civilians, rebels and members of the military. The United Nations has stopped updating its own tally of the Syrian dead, saying it can no longer verify the sources of information. The Observatory bases its figures on information obtained from a network of activists inside Syria.

Cholera outbreak reported in S. Sudan’s capital: Cholera has broken out in the capital of South Sudan, where five months of civil war have left thousands homeless and disrupted food supplies and health services, the World Health Organization reported. A WHO spokesman said nine people were thought to have died of cholera. An estimated 138 cases have been registered in and around Juba.

169 Brotherhood supporters acquitted in Egypt: An Egyptian court acquitted 169 Muslim Brotherhood supporters charged in connection with unrest that followed the overthrow of President Mohamed Morsi last year, breaking a pattern of mass convictions at trials involving the Islamist opposition. The men were charged with “illegal gathering” in relation to violence in Cairo in August two days after security forces killed hundreds of Morsi supporters while breaking up their protest camps.

Somali militants kill 12 in Kenya border ambush: Kenyan officials said Somali militants killed 12 people, including three police reservists, in an ambush in northeast Kenya near the border with Somalia. A spokesman for the militant group al-Shabab asserted responsibility for the attack.

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
