
Ryanair has admitted it was "asleep at the wheel" when passengers started to turn against the airline's attitude to customer service.

Reporting its first drop in annual profits in five years, the carrier admitted that rival easyJet had responded more quickly to a changing world. Howard Millar, deputy chief executive of Ryanair, said: "The low fares industry has evolved. It wasn't enough to do just low fares. During that period we weren't listening or were asleep at the wheel but we have learned a lot."

Ryanair has moved to improve its reputation for customer service and revamp its image over the past year with a range of changes, after chief executive Michael O'Leary said the airline would no longer "unnecessarily piss people off".

Profits after tax were down 8% to €523m (£426.5m) in the year to 31 March, after fares dropped 4% and fuel costs rose.

Millar denied that the airline's rockier year could be directly attributed to a "tarnished" Ryanair image. "It was something that was experienced across the market. Virtually every carrier reported fares not rising."

However, he said: "It did spur us to have a closer look at what competitors were doing. We were always listening ... [But] we asked more detailed questions. "

Ryanair's chief marketing officer, Kenny Jacobs, said: "There were improvements we wanted to make. Some elements if we had done them sooner it would have helped. We're moving ahead quickly."

The airline said its rapidly improving approach to customer service and upgraded website had boosted bookings, with allocated seating boosting sales and proving popular with passengers. Other changes have included the relaxing of cabin bag restrictions, lower charges, and less stringent booking conditions.

Bookings are higher for the year ahead, with fares and revenues rising over the summer on the back of stronger demand.  Fares would rise around 2% overall this year, Ryanair said.

The airline, which operates more than 1,600 routes from 68 bases, flew 81.7 million passengers in 2013-14 and forecasts a 4% rise in numbers for 2014. It expects profits to recover to between €580m and €620m next year, and plans to pay shareholders a €500m dividend in spring.

Analysts said Ryanair management's guidance appeared cautious for the year ahead. However, Gerald Khoo of Liberum Capital said the new Ryanair was not as lean as before: "The attempt to reposition the business appears to have brought additional costs." He said these included higher pay rises, deals with more expensive airports and higher marketing spend.

From September Ryanair will receive the first planes in an order of 180 737s it has placed with Boeing, launching a new period of rapid expansion. Millar claimed that factors including a stronger euro against the dollar meant that these planes would be cheaper than when Ryanair had first bought aircraft from the American manufacturer back in 1999.

The airline anticipates carrying almost 40% more passengers by 2019, which would see it fly 112 million people per year. Ryanair will be targeting more primary airports around Europe – rather than out-of-the-way secondary airports – as it starts to focus on the business passengers that have swelled EasyJet's numbers in recent years. As a result Ryanair is considering introducing a more flexible business fare.

Our editors' picks for the day's top news and commentary delivered to your inbox each morning.
