
WILMINGTON, Mass., May 19, 2014 /PRNewswire/ -- Implant Sciences Corporation ( IMSC ), a high technology supplier of systems and sensors for homeland security and defense markets, today announced it will exhibit its QS-B220 explosives trace detector at booth # 256 at the 86th Annual American Association of Airport Executives (AAAE) Conference & Exhibition on May 19th through 21st, 2014 in San Antonio, Texas.

"AAAE is an organization that expedites the communication of the numerous benefits our QS-B220 provides to both airports and travelers. As the QS-B220 continues to progress through the final stage of TSA Checkpoint Qualification testing, this conference will facilitate building relationships to help improve security across the Americas," stated Glenn D. Bolduc, President and CEO of Implant Sciences Corporation.

The 86th Annual AAAE Conference and Exposition is the airport industry's premier gathering of the world's most influential airport executives. Decision makers from more than 250 airports are expected to attend the conference. Founded in 1928, AAAE is the world's largest professional organization for airport executives, representing thousands of airport management personnel at public-use commercial and general aviation airports. The organization's members represent approximately 850 airports and hundreds of companies and organizations that support airports.

The QS-B220 uses Ion Mobility Spectrometry (IMS) to rapidly detect and identify trace amounts of a wide variety of military, commercial, and homemade explosives. With significantly lower maintenance requirements than competing systems, the QS-B220 can be deployed for a much lower total cost of ownership than other approved products. Featuring a radioactive material-free design, push-button maintenance and diagnostics, and a patented inCal™ internal automatic calibration system, the QS-B220 brings new levels of performance and convenience to desktop trace detection users with unsurpassed ease of use.

Implant Sciences is a leader in developing and manufacturing advanced detection capabilities to counter and eliminate the ever-evolving threats from explosives and drugs. The Company's team of dedicated trace detection experts has developed proprietary technologies used in its commercial products, thousands of which have been sold across more than 50 countries worldwide. Implant Sciences is only the third manufacturer, and the sole American-owned company, to currently have an ETD system named as a Qualified Product by the US Transportation Security Administration. The Company's QS-B220 has received approvals and certifications from several international regulatory agencies including the TSA in the U.S., STAC in France, the German Ministry of the Interior, and the Ministry of Public Safety in China. It also received a GSN 2013 Homeland Security Award for "Best Explosives Detection Solution".  All Implant Sciences products are recognized as Qualified Anti-Terrorism Technologies by the Department of Homeland Security. For further details on the Company and its products, please visit the Company's website at www.implantsciences.com .

This press release may contain certain "forward-looking statements," as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the risks that our explosives detection products and technologies (including any new products we may develop) may not be accepted by the Transportation Security Administration or by other U.S. or foreign government and law enforcement agencies or commercial consumers of security products; economic, political and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect our sales; our business is subject to intense competition and rapid technological change, and our success will depend on our ability to develop and introduce new products; and other risks and uncertainties described in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our most recent Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K. Such statements are based on management's current expectations and assumptions which could differ materially from the forward-looking statements.
