
HONOUR: MP Joan Walley, right, speaking during ceremony. Top right, tributes during the ceremony, and below, the plaque. Inset, Second World War hero John Baskeyfield. Below left, veteran Dan Harrison.

Relatives joined dozens of ex-servicemen for the ceremony outside Swan Bank Church, in Burslem.

It comes after the former John Baskeyfield VC Primary School, in Burslem, was renamed Saint Nathaniel's Academy.

More than 1,600 people have signed a petition calling for the school to bring back the former VC winner's name.

Sgt Baskeyfield's sister-in-law Brenda Baskeyfield and his niece Joyce Windsor attended Saturday's   ceremony.

Mrs Baskeyfield, aged 85, of Kidsgrove, said: "My husband Roy would have been very proud if he knew there was a plaque dedicated to his brother in Burslem.

"Roy served in the Royal Marines but died in 1986 at the age of 62 after he was diagnosed with cancer. He used to speak about John a lot and they were a very close family."

Sgt Baskeyfield was posthumously awarded the Victoria Cross for his bravery during the Battle of Arnhem in September 1944.

Mrs Windsor, aged 65, of Hillport Avenue, Bradwell, said: "It is great that there's still something in Burslem with John's name on because he grew up there. We just want to ensure his name and what he did for this country is remembered by the people of Stoke-on-Trent. All the family are really proud of my uncle John and it was really nice that so many veterans came to the ceremony."

Veteran Dan Harrison was friends with Sgt Baskeyfield when they lived in Stanfields.

The 91-year-old, of May Bank, said: "When I was 18, John and I used to live across the road from each other and we became friends. He went to war a few months before I was called up.

"I don't normally attend veteran functions but I wanted to come down and meet members of John's family.

"What John did was very courageous and it's right that he should be remembered as a hero."

Funding for the £925 plaque came from Burslem History Group, Burslem councillor Alan Dutton and veterans' associations.

History group chairman Alan Whitehead said: "We wanted to replace the plaque because it was old and you could barely make out the writing on it. When John Baskeyfield went to war, he didn't know he was to become a hero but he did and we need to make sure his name isn't forgotten."

Stoke-on-Trent North MP Joan Walley unveiled the new plaque with new Lord Mayor Majid Khan.
