
American Traffic Solutions field technician Israel Rodriguez installs new red-light cameras aimed at the intersection of Airport-Pulling and Pine Ridge Roads on Thursday, Feb. 11, 2010, in Naples.

TALLAHASSEE — An attempt to get rid of the cameras that catch red-light runners at some Florida intersections died in the Legislature this year, as do most of the bills filed for the annual spring session.

And this particular measure died, in typical fashion for Tallahassee, after the company that provides most of the cameras in the state got involved.

Killing the cameras would have meant a major financial hit to the company, American Traffic Solutions, and the cities and counties that use them. Across Florida, half of all money collected is paid to vendors who supply and maintain the systems, according to a state report.

State and local governments share the rest of the money. From 2011-13, red light camera revenue from fines more than tripled statewide from $37.6 million to almost $119 million. Collier County no longer operates red light cameras, having ended its contract with American Traffic Solutions last year.

State Sen. Jeff Brandes, a St. Petersburg Republican, held a joint news conference in early February with state Rep. Frank Artiles, a Miami Republican, declaring war on the cameras. Brandes has long wanted to outlaw them, calling red-light fines a "backdoor tax increase."

But shortly afterward, emails obtained through a public records request show, Artiles was lobbied by American Traffic Solutions of Scottsdale, Arizona.

One email from its Tallahassee-based lobbyist said, "we need some changes," including revisions that were personally vetted by the company's CEO. Those changes would preserve the cameras while making minor changes in how they're used.

Artiles told the Scripps/Tribune Capital Bureau he was trying to get the company to at least agree to some modifications in the way the cameras work. But he gave up after realizing the Senate, despite Brandes' lead, had no appetite to tackle any changes, let alone a repeal.

In the end, no changes were made. And once again, Brandes was thwarted in his continuing effort to repeal the red light camera program, passed by state lawmakers in 2010.

The death of this year's red light camera legislation is one example of how public policy emerges — or doesn't — during the 60-day annual legislative session.

American Traffic Solutions, which provides cameras to 62 Florida cities and counties, has given $500 each to 15 sitting senators, according to online campaign finance records. The company also contributed at least $42,000 to political committees affiliated with current state senators, although none serve on that chamber's transportation committee.

Brandes agreed he didn't have the votes, even on the transportation committee he chairs, for a repeal. He couldn't even get that panel to approve any of his own minor changes to red light cameras.

Artiles said he worked relentlessly on the other side of the Capitol toward getting some sort of camera-related legislation out of the Legislature this session.

"A red light camera repeal didn't pass — not because a lobbyist told me what to do or not to do," Artiles said. "We can do whatever we want in the House, but if we don't have a dance card over there (Senate), nothing happens."

The Florida League of Cities also lobbied against a repeal. Artiles shared a recent notice from the Florida east coast city of Hollywood. It says the city "opposes any legislation that would threaten revenue streams, including elimination of red light camera programs."

"This should be about safety, not about revenue," Artiles said.

Brandes said he was aware the company had reached out to Artiles.

"ATS wanted a long-term deal; in other words, ‘We'll agree to a few changes, but we don't want to fight this battle every year,' " he said. "I had no interest in that. I wanted a full repeal. You don't negotiate with vendors like that."

Brandes added that he will "absolutely" press for a repeal next year.

Neither Artiles nor Brandes has received campaign contributions from American Traffic Solutions, records show.

The company has given a total of $292,000 to state-office candidates and political committees for the 2014 election, including $140,000 to the Republican Party of Florida and $55,000 to the Florida Democratic Party.

After a public records request from Scripps/Tribune, the Florida House of Representatives released nearly 200 emails to and from Artiles' office in February and March.

On Feb. 27, five days before the start of the annual legislative session, American Traffic Solutions' lobbyist Ron LaFace Jr. wrote an email addressed to Artiles' personal email address.

"Attached is our initial mark-up," wrote LaFace, a partner at Capital City Consulting in Tallahassee, regarding a transportation bill that the camera language would be added to. "The CEO is still reviewing some provisions so this is about 90 percent there, but I wanted to get this to you now so that you could look over where we need some changes.

"Let me know if you would like me to walk through the changes with you tomorrow or Monday," LaFace added.

The company's draft contained no repeal language but instead suggested tweaks to the program, a document attached to the email shows. One was posting signs at red-light camera intersections notifying drivers they were "photo-enforced." Another was forbidding tickets where the driver stopped before turning right but didn't stop before the white line on the ground.

Emails with suggested changes followed again on March 11 and March 17.

By session's end, Brandes' original repeal bill (SB 144) had died in his committee.

LaFace referred questions about the process to Charles Territo, American Traffic Solutions' spokesman.

"We are always interested in working constructively with legislators and any other stakeholders to help find consensus on good public policy," said Territo, the company's senior vice president.

The Legislature approved the use of cameras statewide in 2010 to crack down on red light runners and decrease collisions. Violators must pay a $158 fine but don't get any points on their licenses.

Supporters say the cameras save lives and allow police to focus on serious crime. Critics say the cameras are a way to shake down residents for more money through fines.

Ready to subscribe to the Naples Daily News? Choose between a Premium or Digital subscription below.

Need Help? Call us at 1-888-878-6842.
