
We have re-imagined our design in a bold new way. Before we roll it out for everyone, we are giving select readers an opportunity to try out the new design. We welcome your feedback.

We've removed you from the beta test of the new design.

Please note: if you clear your cookies you may be invited back to the beta. In order to prevent this from happening, please do not clear your SFGate.com cookies for the next 30 days.

As far as Bill Robnett knows, he does not have prostate cancer, and he would like it to stay that way.

At 65, the Monterey resident is aware that his age puts him at risk for prostate cancer, the second most-common cancer among American men.

Recent tests have also reflected an increase in Robnett's prostate-specific antigens, an indicator of the cancer. So this month, he went to Stanford University 's Cancer Center for a prostate biopsy that involved a new machine with a new way of spotting potential tumors.

The machine, Artemis, uses ultrasound, which has been the technique used to detect prostate cancers for decades, and adds magnetic resonance imaging. Its maker, Eigen, a medical-imaging company in Gold Country's Grass Valley (Nevada County), says this extra-powerful gaze enables physicians to see, monitor and diagnose prostate cancers on computer screens with a greater degree of accuracy over traditional methods.

"The holy grail is to better understand cancer in a man's prostate in order to make smarter decisions," said Dr. Scott Eggener , co-director of the University of Chicago 's prostate cancer program and vice chairman of the American Urological Association 's public media committee. He is not involved with Artemis or Stanford.

The global market for prostate cancer prevention and treatment was $26 billion in 2011. Diagnostic and screening devices alone are expected to be worth $17.4 billion in 2017, up from $12 billion in 2012, according to BCC Research.

In recent years, companies have been trying to position Artemis and similar devices as the leading screening tools for prostate biopsies, which are performed 1 million times annually in the United States. More than 2.5 million men nationwide live with the disease, which is not fatal for most.

But studies so far are too small to definitively prove that machines like Artemis are as accurate as their makers claim, Eggener said.

"The MRI-ultrasound fusion certainly makes a lot of sense toward improving the current way we treat men with prostate cancer," he said. "Whether that is proven and plays out that way remains to be seen."

Stanford and about 40 other facilities use Artemis, which was approved in 2008 and costs between $200,000 and $240,000, said Dr. Michael Ahmadi , executive vice president of Eigen. Similar machines on the market include the UroNav and the Urostation.

In prostate biopsies, a fine needle is used to collect suspicious tissue samples from the prostate gland. Over the last 25 years or so, ultrasound has been used to guide the procedure. But the physician often does not know whether or where a tumor is located, so many biopsies have misleading results. Harmless lumps are frequently misinterpreted as harmful cancers, whereas serious tumors go undetected in as many as 35 percent of first-time biopsies, studies show.

"Of all the solid organ cancers, this is the only one that's diagnosed with a blind technique where we're not integrating imaging in a meaningful way," said Dr. Geoff Sonn , an assistant professor of urology at Stanford University Medical Center who conducted Robnett's recent biopsy. "We're really just aiming at the organ, and then we may or may not find cancer."

In contrast, Artemis generates a color, 3-D image of the prostate that allows doctors to see and follow individual tumors over time. The image-creating process means the notoriously uncomfortable procedure lasts a little longer - 25 minutes instead of 10 - but Sonn said the accurate information is worth it.

In a 2013 study, Sonn, who does not hold financial ties to Eigen, and a team of researchers tested Artemis on 105 men with high numbers of prostate-specific antigens but whose previous biopsies did not show cancer. This time, 12 of 14 subjects with "highly suspicious" MRI results were diagnosed with cancer.

As of press time, Robnett hadn't received his results yet. But he felt hopeful that whatever they were, they would be accurate.

"The more information and knowledge, the better decisions I'll make," he said.

Confluence of factors means few in Napa will get paid out.

Billy Crystal's moving tribute to his late friend during Emmys.
