
) (the Company of NOW) is pleased to announce that it has retained TDM Financial to launch a comprehensive communications program to North American investors through its CannabisFN financial network. CannabisFN will produce and distribute fact-based reporting on the Company that will reach dedicated cannabis investors through a network of industry specific sites, including but not limited to Marijuana Index, mainstream financial outlets such as Yahoo! Finance, and an exclusive investor audience subscribing to TDM Financial flagship media property SECFilings.com.

Under the terms of its agreement, NOW will engage TDM Financial for a period of a minimum one month. The Company shall retain the right to extend the investor communications program for a period of 30 days at the conclusion of the agreement.

Brian Sims, President of NOW commented, "We are pleased to partner with TDM Financial in that we believe they provide a broad-reaching base of investors to whom we can articulate our mandate of cultivating, harvesting and distributing a variety of cannabis products in a farming operation utilizing state-of-the-art wind turbine technology for our power requirements. Understanding that all industrialized farming operations are energy-intensive, we believe that our exoPOWER wind turbine technology is a simple, economic, and pollution-free solution to the power requirements that reduces reliance on the power grid for not only our farm, but all other farms in North America."

 The NOW Corporation is a publicly listed company trading on the OTC Markets (Pink Sheets). The Company's mission is to provide high-value clean energy solutions for agricultural, industrial, commercial and residential markets.

 NOW has certain marketing and distribution rights to the proprietary, patent-pending exoPOWER wind turbine technology, developed by SP Power Farm Group Ltd., which includes small-wind and medium-wind segments for Washington, Oregon, California, Arizona, Nevada, New Mexico, Texas, Utah, Colorado, Montana, Wyoming, Idaho, North Dakota, and South Dakota.

On March 26, 2014, the Company announced that it will be a joint venture partner with a Family Trust holding title to 10,000 acres of land zoned for agricultural purposes located near Grand Junction, Colorado. The Company holds the right to earn up to 50% interest in a farming operation that will be cultivating, harvesting and distributing cannabis products for the medicinal marijuana industry in the State of Colorado.

The Company plans to integrate its two businesses by providing the technology and equipment to generate and provide power for its farming operation. NOW plans to utilize this planned commercial farming facility to showcase the effectiveness and economic benefits of incorporating a power source that is independent of conventional power grids.

On behalf of the Board of Directors,

Certain statements in this news release may contain forward-looking information within the meaning of Rule 175 under the Securities Act of 1933, and are subject to Rule 3B-6 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and are subject to the safe harbor created by those rules. All statements, other than statements of fact, included in this release, including, without limitation, statements regarding potential future plans and objectives of the company, are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. There can be no assurance that such statements will prove to be accurate and other results and further events could differ materially from those anticipated in such statements. Future events and actual results could differ materially from those set forth in, contemplated by, or underlying the forward-looking statements.

Zeitverzögerung der Kursdaten: Deutsche Börsen +15 Min. NASDAQ +15 Min. NYSE +20 Min. AMEX +20 Min. Dow Jones +15 Min.
