
Guess who else is in London? The U.S. President, James Heller (William Devane), who is there to negotiate a military-base deal with the British Prime Minister (played, in a funny stroke of casting, by Stephen Fry). This is the most important military-base deal in history, or at least it seems that way, since Heller is staking his Presidency (or something) on getting it done, and doing so despite being in fragile health, or, as his chief of staff (Tate Donovan) keeps putting it, in a “compromised state.” President Heller is the target of the drone-wielding terrorist, and his death “on foreign soil,” we’re told a few times, would lead inexorably to a world war. Sounds plausible. Wait, war between whom exactly? Who cares, there’s no time!

“24” premièred on Fox on November 6, 2001, not quite two months after 9/11. In its first episode, a terrorist blew up a plane. It’s easy now to forget how significant that first season  was, both from a technical perspective—with its use of simulated real time and split-screen action—and in the way the show both reflected and provoked a mood of fear and a desire for retribution. (The first batch of baddies were Serbs with a grudge, but Muslim terrorists played key roles in subsequent seasons.) Kiefer Sutherland’s Jack Bauer became the fictional pitchman of a certain kind of American rough justice. He was an idol to those who liked to refer to waterboarding as “enhanced interrogation” and, increasingly, a villain to those who called it torture. Bauer routinely used torture to get information, and it was generally shown to be effective. Bauer was also regularly tortured himself, as if to even the odds, though he seemed to bear up better under the pressure than his victims did. Torture wasn’t glorified as pleasant or inconsequential but, rather—as it has often been portrayed on television and in film, before and after 9/11—as grimly necessary. All told, you were likely to see someone cutting, electrocuting, or beating someone else on a schedule of once every two episodes .

Back in the Bush years, “24” seemed to carry water for the Bush government by endorsing the Administration’s sense of the world as a set of binaries, pitting the U.S. against an enemy so unscrupulous that our own scruples must be considered a hindrance to safety. But, even in its most torture-happy seasons, “24” never really endorsed the notion that the government should be trusted. Most of the plots turned on high-level treason; in Season 5, the President was an outright Bond villain. Instead, it portrayed a world even more perilous than Dick Cheney could have imagined in his bunker, a world in which we are so perpetually unsafe—from foreign governments and power-hungry ideologues, and even from our own elected officials—that our only hope is the decisive action of one ruthless and selfless man.

The very premise, of course, of the American President being offed by his own killer robots is a political argument. The old “24” defended torture because security mattered above all else; the ticking clock was a countdown to catastrophe, and the narrative was about thwarting it. Evil was out there, waiting to do us harm. The new “24” is making a more nuanced argument: now the United States’ vulnerability stems from its very obsession with security. This season’s terrorist ring is led by Margot Al-Harazi, a convert to Islam who is, among other things, surely—we’ll see—out to avenge the death of her husband, who was killed by an American drone. She leads a transnational family—a kind of Benetton version of Muslim extremism, radicalized by America’s military adventurism. In this way, these episodes  offer a fitting coda for a show that has tracked the country’s mood from the neocons to Snowden. The drones are coming home to roost. Eight episodes left.

Photograph by Daniel Smith/FOX.

Ian Crouch is a Web writer and producer at The New Yorker, where he began working in 2009.

Strongbox is a new way for you to share information, messages, and files with our writers and editors and is designed to provide you with a greater degree of anonymity and security than afforded by conventional e-mail.

To help protect your anonymity, Strongbox is only accessible using the Tor network (https://www.torproject.org). When using Strongbox, The New Yorker will not record your I.P. address or information about your browser, computer, or operating system, nor will we embed third-party content or deliver cookies to your browser.

You can read our full privacy promise here .

The New Yorker Strongbox is powered by SecureDrop .

1Download and install software to access the Tor Project: https://www.torproject.org. This should only take a few minutes.

You will be assigned a randomly generated and unique code name as part of the process. If a writer or editor at The New Yorker wants to contact you about the information you have submitted, he or she will leave a message for you in Strongbox. These messages are the only way we will be able to reach you, and this message can only be accessed using your code name.

The New Yorker's Strongbox is designed to let you communicate with our writers and editors with greater anonymity and security than afforded by conventional e-mail.

Strongbox servers are under the physical control of The New Yorker and Condé Nast.

Strongbox is designed to be accessed only through a “hidden service” on the Tor anonymity network, which is set up to conceal both your online and physical location from us and to offer full end-to-end encryption for your communications with us. This provides a higher level of security and anonymity in your communication with us than afforded by standard e-mail or unencrypted Web forms. Strongbox does not provide perfect security. Among other risks, if you share your unique code name, or if your computer is compromised, any activities, including communications through Strongbox, should be considered compromised as well.

The system is provided on an “as is” basis, with no warranties or representations, and any use of it is at the user's own risk.
