
Crystal Blankers and Tim Deutz of Prudential Elite Realty have been named to the Honor Society for 2013 by Prudential Real Estate.

Blankers and Deutz were recognized for their exemplary performance in closed residential units in 2013 at Sales Convention 2014 in Nashville, Tenn., March 16-18.

Deutz joined Prudential Elite Realty in March 2008 and Blankers joined the team at Prudential Elite Realty in February of 2011.

Molly Archbold, Jana Reilly and Cynthia Rogers of Prudential Elite Realty have been named to the President's Circle for 2013 by Prudential Real Estate. The award recognizes the network's top three percent of residential sales professionals who in 2013 exemplified great sales measures in closed residential GCI, commercial GCI or closed residential units.

Archbold, Reilly and Rogers were recognized during Prudential Real Estate's sales convention March 16-18 in Nashville. The annual business event was attended by real estate professionals from all over the United States.

"These realtors are truly deserving of this honor," said Pat Lutterman, broker/owner, Prudential Elite Realty. "During 2013, they had a very productive year and consistently met or exceeded sales goals"

Prudential Elite Realty was founded in April 2004 and became a member of the Prudential Real Estate network in June 2004. Since that time it has earned a host of honors.

Brau Brothers Brewing Co.  was named to Star Tribune's 2014 Best of Minnesota list in the category "Best Greater Minnesota Taproom." With more than 100 categories, from the best Minnesota getaways and fitness activities to the best food and drink, Star Tribune's Best of Minnesota awards highlight the best this state has to offer.

"We're very grateful and excited to be named Greater Minnesota's Best Taproom," said Dustin Brau.  "We consider ourselves very fortunate to be brewing beer in southwest Minnesota and we look forward to being a part of the craft beer movement here on the prairie."

The Best of Minnesota listings were selected by the 265 Star Tribune journalists.

"Our beat reporters, cultural critics and lifestyle experts are able to provide measured and thoughtful reasons for designating our Best of Minnesota winners, as they cover these topics day in and day out," said Steve Yaeger, vice president of marketing and public relations for Star Tribune.
