
Share This Story!

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Gilbert's two major business organizations plan to hold public candidate forums this spring as campaign season begins for Town Council, state Legislature and school board races.

The Gilbert Chamber of Commerce will hold a forum for Town Council candidates Tuesday, May 27, followed by a Legislative District 12 forum Monday, June 2, and another for Gilbert Public Schools and Higley Unified School District governing board candidates Thursday, June 5.

The forums run from 6:30  to 8:30 p.m. at the Higley Center for the Performing Arts, 4132 E. Pecos Road. The meetings are free, and residents who show up at 5:45 p.m. can meet the candidates.

Chamber officials will evaluate the candidates' responses during the forums, along with a questionnaire and interview, to determine endorsements.

The Gilbert-based Small Business Alliance, which represents businesses across the Southeast Valley, plans to kick off its 2014 Statesmen's Tour with a forum featuring candidates for governor, secretary of state and legislative districts 12, 16 and 17.

The forum runs from 6  to 8 p.m. Tuesday, May 20, at the Val Vista Lakes Community Center, 1600 E. Lakeside  Drive. The meeting is free.

GOP gubernatorial candidates Ken Bennett, Scott Smith, Christine Jones and Doug Ducey are expected to attend, Alliance President Lisa Rigler said.

The Alliance is also planning a forum for Gilbert and Queen Creek council candidates June 11 at the Val Vista Lakes Community Center, Rigler said.

So far, eight potential Gilbert council candidates have formed political committees and must gather 1,000 signatures to qualify for the ballot. The nomination petitions are due by 5 p.m. Wednesday, May 28.

The group includes three council incumbents and five challengers. The fourth incumbent, Councilman Ben Cooper, recently announced he will not seek re-election.

In Legislative District 12, which covers most of Gilbert and Queen Creek, Democratic candidates have emerged to challenge Republican incumbents for the first time in several years. There are three candidates for two seats in the state House of Representatives and three candidates for one seat in the Senate.

Gilbert Public Schools and Higley Unified School District both have two governing board seats up for election this fall. Candidates have until Aug. 6 to file to run for the Nov. 4 election.

Primary elections for the council and the state Legislature are scheduled for Aug. 26, followed by general or runoff elections on Nov. 4.
