
A Beersheba crime boss and three associates were indicted on a series of  organized crime charges on Monday, in an indictment that details how they made  millions allegedly waging a campaign of terror on gamblers who ran late on their  payments.

Spanning 38 pages, the indictment describes “casino houses” run  by mob patsies, enforcers who strong-armed gamblers, a horse ranch bingo parlor  on the outskirts of Beersheba and a local cab driver who sold his taxi cabs and  fled the country after falling in debt to the gangsters.

The indictment  filed at the Beersheba District court on Monday names Moshe Reuben, 29, as the  head of a criminal organization that ran gambling houses and an online gambling  website, loaning money to players who were charged heavy interest on delinquent  debts.

In one passage in the indictment, prosecutors detail how one  gambler, a Beersheba cab driver named only as “S,” rang up tens of thousands of  shekels in debt to Reuben’s gang, and was repeatedly threatened by Reuben’s  alleged top enforcer, Yoni Shabtayev. At one point, after being told he had less  than 24 hours to pay his debts or else, “S” took out a loan from rival Beersheba  criminals in order to cover the loan. Still unable to get the full amount that  he owed, “S” finally sold both of his taxi cabs and fled Israel. Since then, his  family has been repeatedly threatened by the gang, the indictment  reads.

The indictment also details how the gang ran nine separate  gambling houses in the city, each of which was registered to a “kof” (Hebrew for “monkey”), the underworld slang for people who agree to put criminal assets in  their own name due to intimidation. Even on the occasions that they were  arrested, the home owners would tell police they were the ones running the  houses, helping Reuben and the case avoid prosecution.

The case covers  the years 2011-2014, much of which Reuben spent behind bars on a previous  charge, until his release in August 2013. From 2011 until 2013 he allegedly ran  the operation from inside prison, and his associates made payments to his wife  and family and placed money in his prison commissary.

Police said that  Reuben was highly cautious, not only using “kofim” as front men, but also  refusing to talk on cellphones, receiving all of his messages and giving orders  in person with his associates or by way of his wife.

Other business  interests mentioned in the report are a bingo parlor called the Horse Ranch  Bingo, allegedly run out of a building near the southern entrance to Beersheba  by defendant Amir Ben- Shmuel. The bingo parlor reportedly had full-time staff,  including waitstaff, bouncers and dealers.

Over the past year, the gang  has allegedly also been extorting other local criminals, threatening them to stop running their card games and to move all their operations to a website  Reuben ran called “Gobet247.com,” a site that brought in over 1.8 million  shekels over the course of eight months this past year.

On Monday Reuben  and three top associates were charged with crimes including extortion,  money-laundering, conspiracy and being part of an organized crime  operation.

Reuben has been in custody since April, when he was arrested  along with 78 other suspects in a district-wide operation held by Southern  District police. The operation was unprecedented in its scope, police  said, adding that 450 officers took part in the raids.

Your comment must be approved by a moderator before being published on JPost.com. Disqus users can post comments automatically.

Comments must adhere to our Talkback policy . If you believe that a comment has breached the Talkback policy, please press the flag icon to bring it to the attention of our moderation team.
