
To gain a competitive advantage, insurers need people willing to learn and adapt to the changing environment.

Being a life insurance professional in Indonesia may a challenging, but rewarding, career and especially more so now that regional market play has been thrown into the mix.

Many analysts reported that over the past decade, insurers had experienced significant shifts. The challenges include increasing-customer sophistication, growing use of technology across all aspects of the life insurance service value chain, greater collaboration and alignment with insurance regulators and increasing sophistication in the range of products being offered.

Industry reports also highlighted that in 2014, insurers in the Asia-Pacific region will continue to face the challenges of relaxed economic growth and regulation that is wider in scope at the national and regional level.

However, many see the need to be ready for the liberalization of trade barriers (as evidenced by the Shanghai Free-Trade Zone in the fall of 2013 and the 2015 target date for ASEAN integration, also known as the ASEAN Economic Community, or AEC).

According to one insurer, in a developing market like Indonesia, finding people who need insurance is still challenging.

“You have to educate people that insurance will be putting food on people’s tables and keeping the roofs over the heads after a primary wage earner has died.

“To be ready for the regional AEC in 2015, we would need lots of qualified professionals with opportunity to grow and expand,” the insurer said.

However, the room for growth is Indonesia; he did not see any compelling reason for Indonesian insurers to jump into expanding to neighboring countries.

“Indonesia’s continuing increase in middle-class and high-net-worth consumers is highly favorable for the insurance industry,” he added.

The spurring growth of the life insurance business in Indonesia attracts many professionals from various industries, including banking.

“There are very few opportunities in Indonesia, if any, that offer the potential to make significant income within their first year,” said Riza, a manager of a life insurance agency.

“I used to work as a senior banker, even within the financial services industry itself, few careers match the opportunity for as quick and large a take home income as life insurance,” Riza added.

And it is not only the market, the promising career path in the Indonesian life insurance business has attracted many professionals.

According to an insurance agent who preferred to be remain anonymous: “In our agency office, a hard-working agent can easily earn more than Rp 100 million [US$8,758] in his or her first year of sales.” “As the agent progresses, in the fifth year the projected income is around Rp 168 million a month,” he added.

Insurance professionals in Indonesia believe that even with the regional market, it would not be easy for new insurers to enter the market.

In Indonesia currently you don’t need much education to be a life insurance agent, according to Aging Indrayana, manager of a life insurance agency.

“College degrees are preferred especially because the market is demanding products involving investment, which requires some assessment and advisory skill.

“However most agencies would accept high school diplomas, but that does not mean that there is no selection process,” Agung further added, “The association requires that you attend and pass the 3-4 days ‘Fast Start’ program and pass the licensing exam.

“To be on track with the changing environment, life insurance professionals should have substantial knowledge of advisory sales process,” Agung remarked.

Experts reported that this process has been adopted in Singapore by several major insurers.

“Insurance agents must continue their education to retain their licenses and make sure they maintain uptodate knowledge of their field,” he said.

The facility manager of an insurer commented that, his company was running a campaign in which new managers needed to complete at least nine customer facing classes and exams.

However, since regional market integration is coming, “Insurers are becoming aware that life insurance requires more expertise than many other sales jobs,” said Bogy Suyatno, senior agency manager of a major life insurance agency.

“I came [to join as agent] as a national sales manager from a multinational oil and gas distribution company six years ago.

Insurers must be ready to develop skills to be successful.

“Communication skills are essential, you are in the business of meeting people, after all,” the 41 year-old said.

“Leave products alone, in this developing market this ability would become a major differentiating factor,” Bogy added.

“To win any market, any insurer certainly can teach their people the A-to-Z of the life insurance business,” he said, “But based on my experience, you just can’t teach the willingness to learn and to adapt”.

Selected comments will be published in the Readers’ Forum page of our print newspaper.
