
AstraZeneca has today rejected a 'final' £69.3billion takeover bid from US pharmaceutical giant Pfizer, sending its own share price plummeting.

The American business last night offered the board of the British company £55-a-share but said this would be their best and last offer.

But AstraZeneca has quickly turned it down, which could now kill the deal unless they are offered closer to £60-a-share, sources have said.

The decision sent its shares down 13 per cent when the London Stock Exchange opened this morning - a drop of £6 to £42 each.

Its market value is now £52billion, £17billion less than the value Pfizer had put on the company.

AstraZeneca said today the proposed deal would bring 'uncertainty and risk' for its shareholders and 'undervalues the company and its attractive prospects'.

He said that from the time of initial talks in January, the US company had 'failed to make a compelling strategic, business or value case'.

Pfizer  said it would only proceed with the takeover if it received the support  of the AstraZeneca board who have so far been hostile to the bid.

AstraZenica previously rejected an offer worth £50-a-share claiming it undervalued the company.

Pfizer has said if the deal is successful, it will create the world's largest pharmaceutical company with a headquarters in New York but based for tax reasons in Britain.

AstraZeneca has laid out details of its pipeline of new drugs and argues there is no inevitability about a Pfizer deal, although its management also acknowledges the board would have to consider a compelling bid.

There has been a mounting political backlash against the proposed deal in Britain, the United States and Sweden, where AstraZeneca has half its roots.

The Swedish government launched a concerted effort on Friday against a merger it fears will lead to cuts in science jobs and research, echoing concerns aired by British lawmakers at two parliamentary hearings last week and fears for US jobs in states where AstraZeneca has a large presence.

It came after a weekend of talks involving Mr Johannson, his chief executive Pascal Soriot and finance director Marc Dunoyer after Pfizer made an offer of £53.50 a share for the UK-based group.

This was increased to £55 a share by Sunday evening but was again rejected today.

Mr Johansson said that in response to the Friday offer, it had indicated that 'even assuming that other key aspects of the proposal had been satisfactory' that the price at which it would have been prepared to recommend a sale would be more than 10 per cent higher.

He added: 'The final proposal is a minor improvement which continues to fall short of the board's view of value and has been rejected.'

Mr Johansson said Astra had created a 'culture of innovation, with science at the heart of its operations'.

He reiterated widely expressed concerns that a deal would have 'serious consequences for the company, our employees and the life sciences sector in the UK, Sweden and the US'.

Astra outlined four key points underlying its rejection of the deal, starting with planned cost-cutting which would 'imply a meaningful reduction in research and development potential and capabilities'.

It also said the integration of the two companies would risk 'significant disruption' to the delivery of its new drugs - echoing Mr Soriot's claim before MPs last week that life-saving medicines could be delayed by the distraction caused by a mega-merger.

The UK firm pointed as well to Pfizer's past record, saying its previous large-scale takeovers had 'highlighted the challenges around the negative impact of integration on research and development productivity and output'.

Finally, Astra expressed concerns about the impact of plans by the US firm to separate out its operations into three business units.

In addition, the rejection statement repeated the concern expressed about the 'tax-driven inversion structure' of the deal.

This refers to the controversial proposal to re-domicile the newly merged giant to the UK for tax purposes while maintaining corporate headquarters in the US and a listing on the New York Stock Exchange.

Astra noted in its statement that this had 'already been the subject of intense public and governmental scrutiny' and brought 'increased uncertainty' for shareholders.

The company also pointed to the fact that the majority of the offer was still in the form of shares - which many Astra investors would have to sell.

'The board believes that Pfizer's final proposal, in relation to price, form of consideration and the four particular points that are central to the board's concerns around value, remains inadequate,' the firm said.

'Accordingly, the board has rejected the final proposal.'

The comments below have not been moderated.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
