
Tokyo, May 19, 2014 (JCN Newswire via COMTEX) -- A consortium made up of Mitsubishi Corporation, Marubeni Corporation and Sumitomo Corporation ("the three companies") joined forces with Myanmar Thilawa SEZ Holding Public Limited on January 11, 2014 to established Myanmar Japan Thilawa Development Ltd., ("MJTD"). MJTD has been developing the 396 hectare "Class A Area" of the Thilawa Special Economic Zone in Myanmar, which is scheduled to open in the middle of 2015.

The three companies, as Japanese marketing agents of MJTD, will start the sale of leasehold rights for the Class A Area (50 years + 25 years as optional) in stages from May 19, 2014. Any of the three companies may be contacted for details on these lots, such as the available lot size, rent and other conditions.

The Class A Area is located approximately 20 km southeast of the capital Yangon, and offers various incentives as a special economic zone. This is a key location, not only for export processing bases, but also for production bases targeting domestic demand. The three companies will provide high levels of infrastructure and utility services by applying the extensive know-how they have developed in the industrial park business in ASEAN countries. Attracting Japanese and other foreign investment to the Class A Area will also contribute to job creation and the economic development of Myanmar.

In addition, on April 23 this year, the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) signed a joint venture agreement for MJTD, making the development of Thilawa Class A the first public-private partnership business between Japan and Myanmar. The Japanese government has committed to infrastructure development around the Class A Area (such as power generation, port facilities, etc.) through yen loans, and JICA is already receiving support as the executing agency. The public and private sectors of Japan and Myanmar will further collaborate and develop the Class A Area through the participation of JICA.

Mitsubishi Corporation has seven Business Groups which develop operations in the diverse fields of Global Environmental & Infrastructure; Industrial Finance, Logistics & Development; Energy; Metals; Machinery; Chemicals; and Living Essentials. In addition to these Business Groups, MC has also recently established its Business Service Group. Through these business groups, Mitsubishi Corporation serves customers around the world in virtually every industry.

Through its local and international network, Marubeni Corporation provides products and services in a broad range of sectors, encompassing import and export as well as transactions in the Japanese market, related to food materials, food products, textiles, materials, pulp and paper, chemicals, energy, metals, machinery, finance logistics, information technology, infrastructure development and a range of other fields, including resources development and investments on a global level.

Sumitomo Corporation engages in multifaceted business activities benefitting from our Integrated Corporate Strength, selling a variety of domestic products and services, conducting import/ export and trilateral business transactions, providing domestic and international business investment, and participating in numerous other profitable activities facilitated by our global network and the relationships of trust built with corporate business partners and consumers in various industrial sectors around the world.

<BR /><BR />Mitsubishi Corporation (MC; TSE: 8058) is a global integrated business enterprise that develops and operates businesses across virtually every industry including industrial finance, energy, metals, machinery, chemicals, foods, and environmental business. MC's current activities are expanding far beyond its traditional trading operations as its diverse business ranges from natural resources development to investment in retail business, infrastructure, financial products and manufacturing of industrial goods. With over 200 bases of operations in approximately 80 countries worldwide and a network of over 500 group companies, MC employs a multinational workforce of nearly 60,000 people. For more information, please visit www.mitsubishicorp.com .

Copyright ©2014 MarketWatch, Inc.  All rights reserved.

Intraday Data provided by SIX Financial Information and subject to terms of use .                 Historical and current end-of-day data provided by SIX Financial Information. Intraday data                 delayed per exchange requirements. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones & Company, Inc.                 All quotes are in local exchange time. Real time last sale data provided by NASDAQ. More                 information on NASDAQ traded symbols and their current financial status. Intraday                 data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, and 20 minutes for other exchanges. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM)                 from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. SEHK intraday data is provided by SIX Financial Information and is                 at least 60-minutes delayed. All quotes are in local exchange time.
