
), a leading provider of flash-optimized hybrid storage solutions, today announced that more than 200 enterprise customers have implemented SmartStack converged infrastructure solutions to accelerate deployment and eliminate risks associated with their datacenter infrastructure. Since late 2012, Nimble Storage has rolled out a series of SmartStack reference architectures that allow enterprises to deploy an integrated solution stack for server virtualization, desktop virtualization (VDI), and business critical applications. Earlier this year, Nimble Storage also reached a distribution agreement with Avnet Technology Solutions, the global IT solutions distribution leader and an operating group of Avnet, Inc., to offer pre-integration and configuration services for the converged infrastructure solutions.

Enterprises are looking to meet the performance and capacity demands associated with business-critical applications, VDI, and private clouds in the most cost-effective and flexible manner possible. Nimble Storage's SmartStack solutions, built on Cisco UCS and pre-validated through ecosystem partners including Citrix, Microsoft, Oracle, and VMware, deliver aggressive performance, shorten deployment times, and reduce project risk. Nimble's SmartStack solutions leverage flexible scaling capabilities for compute and storage, allowing customers to non-disruptively and independently add performance or capacity to support thousands of users per configuration. SmartStack customers benefit from a simplified architecture that delivers a 30 to 75 percent reduction in their data footprint and a tremendous reduction in the physical rack space required compared to traditional solutions, with minimal end user impact.

Through Nimble's alliance partnership with Cisco, SmartStack customers can leverage pre-tested solutions for virtual desktops and servers that reduce operational expenditures and enhance worker productivity, allowing enterprises to scale the number of end users based on their growing needs. With Nimble Storage, the Cisco UCS combines compute, networking and storage access into one cohesive system that's easy-to-manage.

SmartStack customers further benefit from a single entry point for SmartStack support. Nimble Storage technical support coordinates support resources with SmartStack partners to ensure a timely and seamless experience for customers. Customers can also leverage Nimble Storage InfoSight, for innovative cloud-based storage analytics and proactive support.

Nimble Storage will exhibit its converged infrastructure solutions at Cisco Live in San Francisco on May 18 - 22, 2014. Visit Nimble Storage at booth #2242 to see demos of the SmartStack solutions, and a Technical Preview of integration with UCS Director, Cisco's management solution for integrated infrastructures.

"To support our 18 locations, we looked for a solution that could deliver the performance, capacity, and data protection needs of our virtualized business critical applications as well as our virtual desktops. Nimble Storage's SmartStack for Desktop and Server Virtualization delivered what we needed in a single infrastructure stack -- with a small footprint that can be easily scaled as our needs grow."

"When we moved our SQL, Exchange, and Citrix environments onto Nimble's SmartStack for Business Critical Applications our users immediately expressed their amazement with the performance increase. And, that wasn't the only benefit. Now, with the Cisco UCS blades and Nimble, we've reduced our data center footprint down to just two racks of hardware. As a result, we have reduced our datacenter co-location costs by 50%."

"Users are increasingly turning to offerings like Nimble Storage SmartStack that simplify the full infrastructure stack by decreasing the time to deployment and delivering predictable performance for applications. Practitioners in the Wikibon community increasingly look to deploy flash as part of an integrated infrastructure stack that can simplify operations, allowing IT to more focus on creating more value for the business."

"Customers that are leveraging SmartStack are getting the best of all worlds with Nimble and Cisco, specifically when it comes to scaling, compute and storage. Nimble Storage's scale-to-fit functionality gives enterprises the power to non-disruptively grow storage and Cisco UCS allows them to scale by adding blade servers for rapid server provisioning and a scalable IO architecture. With this pre-validated solution, enterprises can cost-effectively scale capacity and performance without any downtime and continually adapt as business needs change."

Nimble Storage believes enterprises should not have to compromise on performance, capacity, ease of use, or price. Nimble has developed a hybrid storage architecture engineered from the ground up to seamlessly integrate flash and high-capacity drives. Our customers enjoy fast application performance, enhanced backup and disaster recovery, and stress-free operations -- all while lowering their TCO. Nimble Storage solutions are available through a global network of world-class channel partners. For more information, visit www.nimblestorage.com and follow us on Twitter: @nimblestorage.

©Nimble Storage, CASL, InfoSight, SmartStack and NimbleConnect are trademarks or registered trademarks of Nimble Storage. Other trade names or words used in this document are the properties of their respective owners.

Zeitverzögerung der Kursdaten: Deutsche Börsen +15 Min. NASDAQ +15 Min. NYSE +20 Min. AMEX +20 Min. Dow Jones +15 Min.
