
NO ONE would think the most expensive housing market would be in the US given our economy! Good news on the 1% tax dodgers though...no more hiding your money in off shore accounts just so you dont have to pay taxes lol!

America is the root of all terror. America has invaded sixty countries since world war 2.

In 1953 America overthrow Iran's democratic government Mohammad Mosaddegh and installed a brutal dictator Shah. America helped Shah of Iran to establish secret police and killed thousands of Iranian people.

During Iran-Iraq war evil America supported Suddam Hossain and killed millions of Iranian people. In 1989, America, is the only country ever, shot down Iran's civilian air plane, killing 290 people.

In 2003,America invaded Iraq and killed 1,000,000+ innocent Iraqi people and 4,000,000+ Iraqi people were displaced.

Now America is a failed state with huge debt. Its debt will be 22 trillion by 2015.

Earlier this week, Deutsche Bank  suggested Canada’s housing market is 60% overvalued in a report looking at house prices in 20 advanced economies. Using data from the Organization of Economic Co-operation and Development, they found Canada’s home price to rent ratio was 88% above its historical averages and the home price to income ratio was 32% above. Averaging the two, they concluded that the Canadian market is 60% over priced.

@RZ. U know what u remind me of? Nevermind.

I bet your GPA was 3.25 in college and u were one of those that didn't have to study. Well, whoopie doo.

Hi dazzle dear. Having fun with RZ? I taught him everything he knows.

Zakaria is nothing more than a salesperson from an Indian flee market. He pretends having knowledge in every field but in fact just tells the audience what they want to hear in order to push his merchandise through. He is not a professional journalist but is a screw in the propaganda machine.

I thought so.

OMG, mikserg, I see so many facts on the article. And yes, the population of India is relatively young, and yes, China will invest in Australia, billions.

How can u argue with facts, other than u prefer to hear from ann coulter plus u are so stupid since u do not know how to read.

Ann coulter is a right wing fanatic. She is not smart.

3. Mikserg. Makes comments, but has no reading skill.

@ chrissy.

@ banasy. Come out, come out where ever u are, RAT!

@ mikserg. Just looked at my watch, I am sorry to say, but you are still stu pid.

Enough rupert. Go back to TJI where you belong. And apologize to those three kind people, please.

Never!

Odoh sebastine.

Sarah Palin supporters are the very definition of low information voters. They watch Fox, a proven source of misinformation. Studies show Fox watchers think they are well informed but are really factually deficient.

WHAT is wrong with you @ rupert??? Dazzle has not posted here.

CNN welcomes a lively and courteous discussion as long as you follow the Rules of Conduct set forth in our Terms of Service . Comments are not pre-screened before they post. You agree that anything you post may be used, along with your name and profile picture, in accordance with our Privacy Policy and the license you have granted pursuant to our Terms of Service .

Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.

On GPS at 10 am + 1pm ET on CNN, a special live show hosted by Jim Sciutto, bringing the latest news and my take on Iraq.

Saudi Grand Mufti has denounced ISIS. Can we please hear from other Islamic leaders? Loudly!
