
Pediatricians have a new prescription for schools: later start times for teens.

VICTORIA - Google Earth may soon extend it global gaze to some of the most remote First Nations territories in Canada.

"I've always wanted to do that!" This was the standard response from anyone who learned I was riding Via Rail's Canadian from Vancouver to Toronto this summer.

Marc Emery is counting down to July 9, with 50 days to go in a five-year sentence in a Mississippi jail for selling marijuana seeds to U.S. customers from his Vancouver shop. In this May 2010 photo, Emery surrenders himself at BC Supreme Court today in preparation for extradition to the U.S.

Canada’s Prince of Pot is getting ready to roll into town.

Marc Emery is counting down to July 9, with 50 days to go in a five-year sentence in a Mississippi jail for selling marijuana seeds to U.S. customers from his Vancouver shop.

On his blog , Emery laid out his plans for his return to Canada, which includes a reunion with wife Jodie Emery and large public parties in Toronto and Vancouver.

“After five days in southern Ontario, Jodie and I will fly back to Vancouver for a big Vancouver party at the BCMP or the art gallery plaza or both!,” wrote Emery Monday, referring to the three-storey headquarters of the B.C. Marijuana Party on Hastings Street and the Vancouver Art Gallery, site of the annual 420 smoke-in.

Marc Emery is also planning a party at Toronto’s pot-smoking Vapor Central lounge or a bigger shindig at Yonge and Dundas. He and Jodie will then travel across Canada, and attend a marijuana-related conference in Spain. “Substantial” dental work is also in the cards.

Marc Emery told his supporters who may be eager to celebrate his homecoming with a toke not to be offended if he doesn’t take a puff, as he’ll need to rebuild his tolerance after not smoking for 4½ years.

“I’m sure I’ll get my once-familiar tolerance back in a few weeks, but until then, it’s unlikely I’ll be doing massive bong hits or dabs or any concentrated cannabinoids,” he said.

Emery said he doesn’t know when he’ll arrive in Canada, because after he’s released from jail he will be transferred by U.S. officials to an immigration prison in Louisiana, then flown to Detroit and dropped off at the border in Windsor, Ont. — a procedure he said could take four to 10 weeks.

Jodie spearheaded an unsuccessful campaign to urge the federal government to let Emery serve his time in Canada. But she says, in a way, this is better as Emery can come straight home from the U.S. unencumbered by conditions attached to his jail term.

“I’m glad he’s coming home without any restrictions, just straight home into my arms,” she said.

Marc Emery is counting down to July 9, with 50 days to go in a five-year sentence in a Mississippi jail for selling marijuana seeds to U.S. customers from his Vancouver shop. In this May 2010 photo, Emery surrenders himself at BC Supreme Court today in preparation for extradition to the U.S.
