
According to the Portfolio Grader database, the grades of nine oil and gas stocks are better this week. All stocks in the list that is to follow have an A (‘strong buy’) or ‘B’ (‘buy’) rating.

Moved up to a B, from last week’s C (‘hold’).

Chesapeake Midstream Partners owns, operates, develops, and acquires natural gas, natural gas liquids, and oil gathering systems, as well as other midstream energy assets in the US.

Diamondback Energy, Inc.

Up from a B last week, to an A this week.

Stock price has increased 3.2% over the past week.

PVR Partners, L.P.

Now rated B, moving up from a C last week.

PVR Partners owns and operates a network of natural gas pipelines and processing plants that provide gathering, transportation, compression, processing, dehydration, and related services to natural gas producers.

The stock’s dividend yield is 2.2%.

Carrizo Oil & Gas, Inc.

Moving up to an A rating, from last week’s B.

Carrizo Oil & Gas is involved with exploration, development, production and transportation of natural gas and oil, mainly in the US.

The stock’s price is now US$ 55.16, aboce the 50 day moving average of US$ 52.83.

US Energy Corp.

Up to a B from last week’s C rating.

US Energy explores oil and natural gas.

Up to a B rating from a C.

Frontline owns a fleet of large crude carriers and Suezmax tankers that transport crude oil and oil products between ports.

Rose from a C to a B this week.

Advantage Oil & Gas is engaged in oil and gas exploitation, development, acquisition and production.

Share price is US$ 5.86, above the 50 day moving average of US$ 5.23.

Rating rose from a B to an A this week.

Cross Timbers Royalty is an express trust in the US.

At US$ 32.62, the stock is above the 50 day moving average of US$ 31.03.

The current dividend yield is 2.5%.

Rating rose to a B from a C this week.

Niska Gas Storage is an independent owner and operator of natural gas storage assets in North America.

Adapted from a press release by Emma McAleavey .

Palladian Publications publishes five international B2B magazines targeted specifically                         at the global energy sector. Each title provides its subscribers with a unique industry                         insight via a combination of news, reviews, comments, analysis, regional reports,                         case studies, technical articles and more. Magazines include Oilfield Technology,                         World Coal, Hydrocarbon Engineering, World Pipelines and LNG Industry.
