
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

"The goal is to do more design, development, testing and manufacturing in Huntsville," Dynetics Director of Development Steve Cook said Monday. "Combining high performance and affordability is critical to future booster and space propulsion systems. We believe this partnership with Aerojet Rocketdyne allows us to collectively bring the best people and technologies of the 'Rocket City' to our NASA, Department of Defense and commercial customers."

That could include working together on one of the big rocket challenges facing America today: designing and building a replacement for the Russian RD-180 engines that now propel United Launch Alliance's defense satellite-launching Atlas V rocket. The supply of those engines is being threatened by tensions between the U.S. and Russia.

Aerojet Rocketdyne and Dynetics are already working together on NASA's Space Launch System. Dynetics has built 18-foot diameter cryogenic fuel tanks for testing, a development that could lower the weight of launchers, and the pair has resurrected and tested a key part of the F-1 engine that powered the Saturn V rocket.

"Because of these tests, the team successfully completed design and fabrication of a new full-scale gas generator injector using additive manufacturing that will be hot fired at Marshall Space Flight Center in late 2014," said Julie Van Kleeck, Aerojet Rocketdyne vice president for Advanced Space & Launch Systems. "Additionally, other components have been produced, demonstrating affordable casting techniques for large, complicated engine components."

Leaders for both companies praised what Dynetics President David King called "a natural pairing" of the two companies. Expanding the partnership will let the team "deliver innovation combined with affordability to customers using state-of-the-art design, development and manufacturing capabilities, " Aerojet Rocketdyne President Warren M. Boley Jr. said.

© 2014 Alabama Media Group All rights reserved ( About Us ).

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
