
Frontier Resources International Plc, an oil and gas exploration company with assets in Oman, Zambia and Namibia, disclosed Friday that it has completed seismic data interpretation for onshore Block 38 in the Sultanate of Oman.

Frontier's 100 percent owned Block 38 (the Block) is located in the Rub Al Khali Basin in southwest Oman and covers a surface area of approximately 6,727 square miles (17,425 square kilometers). An Exploration and Production Sharing Agreement (EPSA) was signed Nov. 25, 2012.

Frontier is the operator.

The Company has now completed the initial interpretation of available legacy 2D seismic data, both original and those data re-processed during 2013 by BGP in Houston. These reprocessed data have enabled Frontier to identify geologic horizons previously unseen on the original seismic.

Frontier is pleased to announce that it has identified a number of potentially attractive exploration targets. These targets, or their stratigraphic equivalents, include formations within Precambrian - Cambrian units, many of which contain hydrocarbons at the analog Khazzan - Makarem Field in central Oman currently under development by BP as presented at the Gas Arabia Summit, December 2011.

In addition to the above formations there is also the potential presence of an Ara formation intra-salt play on the Block as seen after recent reprocessing of a test line. Based on this encouraging information, Frontier has decided to reprocess up to an additional 248.5 miles (400 kilometers) of legacy 2D seismic data over the area where this lead was identified.

There is a plan to acquire new seismic data to mature the identified leads to prospect level and accordingly the company is hi-grading the portfolio to determine the optimal location for a 3D seismic survey.

This update has been reviewed and approved for release by the Ministry of Oil and Gas of the Sultanate of Oman.

Generated by readers, the comments included herein do not reflect the views and opinions of Rigzone. All comments are subject to editorial review. Off-topic, inappropriate or insulting comments will be removed.

Your comments have been received and will be posted after being reviewed. If you have any questions, please feel free to contact us.
