
Perceived structural imperfections in the country’s current broadband infrastructure market are causing huge concerns for investors, with many beginning to seek greener pastures outside the country’s shores.

This brings to mind earlier warnings by industry watchers that the broadband infrastructure market as it stands would likely create monopolies and discourage investors.

The industry regulator, the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), is expected to establish seven regionally-based Infrastructure Companies (InfraCos) as part of the proposed market restructuring exercise.

But observers are of the view that Federal Government’s plans to limit the number of InfraCos to one in each geo-political region is high-handed, constitutes monopoly, and will fail to inspire the required investor confidence in Nigeria, Africa’s largest economy.

According to them, government’s decision to move in this direction is worrisome because existing mobile operators have already made considerable investments in fibre build.

Lanre Ajayi, president, Association of Telecommunications Companies of Nigeria (ATCON), says the intention behind the InfraCo model is laudable. He, however, expresses reservations about the implementation process.

This creation of monopolies, market observers further add, does not bode well for Nigeria’s target of achieving 30 percent broadband penetration by 2017, in consonance with the national broadband policy. Nigeria currently has an abysmal broadband penetration rate of between 6 and 8 percent.

“What are the modalities for setting up these InfraCos? Do you think that the licensing of these InfraCos will be devoid of political interference, considering that there is a lot of money involved?” Banjo queried at the forum in Lagos.

Eugene Juwah, executive vice chairman, NCC, had earlier allayed fears of the emergence of monopolies in the telecoms market.

“It is done all over the world, especially in developed nations, where government will fund private operators to roll out national broadband infrastructure. It is working well in such countries and Nigeria will not be an exception,” the NCC boss stated.

“It would be a defeatist attitude to say that the InfraCos might not succeed. I was in London recently to discuss with potential investors who are willing to come to Nigeria to invest, in spite of the challenges we claim to be having in the industry,” he said, adding that studies show that Nigeria continues to remain an investors’ delight.

An estimated N478 billion has been ploughed into the expansion of Nigeria’s international fibre-optic capacity. This has in turn eased the long-standing constraints of high-speed internet connectivity. Analysts say Nigerians are yet to feel the impact of these broadband cables. The internet market is still characterised by the slow and exasperating access to the cyberspace. Insufficient national fibre backbone, metropolitan fibre as well as last mile connections, according to them, have been identified as significant drawbacks hindering better internet service delivery in the country.

The EVCs arguement does not hold water. Having just one InfraCo in a geo political zone constitutes a monopoly. We do not want that for the telecoms industry.

Sorry to start of with such sentiments but that is how i feel towards most of the major telecoms players in the market. They are now crying foul despite all the profits they have been raking over the years. Yes, there are challenges working in an environment like Nigeria but believe me if there was no profit to tbe made, this companies will have abandoned the Nigerian market a long time ago. Fixed broadband infrastructure is almost virtually non-existent in some parts of the country. Even the so called 3G networks are just coming online in some states. Therefore, i fully support the Fed Govt decision to create InfraCo for some regions. Without them, i dont see MTN or Glo building FTTH to my house in Sokoto or Yola. Most telecoms operators have embraced mobile broadband as a cheaper alternative to fixed broadband which is only found in major cities. How long shall we wait for them ? Enough is enough.

Sorry to start of with such sentiments but that is how i feel towards most of the major telecoms players in the market. They are now crying foul despite all the profits they have been raking over the years. Yes, there are challenges working in an environment like Nigeria but believe me if there was no profit to be made, this companies will have abandoned the Nigerian market a long time ago. Fixed broadband infrastructure is almost virtually non-existent in some parts of the country. Even the so called 3G networks are just coming online in some states. Therefore, i fully support the Fed Govt decision to create InfraCo for some regions. Without them, i don’t see MTN or Glo building FTTH to my house in Sokoto or Yola. Most telecoms operators have embraced mobile broadband as a cheaper alternative to fixed broadband which is only found in major cities. How long shall we wait for them ? Enough is enough.
