
DENVER, May 19, 2014 /PRNewswire/ -- The Colorado Cleantech Industries Association has endorsed the Chubb Group of Insurance Companies as a preferred provider of global property and casualty insurance solutions for its members.

"Chubb has demonstrated that it can help our members protect their property and employees anywhere around the world," said Chris Shapard, executive director of the Colorado Cleantech Industries Association. "Chubb's underwriting and loss control professionals have a deep understanding of the complex issues clean tech businesses face as they start off and then grow into mature companies."

Amy Ingram, vice president and worldwide clean tech segment manager for Chubb, said, "We are thrilled to receive this endorsement from one of the preeminent clean tech industry associations, and we look forward to providing its members with customized insurance and loss prevention programs that help reduce exposure to litigation and other types of loss."

For over three decades, Chubb has provided a wide range of renewable energy, technology, manufacturing and emerging companies with scalable, future-focused insurance solutions. In 2011, Chubb formed a team to address the unique risk management needs of clean technology manufacturers, distributors and service providers worldwide. Chubb's Clean Tech Team includes underwriters and loss control specialists with expertise in energy, technology and related industries to help clean tech companies keep pace with the velocity of changing risks.

Founded in 2008, the Colorado Cleantech Industries Association (CCIA) is a statewide, industry-led, industry-focused organization dedicated to promoting Colorado's clean tech industry. CCIA impacts Colorado's policies, people, products and programs that drive expansion of a cleaner, cheaper, more efficient and secure energy economy. Through advocacy, public policy leadership, development and education, CCIA works to ensure that Colorado is a global clean tech leader.

Since 1882, members of the Chubb Group of Insurance Companies have provided property and casualty insurance products to customers around the globe. These products are offered through a worldwide network of independent agents and brokers. The Chubb Group of Insurance Companies is known for financial strength, underwriting and loss-control expertise, tailoring products for the needs of high-net-worth individuals and commercial customers in niche markets and select industry segments, and outstanding claim service.

The Chubb Group of Insurance Companies is the marketing term used to describe several separately incorporated insurance companies under the common ownership of The Chubb Corporation. The Chubb Corporation is listed on the New York Stock Exchange ( CB ) and, together with its subsidiaries, employs approximately 10,000 people throughout North America, Europe, Latin America, Asia and Australia. For more information regarding The Chubb Corporation, including a listing of the insurers in the Chubb Group of Insurance Companies, visit www.chubb.com .
