
“Time was endless, panic was amplifying, fear and confusion was overwhelming,” remembers Andrea Davis, one of the 4,229 people on board the Costa Concordia cruise ship on January 13, 2012, when it crashed into rocks off the Tuscan island of Giglio, killing 32 people. Davis will not be one of the 25 passengers giving testimony on Monday and Tuesday against Francesco Schettino , the erstwhile captain of the doomed cruiseliner who is standing trial for manslaughter, abandoning ship, and causing a maritime disaster, but if she had been called to testify, she says she would tell the court that surviving the crash was the easy part.

Davis, who wrote a book about the disaster and her subsequent struggle with post-traumatic stress disorder called Survival Was Only the Beginning , says she and her husband, Laurance, were self-described “cruise junkies” before the accident. They boarded the Costa Concordia in Barcelona, Spain, for a seven-day cruise to celebrate Laurance’s 60th birthday. They had been on the cruise for four days and were dining with friends when the ship hit the rocks. She says she heard “crash, crunch, and the sound of scraping noises.” Then there was total darkness.

She describes hearing “screaming and crying, glasses and breaking bottles tumbling, wine glasses shattering, wine and food everywhere.” She and her husband crawled on the floor, ducking as “falling glass, chandeliers, plates, food, and drink” fell on top of them.

Like so many other passengers on the ship that night, Davis still struggles with the aftermath. She says that two and a half years later, she can only think in terms of “life before” and “life after” the accident. “Life will never be the same again,” she says.

But she also is disappointed by the way Costa Crociere, owned by Carnival Cruise Lines, has handled the situation. “To date, we have not been questioned by Costa as to how we got off the ship, what our circumstances were during the time and immediately following the accident,” she says.

Dozens of passengers will testify in Grosseto on Monday and Tuesday to wrap up the prosecution’s case. Then technicians and experts and possibly even Schettino will testify for the defense throughout the summer. A verdict is expected before the end of the year. Schettino faces a 20-year sentence if he is convicted.
