
Doug Black, the former chief operating officer at UBS' private wealth division, is teaching the wealthy how to ask their bankers the tough questions.

• Invalid Email Address • Must enter an email address • (Separate multiple address with commas) • You can't enter more than 20 emails.

You must enter the verification code below to send. Invalid entry: Please type the verification code again.

An error has occurred and your email has not been sent.

If you are among the seriously irked -- fed up with your private banker but overwhelmed by the complexity of picking a new one -- then Doug Black is a person you might consider calling.

Black is the former chief operating officer of UBS Private Wealth Management who was sidelined during a management shuffle. In 2010, he left his employer of two decades to found the independent SpringReef Partners, a New Jersey-based consultancy for wealthy families. Over a lunch at the Fat Radish, a brick-walled and tasty locavore restaurant in New York's Chinatown, Black explained why he didn't stay on in private banking.

Since the dot-com bubble burst in 2000, the competitive pressures in the wealth industry have mounted to such a degree, he says, that the internal discussions at banks are entirely about "assets under management, advisor head count, and shareholder's return on equity. The client has been left out of the equation." As he once told a business associate, "There's got to be a better way."

There was. Today, Black uses his insider knowledge to teach rich folk how to ask the right questions of their wealth managers, how to find the hidden fees and make sure they aren't getting overcharged, and how to find a manager who can genuinely meet their sophisticated financial needs.

His start-up currently has 30-plus clients, with assets averaging $50 million each. Black's customers no longer trust their bankers, have interviewed a few other wealth managers, but have been so burned by their experiences or muddled by what they have heard they want Black to help them with the move. "People come to me when they are unhappy or confused or both," he says.

Black initially spends around two hours learning all he can about the client's private-banking experience and understanding what they are looking for. For those who insist on changing their wealth managers, Black embarks on a rigorous screening process of firms with the know-how and experience to handle the sophisticated demands of his client's finances and particulars. Once a firm has been identified, Black negotiates his clients' terms, typically cutting 20 basis points from published fees. He claims he has never failed to win a fee concession for his clients.

This former banker now believes that registered investment advisors have the best business model -- with everything from independence, regulatory disclosures, use of third-party products, and transparency of fees all building client confidence -- but that only a tiny number of such independent advisors have the minimum $1 billion under management he requires before making a referral. Experience with the complexities of serious wealth is crucial; he doesn't want advisors learning the business "on my clients' assets."

Over poached char and peekytoe crab, Black regaled me with some of the horror stories that have walked into his office -- how his clients were shoved into banks' mediocre proprietary products, despite claims of "open architecture," and how many were charged premium rates for commodity products. In all such cases, clients simply "don't know what to ask."

Take fees. The key -- particularly when third-party products are involved -- is to ask for the "all-in" costs; at times, three hard-to-see layers of fees can be lurking in a single financial product. Even for a pro like Black, it can at times be hard to get the full picture, but he keeps on going back and asking pointed questions until the entire fee structure is revealed.

After analyzing one client's portfolio, Black determined a bank was charging his client 1.4% of assets under management. Black called the banker and calmly laid out why these fees were in excess of the industry's norm for the account's size and the service and products in question. The banker cut the clients' charges to 1%.

Black charges $700 an hour for his time. There's a $5,000 minimum for his services, and clients typically pay $12,000 to $15,000 per assignment. In contrast, a client with, say, a typical $50 million portfolio will save $200,000 a year when fees have bee cut to 1% from 1.4%.

A version of this column appeared Aug. 17 on Barrons.com.

Penta finds in a Fidelity study a reason the market rises despite the dire news. Even gloomy millionaires are betting on stocks.

David Fischer, CEO of packaging firm Greif, is helping the water crisis in the poorest countries with a backpack that keeps drinkable water clean.
