
Magnolia High School Students Sarah Swift and Brianna Bennick attended the Business Professionals of America (BPA) 2014 National Leadership Conference, “Accelerate Your Future,” in Indianapolis, April 30- May 4.

Magnolia High School chapter members, Sarah Swift and Brianna Bennick joined more than 5,000 other conference delegates and 1,000 chapters from across the nation to participate in national level business skills competitions, workshops, and general sessions.

Besides having the opportunity to excel, they experienced the city of Indianapolis, IN. “The conference is the culmination of a school year’s worth of business education and training which members of the local chapter of Business Professionals of America at Magnolia High School have received,” said chapter advisor, Edith Passmore.

Bennick competed in Accounting using QuickBooks and Swift competed in Fundamental Word Processing skills. Bennick placed 4th in her competition.

Business Professionals of America is a national organization for high school, college, and middle school students preparing for careers in business and information technology. The organization’s activities and programs complement classroom instruction by giving students practical experience through application of the skills learned at school.

Business Professionals of America acts as a cohesive agent in the nationwide networking of education and business and industry. BPA is contributing to the preparation of a world-class workforce through the advancement of leadership, citizenship, academic, and technological skills.

Posted in News on Monday, May 19, 2014 10:00 pm.

1 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language. PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.

2 Don't Threaten. Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated.

3 Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.

4 Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.

5 Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.

6 Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness accounts, the history behind an article.

Welcome to the discussion.
