
The 12-week immersive boot camp for aspiring founders, entrepreneurs and intrapreneurs promises to deliver the comprehensive skill base necessary to start and lead successful high-growth companies.

The Southeast’s first multi-track, founder-focused program, Total Founder , is calling all startup founders, recent grads, business consultants, strategic hires, and idea people to join its inaugural cohort this fall in the storied Tennessee Highlands. The 12-week immersive boot camp for aspiring founders, entrepreneurs and intrapreneurs promises to deliver the comprehensive skill base necessary to start and lead successful high-growth companies. Total Founder is the definitive launch program for serial entrepreneurs and is accepting registrations now .

Total Founder is the only experiential entrepreneurial program offering 100% focus on the complete professional development of serial founders. This cutting edge educational program will groom success through an understanding of the fundamentals, a top-notch founder-focused accelerator experience, and advanced curriculum from MBA programs in Entrepreneurship. Within this framework, participants will also learn technical coding, product design, and “soft” leadership skills. Total Founder will empower participants to execute their own startup, or to lead an innovative internal business unit at a major corporation.

Just a few miles from the Great Smoky Mountains National Park, and across the street from Tennessee Tech’s top engineering school, this 12-week “off-the-grid” program combines online training, face-to-face mentorship, enrichment sessions, networking, and physical team-building exercises, all away from the distractions of everyday life. Total Founder’s Faculty and Advisors include experts in entrepreneurship and education whose resumes include Vanderbilt University, Jumpstart Foundry, Launch Tennessee, The Biz Foundry, Tennessee Tech, the TN Code Academy and dozens of the nation's top firms and startups.Total Founder’s staff of experienced faculty, coders, consultants and serial starters are ready to share high-growth knowledge to develop the next generation of founders.

Total Founder is an entrepreneurial education program paired with an “off-the-grid” immersive retreat that ensures successful mobility for evolving serial entrepreneurs and innovative professionals. Total Founder provides serious CEO’s-in-training, strategic and innovative hires, and other mid-career professionals with the lean, actionable knowledge to jumpstart their entrepreneurial endeavors inside and outside of parent organizations and startups. For more information, visit TotalFounder.com and follow @TotalFounder on Twitter.
