
Northrop Grumman improperly charged the U.S. government more than $100 million in “questionable” costs on a contract, according to a Defense Department inspector general’s report.

The report found that from October 2007 through March 2013, the major defense contractor “did not properly charge labor rates” for a counter-narcoterrorism contract, and that the Army agency in charge of the contract did not ensure that the people performing the work had the necessary qualifications. The agency also did not review invoices for millions of dollars of overtime, the report said.

The IG found $21.7 million in “potentially excessive payments” for overtime, including one employee who billed $176,900 for 1,208 hours in a 12-day period. That caught investigators’ attention, since the employee was billing for more than 100 hours a day.

The IG found that out of the charges submitted over nearly six years for 460 DynCorp employees working for Northrop Grumman, 360 did not meet the specified labor requirements, leading to $91.4 million in questionable costs. In one case, a program manager who billed 5,729 hours over a year and a half, totaling $1.2 million, did not have a bachelor’s degree, which was a requirement of the position. Another employee billed 16,270 hours worth $2 million over five years but was qualified for only 161 hours of the work.

The report, marked “for official use only,” was obtained by the Project on Government Oversight , which published it on its Web site Tuesday. It was first reported last week by Bloomberg News.

DynCorp was a Northrop subcontractor, supplying spare parts, maintenance and training for the Afghan Defense Ministry, the Afghan Army Air Corps and the Afghanistan Interior Ministry’s Counter-Narcotics Air Squadron.

The investigation was launched after a whistleblower called the IG’s hotline in 2012 to complain that DynCorp “incorrectly and knowingly applied labor rates and categories for DynCorp employees” on the contract, according to the report.

The report follows a 2011 inspector general investigation that found that Army contracting officers did not vigorously oversee the contracts and that hundreds of thousands of dollars were incorrectly billed.

Neil Gordon, an investigator at the Project on Government Oversight, wrote in a blog post on the watchdog’s Web site that the report “makes us wonder how extensive contractor overbilling and other abuses are throughout the program. If oversight staff is indeed spread so thin that contractors are basically being left to their own devices with regard to billing, the Army has two choices: either significantly beef up contract management or insource the work.

The Army contracting command did not immediately respond to a request for comment.

Christian Davenport covers federal contracting for The Post's Financial desk.

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
