
Smithfield’s only sushi factory has gone from farmer’s market stall to serving U2 sushi, and continues to aim high.

CONVINCING PEOPLE TO eat raw fish from a petrol station doesn’t seem like the world’s best business idea, but one Dublin company has been doing just that, and making a success of it.

Hidden away down a lane in Smithfield, Oishii Sushi busily churns out stacks of Japanese food every day. The company is the brainchild of 34-year-old mother of two Ciara Troy.

Troy wasn’t a typical graduate when she left Trinity with a degree in Business, Economics and Social Science aged 27. A semester in Tokyo had ingrained a love of all things Japanese, especially the food. Instead of looking for a job, she decided to strike out on her own.

Starting out making sushi and other Japanese food at farmer’s markets, Troy has grown her company exponentially and now supplies ready to eat sushi to some of the largest retailers in Ireland. Dunnes, Spar and Topaz all stock her produce.

Her ambition is limitless, with a plan to take on no less august an institution than the hallowed breakfast roll.

Since her days in the farmer’s markets, the company has gathered momentum and expanded its operations and employee count, even finding time to whip up a batch of Salmon Nigiri for U2 when they played Croke Park in 2009.

Troy wasn’t cowed by the size of the task in front of her, despite her inexperience.

Eight years later, the company has 20 full-time employees.

As a small business owner that has had a lot of success selling her product into larger companies, she says that passion and the ability to tailor a pitch is key.

The fish that goes into Oishii sushi is almost exclusively sourced from Irish waters, through Dublin suppliers Kish Fish and Wright’s of Howth.

Steering a start-up company through the recession, never mind growing it, is no mean feat. Out of all the hurdles she’s had to clear in the last few years, Troy rates getting access to funds as the trickiest element of running a small business today.

Educating herself about the diverse sources of finance, and making sure her branding was spot on were both key.

While the company has been able to spot and exploit secondary income streams such as coporate demonstrations and group outings, cash constraints mean that Oiishi has to keep a lid on its ambitions.

And while Troy doesn’t rule out expanding into other markets at some point in the future, she wants to conquer her home territory before looking overseas.

Get breaking news from TheJournal.ie via Facebook.

Just click Like.

Email “The Big Idea: Will the Irish ditch the breakfast roll for sushi?”.

Feedback on “The Big Idea: Will the Irish ditch the breakfast roll for sushi?”.

Content copyright © Journal Media Ltd. 2014 Registered in Dublin, registration number: 483623.                 Registered office: 3rd floor, Latin Hall, Golden Lane, Dublin 8.

Please note that TheJournal.ie uses cookies to improve your experience and to provide services and advertising. For more information on cookies please refer to our cookies policy .

News images provided by Press Association and Photocall Ireland unless otherwise stated. Irish sport images provided by Inpho Photography unless otherwise stated. Wire service provided by Associated Press .

Journal Media does not control and is not responsible for user created content, posts, comments, submissions or preferences. Users are reminded that they are fully responsible for their own created content and their own posts, comments and submissions and fully and effectively warrant and indemnify Journal Media in relation to such content and their ability to make such content, posts, comments and submissions available. Journal Media does not control and is not responsible for the content of external websites.
