
The UK-based pharmaceuticals firm rejected the latest advance from the Viagra maker after it upped the price it was prepared to pay over the weekend.

AstraZeneca said the deal would bring ‘uncertainty and risk’ for its shareholders and ‘undervalues the company and its attractive prospects’.

The US pharmaceutical giant said its latest offer worth £55 a share represented a 15 per cent increase to its previous proposal on May 2 and would also be its final approach.

AstraZeneca's share price tumbled 13 per cent  or 600p, to £42 per share.

The attempted takeover of the UK’s largest pharmaceutical firm has caused significant political controversy amid warnings from scientists that research and development could be adversely affected and fears over jobs losses.

Politicians have also accused Pfizer of being driven by other motivations including a lower corporation tax bill.

Corporation tax in the UK is currently 21 per cent compared with 35 per cent in the US.

Executives from both AstraZeneca and Pfizer faced MPs on two separate select committees last week such has been the concern over the deal.

He said that from the time of initial talks in January, the US company had ‘failed to make a compelling strategic, business or value case’.

Pfizer said today it would not make a hostile offer direct to AstraZeneca shareholders, instead urging them to press the company's board to begin substantive engagement over a deal.

Pfizer said an offer made to Astra on Friday valuing the firm at £53.50 a share was rejected on the grounds it substantially undervalued the company.

Pfizer chief executive Ian Read said: ‘We have tried repeatedly to engage in a constructive process with AstraZeneca to explore a combination of our two companies.

‘Following a conversation with AstraZeneca earlier today, we do not believe that the AstraZeneca board is currently prepared to recommend a deal at a reasonable price.

‘We remain ready to engage in a meaningful dialogue but time for constructive engagement is running out.

Without further discussions or an extension of the deadline for making a firm offer, Pfizer's proposal will expire at 5pm on May 26.

The company has also increased the cash element of its offer from 33 per cent to 45 per cent and said its latest proposal was 34 per cent higher than Astra's all-time high closing share price prior to the bid speculation.

Pfizer has already pledged in a letter to Prime Minister David Cameron that any deal would not stop the building of Astra's planned research and development hub in Cambridge and that 20 per cent of the combined company's R&D workforce will be in the UK.

But Astra believes Pfizer's board is making an opportunistic attempt to acquire ‘a transformed AstraZeneca, without reflecting the value of its exciting pipeline’.

Chief executive Pascal Soriot said the mega-merger would prove a distraction from its scientific priorities.

And Pfizer's pledges have also been criticised by the President of the Royal Society, who said they were ‘vague, come with caveats and have an inappropriate timescale’.

Meanwhile Swedish trade unions warned over the weekend of the negative consequences that would arise from the proposed takeover.

In 2003 when Pfizer bought rival Pharmacia, which was founded in 1911 in Stockholm, the Swedish operations were significantly scaled down, and only a fraction now remain.

Sweden’s finance minister has also previously warned that promises made by Pfizer should be taken with a ‘sack full of salt’ by Astra executives and the UK government.

The comments below have not been moderated.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

By posting your comment you agree to our house rules .
