
The wheels are in motion to shift gears on a parking puzzler in downtown Calgary.

Shane Keating said he and Calgary Parking Authority boss Troy McLeod have drafted a notice of motion he hopes to squeeze into the next council meeting as urgent business.

The plan focuses on a parkade with dozens of parking spaces for vehicles and bikes that’s part of the Mustard Seed’s Affordable Housing Initiative apartments downtown.

Coun. Sean Chu said the Seed was told building the $3-million-parkade was mandatory, even though the building houses less fortunate Calgarians who don’t necessarily have cars to park.

Chu also alleged the Mustard Seed could make back $350,000 per year toward its programming by renting the vacant spaces out, but the city’s transportation department ruled that was against policy and would encourage traffic downtown.

Enter Keating’s notice of motion.

“It’s basically saying, ‘Let’s open up the parkade at the Mustard Seed building and let the parking authority operate it and then the net profits would go to (the Seed’s) programming,” he said.

Keating, who’s on the city’s planning commission, said he understands and respects the city’s policy not to encourage excessive driving into the core in order to mitigate congestion.

He said creating flexibility is about finding balance between not encouraging everyone to drive downtown, but providing appropriate space for those who need to.

Both Keating and fellow planning commission representative Coun. Gian-Carlo Carra said it seems there could have been more flexibility for the Mustard Seed pre-parkade.

“I’m quite certain there could have been a way around it,” said Keating.

Carra, who also sits on the Calgary Parking Authority’s board of directors, said there’s been progress in recent years.

“In this day and age, we would have had a much more flexible conversation about the kind of parking they required,” he said.

Like Keating, Carra appreciates the city’s strategy to discourage an overwhelming number of drivers from heading downtown, but said it could use some tweaking.

“We definitely have to review that strategy, it’s definitely time to modernize it,” he said, adding in the meantime he is open to case-specific conversations, such as one involving the Mustard Seed building.

By adding a comment on the site, you accept our terms and conditions and our netiquette rules .

The wheels are in motion to shift gears on a parking puzzler in downtown Calgary.

Shane Keating said he and Calgary Parking Authority boss Troy McLeod have drafted a notice of motion he hopes to squeeze into the next council meeting as urgent business.

The plan focuses on a parkade with dozens of parking spaces for vehicles and bikes that’s part of the Mustard Seed’s Affordable Housing Initiative apartments downtown.
