
modern: Part of the Southern by-pass road under construction. It is being undertaken by China Road and Bridge Corporation.

The construction of Nairobi’s Sh17 billion Southern Bypass is proceeding on schedule with the opening of the Kibera-Dagoretti section set for July, according to the contractors.

The opening of the key section to the public is expected to ease traffic flow within the southern parts of the city. The Dagoretti-Kikuyu section is expected to be ready by December.

The project update was announced during a recent tour of the project by top Kenyan and Chinese government officials following the visit to Kenya by Chinese Premier Li Keqiang, that saw the signing of a number of commercial agreements between the two countries. The project is one of the key ventures being undertaken by a Chinese firm in Kenya.

“We are proceeding on schedule. I see us meeting all the key thresholds and delivering this critical project on time,” said China Road and Bridge Corporation project leader Shu Yili.

Transport and Infrastructure Cabinet secretary Michael Kamau, the Principal Secretary For Infrastructure John Mosonik and his Transport counterpart Nduva Muli and the two visiting Presidents of Exim Bank of China, Li Ruogu and Chen Fenjian of China Communications Company (CCCC) were conducted on a tour of the road..

CCCC is the parent company of the southern bypass contractor, CRBC while  Exim Bank of China has financed 85 per cent of the Southern Bypass while the Kenya government will fund the balance. So 55.2 per cent of the work is complete with the entire section scheduled for completion next year.

The project entails the construction of a 28.6 kilometre dual carriageway, with two lanes in each direction. Other key features include 12 kilometre slip roads and 8.5 kilometre service roads, four modern interchanges and street lighting.

Starting on Mombasa Road near Ole Sereni Hotel, it joins the Mombasa-Kisumu road, the country’s main thoroughfare at Kikuyu. It crosses the National Park westward then goes through Lang’ata Road, Ngong Road, Motoine River, Dagoretti Road Thogoto Road then passes over Ondiri River and a railway line towards Kikuyu town.

The road is meant to reduce congestion within the Nairobi Central Business District by providing an alternative route to motorists going to western Kenya and other destinations west of the capital city.

The construction of the Southern Bypass, which started in 2012 follows a trend in which the Government is increasingly relying on bypass roads (e.g. Northern Bypass), the opening up of once-moribund link roads and the heavy use of interchanges as a key feature of road design to reduce traffic gridlock in Nairobi and some of the country’s main cities.
