
WASHINGTON — Credit Suisse admitted guilt and was fined $2.6 billion Monday for helping Americans avoid taxes, the first time in 20 years a major bank has been punished on US criminal charges.

US authorities said the Swiss bank, one of the world’s largest wealth managers, helped thousands of rich people hide money in accounts under false names and in fake foundations for decades.

In one case, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the bank had been used to hide money from US tax collectors for more than a century, they said.

In a negotiated deal, Credit Suisse admitted guilt on one felony criminal charge of conspiracy to aid tax evasion and to pay the steep fine.

As part of the deal it can continue operating in the United States without fear of losing its license.

“This case shows that no financial institution, no matter its size or global reach, is above the law,” US Attorney General Eric Holder said.

The single charge filed in the federal district court in Alexandria, Virginia said Credit Suisse “did unlawfully, voluntarily, intentionally, and knowingly conspire” to help US citizens prepare and file false income tax returns.

The Justice Department said the Swiss bank helped people hide incomes in sham nominee accounts, destroyed account records, and hand-delivered money from the accounts to help clients avoid taxes.

“Hundreds of Credit Suisse employees including at the manager level conspired to help tax cheats,” said US Attorney Dana Boente.

The fine is the largest so far in a sweeping, years-long US push to force Switzerland to stop serving as a tax haven.

Thirteen other Swiss banks have been targeted in similar probes, and 100 others have been pressed to cooperate with US authorities and pay penalties for helping clients avoid US tax laws.

Eight Credit Suisse employees have been indicted, and two have pleaded guilty, though none of them top executives.

US officials said the effort has persuaded 43,000 US taxpayers to disclose offshore assets and pay more than $6 billion in back taxes.

The $2.6 billion the bank has agreed to pay includes $1.8 billion in fines and restitution to the Internal Revenue Service, the US government tax collector.

In addition, the bank will pay $715 million to the financial services regulator of New York, where the bank is primarily licensed, and $100 million to the Federal Reserve.

In February Credit Suisse also paid $196 million to the Securities and Exchange Commission for violations.

The case stood as a warning to US tax payers, but as well to major financial institutions.

US justice authorities have been under great criticism for not prosecuting large banks especially for acts that led to the 2008 financial crash.

While no US banks appear at the moment to face criminal charges, authorities are also reportedly negotiating a prosecution deal with French Bank BNP Paribas over business it allegedly did with Iran, Sudan and other countries in violation of US sanctions regimes.

BNP last year set aside 789 million euros ($1.1 billion) to resolve the case, but has allowed that fines paid could be much larger.

BA’T NA ADDICTED AND PHILIPPINE JUSTICE WITH AFFIDAVITS AND WITNESS ACCOUNTS …. WALA BA SILA INVISTIGATION ?  BECAUSE INVESTIGATION REQUIRES SCIENCE.  SCIENCE REQUIRES MATHAMTEICS.  MATHEMATICS ESCAPES FILIPINOS.

since one of their states beats Switzerland as most secretive financial center.

Explains fully why the Marcoses stashed their ill gotten wealth there.

You can hide your money but you can’t avoid the tax. Don’t you the love the American financial investigators when they put their minds into it? Wish we can do it here but I can only say, “in your dreams”.

It is not too far fetched a few Philippine banks may have done the same….

To subscribe to the Philippine Daily Inquirer newspaper in the Philippines, call +63 2 896-6000 for Metro Manila and Metro Cebu or email your subscription request here.
