
LOS ANGELES, May 19, 2014 /PRNewswire/ -- For utility workers, a dog's bite is always worse than its bark. Every day, utility employees across California need to enter yards and homes to provide gas and electric services to customers. This routine part of their job can be hazardous when dog owners leave pets loose. May 18-24 is National Dog Bite Prevention Week, a public service campaign that emphasizes the need for increased pet owner responsibility in the prevention of dog bites. Pacific Gas and Electric Company (PG&E), Southern California Edison (SCE), Southern California Gas Co. (SoCalGas), and San Diego Gas & Electric (SDG&E) remind customers to keep dogs secure when a utility worker is scheduled to visit a home or business.

Securely confine or relocate your dog during scheduled customer service visits and when it's time for utility workers to read your meter.

Contact your local utilities or check your monthly bills for the dates when utility workers are scheduled to conduct meter readings if your meter is still read manually. On those days, leave gates unlocked and keep your dogs or other pets securely confined in another section of the property.

If the utility worker is outside, keep your dog securely confined inside. If the employee is inside, keep your dog securely confined outside. Dogs may become more protective in the presence of their owners. Make sure your dog is securely confined where it cannot come into contact with the utility worker.

Dog owners or guardians should secure or restrain their dog when utility workers are actually in the presence of the resident.

Post a "Beware of Dog" sign on your fence or house to avoid any surprises.

Leave a note on your meter explaining that you have a dog and how and where it is confined.

Be sure all pet vaccinations and inoculations for rabies and parasites are up to date.

Train your dog to obey simple commands like "sit," "stay," "no" and "come." Obedience training can teach dogs proper behavior and help owners control their dogs in any situation.

Collar your dog, so you have the means to quickly restrain your dog in any emergency.

If you get a new dog, contact your local utilities to let them know.

About Pacific Gas & Electric Pacific Gas and Electric Company, a subsidiary of PG&E Corporation PCG, +0.61% is one of the largest combined natural gas and electric utilities in the United States. Based in San Francisco, with 20,000 employees, the company delivers some of the nation's cleanest energy to 15 million people in Northern and Central California. For more information, visit www.pge.com/about/ and www.pgecurrents.com .

About San Diego Gas & Electric SDG&E is a regulated public utility that provides safe and reliable energy service to 3.4 million consumers through 1.4 million electric meters and more than 861,000 natural gas meters in San Diego and southern Orange counties. The utility's area spans 4,100 square miles. SDG&E is committed to creating ways to help customers save energy and money every day. SDG&E is a subsidiary of Sempra Energy SRE, +0.25% a Fortune 500 energy services holding company based in San Diego. Connect with SDG&E's Customer Contact Center at 800-411-7343, on Twitter (@SDGE) and Facebook .

Copyright ©2014 MarketWatch, Inc.  All rights reserved.

Intraday Data provided by SIX Financial Information and subject to terms of use .                 Historical and current end-of-day data provided by SIX Financial Information. Intraday data                 delayed per exchange requirements. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones & Company, Inc.                 All quotes are in local exchange time. Real time last sale data provided by NASDAQ. More                 information on NASDAQ traded symbols and their current financial status. Intraday                 data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, and 20 minutes for other exchanges. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM)                 from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. SEHK intraday data is provided by SIX Financial Information and is                 at least 60-minutes delayed. All quotes are in local exchange time.
