
Miami Commissioner Wifredo “Willy” Gort will not face charges related to 26 free bus bench ads given to him during his 2011 reelection campaign.

Miami-Dade prosecutors, in a final report released Monday, determined that Gort’s campaign did nothing wrong and that the company, Fuel Outdoor, routinely gave away free bus bench ads to all of their customers.

Back in 2011, Gort was running for reelection in District 1, which encompasses Miami’s Flagami and Allapattah neighborhoods. Reached Monday, Gort stressed his office fully cooperated with authorities.

Florida Department of Law Enforcement agents noted 26 bus bench ads — far more than the 10 his campaign paid $13,200 to display. The extra signs did not appear to be accounted for in campaign expense reports, a discrepancy that might have violated state law.

But Fuel Outdoor employees told agents it was common practice to throw in free extra bus bench ads for all clients, mostly to fill up unused space around town to make their business look good.

“According to the testimony and evidence, there is nothing to indicate the Gort campaign received any special treatment or benefit not otherwise afforded all clients of Fuel Outdoors,” according to a final report by the State Attorney’s Office.

Gort told investigators that he did not know particulars of the bus-bench ad campaign, including the free ads.

The probe did uncover a crime in a separate matter: misdemeanor violations by retired Goodwill President Dennis Pastrana, who pleaded guilty Monday to making campaign contributions in the name of another person.

The initial complaint against Gort came from former Miami Mayor Joe Carollo.

The Miami Herald is pleased to provide this opportunity to share information, experiences and observations about what's in the news. Some of the comments may be reprinted elsewhere on the site or in the newspaper. We encourage lively, open debate on the issues of the day, and ask that you refrain from profanity, hate speech, personal comments and remarks that are off point. Thank you for taking the time to offer your thoughts.

The Miami Herald uses Facebook's commenting system. You need to log in with a Facebook account in order to comment. If you have questions about commenting with your Facebook account, click here .

This affects comments on all stories.
