
Five days after he went on the lam, a B.C. fugitive suspected of gunning down a man in a “domestic dispute” called a Vancouver television station to proclaim his defiance.

RCMP investigators have reviewed broadcasted portions of the recorded conversation, and believe it was a legitimate call from the 33-year-old suspect.

Just after midnight on Tuesday, May 13, the sound of gunfire brought police to a Surrey townhome. They found a badly injured Gregory Quesnelle.

Originally from Southern Ontario, and described by police as having a criminal record, Mr. Quesnelle died soon after being taken to hospital.

Police quickly suspected the murder had been a targeted attack spurred by an earlier “domestic dispute” at the same residence.

In what they called an “extraordinary step,” the police released Mr. McQuarrie’s name and photo to the public.

Mr. Quesnelle was reportedly dating Mr. McQuarrie’s former girlfriend, and the two had clashed only a few days before the murder.  “I had a problem with him about a week ago; I didn’t go back and kill him,” Mr. McQuarrie told CTV.

Mr. McQuarrie has not been charged with the murder, but he “is currently arrestable on a series of unrelated warrants,” according to an IHIT statement.

The suspect has a long history of violence and property theft in the Lower Mainland area, and in 2005 was convicted in connection with the shooting of a 35-year-old man who ended up making a full recovery.

That time, Mr. McQuarrie similarly spent time as a fugitive as police tried to track him down.

“This is a dangerous man who, over the past couple of weeks, has become more and more irrational and violent,” Cpl. Dale Carr with the Langley RCMP said of Mr. McQuarrie in 2005.

Last week, initial police reports said that Mr. McQuarrie had fled the scene of the murder in a stolen 2010 Kia Borrego.

“Right now, our goal is to locate him and bring him into custody as safely as possible; both for him, for us and the public,” said Sgt. MacIntosh.

In his phone call with CTV, Mr. McQuarrie did not rule out turning himself in, but said he would try to hold out until fall.
