
Perdue is a self-funder with experience as a corporate turnaround specialist (he’s a former CEO of Reebok, Dollar General and Pillowtex), and those companies’ record of job loss has drawn comparisons to Mitt Romney’s Bain Capital tenure. Kingston is an appropriator who has been serving his Savannah district in Congress for 22 years and has support from the Chamber of Commerce and Fox News host Sean Hannity. And Handel is something of a Tea Party-establishment hybrid, with past legislative experience, a near win in the 2010 governor’s race against Nathan Deal, and endorsements from Sarah Palin, Ted Cruz, Rick Santorum, and conservative blogger Erick Erickson.

The GOP will breathe a sigh of relief if Reps. Paul Broun and Phil Gingrey get trounced. Another bonus: The two gadflies will be out of the House, two fewer back benchers for House leadership to manage.

3. Does Dr. Monica Wehby win solidly? She ran some of the most effective ads of the campaign and ran as a moderate, anti-Obamacare outsider. If she is victorious, that will be a healthy sign for Republicans in deep blue states who are learning to run competitive candidates. If she wins, her opponent Sen. Jeff Merkley (D-Or.) will need to take the race seriously, potentially drawing money away from more critical races in swing states.

4. Who wins in Idaho? A GOP insider remarks that after ballyhooed “Primary My Congressman ” initiative – the Club for Growth appears to have gone mute, leaving their candidate Bryan Smith hanging out to dry  in the final weeks. (CFG claims to have shifted resources to Ben Sasse, but his runaway win did not seem to be in doubt as that Senate race came to an end.)  Its spokesman’s explanation Monday was somewhat unintelligible. (“Sometimes we run TV ads, and sometimes we don’t.  It’s never about each individual race. It’s about pro-growth policy and replacing people who vote against it with people who won’t.” Huh?) In contrast, the Defending Main Street Super PAC led by former Rep. Steve LaTourette, and other groups like the U.S. Chamber are still firmly behind Rep. Mike Simpson (R-Idaho). CFG has been more selective than groups like SCF, FreedomWorks, Madison Project and other tea party-type groups, but in this case they seem to have all bet on the losing horse.

Jennifer Rubin writes the Right Turn blog for The Post, offering reported opinion from a conservative perspective.

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
