
GLACE BAY — A Glace Bay man says he's elated Table Head Beach is the most recent remediation project being done by Enterprise Cape Breton Corporation.

George Gardiner said after many years of area residents asking for the work to be done, ECBC has come through for them.

"I was in second heaven when I found out," he said. "I felt like I had won the 649. I have been at this since we were kids. We all tried to do things here to look after the beach."

Gardiner said his grandchildren Georgia and Garrison come home from Ottawa every year to visit.

Gardiner said the beach used to be hard to access and was also not safe, with an eroding cliff.

Gardiner is a member of the Table Head Development Society that formed to work on the beach and other community projects.

"I figured if we got $10,000 to have an access way, it would be great, but they're going to make a park, put a stairway in, have benches — it's going to be beautiful," he said.

D.A. Landry , a spokesperson with ECBC, said a letter went out to residents in the area at an earlier date regarding the Hill Street Embankment Improvement Project being completed to address a safety concern for the overhanging cliff adjacent to the wooden stairs leading down the embankment to the beach below.

'The overhanging cliff is being eroded at the shoreline and is in danger of collapsing to the beach below which is utilized regularly by the local residents,” he said.

Landry said the project includes removing the overhanging cliff by excavating it back to provide a stable slope, installing armor stone at the top of the former cliff and constructing new concrete stairs with adequate landings and steel handrails.

He said the project will also include vegetating and reinstating the areas disturbed during construction and the installation of two steel benches on concrete pads to serve as resting or viewing areas, set back a safe distance from the top edge of the embankment.

The contract was awarded to Northern Contracting Limited (NCL), work is underway now and expected to be completed by the end of June.

On January 1, 2010, Enterprise Cape Breton Corporation assumed responsibility for the environmental remediation activities of the former Cape Breton Development Corporation (CBDC), a federal Crown corporation that operated the Island's coal mines for more than 30 years.

The Former Mine Site Closure Program was created to ensure former mine sites and related properties were left in safe condition with the land returned to its previous use or an acceptable alternative.

“The mine site remediation program is winding down," he said.

Dist. 10 Coun. Darren Bruckschwaiger said back when he was campaigning, the Table Head Beach was a big issue.

Bruckschwaiger said he did speak to officials at ECBC a few times about options.

"Residents are quite happy it is happening and they will have access to the shore."

Bruckschwaiger said the area is not one the CBRM can sanction as a beach until sewer treatment is done in Glace Bay.

"The likelihood of that happening in the foreseeable feature is not great given our financial situation."

"However the residents love it, people use it and people are swimming there. "

Fantastic news for all in Glace Bay especially those in Tablehead and number two. Recreational swimming and safety considerations aside look at how many benefit with what sounds like around  $10, 000. Can't help but wonder what the 5 million spent on the Ben Eoin marina and another 1 million on the road to nowhere which benefit so few could have accomplished during these harsh times for the CBRM. I am glad for the folks in Tablehead. Long overdue.

This is great. Hope you all enjoy your tans. Meanwhile My Ancestors fall away to the sea and the beach below at a grave yard in Ingonish. Where is the money to rebury the remains and secure the cliff before I lose more of my family remains. Disgusting.

Do they plan to cleanup the acid mining drainage (copper/rust color water) that's been leaking into the beach from the drainage pipe for the last 30 years? That's the biggest concern residents should be hounding ECBC for. This project is like putting lipstick on a pig. It'll look nice in the end, but the most prominent health hazards will still linger. ECBC was supposed to clean the acid mining drainage up years ago.

I was wondering how Table Head beach users got those great tans so early in the swimming season. Don't waste money on Coppertone tanning oil, just frequent Table Head beach.
