
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

KALAMAZOO, MI – Gov. Rick Snyder was to be in Kalamazoo Monday morning to help dedicate Newell Rubbermaid's new design facility at Western Michigan University's Business Technology and Research Park.

Construction of the 40,000-square-foot facility, which has been estimated at more than $6 million, was completed about one month ago and the company began moving workers into the one-story facility in late March.

The project, which was undertaken by Southwest Michigan First, has involved a $4 million investment by that regional economic development organization and a $2.3 million investment by the company.

SWMF built the structure and is leasing it to Atlanta-based Newell Rubbermaid, the maker of a wide variety of consumer products, including Rubbermaid containers and Sharpie pens.

It will allow the company to consolidate many of its product design operations for more than a dozen U.S. location under one roof. It will employ about 100 people, some transferred from other Newell Rubbermaid locations and others hired here, said company spokeswoman Hannah Van Malssen.

Along with Snyder, Michael Polk, chief executive officer of the company, was expected to speak to an invitation-only gathering at the location, 3300 Research Way. Chuck Jones, chief design and research and development officer for Newell Rubbermaid, was also expected to speak, as was Ron Kitchens, CEO of Southwest Michigan First.

The facility will be a home for industrial design, graphic design and usability, Van Malssen said. "Usabality" involves studying product users "and understanding how they are using the product," Van Malssen, "ensuring that the user is in mind in every stage of the development process."

Newell Rubbermaid is a $5.9 billion company that has more than 60 product brands including Paper Mate, Parker, Rolodex, Dymo, Expo, Waterman, Irwin, Lenox, Rubbermaid, Graco, Calphalon, Goody and Teutonia.

© 2014 MLive Media Group All rights reserved ( About Us ).

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
