
Alltech founder and president Dr. Pearse Lyons made a presentation during the Alltech 30th Annual International Symposium in Lexington, Ky.

A Kentucky angel investor is putting up $500,000 annually to help launch entrepreneurial businesses.

Alltech founder Pearse Lyons announced his pledge at the 30th Annual International Symposium being held this week in Lexington. The Lyons’ Den Innovation Fund is a personal endowment by Lyons to award as much as $500,000 annually to entrepreneurial projects of interest, according to a news release from Alltech.

The fund will be open to applicants with projects that would have direct economic impact on Kentucky and Ireland and be related to the food, beverage or agriculture sectors, according to the release. (Lyons is a native of Ireland.) Winners will be determined through a series of workshops and international panel interviews. They will be selected based on the economic viability of their projects, and the amount awarded to each project chosen will be at the discretion of Lyons and the judging panel.

Full details of requirements to be eligible for the investment have yet to be released.

Susanna Elliott , spokesperson for Alltech, said the company plans to launch a website for the program in June with program details.

She added that the Lyons’ Den Fund was borne out of the Alltech Innovation Competition, which attracted six university business teams in Ireland and eight university business teams in Kentucky this year. It was the second year in which the competition was held.

This year's winner of the Alltech Innovation Competition was a team from the University of Louisville , Trifecta Cooking Equipment, LLC. The company won for its FuturFry deep fryer, which will help restaurant operators save 40 percent on annual cooking oil costs.

Braden Lammers covers these beats: Financial services, residential real estate, law, property and casualty insurance, construction, unions, engineers, architects and agriculture.

If you are commenting using a Facebook account, your profile information may be displayed with your comment depending on your privacy settings. By leaving the 'Post to Facebook' box selected, your comment will be published to your Facebook profile in addition to the space below.
