
LONDON: Copper hit an 11-week high on Monday on dwindling global stocks and as investors bought to cover their bets that the price would fall, though gains were still limited by concerns about slower growth in top consumer China.

Growth in average new home prices in China slowed to a near one-year low in April, official data showed on Sunday. Beijing on Friday unveiled stiffer regulations on interbank lending to defuse risks among shadow banks.

Three-month copper on the London Metal Exchange was up 1.08 percent at $6,934 a tonne at 0937 GMT, having earlier hit its highest since March 7 at $6,954 a tonne and marking a near 10 percent gain from around three-year lows hit in mid-March.

The metal was still down 5 percent for the year, however. The risks of slowing demand growth in China were seen as already well priced into copper, while the newer element to consider is dwindling supplies of the metal, analysts said.

"It's well known that there are concerns about growth in China, and people were short copper to reflect that, (but) now because there hasn't been more bad news, they're covering (their positions)," said Vicky Sanders, head of analytics sales at Marex Spectron.

At 186,525 tonnes, London Metal Exchange stocks were at their lowest since late 2008, while Shanghai Futures Exchange stocks are near their lowest since late 2011, even though they did rise 7.1 percent last week.

Also reflecting tight supply, spot LME copper traded at a $63 a tonne premium versus the three months price, its highest spread since late February.

Helping copper, China's top economic planning agency said late on Saturday the government would try to quicken the pace of economic reform this year as part of its efforts to arrest a growth slowdown.

China accounts for some 40 percent of global copper demand.

Also boosting the price, speculators raised their net long or buy position in copper in the week to May 13, according to data from the Commodity Futures Trading Commission on Friday.

"The recent fall was clearly viewed by many as a good entry point, and the subsequent rally and technical confirmations along the way just add to that. It's likely it will move up to the 200 MDA (moving day average) around $7,050," analyst Mark Keenan at Societe Generale in Singapore said.

In industry news, Russia's Norilsk Nickel , the world's largest nickel and palladium producer, is in talks with Russian banks on raising $1 billion to finance a copper project, its first deputy chief executive said.

In other metals, LME nickel climbed 3.46 percent to $19,709 a tonne, far short of last week's 27-month peak of $21,625 but still up more than 40 percent this year.

In the case of nickel, Indonesia is proving its doubters wrong as the price of the metal soars and Chinese producers, starved of raw material, begin to bring in equipment for processing plants.

Still in the near term, prices may be set to consolidate, London-based broker Triland said.
