
An emotional Mohamed Harkat said he is terrified he will be tortured and killed if deported to his native Algeria.

"They're going to have to send me with a box," said Harkat on Thursday, the first time he's spoken after the Supreme Court of Canada a day earlier upheld the federal government's right to have him deported as a suspected terrorist supporter. "They're going to torture and bury me."

Harkat is calling for a fair and open trial, to see all of the allegations against him. In the meantime he, his family and supporters in Ottawa vowed to continue their fight.

Harkat teared up several times as his wife, Sophie, spoke of their struggles during an update on Parliament Hill.

She likened the 12-year legal battle to the idea of fighting against a murder charge when you have no idea where or when or what happened.

"I was hoping this nightmare would end. We cried ourselves to sleep last night," she said. "This will be the fight of our lives."

An alleged al-Qaida sleeper agent, Harkat supporters were also quick to point out the Supreme Court of Canada ruling, which upheld the constitutionality of the Immigration and Refugee Protection Act scheme, was not a ruling that Harkat is a terrorist.

Harkat, 45, has been contesting the federal government -- maintaining innocence -- after being arrested outside his Ottawa home in 2002 on a national security certificate.

Security certificates allow non-citizens deemed security threats to be detained and deported without seeing all evidence against them.

Harkat is accused of running a safe house in Pakistan when he was 19, and communicating with senior al-Qaida members.

Although his release conditions have been relaxed over the years, Harkat still faces several restrictions, including no cellphone, monitored Internet use, having to be granted permission to go outside of Ottawa and reporting weekly to the Canada Border Services Agency.

Harkat's lawyer, Norm Boxall, said he was "disappointed" with the outcome, but vowed to keep fighting.

It is unclear exactly what will happen next, but the government could take steps to start a pre-removal risk assessment of Harkat.

Despite the major setback, Sophie reiterated her resolve to continue the fight to keep her family together.

"I love you and I will always be by your side, until justice prevails, no matter how long that will be."

If you already have an account on this newspaper, you can login to the newspaper to add your comments.

By adding a comment on the site, you accept our terms and conditions and our netiquette rules.

Share your story, photo or video about something you've seen.

Choose among a variety of subscription packages and stay up to date with convenient home delivery and our on the go digital e-edition.
