
A recent interview reminded us that attitude and drive win the game.

Federal Information & News Dispatch, Inc.

. The NAICS Code is 336611. The small business size standard is 1,000. This is an small business set aside procurement; all responsible sources may submit proposals that will be considered by the agency. The contract will be awarded on a firm-fixed-price basis using simplified acquisition procedures in accordance with FAR Part 13.5.

has a requirement for the following service listed in the attached Statement of Work.

)" and Alt 1 included with their quotation (the provision is attached), or be registered with Online Reps and Certs, https://www.SAM.gov .

). - This is a commercial item acquisition. The evaluation and award procedures in FAR 13.106 apply. The following evaluation factors shall be considered: Past Performance, Price. Offerors shall submit at least 3 relevant past performance references for contracts with private industry or government instrumentalities (federal, state, or local) performed within the last 3 years. References shall include: 1. Name & contact information of the point of contract (PM/COR), 2. Name of Organization, 3. A brief description of service, 4. Contract Number/Task Order 5. Status (Prime or Sub). The USCG reserves the right to utilize past performance information other than the information submitted with the proposals received in conducting the evaluation. A Contractor without a record of relevant past performance or for whom information on past performance is not available will not be evaluated favorably or unfavorably on past performance, but will receive a neutral rating. The USCG may consider past performance information regarding predecessor companies or subcontractors that will perform major or critical aspects of the requirement when such information is considered relevant. The Government will award a purchase order resulting from this solicitation to the responsible offeror whose offer conforming to the solicitation will be most advantageous to the Government, price and other factors considered. The Government will evaluate offers and make award to the lowest priced technically acceptable offer that is responsive to the terms of this solicitation.

) (31 U.S.C. 3332).

(USCG) to issue solicitations and make contract awards in a fair and timely manner.

(OPAP) was established to investigate agency protest issues and resolve them without expensive and time-consuming litigation.

1900 Half Street, SW,
