
Bank Negara expressed concern today that criminal activities in the money services business (MSB) could adversely impact socio-economic development, after Malaysia recorded an illicit outflow worth RM174 billion based on a Global Financial Integrity (GFI) report last year.

Speaking at the regional conference in Kuala Lumpur today, Bank Negara deputy governor Datuk Muhammad Ibrahim said MSB played a major role in developing the country’s economy and wealth.

“MSB plays an important role in supporting an inclusive financial system and easing economic transactions, which contribute to growth and wealth,” he said at Bank Negara today.

“If not managed well, transactions based on cash, global money senders and the customer verification process, could expose it to the threat of international money launderers.

"Failure to look into these risks would jeapordise the country’s socio-economic development," said Muhammad.

Some 300 MSB industry players attended Bank Negara’s regional conference, jointly organised by the World Bank and the Malaysian Association of Money Services Business (MAMSB).

MAMSB president Ramasamy Veeran said money changers and senders should be monitored as they were directly exposed to financial criminal activites.

“We are focused on the implementation of the system to prevent such activities from happening. Firstly, we teach them administration, secondly we use an online system that adheres to the standards and can be audited,” he said.

About RM174 billion was illegally siphoned out of Malaysia in 2011, making the country the fourth largest exporter of illicit capital that year after Russia, China and India, GFI revealed.

The Washington-based research and advocacy organisation said crime, corruption, and tax evasion drained US$946.7 billion (RM3.05 trillion) from the developing world in 2011, up more than 13.7% from 2010 &ndash; when illicit financial outflows totalled US$832.4 billion.

But Putrajaya has dismissed the large figure, saying that 80% of it was due to trade mispricing, and not graft nor crime. Minister in the Prime Minister’s Department Datuk Paul Low said the high global ranking was normal due to its active international trade.

Muhammad today outlined three issues that must be focused on to curb money laundering, which were awareness among industry players on the risks of MSB, creating a credible and effective enforcement system, and promoting professionalism in the industry. &ndash; May 19, 2014.

Good sight, meaning for bankrupt. Be careful of your money saving in banks.

when truth is reveal there must be some truth in it. beware of what you said.

Please help us to maintain a healthy and vibrant community by reporting any illegal or inappropriate behavior. If you believe a message violates the Code of Conduct please use this form to notify the moderators. They will investigate your report and take appropriate action. If necessary, they report all illegal activity to the proper authorities.
