
Singapore’s exports logged only a small rise in April, but they may be sending an important signal about the revival of Western demand.

Exports of goods made in Singapore rose 0.9% in April from a year earlier, after falling 6.6% in March, government data showed Friday. Economists were expecting a decline of 2.5%.

Compared with the previous month, exports rose 9.0% in seasonally adjusted terms, after contracting 8.9% on-month in March.

The data suggest that “Singapore is starting to see a lift from the recovery” in developed nations, Barclays Capital economist Wai Ho Leong wrote in a note to clients.

Together with four straight months of  improvement in Singapore’s manufacturing purchasing managers’ index, the strength in exports may drive an upward revision in gross domestic product next week.

ANZ Bank expects Singapore’s first-quarter growth to be revised up to 2.4% on-quarter on a seasonally adjusted and annualized basis, from a preliminary estimate of 0.1% released last month. The revision is due Tuesday.

Friday’s data showed that shipments to China, Singapore’s largest export destination, rose 22.6% on-year in April, from 16.0% in March, and rose 11.7% to the U.S. after falling 1.8% in March.

Exports to the European Union fell 10.9% on-year, but that’s much better than March’s 27.8% decline.

Gradually stronger growth in the West suggests the worst for Singapore — whose trade flows dwarf its domestic economy — may be over. But the recovery likely won’t be sharp, as the city-state is in the midst of restructuring its economy.

Over the past few years the government has launched a process to reduce Singapore’s dependence on cheap foreign labor producing low-value goods, focusing instead on a clutch of high-value industries such as aerospace and engineering.

We welcome thoughtful comments from readers. Please comply with our guidelines . Our blogs do not require the use of your real name.

An error has occured and your email has not been sent.

• Seperate multiple addresses with Commas.

• Must enter an email address.

• You must enter the verification code below to send.

• Invalid entry: Please type the verification code again.
