
SAN JOSE, CA and SAN FRANCISCO, CA, May 19, 2014 (Marketwired via COMTEX) -- Today at CiscoLive! 2014, Cisco CSCO, +0.20% continues to reimagine the way we connect with those inside and outside of our organizations by delivering three new personal collaboration tools designed to help get highly collaborative work done without technology hassles getting in the way. Two of these tools sit on the physical desktop and one resides in the cloud.

People who are working together on the same team or task aren't necessarily on the same continent let alone in the same room -- but they need to feel as if they are so they can do their best, most inspired work. Now more than ever, businesses must provide every worker -- not just top executives -- with tools that allow them to collaborate at a moment's notice, without technology hassles, so they can get work done. Excellent collaboration technology for all is no longer a "nice to have" -- it's a "must have." Business success relies upon this -- both today and tomorrow, as future generations will continue to push the envelope in terms of where, when, and how work gets done.

The innovations Cisco announces today help customers quickly and simply connect people, conversations, and data in ways that can rapidly accelerate business outcomes -- and they are priced to scale to every worker.

On the desktop: personal collaboration devices that are fit for a CEO but priced for every worker Somewhere in the pursuit of the perfect collaboration environment, workers' desktops became cluttered with technologies purpose-built for specific tasks (e.g., voice-only phones, webcams, monitors). Having so many different technologies for unique tasks clearly adds cost for the company and complexity for the IT manager who must support them; it also adds frustration for users, who have different experiences as they move between different devices and collaboration modalities throughout the day.

Cisco aims to solve this with its new DX70 and DX80 desktop collaboration devices. Similar to how smart phones revolutionized our mobile lives, the Android-based DX70 and DX80 streamline and simplify our work lives by providing access to all the top tools and applications highly collaborative work requires. While this integrated desktop experience is fit for a CEO, it is priced to scale to every worker.

--UnparalleledExperience.With large screens that are completelyoperated by touch, the Android-based DX70 and DX80 bring together inone device Cisco's deep expertise in HD video, high-end audio, and Webconferencing plus integrated business applications and Web browsing.The result is a collaboration experience unlike any other.--Customizable Workspace. Using the fully-featured Android operatingsystem, these devices possess a proven architecture withwell-documented APIs so organizations and 3rd parties can developapplications to address specific needs -- be it a whiteboardingapplication or an integration with their CRM tool or a verticalapplication.--Stunning Design. The DX70 and DX80 not only eliminate desktop clutter,but have sleek, inviting lines and are excellent examples of Cisco'saward-winning "Scandafornian"* design.--Smart Technology. The DX80 also comes equipped with Intelligent Audio,a brand new feature to ensure that what you see is what you hear; theperson on the receiving end of your call sees and hears you -- he willnot hear distracting background noise (be it the barking dog in yourhome office or talkative coworkers in an adjacent workspace).Additionally, the devices come equipped with Cisco's recentlyannounced Intelligent Proximity, so you can "pair" your DX with yourmobile phone and have access to your personal contacts and callhistory, as well as move calls that are in progress -- similar to theway you can transfer a call from your mobile phone to your car.--Shareable Experiences. These devices are well suited for shared workenvironments since they can "remember" different users; a user simplyenters his login credentials and the device quickly serves up hisstored settings, contact lists, call histories and more.

In the cloud: your permanent rendezvous place, CMR Cisco has deep and unparalleled experience delivering world-class video experiences via our on-premise telepresence solutions. At the same time, we've built the world's largest real-time collaboration service in the cloud: Cisco WebEx(R). Today we're combining the power of telepresence with the scale and flexibility of WebEx(R) to deliver what we call Collaboration Meeting Rooms (CMRs). CMRs provide everyone with their own personal, private, always-available video collaboration space in the cloud. These rooms give you the ability to host meetings where attendees can join from the device of their choice -- whether they choose a Cisco(R) video endpoint, many other standards-based video endpoints, desktop or mobile clients (such as WebEx), or even a soft client like Microsoft Lync to join your private cloud meeting room. It's as easy as clicking your unique room URI.

--Meet your way. Cisco CMRs can accommodate more concurrent users thanany other enterprise-grade solution on the market. Additionally, userscan schedule meetings, conduct instant meetings or meet in a permanentalways-on meeting room using a dedicated meeting URI.--Connect your way. You can easily access a CMR from most any endpoint-- be it one from Cisco or any other standards-based endpoint, softclient and any WebEx-enabled mobile or desktop web client such asJabber(R). CMR also interoperates with Lync 2010 and 2013 as wellas other third party clients.--Deploy your company's way. With today's addition of a cloud-basedoption, businesses can now choose whatever deployment model works bestfor them -- cloud, premise or hybrid.

--Strength in Voice: New IP Phone 8800 Series and Celebrating 15 Yearsof IP Phones. Marking our 15th year of innovation in IP phones, Ciscois introducing the IP Phone 8800 Series. This series is thebest-performing audio IP phone we've ever delivered. It also includesUSB ports on select models for easy mobile-device charging, and CiscoIntelligent Proximity for Mobile Voice so workers can import contactsand call history or move the audio path of a voice or videocall-in-progress from their mobile device to their 8800 Series deskphone.--Cisco's Collaboration Infrastructure: The Intelligence Behind theExperience. While endpoints and experiences tend to get the limelight,Cisco's collaboration infrastructure is what makes it all happen; theinfrastructure powers our industry-leading portfolio of voice, video,and conferencing services and endpoints, and simplifies the deliveryof meaningful and effective business communications to any device,anywhere. And so Cisco is also today making significant updates withits infrastructure offerings; Some key areas that have been enhancedin this release are in user self-care and single sign on (SSO), mobilecall security, application integration, and video interworking.

David Day, Global Director, WorkPlace Services, The Dow Chemical Company "Usability, simplicity and integration are critical when it comes to propelling collaboration inside Dow and outside with customers, suppliers and partners. We continue to be impressed with Cisco's agility in the market place and are excited about the innovations Cisco is making that can help foster even stronger collaboration among teams around the globe."

Todd Strubbe, president of West's Unified Communications operating segment "Virtual meeting technology has a pretty simple mission: connecting people wherever they are in order to improve productivity and help knowledge workers do things more effectively -- whether that's via audio, video, or web conferencing. West's Unified Communications solutions offer all these things to clients, either in the cloud, on-prem or as a hybrid. As one of the largest resellers of Cisco WebEx, we are excited to integrate Cisco's CMR into our existing product portfolio because it aligns with our mission to bring leading hosted business communication solutions to the enterprise. CMR has the ability to scale to accommodate hundreds of participants at any time and offers broad interoperability, providing West with a more complete set of services that protect customers' investments while delivering new ways to collaborate."

Melinda Paras, CEO, Paras and Associates "Ten years ago, Paras and Associates built something that had never been seen before: A video-over-IP call center for medical interpreters. Now, clinicians trust that they can reach language interpreters instantly -- whether they are across the street, or across the country. High quality video enables a degree of nuance and rapport that you simply can't achieve with just a telephone. We've quite literally built our business around Cisco video and the new endpoints announced today will help take our business to the next level."

"At IVCi, we specialize in helping enterprises video-enable their workforce because we are passionate that video can not only connect and inform decision-making, it can inspire and transform business processes. The recent announcements of the MX, SX and new desktop series in combination with IVCi's Cisco certified Telepresence as a Service has driven down cost substantially while improving the user experience. The flexibility of delivering either on-premise, hybrid or cloud models allows us to video-enable every part of the enterprise."

Rowan Trollope, SVP/GM, Collaboration Technology Group, Cisco "The DX70 and DX80 were designed from the ground up to provide the best collaboration experience for every desk in an enterprise. They are truly mind-blowing devices. Combined with the Collaboration Meeting Room service, users can have their own always-on private meeting room to collaborate with anyone on any device at any time. Only Cisco can combine this amazing hardware, the incredible software, and the powerful network to provide anyone with their own dedicated collaboration space in the cloud -- and on their desk -- that they can call their own."

Availability Disclaimer: Many of the products and features described herein remain in varying stages of development and will be offered on a when-and-if-available basis. Products and features are subject to change at the sole discretion of Cisco, and Cisco will have no liability for delay in the delivery or failure to deliver any of the products or features set forth in this document.

Cisco and the Cisco logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Cisco and/or its affiliates in the U.S. and other countries. A listing of Cisco's trademarks can be found at www.cisco.com/go/trademarks . Third-party trademarks mentioned are the property of their respective owners. The use of the word partner does not imply a partnership relationship between Cisco and any other company.

Copyright ©2014 MarketWatch, Inc.  All rights reserved.

Intraday Data provided by SIX Financial Information and subject to terms of use .                 Historical and current end-of-day data provided by SIX Financial Information. Intraday data                 delayed per exchange requirements. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones & Company, Inc.                 All quotes are in local exchange time. Real time last sale data provided by NASDAQ. More                 information on NASDAQ traded symbols and their current financial status. Intraday                 data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, and 20 minutes for other exchanges. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM)                 from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. SEHK intraday data is provided by SIX Financial Information and is                 at least 60-minutes delayed. All quotes are in local exchange time.
