
Employment discrimination in Singapore is largely governed by a set of voluntary Tripartite Guidelines on Fair Employment Practices (the “Guidelines”), as only limited statutory protective provisions against discrimination on the grounds of age, maternity status and union activity exists. Discrimination challenges based on constitutional grounds have been rare in Singapore.

Although the Guidelines are only voluntary, employers should be aware that they are not toothless and unenforceable. This was demonstrated recently by the Ministry of Manpower (“MOM”) who has taken action against companies who had placed discriminatory job advertisements specifying a particular race or nationality or citizenship, on the basis that such advertisements are not aligned with the Guidelines. The companies involved were required by the MOM to make online public apologies for 30 days and are barred from hiring new foreign workers during this period, as well as for six months following the publication of their apologies.

It is difficult to say how strictly the MOM will enforce the other principles of fair employment set out in the Guidelines. However, the MOM has made it expressly clear in a press release dated 28 November 2013 that it expects all employers in Singapore to comply with the Guidelines and to put in place fair employment practices. The MOM also warned in the same press release that it would view any non-compliance with Guidelines seriously.

Given this, employers are advised to familiarise themselves with the Guidelines and to develop and implement policies and practices that are necessary to comply with the Guidelines. With respect to job advertising specifically, employers should avoid stating a preference for age, race, language, gender, marital status and religion. If a position requires a specific attribute that may be viewed as discriminatory, the reason for the requirement should be expressly stated in the advertisement.

(a) From 1 May 2014, the MOM will increase the maximum period of employment for ‘Higher Skilled’ (R1) Work Permit holders from Non-Traditional Sources and the People’s Republic of China in the Construction, Marine and Process sectors from 18 years to 22 years. Non-Traditional Sources include Bangladesh, India, Myanmar, Philippines, Sri Lanka and Thailand. Work Permit holders from Malaysia and North Asian Sources, such as Taiwan, Hong Kong and Macau, can continue to work in Singapore up to 60 years of age.

(b) From 1 August 2014, the new Market Based Skills Recognition Framework will come to effect which will allow ‘Basic Skilled’ (R2) Work Permit holders in the Construction sector to upgrade to R1 status if they (i) have at least 6 years’ construction experience in Singapore and (ii) earn a fixed monthly salary of more than S$1600, even though they have not obtained the Core Trade or Multi-Skilling Certification from the Building and Construction Authority of Singapore. Following the upgrade, employers will enjoy the lower levy rate for R1 Work Permit holders and longer maximum period of employment for R1 Work Permit holders of 22 years, as opposed to 10 years for R2 Work Permit holders.

(c) From 1 July 2016, the foreign worker levy rate for R2 Man-Year Entitlement Work Permit holders in the Construction sector will be increased from S$600 to S$700.  Levies for R1 Work Permit holders will remain unchanged to encourage employers to employ higher skilled Work Permit holders.

This information is for guidance purposes only and should not be regarded as a substitute for taking legal advice. Please refer to the full terms and conditions on our website.
