
Today file photo.

A lack of funding from government and industry are being cited as the reason for Phoenix Heli-Flight’s decision to cease overnight medevac services for the region.

Paul Spring, president and operations manager of Phoenix Heli-Flight, says the company has the equipment and personnel required to fly at night and provide the potentially life saving service, but without financial support from industry partners, Phoenix can no longer foot the bill.

“Nobody wants to pay — government, industry, anybody — for dedicated medevac services in the Fort McMurray-oilsands region,” said Spring.

Phoenix has been the region’s go-to for remote access medevacs for more than two decades, but has worked in a non-dedicated capacity up until last year when the decision was made to support a dedicated, 24-hour standby service. Without dedicated service, Phoenix’s ability to medevac is subject to helicopter availability and daylight hours as regular helicopters and crews cannot fly at night.

Last fall, Phoenix secured a medical helicopter equipped to fly at night, night vision goggles, all required certification and a crew of nine pilots and two mechanics.

Averaging three night calls a week — though those number shift when nights are longer in the winter — Phoenix is currently paid on a fee for service basis from Alberta Health Services in addition to 20% of the service’s approximate $3 million annual budget that’s currently covered by Suncor and Cenovus.

Spring says, “the ideal situation is that we’d be funded to sit there and no one would ever call us,” but he admits with the current fee for service system, people need to get hurt or sick to make it a viable program.

All things considered, Spring said the overall cost for the service is low because Phoenix utilizes its existing overhead costs for the hanger and office administration.

Spring says neither industry or government are willing to take on the responsibility and financial burden of covering the costs of the dedicated service.

“We got caught in a funding stalemate between the parties where nobody thinks it’s their responsibility to look after the workers and residents of northeastern Alberta,” said Spring, noting the exceptions of Suncor and Cenovus.

To date, Phoenix has spent more than $3 million on overnight medevacs, between covering the bulk of the costs since the service launched in December 2013 and the upfront cost of training the crew, which cost Phoenix close to $700,000.

“After bleeding out about $3.2 million of Phoenix Heli-Flights money, I had to say enough is enough. If nobody’s going to fund it, it’s not Phoenix’s responsibility to take all the risk and pay all the money to save lives,” said Spring.

With a service range spanning  from Fort Smith to Edmonton and west to the Slave Lake area, Phoenix has spent the last 23 years cultivating a name for itself as a vital player in regional health care.

Pending financial commitments from government or industry, overnight operations will officially cease at the end of May.

“You have to step up and say, ‘This is what we want to protect the workers and citizens of the region, and we’re going to pay to have it there for when we need it, not wait until something happens and then try to get it,’” said Spring.

During daylight hours, Spring says Phoenix will respond whenever equipment and staff are available.

If you already have an account on this newspaper, you can login to the newspaper to add your comments.

By adding a comment on the site, you accept our terms and conditions and our netiquette rules.

Share your story, photo or video about something you've seen.

Choose among a variety of subscription packages and stay up to date with convenient home delivery and our on the go digital e-edition.
