
SRINAGAR, May 19: One Jawan was killed and four others were injured at Kaisermula Chadoora of central Kashmir, when forces laid a cordon to trace the militants. The militants have however, managed to escape from the spot.

Reports said that Rashtriya Rifles, Special Operations Group of state police and CRPF laid a cordon in Kaisermulla village of Chadoora this afternoon after receiving the inputs of presence of militants.

Reports said that when the forces reached near the residence of Bashir Ahmad Magray, the militants resorted to indiscriminate firing and lobed grenades towards the forces.

The militant action critically injured five army men, who were immediately removed from the spot and were admitted in army hospital Badami Bagh Srinagar. Reports said that one of the injured jawan succumbed to his injuries. He has been identified as Mushtaq Mir of 162 Territorial Army.

The forces also retaliated and the exchange of fire continued for several hours. Reports said that due to dense population in the village the militants managed to escape from the spot. However, the forces have intensified their cordon into some nearby villages and were conducting door to door search operations to trace the militants.

Reports said that all the militants managed to flee from the village while forces have launched a massive manhunt to locate the militants.  Locals said that forces have extended their cordon up to Nowgugh village and search operation was going on till reports last came in.

Defence spokesperson said that the operation was going on to track down the militants.

Meanwhile, massive protests erupted at Drang Lasipora area of Central Kashmir after a littered shell exploded with a bang killing the 12-year old daughter of a farmer on the spot and leaving his 11-year old son injured.

Protestors alleged that due to military drills in the past, shells lie scattered in and around Tosa Maidan and today one of the shell exploded and claimed the life of an innocent girl. Reports said that Simran Akhtar (9) and her brother Fayaz Ahmed Parrey were returning home from their school when near Zompathri Nallah near Lassipora Drang, a powerful shell exploded with a huge bang leaving the sibling in a pool of blood.

Scores of people rushed to the spot and found Simran Akhtar dead while according to reports her brother had received fatal injuries and both his legs were smashed. Another kid also suffered minor injuries.

Reports said that the injured Fayaz was shifted to Srinagar hospital where he is battling for life. People took to streets and staged a protest in the area alleging that shells lie scattered everywhere in and around Tosa Maidan.

For the past few years, littered explosives, shells and live ammunition have killed more than 30 people and injured more than two dozen others across Jammu and Kashmir. Most of the victims are children. In 2009 alone, 14 people including children were killed when scattered shells went off while 22 others sustained injuries.

The Tosa Maidan Bachao Front, while expressing anguish over the death of minor girl, said that it has no other option but to initiate an uprising against ‘illegal occupation’ of Tosa Maidan if the lease cancellation order is not issued. “We warn the government to issue the cancellation order in black and white before 25 May to avoid agitation,” it said.
