
World Socialist Web Site reporters spoke with students, youth and workers at protest rallies yesterday against the Abbott government’s budget. Many voiced their concerns about the attacks on health, education and welfare, others opposed the government assault on asylum-seekers, and some raised concerns about social austerity measures internationally and the danger of war in Ukraine.

“I think the government is carrying out these cuts for big business. They’re all friends with big business and they’re the ones who will profit. The bottom line is it’s about money-making.

“It’s not only unis that are getting more expensive, the TAFE’s are receiving massive cuts as well. I’m completing my diploma, which is costing me almost $900, but if I’d missed my placement in this class of 18 students who are being funded, it would have cost me $12,500. That’s the result of TAFE budget cuts imposed by the state government.

“The whole idea of the right to healthcare and education really is being undermined. I honestly don’t know what is behind this agenda because it’s just absurd. There’s no budget emergency or crisis or whatever they want to call it. There’s a global economic crisis but these policies are just making our economy worse long-term. We’re going to have more people on the streets.

Aaron, a 17 year-old high school student, said the budget was “aimed at cutting money from the lowest income earners. It’s not even just one cut but four or five different slugs against people who already aren’t earning much while the rich get a slap on the wrist.

Patrik, from the Czech Republic and studying English in Australia, said: “I don’t know a lot about the Australian political situation but I know that this budget is not for the people. They will be poorer. It’s similar to Europe. In Greece there’s over 50 percent youth unemployment and in my country it’s 10 percent.

Washington is backing fascist and neo-Nazi groups in Ukraine, he said. “The US says it’s against totalitarianism and Nazis but they support them in Ukraine. They say they’re against terrorism but they support Al-Qaeda in Syria,” he said.

WSWS reporters spoke with some of those attending the rally in Perth, the Western Australian capital.

Connor, 18, a student nurse, said, the education cuts would have a major impact on health and education: “I regard education as an investment. If education is too expensive and people can’t afford it then what is going to happen to the next generation. University is becoming a business and it will be harder to get into courses.

Graham, 36 and a part-time worker, said the budget would “make it hard for young people to live if their allowances are cut. The government is not thinking of the needs of the individual or the masses of people.

Maureen, an indigenous pensioner, said the budget would have serious consequences for Aboriginal people.

“I’ve travelled around Australia and seen how our people are struggling to make ends meet. It’s not uncommon for indigenous families to have seven or eight children but what if three children in one family get ill at the same time? If they go to the doctor it will cost at least $21. That’s a lot of money to be taken out of anybody’s pocket.
