
President Aquino chats with United Nations World Tourism Organization Secretary General Taleb Rifai at the UNWTO-ASEAN International Conference on Tourism and Climate Change at the Oriental Hotel in Legazpi City, Albay yesterday.

LEGAZPI CITY , Philippines  – Local players in the travel industry have committed to protect the environment and preserve the nation’s cultural heritage in promoting tourism.

The commitments are part of the Global Code of Ethics for Tourism drawn up by the United Nations World Tourism Organization (UNWTO).

During the weeklong UNWTO International Conference on Tourism and Climate Change here, UNWTO secretary-general Taleb Rifai lauded the Department of Tourism (DOT) for pushing the promotion of this initiative.

Fourteen tourism-related establishments signed on  to the code for the first time.

The Philippines is the second country in the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, next to Indonesia, to have adhered to the code. Adopted in 1999, the code has only about 200 countries around the world as signatories, mostly from Europe and Latin America.

With international tourism forecast to reach 1.6 billion arrivals by 2020, UNWTO members believe that the Global Code of Ethics for Tourism is needed to help minimize the negative impacts of tourism on the environment and on cultural heritage, while maximizing the benefits for residents of tourism destinations.

Tourism Assistant Secretary Rolando Canizal, on the other hand, said they are closely coordinating with tourism stakeholders, particularly members of the Tourism Congress of the Philippines (TCP), to further increase the number of signatories to the code.

Canizal said the DOT has been pushing to join this global tourism initiative for seven years now.

“We are glad that our private companies have signed this commitment to protect the environment and the interest of the consumers and promote socio-cultural development,” Canizal said.

Aside from protecting the environment and preserving cultural heritage, the 14 tourism companies also pledged to observe the other principles of the code like respect for human rights and working toward social inclusion, gender equality and accessibility.

They will serve as ambassadors to promote the code among their respective business partners, staff and clients.

The 14 signatories are the TCP, Philippine Exhibits and Themeparks Corp., Hijo Estate Resorts, Rajah Travel Corp., Amarela Resort Corp., Daluyon Beach and Mountain Resort, Donsol Eco Tour Inc., Misibis Bay Resorts and Casino, El Nido Resorts, The Oriental Hotel, The Avenue Plaza Hotel, DIVELINK Cebu, Southland Events, Inc., and South Palms Resort.

“We are pleased to state that as of May 2014, 243 companies and associations from 35 countries all over the world have signed the Private Sector Commitment to the Code of Ethics. They have been chosen for their strong corporate social responsibility (CSR) programs and sustainability initiatives,” Rifai said.

“The DOT acknowledges the support of these 14 operators who have been our faithful partners in tourism promotion. Today, they not only commit to continue their CSR programs, but also join our advocacy for responsible, ethical and sustainable tourism,” Jimenez said.

He said the DOT hopes to encourage more establishments and companies to share their passion and belief in tourism as a great social and economic equalizer.

As this developed, Rifai will also head the discussions on air connectivity and its impact on the tourism sector in the Asia-Pacific region.

He also led the 26th UNWTO Joint Meeting of the Commission for East Asia and the Pacific and the Commission for South Asia here.

Specifically, the inter-country level of discussion involves exchange of policy views on how tourism is changing their tourism landscape and how it is affecting their aviation policies.

The discussions, to be attended by more than 380 delegates from 19 countries, will commence with a presentation on the salient features of the UNWTO and Pacific Asia Travel Association regional study on air connectivity, and its impact on tourism in Asia and the Pacific.

CNN TASK senior consultant Anita Mendiratta will moderate the remaining discussion where participating countries and delegates will be asked to make brief interventions.

Topics that will be covered include air connectivity and economic regulation; the role of airports and regional hubs in tourism development, security, and visa facilitation; consumer protection and visitor satisfaction; impact of low-cost airlines; policy on open sky; taxation and levies; and the role of aviation within the Green Economy and its impact on tourism safety, taxation and consumer protection.
