
While volunteering at schools for Syrian refugees in Iskenderun, Turkey, last November, I daily saw women in the streets and markets dressed head to toe in black, with only their eyes showing. I wondered about the lives of these veiled women but did not imagine any possibility of interacting with them.

One day, in an English class where I volunteered, there was a gentle knock and the door opened. The founder and principal of this school had mentioned a psychologist who sat in on classes to evaluate how each student was coping with their new refugee status and challenging educational environment. Wearing a black head scarf and a full-length black abaya cloak, Lamis entered. I was struck by her quiet, mature demeanor as she introduced herself and asked in flawless English if she could observe.

Having no idea what restrictions this 24-year-old woman might have on moving around with a foreigner, I nevertheless one day asked if we could talk sometime. She replied, “Yes,” enthusiastically and said I could ask anything I wanted.

We met the next day after classes. I was surprised to see that she was now wearing long black gloves, as well as niqab — a face veil — revealing only her eyes. She waved down a neighbor’s car. We squeezed in with him, two women and three kids.

In town, Lamis led me into a kebab restaurant, lowering her niqab to order from the waiter. He asked her to translate to me how upset Syrians were when Obama said he would take out Assad and then reneged. We talked about her family’s departure from Syria; about Aleppo University; the Koran (“Please, say what you think!” she said earnestly); the price of housing in the U.S.; and about her husband, whom she loves (but not as much as he loves her).

We took a bus to her apartment. She was late for her prayers. I waited in a room with bare walls, two couches and a Syrian news feed on TV. I entertained her 2-year-old and mother-in-law by making balloon animals. Lamis reappeared and I was startled once again — she wore a pink sweat suit with long hair in a pony tail. Suddenly, she looked even younger than 24, like any college student, like an old friend at UC Berkeley. For our goodbye photo, she slipped the abaya back on.

I am grateful for this day spent learning about the situation and perspective of one remarkable young refugee. She is inspiring and caring for the even younger ones, who wait patiently — though perhaps in vain — for their return to a free Syria. I wish Lamis and each of these children all the best.

Corinne E. Boyle, Ph.D. lives in North San Juan. In mid-May, volunteers from the Center for Cultural and Naturalist Studies, a California nonprofit 501(c)(3) organization, will be heading again to Iskenderun, Turkey, to aid Syrian refugees — delivering medical supplies to a clinic, donating bulk food to families and visiting schools.
