
Customs Commissioner John Sevilla on Monday maintained that the planned implementation of the preshipment inspection (PSI) would actually be beneficial for stakeholders.

Sevilla said aside from hastening the release of their shipments, PSI would also shield importers from smugglers.

The Bureau of Customs (BOC) chief made the statement after the Port Users Confederation (PUC) expressed opposition to the revival of the load port survey (LPS) requirement and advance clearance system (ACS) commonly known as PSI for being unconstitutional.

“We respectfully disagree with the PUC. We hope that they will see pre-shipment inspection not just as an added cost, but also as a way for government to protect PUC’s own members from smuggling, as well as a way to expedite clearance of goods upon arrival in the Philippines,”  Sevilla said in a text message to the BusinessMirror.

The PUC claimed that PSI is a “revenue or tax measure” that cannot be implemented without proper legislation.

They added that penalties imposable are not authorized by any statute and the exemption lists violate the equal protection clause.

On the other hand, the Federation of Philippine Industries Inc. (FPI) said it is not against the initiative of the Customs bureau to implement PSI, but maintained that the government should shoulder all corresponding fees.

FPI Chairman Jesus L. Arranza, warned that if the importers will pay for the fees to be imposed due to PSI implementation, it will only be passed to the consumers who will absorb the added cost.

The PUC further said the provisions on penalties may be in violation of the due process and the constitutional requirement against excessive fines.

Under the Customs’s draft administrative order, all bulk, break-bulk, containerized and non-containerized cargoes arriving and entering in any port of entry of the country shall be subject to an LPS at the port of origin.

Imported cargoes surveyed by an ACS at the port of origin shall be covered by a Load Port Survey Report  (LPSR) and Summary Report.

Cargoes entered into free ports and bound for the customs territory shall be subject to the requirement of LPSR as provided in this order.

Exempted from LPSR requirement as provided in this order are all shipments transported by air;  Super Green Lane (SGL) shipments; importation of personal effects and household goods of a balikbayan and his or her family and other returning residents; consolidated shipments or Full Container Load (FCL) shipments with three or more consignees; official importations of foreign embassies, legations, missions, consular offices and other agencies of foreign governments in the Philippines; human remains and personal effects of the decedent accompanying the human remains.

Also exempted from LPSR under the draft administrative order are importation of vehicles and motorcycles of balikbayan and returning residents; cargoes transiting the Philippines and intended for a foreign destination, including shipments which are discharged from the carrying vessel for its final destination abroad provided that the stay of the transit cargo in the Philippines shall not exceed 30 days from the date of discharge; explosives and pyrotechnic products; importations by government agencies, government-owned and -controlled corporations and other government instrumentalities; relief consignments and importations bound for Philippine Economic Zone Authority zones covered by an import permit.

The draft further states that it is the duty of importers and consignees to make sure that their cargoes undergo the required LPS, with the corresponding LPSR issued.

Failure to secure LPSR for their imported cargoes shall be meted with administrative penalties ranging from a 30-day suspension to cancellation of importer’s accreditation and a fine equivalent to 10 percent of the dutiable value.
