
BELGRADE --  Defense Minister Bratislav Gašić has thanked Austria's government for quickly deploying personnel that helped evacuate people from flooded areas in Serbia.

The minister received Austrian Ambassador to Serbia Johannes Eigner and expressed his gratitude for the deployment of 77 firefighters, 17 trucks, and six boats to transport rescue teams and units.

Serbs who live in Austria, Austrian citizens of Serb descent, and other people of good will have also been sending humanitarian aid, the ministry said in a statement.

It added that the bilateral cooperation between the two countries was very developed and keeping pace with excellent political relations.

Gašić also received Russian Ambassador Aleksandr Chepurin and conveyed his deep gratitude for the help and support that came from the Russian Federations, which responded within 24 hours of Serbia's request for help.

"Russia was the first came to our aid and 73 brave Russian rescuers, including 20 divers, were saving those whose lives were threatened in Obrenovac only three hours after landing in Niš. The timely assistance and the presence of Lieutenant-General Eduard Chizhikov represent a message about the dedication, professionalism, and the sincere friendship which has been reaffirmed, this time to fight the unpredictable nature," Gašić was quoted as saying.

The Russian Federation sent 40 motor boats, 30 mobile electric generators, 18 water pumps and heat guns for drying, as well as 47 tons of food, blankets and other resources.

Serbia is firmly committed to the fundamental development of cooperation with Russia in the field of defense, in accordance with the Declaration on Strategic Partnership signed last year, the statement added.

Gašić also thanked Russia for the principled support for Serbia's territorial integrity and sovereignty, and confirmed his participation in the forthcoming Moscow conference on international security.

OBRENOVAC -- Prime Minister Aleksandar Vučić told foreign reporters on Monday that 13 dead bodies have been found so far in the town of Obrenovac near Belgrade.

ŠABAC, OBRENOVAC -- Local authorities in the town of Šabac, in western Serbia, on Monday announced that two more people had lost their lives in the floods.

KRUPANJ -- Serbian President Tomislav Nikolić on Monday visited Krupanj, a municipality in western Serbia that has been hard-hit by floods which also killed one resident.

BELGRADE --  Serbia can count on EUR 1 billion worth of aid from the European Union Solidarity Fund in dealing with the long-term consequences of the catastrophic floods.

BELGRADE -- Serbian President Tomislav Nikolić on Monday sent a convoy of humanitarian aid to the places in Serbia most affected by the severe flooding.

BELGRADE -- The first part of a humanitarian aid shipment sent by the United Nations arrived in Belgrade late last night, the Ministry of the Interior (MUP) said.

MOSCOW, BELGRADE -- Russia has sent a relief cargo to Serbia hit by heavy floods, a spokesperson for the Russian Emergency Situations Ministry has told Itar-Tass.

Belgrade, Moscow -- A helicopter of the EU mission in Kosovo, EULEX, sent to assist in rescue efforts in flood-hit Serbia landed in Belgrade on Sunday.

BELGRADE -- The bodies of 12 flood victims have been recovered in the town of Obrenovac, but it is feared the number of those who perished in higher, says Aleksandar Vučić.

BELGRADE -- Serbia has been affected by "millennial waters" PM Aleksandar Vučić said on Sunday as he chaired an emergency HQ set up to deal with the catastrophic floods.

BELGRADE -- People cannot return to their homes in Obrenovac because there are still no conditions for that, while the rumors about the number of victims are false.

BELGRADE -- The intense fight to save lives continued on Saturday, as the situation is the most critical in the completely flooded Belgrade municipality of Obrenovac.

BELGRADE -- Ivica Dačić has said that Serbia now above all needs assistance in equipment, along with rescue teams to save the affected towns and their residents.

BELGRADE -- The flood-hit areas of Obrenovac and Barič near Belgrade, Sremska Mitrovica in the north and Krupanj and Šabac in western Serbia remain the most critical.

BELGRADE -- Foreign Minister Ivica Dačić on Saturday expressed his gratitude "to all the countries and the EU" for the help they provided to the flood-stricken Serbia.

BELGRADE, ŠABAC -- The bodies of those who perished in the flood in Obrenovac are being recovered on Saturday, MUP Emergency Sector chief Predrag Marić has said.

BELGRADE -- Prime Minister Aleksandar Vučić late on Friday described the situation in Serbia, struck by severe flooding, as "catastrophic."

MOSCOW -- Russian Emergency Situations Minister Vladimir Puchkov has announced that his country had launched a large-scale humanitarian operation to help Serbia.

BELGRADE -- More than 7,618 people have been evacuated in Serbia in the past two days as the country battles severe flooding, the Interior Ministry has announced.

B92 is an environmentally responsible organisation.
