
.  We strolled around Liseaux a bit and visited the Basilica of Saint Therese.  I bought a rosary and rosary pouch for myself in one of the shops.  I also got a rosary for Father Dave, one of my favorite priests in Fort Collins who happens to have a special devotion to St. Therese of Liseaux.  I wanted a pouch with "Liseaux" printed on it, but the stores only had plain, but nice, pouches made of a soft material similar to that used in jewelry polishing cloths.  A lady at one of the stores offered to write "Liseaux" on the pouch, and that worked out perfectly for me.  The pouch is a dark camel color, and the gold ink she used shows up nicely.

We are spending the night at The Ermitage, a retreat house run by Carmelite nuns, very near to Carmel, where the tomb of Therese is located. Our room, as you might expect, is basic and modest, but serves us well for this one night stay in Liseaux.

We gathered our dinner from a great market just down the road from the retreat house.  For dinner we had calamari, crab salad, bread, cheese, fruit, wine, smoked salmon spread and olives. To finish the meal off, we split a delicious apricot pastry for dessert.

I called Matt, Mom and Deb this evening to get caught up on everyone's news.

To bed now -- we head for the D-Day beach area tomorrow morning.

Bonsoir!

Hi My Traveling Children,

Looks like you continue to have a great trip.  Nothing too much exciting is going on in the big state of Montana.  We did have a little excitement late yesterday evening when Susan called and told me about  some very loud coyotes in the meadow outside of the kitchen window.  There were three of them barking as though they were in a lot of stress.  The lead one looked as though he was threatened by something in the woods toward the barn from the house.  This went on for quite some time maybe 10 to 15 minutes or longer.  The lead one finally gave up and made his way back toward the others and they all went back to the woods (toward y'alls hill). We don't know why they were so upset but think maybe something either got or threatened to bother their pups.  Anyway, that is about all to report  from the "Ponderosa".

I've been tracking your whereabouts as you travel.  Seems like a good trip with a lot to see. I really like the blog.  You're doing a great job in keeping us informed.

Love,

Mom, hope the coyote pups are okay.  Having a great time over here.
