
‘Every action,’ Narendra Modi once quoted Newton’s third law of motion, ‘has a reaction.’ Modi was referring to the murder of parliamentarian Ehsan Jafri . As blood flowed in the streets of Gujarat in 2002, a Hindutva mob had surrounded Mr Jafri’s home in Gulbarg Society.

They were armed with kerosene and, more damningly, lists of Muslim voters and Muslim-owned properties provided by the state. Using gas cylinders to blast through a wall two inches thick, they made their way into Gulbarg. Mr Jafri called the police, he called the politicians, and he called Narendra Modi. None came.

Mr Jafri fired at the rioters to disperse; they ended up storming his house. Muslim women taking shelter there — hoping the ex-Congress MP would protect them — were raped. When they got to Mr Jafri, they hacked off his hands and feet before severing his head. A pyre was improvised, and his body set on fire.

Ten years later, a Special Investigation Team concluded its findings — and they found for Modi. The report confirmed Modi used the word ‘action’ for Mr Jafri firing first, and ‘reaction’ for what followed . That proved nothing on Modi’s part, said investigators; Ehsan Jafri was to blame. Having called Mr Jafri’s firing ‘self-defence’, it changed the story a few pages later to say he in fact ‘provoked’ a ‘violent mob’, the same that would maim and murder him. File closed.

Modi rode the waves of a saffron tsunami that flung Delhi wide open, stunning the BJP itself. The former chaiwalla led the lotus boys to their best-ever showing in any election: 272 seats was the magic number for the Lok Sabha; the BJP won that and 10 more, with 282. This is a straight majority, the first in 30 years.

Six times as many as their nearest rival. It’s fitting that the BJP’s biggest win means the Congress party’s worst-ever loss . ‘There is a lot for us to think about,’ said Rahul Gandhi, dazed to the very end. To digress: a shout-out to Shashi Tharoor is deserved, who skipped over sleaze and scandal to retain his Thiruvananthapuram seat for the Congis. Part-novelist, part-diplomat, and part-snake charmer, Mr. Tharoor’s life is a Bollywood B-film waiting to happen.

No doubt this is a watershed moment — just not the way the Indian press says it is. Yes, this has been the world’s biggest election. Yes, this is a mega-mandate, and from the world’s biggest democracy. And yes, this is the dawn of a new day.

Because Narendra Modi talks about rolling out ‘the red carpet, not red tape’ for big business. Because the Congress is corrupt, weeps the press, but money bores Modi. Where PM Manmohan was weak, they say, PM-elect Modi talks about his 56-inch chest. And in an age of dynasts, he is childless (and celibate, for good measure).

Yes, the Indian citizen voted for all that, and may just get it: economic growth instead of anemia, business instead of bureaucracy, decisive Modi instead of the doddering Gandhi-Singhs. But while India becomes India Shining — it will lose its soul on the way. If it hasn’t already.

With some 20 winners, this Lok Sabha will have the lowest number of Muslim parliamentarians in history. Despite their near-300 MPs, not a single Muslim hails from the BJP: a representation of four per cent in a country where Muslims make up four times as much.

The RSS threw itself in this campaign the way one does for their own — and a win for Modi means an open door for the Sangh.

The teasing’s already begun: on the eve of election, ageless RSS demon MG Vaidya crawled out of the morgue to demand Muslims relinquish the land where Babri Masjid once stood. For Vaidya, the masjid embodied ‘an invader’s arrogance,’ and Modi would do well to deliver on Ram Temple in its stead. Expect this sort of thing to get worse.

But this isn’t Nehru’s India: his daughter saw to that. As of May 16, it is the RSS’s. The same RSS that despised Nehru and murdered Gandhi. And the same RSS that has begun praising Indira: it was Indira Gandhi’s India that rewarded her party in 1984, while Sikhs were butchered en masse.

And it was Indira’s India again that saw Modi re-elected chief minister of Gujarat in December 2002 with a two-thirds majority, moments after the massacre. Because the brutal fact remains: Narendra Modi was re-elected chief minister of Gujarat because of the violence, not in spite of it.

That he was elected by millions more last week means no one cares anyway. Or cares enough.

The fireworks blaze orange across Uttar Pradesh, which didn’t return a single Muslim to parliament for the first time. India’s magic has fallen victim to Modi majoritarianism. And the reality of India has vindicated the idea of Pakistan.

Ironic then, that the reality of Pakistan could do so much to unravel its own idea.

Published in The Express Tribune, May 20th, 2014.

Like Opinion & Editorial on Facebook , follow @ETOpEd on Twitter to receive all updates on all our daily pieces.

Modi did nothing new. He used the same communal ism to divide voters as was used by Mr. Jinnah. Many would say that Jinnah was not religious. On does not need to be religious to be communal. Even the founding member of BJP ideology have been atheist. After Kargil fiasco BJP first time emerged as a real force. The forced marriages and conversions in Pakistan and taking over by the fanatic religious terrorists have alarmed most Indians.

The secular Indians have been decimated because they did not deliver on several fronts. Just like the secular PLO has lost to Hamas after it continuously failed to deliver.

Only after being rebuffed by the Congress party for their leadership position Jinnah joined Muslim League. A 21st century Modi and BJP expertly used the same two nation theory to their advantage. We can give Jinnah the credit for polarization, divisions, and millions of deaths or call it a ploy that is still hurting Muslims in India.

Thank you – this is the origin of the base form of vote-bank politics practised in India, although Nehru’s intentions may have been noble at that time. You cannot treat people differently based on their religion, and not expect ancient fault lines to deepen (this is very different from affirmative action for disadvantaged classes, which should again go to the poor and backward). Modi owes much to Nehru’s line of thinking.

1..2…3…blast off, Author you have stepped on the tails of Indian, they will soon troll this section..We have our issues but accept them…the sad part is that many so called educated secular Indians would still defend Modi.

“They were armed with kerosene and, more damningly, lists of Muslim voters and Muslim-owned properties provided by the state. Using gas cylinders to blast through a wall two inches thick, they made their way into Gulbarg. Mr Jafri called the police, he called the politicians, and he called Narendra Modi. None came.

The truth, Asad Rahim Khan, is exactly 100 percent the opposite of what you’ve written here.

It’s not “Modi elected, Jinnah vindicated”, it’s “Modi elected because Pakistan existed”.

Imagine a hypothetical India that included West Punjab, East Bengal, Sindh, the NWFP and Balochistan. In other words, instead of 160 million Indian Muslims, 500 million Indian Muslims.

That hypothetical India — by the simple laws of coalition politics that operate in India today — would not have allowed a Narendra Modi to become Prime Minister with a majority of his own in that hypothetical Parliament.

I know Pakistanis love to look for reasons to “vindicate” Jinnah, but this actually doesn’t vindicate Jinnah at all. It indicts Jinnah.

The end result of M.A. Jinnah’s politics was to break the Indian Muslim population in 1947 into three roughly equivalent pieces today, forever diminishing and weakening their power.

Hard to admit, I know. But that’s the truth.

BTW you should read today’s article by Mr.Bangash to learm to reason..

No doubt that India is a racist Hindu state where minorities have no rights….

and orange clad whirlwind. ‘Show China some muscle’.

Let the Indian trolls descend.

Moreover today’s India never cares of Pakistan.

In a sense Pakistan became separate country is good for India, Jinnah has done good for India, if you see today’s Pakistan, daily some bomb blast taking place in the name of religion, no one cares about human life and its values in Pakistan. If India and Pakistan are one country means this violence would have spreaded all over India, luckily Jinnah created Pakistan and saved India.

If Indian woman gets raped, then the response would be “There is no respect of women in India…India is a dangerous place for women, bla, bla, bla, bla.

If rapes happen in Pakistan, then “this does not happen in Pakistan……this is media propaganda and the reason we do not step out of our house to protest against these crimes is that such things never happen here…..

There was once a leader in India called Swami Vivekananda who had said that “Religion is useless for you if you are not even able to feed your stomach”. The problem is that all over the world religion is given such undue importance. Poverty is the biggest crime my friend, disease is the biggest villain.Though its ironical both are secular in nature (as they dont distinguish between people of different identities). People want economic growth. People want development. And an election result which gives a mandate strictly for pushing for development can be the best one in any functional democracy (no offence to any country for using the word “functional”). There is no reason for Indian butthurt. I as an Indian, having many Muslim friends, am confident that none of my Muslim friends would go to Pakistan if given a chance, because they ll always have a better life, better opportunities even in Modi’s India, compared to what they may get in Pakistan. Roads wont be built for Hindus only, colleges dont and wont grant admission based on your religion.

And what was actually Jinnah’s idea? You are in the minority, so you flock over to a place where now you are in the majority, and ironically do the same thing with YOUR own minorities which you feared may happen in India to you? As an advice, leave religion behind sir, and focus on welfare and development of your people. They deserve these more than assurances of being in the majority.

Regardless of BJP wins or Congress loses, Jinnah doesn’t, nor did he ever needed vindication from this election. What Jinnah understood some 60+ years ago was true back then and is true now and will stay true in the future. However, the twist is, those so called “secular” Pakistanis, who call Jinnah bad and those who are blowing his retreat in Ziarat and those who had blown his dream of secular Pakistan to a Mullahism, it is an eye opener that your neighbor in India has elected Hindu Mullahas government. PML-N vs BJP both represent Mullahism in respective countries and their respective religions.

Again Jinnah knew it and he created Pakistan not for any kind of Mullahas to prevail but for true Muslim country on secular principles with Sate and Religion coexists side by side. This vision is yet be achieved and then it’ll vindicate Jinnah not having BJP in India.

Asad: It was the very same BJP led by Vajpayee that went against domestic pressure to normalise relations with Pakistan ! To read this venom against a newly and very popularly elected PM of world’s largest democracy and a secular one to hoot is ill-timed !

It is akin to calling over 500 million voters ‘idiot’ to elect whom they did. Pls also note that a vast majority of Muslims also voted for BJP under Modi.

Pakistan on the other hand is broke, destitute, lonely, loathed globally, lowest ranking visa provision for travel on its passport, is burning with separatist and religious/ ethnic fires, is the headache of the world with its economy relying on handouts from IMF and the World Bank (and the very America that it loves to hate), is called ‘epicentre of terrorism’ globally and with no self respect left.

It is like comparing South Korea with North Korea ! I dont know how Jinnah would have felt but I am sure if he was alive today and objective, he would have cried looking at today’s Pakistan and regretted his two-nation theory !

Everybody is vindicated and that depends,

thing is south asia is caught in a deadly circle of violence and whoever is weak will suffer the most.

I will ignore the Indians and ask the author and the Pakistanis who are gloating that Indian tails have been set on fire.

And why are you not taking in Bihari Pakistanis? After all they sacrificed for TNT.

I haven’t even gone into the status of Muslim minorities who live in Pakistan.

Flimsy logic to grab attention for your article. India is secular and will remain so. The overwhelming majority of so-called Muslim heartland voted for BJP. All voters simply wanted to get rid of corrupt Congress government. Remember when Ayatollah came to power in Iran, people voted to get rid of Shah not religious fanatics. Religious leaders got rid of socialists and others from the coalition.

If you and Pakistanis feel so strongly, by invoking Jinnah’s name, may be open your doors for Muslim immigration. After all Jinnah helped create Pakistan for Muslims of India.

Also, even after so many years, it is amusing that Pakistan tries to justify its existence with any happening in other parts of the world. You guys are very very very insecure.

If TNT is good for Pakistan, why are Muslims killing each other in Pakistan, why did East Pakistan break away and form a separate country, where is governance in Pakistan, why is there an existential threat to Pakistan.

You are desperately holding straws to, avoid the inevitable, the sinking of Pakistan into a non-entity.

As far as Modi goes, he was elected with the hope that he will reign in corruption, and , increase jobs, get the economy going. He was not elected because of temple or for any Hindutva agenda. If he was a hard liner, then there would have been no mosque in Gujarat after his 10 year rule in Gujarat and Muslims would not have voted for him en masse, not only in Gujarat, but also in UP and elsewhere.

On the Jaffer story, I have not read it anywhere in the media here. I will check it.

1) the only holy book for those who govern India is the constitution but as an individual, i live my values and respect other people’s values.

2) When he had just survived a threat to his life in a massive rally in Patna where bombs went off – did he use that occassion to polarise the crowd? No. He said’Hindus must decide whether they want fight Muslims or poverty and Muslims must decide whether they want to fight Hindus or poverty’.

They view governance differenly and hence are resented by crony socialists who create programs supposedly giving dole to the poor from which they siphon out billions. His most trusted aide Amit Shah was asked if Gujarat had the same type of unemployment subsidies as UP had. Amit Shah reponde’Bhaisaab Gujarat model mein hum rozgar ke avsar pradaan karte hain, nahi ke berozgaaron ko bhatta dena’.

If you like it, you will like more what Modi said immediately and spontaneously after an incidence of bomb blast during one of his election rallies. It was known to everyone that the bomb was targeted at him personally and also his party workers. Many were expecting Modi to issue inflammatory condemnation. However, Modi’s first words were “Hindus should decide now if they want to keep fighting the muslims or fight poverty together and muslims should decide now if they want to keep fighting the hindus or fight poverty together”.

Modi has already demolished many hindu temples (I think it is over 200 temples) in Gujarat. These temples that were constructed without proper permits were causing problems like obstruction to flow of traffic and standing in the way of orderly development of these areas. No hindu opposed it and in fact hindus supported it.

It is surprising that Pak is still searching for the validation of TNT 67 years after independence. Is the theory that faulty. I would say yes and the fault was revealed in 1971 to the whole world. Why didnt the author describe in minute detail the gory violence that swept Bangladesh, planned, executed and conducted by Pak army and prove that the TNT was invalid. May be the author would get pass marks in that case.

Let us face it, Pakistan or Pakistanis who vouch for separate nation for muslims have no qualification to comment on secularism of India. While you are already way too right, a little bit of rightist tendency by your neighbor would still be secular. The status of Gujarat after 2002 would vouch for that. Except people like this author who would describe gory violence in minute details (of muslim deaths only and not hindu deaths and only when muslims suffer and not others) no one else in Gujarat itself remembers the riots and vote accordingly. If that is the case why would other people remember that.

ET pl publish.

Two Nation theory has not failed because it has not been tested yet. According to the theory the only binding force between east Pakistan and West Pakistan was Islam. Unfortunately after partition of subcontinent, Islam as a system was never implemented. It was mentioned in the constitution as a formality. If there had been Islamic system of justice and economy I am confident that not only Kashmir, east Pakistan but major part of present Indian would have been the part of Pakistan.

bin laden was reported to be involved in some way in the massacre of 2000 innocent unarmed people in New York and was termed as a Muslim terrorist and condemned to death. Modi is reported to be involved in some way in the massacre of 2000 innocent unarmed people in gujarat and was termed as a Hindu nationalist and destined to be the prime minister.

Modi was the chief minister when for three consecutive days hindus freely massacred children, women and men belonging to minority.

Cause Pakistan is an agglomeration of provinces…not a nation.

Aak any Pakistani.

This is what Pervez Hoodbhoy explained so well in an interview as “mera dil yeh kehta hai” culture.

This is called over-confidence or blind faith or both. Confidence is what you acquire after trying something again and again, failing and gaining and correcting.

Contrary to that, I will tell you with the same confidence that if Islamic system of justice and economy are implemented in Pakistan, Pakistan would have been 6 countries today.

This is my word against your word. This is my blind faith against your blind faith.

This is just a casual arcticle on wiki. A thorough research would reveal much more.

Summarisingly there are more ppl wanting to run out of your poophole than Pk (which we did more than half a century back luckily).

No mention of Godhra pre planned train burning. But elaboration of retaliatory Gulberg society riot. No mention of Kashmir intrusion, but elaboration of defending Lahore.Elaboration of Kargil reply. No mention of Temples destruction, but elaboration of unused Babri mosque structure. After Sixty Seventy years of inception of idea, Pakistan is still trying to find tiniest justification for its Creation !

Dear Pakistanis, If Indians wanted Hindu govt then they might have done in last century, after Babri mosque unused structure demolition. They might have not elected Congress even after Vajpayee and Kargil win.

Try to understand that its all about Development and anti corruption.

The more important reality is that author and all those in Pakistan who agree with him have vindicated Military Dictatorship.

With this contempt for democratic majoritarianism prevalent in Pakistan, it will not surprise me that yet again a military dictatorship will be ensconced in Pakistan.

I can assure the writer that India will never loose its soul. When Tory’s are in power in England the Govt policies and agenda is in the interest of the country and the same thing happens when the Liberals rule. So as assured and repeated thousand of time the constitution of India will always be the soul and that guarantees the secular fabric of this country. Governments change, ruling parties change so wait and see and certainly if Modi’s victory affirms Jinnah’s two nation theory tell us what does Creation of Bangladesh and so many independent Muslim countries around middle east proves.

Since the moderator has published this mail I requrest you to either support it and extend equal liberty to all posters or delete this immediately.

India’s population 121 crores based on religion where the minority increased not decreased each year unlike yours.

Hindus 82,75,78,868, Muslims 13,81,88,240, Christians 2,40,80,016 ,Sikhs 1,92,15,730, Buddhists 79,55,207, Jains 42,25,053, Bahá’í 19,53,112, Jews/Others 46,86,588, Atheist 7,27,588.

Apart from this various castes,tribes,animist,ethnic,linguistic differences we have still managed to stay a country for 67 years and will do so in future because we have secular constitution, media,judiciary that treats all equal and protects the rights of all people when targeted irrespective of religion it doesn’t discriminate.

ET publish this.

i agree with what you say, it is a concern, yes, but the size of minorities in Pakistan is way too small when compared to India. In India you have a sizeable minority of muslims. In Pakistan the minorities are very small in number, upon that, the individual religious minorities are even smaller. This is no excuse, but it is to say that comparison to India are unjustified.

The sanctity of the two nations theory lies in the existence of Pakistan. East Pakistan was always a difficult keep, you cant have a country divided into two wings with enemy territory in between. 190 million muslims exercise unquestionable control in Pakistan, 160 million in Bangladesh. They are more powerful than what they would have been under united India. The two nations theory was vindicated they day we took 950000 km^2 of hindu dominated Indian territory and converted it into 950000km^2 of muslim dominated territory. Bangladesh is an outgrowth of the two nations theory, but the point of two nations, that is the hindu nation and the muslim nation still exists today. If partition was fair and if you hadnt occupied Pakistani Kashmir you would have far fewer muslims.

and hatred has defeated secular India.

In three odd sentences, you have betrayed your utter ignorance of Indian history.

Most pakistani comments have doomsday sentiments for indian muslims, and are worried about their future.

So basically, they are in I SAID SO SYNDROME, about Modi, and are feeling happy to have migrated or born in Pakistan.That again is very good state of mind.

We indians, have different state of mind. We are worried, as to how will he manage widely disparate nation, undo the mess Congress govt in last 10 years, and take India forward. How to create newer opportunities which will help lift people out.

12 years of riot free governance do slliw abperdon to be characterised as peaceful. This cannot be desctibed as dudden. Acquittal by SC in a country like India where 33 Hindus invluding a senior minister were convicted for 2002 riots – can legitimately cause people to review their opinion. Google to find out why a senior journalist like M J Akbar who was a fierce critic of Modi in 2002 joinec BJP. and endorses Modi. When new information presents itself that challenges our beliefs, the wise do review their beliefs and are open to revising them if cslled for.

I am a fan of Mr Jinnah for creating Pakistan.

Not only me,all of India is greatful to Mr Jinnah for creating Pakistan.

last 60 years.

Today, Hindu imperialism has finally taken form.

muslims population increases from 5% to 15% means 25 crores.in india muslims are sitting on every respected post.they have reservation,they are more developed than pak.

so first think about yourself than put finger on india.

Excellent article! We dont need to vindicate Jinnah, he proved to be right a long time ago. All these Indians who are quick to point out ‘wave of religious extremism sweeping across Pakistan’ should know better what insurgency is like. Have you forgotten the Sikh massacre? Or maybe you should go to the villages where Naxalites regularly kill Indian soldiers for good reason, which is a squeezed development based on a outdated cast system. And the twitter-active Indians love to ignore this cast system. Such a pity.

When Christian homes were burned in Pakistan’s Punjab, there was an uproar. Security forces moved in and riots were broken off. There is a very large section of society which openly condemns the murder of former Punjab Governor Salman Taseer by a religious extremist.

It’s too early to say what Modi’s stance would be when it comes to dealing with Pakistan.It is not unusual for right-wing political parties to take tough political and national security decisions with relative ease as compare to their liberal( secular) counterparts because they don’t have to prove their patriotism. For instance, Nixon’s trip to China in early 70s Vajpai’s yatra to Lahore etc.

I will not be surprised if Modi’s govt.takes initiative to reduce military tension and to facilitate the business ties between the two countries.

May be I am too optimistic but you never know __ anything is possible in international politics.

The one and only conclusion I can arrive at, after reading all the Modi related articles and the comments following them,

Pakistanis are totally jealous of Indians because they dont have a decisive leader like Modi and they could not elect one spanning the entire Pakistan.

Needing it so badly so as to clutch at straws.

yes, somalia and poverty go hand in hand just like india and its poverty. 30% compared to paks 22% Id worry about that. Also, its time india say goodbye to mcdonald’s quarter pounder.

First look around your self then criticize other.

Why do you Indians keep going back to 26/11 and Hafiz Saeed when it comes to Pakistan. There are many people who have blood on their hands. And like your favourite Modi, this one has nothing proven against him.

Let me remind you!The man who was a nightmare for the likes of Gandhi, Nehru and the British. ! Vijay Lakshmi Pundit, the sister of Jawaharlalz Nehru, wrote” If Pakistan Muslim League had 100 Gandhis and 200 Abulkalam Azads, there would have been no Pakistan. However, if the Congress had only one Jinnah, India would not have been divided” Such was the genius Jinnah!

To be reminded from an un-biased Indian perspective read Jaswat Singh’s book about Jinnah who was expelled from BJP for writing in Jinnah’s Praise.

Stanley Wolpert “Few individuals significantly alter the course of history. Fewer still modify the map of the world. Hardly anyone can be credited with creating a nation-state. Mohammad Ali Jinnah did all three.

Yea, which turned out to be another false flag op!

Umm I think he is referring to the scale of the BJP victory rather than the victory itself. The fact that a so called secular society has handed the largest mandate in reason times to a Hindu nationalist party is the tragedy here.

Though there were many people who crossed Bangladesh border, but in reverse direction. ie came to India.

The author is wrong, we didn’t need Modi being elected to vindicate Jinnah.

I wonder how election of a person brought good news for both India and Pakistan. We are happy that we got a pro-growth leader while you are happy that finally two nation theory is validated.

Hope you can sleep in peace now knowing that Pakistan is a legitimate country and no one is going to merge it back to India. If you are satisfied now can you do us one favour, please keep your “Non State Actors” within your country and let us also live in peace.

He Knows No Fear. He Knows No Danger. He Knows Nothing!

Hitler and the Nazi party’s election in 1933 was due to significant support within the Germans who were led to believe that Fascism would solve their problems, that the humiliation suffered by the German Nation at Versailles would be be overcome and the German Nation would prosper if the Jews (read today’s Muslims in India) were exterminated. History repeats itself with those that find links to the Brahmin as a superior caste.

One is right to be fearful of the death, destruction and chauvanism that is predictable as things to come with the election of Narendra Modi.

indiano e.t.

Even after 60 years after Pakistan was created and Bangladesh separated the debate is stuck in time. Still arguing whether partition was right? After all these years ?.Partition was good and from what see of Pakistan based on religion it was right.

Yup. India, next to South Africa would have been banned in the world due to attrocities committed by the state based on religion!

Anyone who makes a new country certainly alter the map hence tose 2 usually go ttogether. Also all 3 would also apply to Mujib ur Rehman. Plus whoever led the movement for creation of the Czeck and Dlovak republic. People wo led the mvement of Estonia, Ukraine etc.not to mention whoever fought for South Sudan. Do you know the names of those people? Outside the subcontinent Jinnah is equally unknown. Not so- Mahatma Gandhi who inspired people in distant lands from Nelson Mandela to Martin Luther King.

The question is not whether partition was right or wrong. If you carefully read my comment you’ll understand this point that partition was right, but more importantly, Jinnah’s dream was not to have Pakistan on the basis of religion alone and have the theocratic state emerged which it has after 1948 and right after 1971 it just took off like a jet towards Mullahism.

Bangladesh would not have been created had their been implementation on Jinnah’s dream. Again this will be a separate debate. More focus for us should be that we should implement Jinnah’s progressive, secular Muslim state formula where religion is the business of individuals not state. When you have a state sponsored Mullahism in the form of declaring one sect of Muslims as non-Muslims then you’ll have these issues.

Forget about Modi or BJP let’s straight our house in order first.

being led by a vicious hate monger.

Your comments may appear in The Express Tribune paper. For this reason we encourage you to provide your city. The Express Tribune does not bear any responsibility for user comments.

Comments are moderated and generally will be posted if they are on-topic and not abusive. For more information, please see our Comments FAQ .

Notify me of new posts by email.

Unless otherwise stated, all content is copyrighted © 2014 The Express Tribune News Network.
