
It was an early start the following day, out at 5:30 to do a boat trip to a few of the surrounding islands and hopefully a chance to see some dolphins.

Within 10 minutes of setting sail we was joined by around 15 other boats, we thought that there being so many boats that we would have no chance of seeing any but we was hugely mistaken! We saw loads! Lots of different Groups of up 20 or more dolphins and they was everywhere, some out in the distance and others right up close to the side of our boat!

Before 6am and we had already seen massive amounts of dolphins! Well worth getting up for.

Before doing any snorkelling we had some breakfast at the makeshift restaurant on the island and we was joined by one of the guys who was on our boat, an American guy on his own who was a Ned Flanders - Antony Keidis look alike. He also happened to be stuck in reverse, talked excruciatingly slow and asked us a hell of a lot of really pointless questions. Still nice enough guy just a bit on the boring side!

After breakfast we had to get in a small paddle boat and get taken out the 20 metres to the reef, easily swimmable but apparently it's a protected reef so the boat is a must, at a cost of course.

We got in and started to snorkel, clear water, thousands of fish and a lot of corals it was all looking pretty good until we come to the wall, a huge drop off from the shallow water that dropped straight down to the deep blue sea. The drop off was absolutely beaming with corals and thousands upon thousands of fish, it was absolutely incredible.

After snorkelling we returned to Balicasag island for lunch, none of us was hungry as we had not long before eaten but we had to wait around for the old Ned Flanders/Antony Keidis look alike and in the process get bored to death by another thousand of his questions.

After leaving Balicasag island we then went on to Virgin Island. Virgin island is the sort of thing you see on a postcard, a tiny island just a few trees and one shack on it, with the most turquoise blue sea you can imagine and 2 huge sand banks that stretch out into the sea. To make it even more impressive The sandbanks are underwater, as the sea is so clear it looks as though it is a thin stretch of beach however it's about a foot or two underwater!

After walking from one sand bank to the next we then got back on the boat and headed back to Alona Beach.

After a great day out seeing dolphins, turtles, world class snorkelling and one of the most picturesque beaches in the world we decided finishing it off with an afternoon and evening in the beach bars.
