
TRADE and Investment Minister Andrew Robb is participating in Trans-Pacific Partnership agreement (TPP) talks in Singapore today and tomorrow, following the 2014 APEC trade ministers’ meeting in Qingdao, China, over the weekend.

While meeting with TPP ministers in Singapore, Mr Robb will also chair a major investment roundtable.

The Australian Financial Review recently reported the US push for a wide-ranging Pacific trade accord is likely to be delayed until at least next year after the failure of President Barack Obama to cut a deal with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe during his tour of Asia last month.

Former White House trade policy adviser Matthew Goodman said earlier this month the TPP would not be settled until after the mid-presidential term congressional elections in November had been concluded and the new Congress turned its attention back to trade deals.

Mr Goodman also confirmed US trade negotiators remained unhappy with the way Australia cut an economic partnership agreement with Japan just before Mr Obama's visit, possibly undermining the US negotiating position on agriculture.

"The US Trade Office is a little bit miffed Australia went ahead and settled," he said in a speech at the US Consulate in Sydney as part of a speaking tour on US economic policy in Asia.

APEC (Asia-Pacific Economic Co-operation) is the most important economic forum in the Asia-Pacific, Mr Robb  said, and an active driver of open trade and investment. It includes 21 member economies which account for 58 per cent of the world’s GDP and over two-thirds of Australia’s trade in goods and services.

The Qingdao meeting focused on the current challenges facing the global economy, the role of regional economic integration as a spur to growth and progress of a forward work program for WTO negotiations.

Ahead off the meetings, Mr Robb said he would take the opportunity to reiterate Australia’s interests in further liberalisation in the region, especially in agriculture, services and investment markets.

“Open and competitive services markets are a potential source of significant domestic growth for many economies and one key to avoiding the middle-income trap,” he said.

APEC has been a leader in trade facilitation and the faster and less costly movement of goods and services in the region would benefit Australian businesses.

To recognise this, Mr Robb said Australia will contribute $500,000 to APEC’s capacity-building work to improve supply chain performance.

“Australia’s contribution will also help implement the new WTO Agreement on Trade Facilitation in the region,” he said.

On regional economic integration, Mr Robb said Australia supported China’s interest in adding impetus to APEC’s goal of a Free Trade Area of the Asia Pacific (FTAAP).

US wants Australia to automatically approve and allow import of any US drug approved by US Food and Drug Authority.  We must not trade away our sovereign authority for FTAs.

Andrew Robb, tread very carefully. Do not accept the current grab without carefully analysing it. Nothing is as it seems and we need critical analysis before action by people like you.

The TPP is nothing more than a massive power grab for foreign corporations.Tony Abbott and Andrew Robb are willing to give foreign corporations the right to sue our governments threatening our democracy and sovereignty. This is shameful and unworthy of Australian leadership.

This is where we need to protect our "sovereign borders". The TPP is simply a sell-out to major corporations.

With the added advantage of history and hindsight I do not in any way trust any Government officials to make these secretive agreements to be made in my name unless I know eaactly and fully as to what they entail, the veil of total secrecy surrounding the complete TPP deals are a red flag to me! The rumours as to supply of food and how it is grown and by whom concerns me greatly, the recourse that said corporations have access to against the people and governments to overturn decisions by Government is absurd! NO MORE SECRECY the people want to know !

The LNP will do as their major corporate donors demand and sell out farmers, just as every free trade deal has.

John Hine, you couldn't be further from the truth about the AWB single desk. It left for dead,
