
Eminent persons, traditional rulers, community leaders and politicians from Ikorodu area in Lagos State at the weekend asked all indigenes interested in the state governorship election to submit a letter of intent on or before May 19, adding that Ikorodu had been denied of democratic benefits for too long.

The leaders of the area, under the aegis of Ikorodu Division Resource Group (IDGR) and Eminent Persons in Ikorodu Division (EPID), lamented that Ikorodu had suffered outright neglect and marginalisation under different political dispensation since the country’s return to civil rule in 1999.

The demand was contained in a communiqué issued after the inauguration of EPID’s Liaison Group held at the Ayangburen Palace in Ikorodu, thereby calling for the total mobilisation of all indigenes and residents of the area to rally support for all the governorship aspirants from the area.

The communiqué, which was signed by the group’s Chairman, Chief B. O. Benson (SAN), and Secretariat Coordinator, Mr. Adesegun Ogunlewe, said consequent upon a meeting held with Obas, chiefs, elders and prominent indigenes in the state, it resolved that the group should request for letters of intent from persons interested in the 2015 governorship race from all political parties.

Of the five administrative divisions in the state, only indigenes of Badagry and Ikorodu have not governed the state democratically. According to the communiqué, Alhaji Lateef Jakande emerged from Ikeja Division; Sir Michael Otedola, from Epe Division; Bola Tinubu from Ikeja Division and Mr. Babatunde Fashola (SAN) from Eko Division.

The group stated that it wanted to complain very loudly that indigenes and residents of Ikorodu Division should get ready and ensure that the area wins the race this time.

“All aspirants from all registered political parties who are Ikorodu Division indigenes are implored to heed this clarion call and mobilise support from the grassroots by supporting the activities of the Liaison Group.

“All aspirants are directed to submit the following to the Secretariat at the Ikorodu Town Hall on or before May 19,” the group said.

Please leave your comment below. Your name will appear next to your comment. We'll also keep you updated by email whenever someone else comments on this page. Your comment will appear on this page once it has been approved by a moderator.

Please enter some keywords that you'd like to search for. Your results will be displayed below.

THISDAYLIVE cares about you, help us to report better!
