
14 May 2014: As part of preparations for the 20th session of the Conference of the Parties (COP 20) to the UNFCCC, the Government of Peru organized the first session of its 'Dialogue between the Next Presidency of the COP 20/CMP 10 and Latin American Civil Society.' UNFCCC Executive Secretary Christiana Figueres and Peru's Minister of the Environment Manuel Pulgar-Vidal spoke with Latin American civil society organizations (CSOs) about their expectations for COP 20.

The event was held in Lima, Peru, where COP 20 negotiations will take place in December 2014 under Peru's Presidency. According to Peru's Ministry of the Environment, the event aimed to: ensure all voices are heard; learn how CSOs can best be integrated into the negotiations; and hear what CSOs propose COP 20 should mean for Latin America.

In addressing the organizations, Figueres highlighted the intergenerational equity and human rights aspects of climate change, stressing that everyone has a responsibility to act. She also pointed to the challenge and necessity of turning high-level agreements into meaningful action at the local level. Figueres linked achieving meaningful action at the local level with the ability to involve those most affected in the process, to understand their real life situations and seek their input.

Emphasizing that the talks must take on a sense of urgency, Pulgar-Vidal identified the most important discussion issues as the Green Climate Fund (GCF), REDD+, and loss and damage.

Climate Change Policy & Practice is a knowledge management project for international negotiations and related activities on climate change.  It was launched in 2008 and is managed by the International Institute for Sustainable Development (IISD) Reporting Services , which is fully responsible for the content posted on Climate Change Policy & Practice . Information on United Nations activities is provided in cooperation with the UN system agencies, funds and programmes through the United Nations System Chief Executives Board for Coordination (UN CEB) Secretariat and the UN Communications Group (UNCG) Task Force on Climate Change .
