
According to Dugard, the main reason preventing the Israeli-Palestinian conflict from being solved is the international community’s unwillingness to look into the region’s problems.

He believes that in order to settle the dispute fairly a Palestinian state with a capital in east Jerusalem must be created, with Israel existing in the boundaries set in 1948-49.

JD: Increasingly, Israel’s policies in the occupied Palestinian territory are described as a form of Apartheid. And, like most South Africans, who have visited the occupied Palestinian territory, I do believe that there are great similarities between Apartheid as practiced in South Africa and the policies perused in the occupied Palestinian territory.

First of all, there’s discrimination. There are two groups: there are Jews – settlers – and the Palestinians. There are two separate legal systems for the settlers and for the Palestinians. Secondly, there’s clear repression. There’s torture applied in respect of Palestinian militants, checkpoints, restricted freedom of movement on every level. There’s detention without trial. There are the same forms of political repression that we experienced in Apartheid South Africa.

JD: I think the main reason is that Israel has the support – an active support of the US and, to great extent, the support of the European Union and even the Russian Federation. One can’t underestimate the Holocaust guilt factor that in many countries such as the Netherlands, for instance. The Netherlands’ foreign policy in respect of Israel is largely determined by the factor of Holocaust guilt. In the US there’s a powerful Israeli lobby, consisting of the Jewish lobby and Evangelical lobby. Together these forces in the Israeli lobby ensure that no action can be taken to compel Israel to comply with its international law obligations.

JD: The situation is that in 2009, following Israel’s invasion of Gaza, the Palestinian authority accepted the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court and requested that an investigation would be made into international crimes committed during that conflict and thereafter. But the prosecutor of the ICC doesn’t have the courage to take action of this kind.

And it’s quite clear that this is because of the influence of the US. The US is not a party to the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, but its presence is ever felt. It does attend meeting of the assembly of the Statute parties, it makes its position clear.

JD: As I see the situation, the International Criminal Court would also be competent to initiate an investigation into the construction of settlements in the occupied territory. It’s not necessary for Palestine to become a party to the ICC Statute because it has already accepted the jurisdiction of the Court. And I think that without the firm action of this kind, the settlements will continue to grow until the ideal of two-state solution is completely destroyed.

JD: Well, I think it’s essential to see Israel’s settlement policy as a form of colonialism. During the colonial period, the colonists settled in territories, started farms and other enterprises. And when decolonization came they had the choice – they either went back to the mother country or they stayed on and lived under the new sovereign rule. And that’s essentially the choice the settlers would have. Either go back to Israel or they can continue to live in the Palestinian state, subject to the Palestinian government and Palestinian laws. It’s their choice.

JD: The settlements are important because they do constitute a form of de facto annexation. Today we have some 600,000 settlers in the Palestinian territory. They are taking more and more land. The result is that the idea of a Palestinian state becomes nonviable. And what troubles me is that the present Israeli government doesn’t see that its policies don’t serve the best interests of the Jewish people. I believe that it’s in the best interests of the Jewish people to continue to build the state of Israel within the borders established in 1948-49 and to encourage the creation of a Palestinian state nearby. But the present trend in the region is, unfortunately, in favor of an Apartheid state.

JD: I don’t think that prosecuting Israelis is going to solve the political problem. I think it simply sends out a message to Israel that the international community and its institutions see what Israel is doing as an international crime. That’s the purpose of the prosecution. It’s not for retribution. And it won’t settle the problem, politically. There has to be a settlement. And I believe the settlement or the rules for that settlement are fairly clear.
