
BJP leader Narendra Modi will take oath as India's next prime minister May 26, party president Rajnath Singh announced Tuesday.

Key ally of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led National Democratic  Alliance (NDA), Shiv Sena, on Tuesday termed the resignation of Janata  Dal-United (JD-U) leader Nitish Kumar as Bihar Chief Minister a 'drama'.

In  an editorial in party mouthpiece 'Saamana', Shiv Sena said: "Nitish  Kumar's resignation is a drama. He said he is quitting on moral grounds.  But actually he wants to form an alliance with Lalu Prasad Yadav's  Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD)."

Meanwhile,  Bihar's new Chief Minister Jitan Ram Manjhi said he was the choice of  both outgoing CM Nitish Kumar and JD-U supremo Sharad Yadav.

In its series of analysis meetings planned to discuss the party's rout in the April 24 Lok Sabha polls, DMK today announced convening its high-level strategy committee meeting on June 2, a day ahead of party chief M Karunanidhi's birthday.

The party patriarch will chair the meeting at the DMK headquarters Anna Arivalayam, its General Secretary K Anbazhagan said in a statement.

The meeting of the party leaders will debate the loss and also discuss the strategy to strengthen the party in the future, he said.

Based on the outcome of the meeting, other decision-making bodies--Executive and General Council, will meet later and the dates will be announced accordingly, he said.

A US based Hindu group is asking that hymns from ancient Sanskrit  scriptures and contemporary bhajans should regularly form part of BBC  One’s over 52 years old "Songs of Praise" program.

Distinguished Hindu statesman Rajan Zed, in a statement in Nevada (USA)  on Tuesday, said that British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC), being “a  public service broadcaster funded by the licence fee paid by UK  households”, including the Hindu households, should have been more  responsible and inclusive in “Songs of Praise”.

It was the time for “Songs of Praise” to become multi-faith as United  Kingdom (UK) was a diverse society formed of various religions and  denominations and non-believers. Moreover, God liked all  songs-of-praise, irrespective of the religion these came from, Zed, who  is President of Universal Society of Hinduism, stressed.

Following directions from the All India Congress Committee (AICC), a Congress delegation of the state will meet Governor D Y Patil today to submit a letter of support for the JD(U) government led by Jitan Ram Majhi, who will be sworn in at 5 PM today.

"Our High Command has informed us today morning to provide a letter of support in favour of the JD(U) government to the Governor. We have sought time and will go to Raj Bhawan today itself," Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Sadanand Singh said.

Asked about Congress' plans of participating in the state government, Singh said there were no instructions on the matter from the AICC "as of now".

Thailand's army in a surprise move today declared martial law to preserve law and order after six months of anti-government protests that left the country without proper functioning government, but denied that the it was a coup.

The move was announced on the military's television channel at 3 am (1:30 IST).

"The Army aims to maintain peace, order and public safety for all groups and all parties," a ticker running on the army's television channel said. The military insisted that its assumption of responsibility for national security was not a coup.

Tarun's mother Shakuntala Tejpal passed away on Sunday evening. She was suffering from a brain tumour. Her last rites were performed at a Hindu crematorium at St Inez in presence of family members and close friends.

A Chinese tourist was kidnapped in Pakistan while he was travelling from Lahore to Balochistan, a media report said Tuesday.

Calling India a "very important strategic partner", the US hopes that its "enduring partnership" with India will only grow under the new government led by Narendra Modi despite the flap over his visa.

"Obviously, we have a long, enduring partnership with India. That will continue and hopefully only grow in the future," State Department spokesperson Jen Psaki told reporters Monday referring President Barack Obama's invitation to the prime minister elect.

But despite the direct invitation from Obama ending the over decade-long US boycott of the Bharatiya Janata Party leader, whose US visa was revoked in 2005 for his alleged role during the 2002 Gujarat riots, the State department continued to play word games over the issue.

Fourteen people were killed and 30 injured when a bus going to the  Valley fell into a deep gorge on the Jammu-Srinagar highway in Ramban  district of Jammu region Tuesday.

A senior police officer told IANS in winter capital Jammu that a bus  carrying passengers from Jammu to Srinagar fell into a deep gorge after  it went out of the driver's control at Digdol in Ramban district of  Jammu region in the morning.

Security forces today gunned down five cadres of the UALA insurgent group in Meghalaya in an early morning raid operation.

Officials said the encounter occurred in the wee hours today in the forests of Chiakakogre in Williamnagar, headquarters of the East Garo Hills district of the state, when a squad led by an elite commando team of CRPF's CoBRA and state police shot the ultras down.

Three AK series assault rifles, as many magazines and a pistol have been seized by the security forces from the slain United A'chik Liberation Army (UALA) cadres, they said.

A large combing operation has been launched in the area, they said.

Setting the terms for revival of the composite dialogue process with  the Modi government, Pakistan on Monday made it clear that India should  not shy away from dealing with "contentious" issues like Jammu and  Kashmir and not lay down any pre-conditions for talks.

"Now the  two democratic countries have to decide whether we will bury the hatchet  or will continue to be at daggers drawn indefinitely. The two countries  and the people cannot afford to move in wrong direction and to be on  the wrong side of the history," Pakistan's High Commissioner to India  Abdul Basit said here.
