
The National Trust could buy up a whole seaside village in Devon, in a bid to stop it falling into foreign hands.

The traditional Devon village of Bantham has been put up for sale for £11.5million, which includes its own stretch of beach, prompting interest from around the world.

But there are fears that the are could be sold to developers, as well as rumours that a number of Russian billionaires are interested in the estate - which includes a pub, village shop, beach and an iconic boathouse - as a 'trophy property'.

In a bid to save the village and its seaside heritage, the National Trust is now considering whether it can step in to buy Bantham.

'We are now actively discussing what role the Trust may play in helping to protect the area from significant development risk.

'The sale of Bantham beach and village at £11.5 million would be a substantial draw on any money we currently have set aside for caring for what we already own.'

Mr Ford added: 'Any possible purchase would require us to launch a significant fundraising appeal.

'As a charity, the National Trust is dependent on the support of our visitors, donors and of course our four million members. We, sadly, cannot save everything at risk and would need huge public support and donations to have any chance of an appeal to save Bantham being a success.'

The charity has saved coastal property along the South Hams shoreline from falling into private hands before - its first acquisition in the area occurred as far back as 1928 when the Trust bought 26 hectares of land on the mouth of the Salcombe Estuary.

It now owns, or manages and cares for, over 40 miles and 3,000 hectares of the South Devon coast.

Mr Ford added: 'When an opportunity arises to acquire and protect a stretch of coastline that may be at risk from unsympathetic or damaging development, we try to look at ways we can play a role, however this always has to be balanced against our existing commitments to protect other areas; so we need to ensure we are careful in our assessment of any future acquisition.'

It is understood that the Trust will make a decision on whether or not to make a bid for Bantham sometime this week.

A Bantham resident told reporters: 'People are nervous, of course they are.

'We're worried that someone from London will see an "opportunity". They'll kick the tenants out and turn the cottages into a boutique hotel.'

When the sale of the estate was first mooted, Tom Doyle - managing director of Lloyds Property Group based in the famously wealthy Dorset community of Sandbanks discussed the property with his colleagues in Russia office and they were 'very interested'.

'It would be very nice if everyone could get together to preserve Bantham and to protect it for our heritage, but at the end of day - if it is up for sale then someone's going to buy it and if it was to be sold to wealthy Russian it could be better than if it was sold to some British institution,' said Mr Doyle.

'A developer might look at it and say: 'Let's knock it all down and turn it into some kind of holiday place,' he added, saying that many Russians had a special empathy and love for the British way of life.

The comments below have not been moderated.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
