
A moving ceremony in Poland marked the successful conclusion of a scheme to turn a run-down cemetery into one fit to be the final resting place of five North East First World War soldiers.

For years the plot in Lidzbark Warminski had fallen into disrepair despite the best efforts of locals there.

But with the help of the Commonwealth War Graves Commission, it has now been transformed and an official re-dedication ceremony has been staged.

The North East men buried there are Alex Anderson from Wolsingham, County Durham; John Ernest Armstrong of Newcastle ; William Embleton of Bedlington , Northumberland; William Jobson from Hebburn Colliery , South Tyneside and Arthur Ernest Hobson from Elswick, Newcastle, who all died in 1918.

They were among 39 other British soldiers belonging to regiments including the Durham Light Infantry, the Northumberland Fusiliers and the Royal Engineers, who died at what was then Heilsberg Prisoner of War camp in eastern Germany. After the war the region was ceded to Poland and became Lidzbark Warminski.

All were buried in a local cemetery which was marked with a traditional Cross of Sacrifice and headstones by the Commonwealth War Graves Commission (CWGC).

But from the 1960s, the site began to deteriorate, despite the efforts of some locals, and the commission stepped in.

After gaining permission to access the site, a team from the CWGC’s Belgian operation travelled to Poland to work on the cemetery in March, completing the work this month.

Ex-pat Trevor Hill, a teacher working in Poland who has family in Tynemouth , has witnessed the transformation.

Now it is a home fit for heroes and the re-dedication ceremony, Trevor said, did the men proud.

“I had thought it would just be a small occasion, with a few local dignitaries but as I drove into town, I saw young Scouts and old veterans of WW2, in uniform, carrying flowers and troop colours.

“Before the ceremony started, we heard a shouted order, a drum beat, and a troop of about 20 Polish soldiers marched up the path, through the trees, with rifles. Later, they fired volleys over the graves before the Last Post. That was when my eyes began to water.

The men are believed to have died between August and December 1918 at the prison camp.

It is likely their deaths were a result of insufficient food, overwork or one of the diseases that often swept through the overcrowded and insanitary camps.

The Heilsberg camp contained mainly Russian and Romanian prisoners, as well as French, Belgian, Italian and Serbs. The rebuilding of the cemetery included landscaping and the erection of new headstones.

A new visitor information panel has also been installed at the cemetery, giving any visitors to the site more information about it.

What do you think about this story? Have your say by leaving your comments below.

Join us on social media.

For the latest local news straight to your Twitter, Facebook feed or e-mail inbox.

A key part of the region's business community The Journal has more ABC1 readers than any other quality regional morning newspaper on sale in the area.

The Journal has 99,273 average issue readers which increases to 209,957 weekly readers.

The average time spent reading The Journal is 33 minutes, which shows the length of time readers are engaging with editorial and advertising content.

23,291* copies of The Journal are sold on average each day, providing advertisers with extensive coverage of the region.

Audience figures from Omniture, monthly average (Jan-Dec 2012).

More than 1 in 3 Journal users have clicked through to an online advertisement, demonstrating that our users are responsive and receptive to Internet advertising messages.

TheJournal.co.uk reaches an internet-savvy audience, with 84% of users having purchased products or services online in the past 12 months.

Brian was appointed Editor of The Journal in December 2003, joining from Trinity Mirror's Liverpool base where he was Editorial Development Manager for the company's regional titles. He has also held senior positions at the Daily Record and the Evening Express, Aberdeen, as well as being a former Editor of the Lincolnshire Echo.
