
Earlier this year, a select group of active duty members of the military met at a community center in Texas. The 30 Americans represented every branch and component of military service. They were members of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marines and Coast Guard. The vast majority had been deployed to Iraq or Afghanistan at least once, and many others had multiple deployments under their belts — some to both countries. A majority were junior enlisted and junior noncommissioned officers. But what brought them together was the same thing that cloaked their meeting in secrecy: They are all transgender.

For three days, those 30 servicemembers — who under military policy can be discharged because of their gender identity — heard each others’ stories. Many of them had never met another transgender servicemember before, let alone another trans person. In some cases, it marked the first time they had ever come out to another person. The meeting was not just an opportunity to build a network of support relationships for those forced to continue to live life in the closet while serving their country, but also to strategize. The gathering had been organized by a group of activists with decades of combined experience working on LGBT military issues who are seeking to open the armed forces to transgender service.

To be transgender in the American military is to live a life of secrets. The repeal of ”Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” (DADT) in September 2011 brought an end to nearly two decades of discrimination that saw more than 13,000 men and women discharged because of their sexual orientation. Despite that achievement, and a consensus inside and outside the military that repeal has had no negative impact, a medical regulatory ban remains in place for those who identity as transgender. Not only is evidence of transition therapy grounds for disqualification for potential recruits, so is openly identifying as transgender. But unlike DADT, the medical regulatory ban is not a federal statue and the ability to lift it lies not with lawmakers on Capitol Hill, but leaders at the Pentagon.

The meeting, many details of which organizers have asked not be disclosed for fear participants could be identified, was born in the aftermath of the collapse of OutServe-SLDN last summer. It was in June that the board of the nation’s largest LGBT military organization ousted its executive director, Allyson Robinson. A former Army captain, Robinson had taken the reins of the organization in October 2012, making her the first transgender person to head a non-trans-specific national LGBT organization. Robinson’s departure was entangled with controversy and led the organization to bleed staff and board members resigning in protest. The financially struggling OutServe-SLDN has yet to recover.

“In the days and weeks that followed all of that, there was a group of us that really felt as though all the work we had done can’t just die. It can’t just fall by the wayside,” says Robinson. In fact, post repeal of DADT, the working assumption of many LGBT organizations had been that they would play a supporting role to OutServe-SLDN’s carrying equality in the military through its final stages.

Organizers went to the transgender chapter of SPARTA, which boasts more than 200 actively service transgender Americans, for members who indicated they wanted to be “at the tip of the spear in this fight.” With logistical and financial support from individuals, as well as organizations like the Human Rights Campaign, the National Center for Transgender Equality and the Palm Center, they were able to bring the meeting together at no personal cost to the servicemembers.

Among the military members in attendance was Landon Wilson, a cryptologist specialist the Navy spent at least half of a million dollars to train, who also happens to be transgender. “The meeting in Texas was one of the very first places that Landon ever told his story to anyone,” recalls Robinson. In March, Wilson would be discharged after his gender identity was discovered by supervisors arranging for his promotion — a story that was recounted on the front page of  The Washington Post  last month. Wilson’s story in particular could prove a pivotal moment in this fight, especially with regard to the man with the power to end the ban, Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel.

During a flight en route to Saudi Arabia a few days later, Hagel expanded upon his remarks, stating that the Pentagon should continue to evaluate the ban. “I’ve not asked for a specific task force,” he said. “I’ve not asked for a specific study. I would want to hear more from individuals who are close to this issue, know this issue, who I would value their judgment and their direction on.” And then on May 16, the White House  signaled their support  for such a review. “I would certainly point you to what Secretary Hagel said and we certainly support his efforts in this area,” White House press secretary Jay Carney said in response to questions from Metro Weekly. Such statements illustrate a dramatic shift in tone by the Pentagon and Obama administration on transgender military service.

The publication of Wilson’s story, and the anticipated publication of more such stories in the coming months by a documentary web series titled TransMilitary, builds upon growing evidence that the military’s transgender ban is archaic. An independent commission led by a former U.S. surgeon general and retired admiral  concluded in a study  released by the Palm Center last March that there is no compelling medical rationale for banning transgender people from serving in the American military. According to that report, there are approximately 15,450 transgender personnel currently serving. The study is one of 11 commissioned by the Palm Center’s Transgender Military Service Initiative evaluating transgender military service as well as questions related to readiness, morale, welfare, personnel requirements and management. The initiative was launched in 2013 after a $1.35 million grant from the Tawani Foundation, which was founded by Jennifer Pritzker. A retired lieutenant colonel who served 11 years in the Army and 16 years in the National Guard, Pritzker became the world’s first transgender billionaire when she came out last September.

No review of the ban has yet been ordered, according to a Pentagon official, but advocates are taking Hagel up on his invitation for more information from those close to this issue. According to Sainz, HRC is also working with a coalition of groups, including SPARTA, to plot an effective strategy. Telling the stories of transgender servicemembers, such as Landon Wilson, will prove critical as well, advocates say.

Join Our Email List!

Our daily emails are personally curated by our editors and feature a wide range of news, features, reviews and interviews. Don't miss out on any of our award-winning content -- from news to arts, cars to tech, food to fitness, we've got a bit of it all!

Breaking News!

Special Ticket Discounts!

We respect your privacy and never share your email with a third party.

Join Our Email List!

Our daily emails are personally curated by our editors and feature a wide range of news, features, reviews and interviews. Don't miss out on any of our award-winning content -- from news to arts, cars to tech, food to fitness, we've got it all!

Breaking News!

Special Ticket Discounts!

We respect your privacy and never share your email with a third party.
