
The British-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights reported Monday that at least 162,000 people have been killed since Syria's conflict began in March 2011, and thousands more remain missing. The pro-opposition group said it estimated 62,800 deaths among pro-government forces, 42,700 deaths among opposition fighters, and at least 54,000 civilian deaths. The head of Syria's air defenses, Lt. Gen. Hussein Ayoub Ishaq , died Saturday from injuries sustained in clashes at an air base in the district of Mleha, near the capital of Damascus. Ishaq is one of the highest-ranking Syrian officers killed in the conflict. Opposition sources reported Monday that Syrian opposition Defense Minister Asaad Mustafa resigned following reports of disagreements with Syrian National Coalition head Ahmed Jarba, allegedly over a lack of funding for fighters. Meanwhile, during the summer of 2013 a private group led by former U.S. Department of Defense official Joseph Schmitz planned to supply arms to the Free Syrian Army to be paid for by a Saudi Arabian prince until the project was stopped by the CIA.

Five officials from the  Soma Coal Mining Company have been arrested in part of an inquiry into Turkey's worst ever industrial accident, which suggested sensors showed high  gas levels prior to the explosion.

Construction workers,  many migrant laborers, who built NYU's large new campus in Abu Dhabi faced  harsh working  conditions despite NYU's 2009 "statement of labor values."

The EU announced it will monitor Egypt's presidential election after a statement Sunday that it would downgrade  to an " assessment  team " after customs confiscated its communications and security equipment.

Palestinian Authority  President Mahmoud Abbas met with Israeli Minister of Justice Tzipi Livni Thursday in London for the first  time since peace talks broke down in April.

"Two and a half years ago it might have been possible for Western governments to help bring about an accelerated and successful end to the revolution through the formation of a representative opposition structure that both incorporated and helped unify the armed opposition. Over time, the involvement of ever-more actors and interests has resulted in escalating brutality, spiraling casualty rates, immense population displacement, and the emergence of what may prove to be unparalleled opportunities for jihadi militancy. This initial failure to act, combined with Assad's proven adaptability and ruthless pursuit of power, now requires Western states to overcome previous miscalculations and current policy stagnation in order to help secure a resolution that best ensures regional stability and international security."

"The three years since 2011 have witnessed enormous changes in activism across the Arab world. Heady days of demonstrations have given way to frustration, as activists from Morocco to Yemen struggle to define a way forward in complex, difficult, and often violent contexts. Our new book, Taking to the Streets: The Transformation of Arab Activism, explores many of the challenges that activists face today. Our analysis aims not only to provide a better understanding of past events, but also to help establish expectations that better prepare activists, policymakers, and observers to anticipate and engage in the future.

The Arab world continues to reflect the varied, constantly changing nature of activism we explore in Taking to the Streets. Consider countries that saw the fall of long-standingregimes. In Tunisia, emerging political parties and civil society groups are shaping the country's political future. In Egypt, political parties have multiplied as well, but political contestation remains more firmly situated in movements-Tamarrod and its allies on the one hand, and the Muslim Brotherhood's supporters on the other. Finally, in Libya, nascent civil society organizations and political parties are emerging, but they are dwarfed by militias and locally oriented political contenders."

A car bombing killed at least 43 people in the Syrian province of Aleppo near the Bab al-Salam border crossing into Turkey. The area is the main route used by Syrians refugee fleeing into Turkey. The region has been controlled by the Islamic Front's Tawhid Brigade, which has been engaged in fierce fighting with the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) since January. Iran has reportedly been recruiting thousands of Afghan refugees to fight alongside President Bashar al-Assad's forces in Syria. The Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) has been offering $500 a month as well as Iranian residency and has been training Afghan fighters. Meanwhile, growing frustrated with the inability of the United Nations to deliver humanitarian aid to Syrians, U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry said the United States is exploring other options for providing aid , including circumventing the Syrian government. Additionally, Kerry stated he has seen evidence suggesting that Assad's forces have used chlorine gas in attacks on rebel fighters and civilians in recent months, which would be against the weapons convention signed by the Syrian government.

The operator of Turkey's  Soma coal mine, Soma Holding, denied negligence saying it was still unclear what  caused the accident in which authorities have said 18  people remain missing.

The United States has  expressed concern over lack of progress in nuclear talks with Iran meanwhile a U.N. report on Iranian ballistic  missile development poses another challenge to negotiations.

Israeli forces killed two Palestinians at clashes during Nakba  Day demonstrations.

"Statistics tell us that violence in Syria has left at least 150,000 dead, 9 million forced from their homes, and 9.3 million in need of humanitarian aid. But by the time numbers are published they are already out of date. In the West, the Syrian conflict connotes sectarian war, humanitarian crisis, Islamic extremism, and chemical weapons. It is easy to forget that, for many, this nightmare began with a dream.

I have interviewed more than 150 Syrian refugees, and they describe the start of protests in the spring of 2011 as their break through a barrier of fear. They raised their voices against a system that denied them voice. Though initial demands were only for reform, the regime of President Bashar al-Assad responded ferociously."
