
NEWMAN – A lifelong West Side resident who has spent decades quietly helping those around her will be recognized Tuesday evening as one of Stanislaus County’s senior award winners.

Virginia Vaz will be one of five honorees – one from each county supervisorial district – recognized by the Board of Supervisors for contributions to their communities.

For Vaz, helping others comes naturally – although she prefers to quietly do so behind the scenes.

The importance of doing so was instilled in Vaz and her siblings while they were raised on a local family dairy.

Vaz was born in a downtown Newman hospital – the building which now houses Stephens & Borrelli. She lived in Crows Landing for nine years before her family moved to the Draper Road ranch which has been her home ever since.

The 1950 Orestimba Union High School graduate went on to work 30 years with a local auto dealership. The business was Kaljian Chevrolet when she started, but subsequently became M&M Chevrolet. She then worked 10 years for Janet Carlsen Insurance in Gustine before retiring.

Through the years, Vaz has been involved in a variety of service organizations and projects.

She has been a member of Gustine-Newman Soroptimists for 51 years, and three times served as club president. The organization, Vaz noted, is dedicated to address issues of importance to women and to providing opportunities for women to better their lives.

“You are working with women and trying to help with women’s issues,” Vaz reiterated.

She is a weekly visitor to residents at the San Luis Care Center, volunteers at the Agape Food Pantry, helps deliver food to those in need through St. Joachim’s Catholic Church at the holidays, and volunteers her time to ring bells during the Salvation Army kettle campaign each December.

The daughter of Portuguese immigrants who came to the United States from neighboring villages, her heritage is also an important part of her life. During the amnesty program of the 1980s, Vaz translated the required information from Portuguese into English to help families in the program make the transition.

Vaz also learned the “Laubach Method” so she could volunteer her time to help teach English to Spanish-speakers.

Through the years, Vaz said, she and her sisters Carmina and Mary often pitched in when asked to help with one project or another.

The phone in the Vaz home would frequently ring, with organizations calling to ask for assistance -  which was readily provided.

“What I did, and what we did, was just what we should do,” she explained.

Vaz has lived her entire life on the West Side, but has seen a great deal of the world through travels – including a half-dozen trips to Portugual.

While the travel enriched an already-full life, she reflected, there was never a doubt where home was.

“I like to go on vacations, but I didn’t have a desire to live somewhere else,” Vaz stated.

The senior award winners will be recognized during the Tuesday, May 20, meeting of the Board of Supervisors, which begins at 6:30 p.m. at 1010 10th Street Place, Modesto.

Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
