
Six party leaders split the pot, but not evenly.

PARTY LEADERS ALLOWANCES accounted for €7.5 million of State spending last year, the Standards in Public Office Commission (SIPO) has revealed.

Six parties (Fianna Fáil, Fine Gael, People before Profit Alliance, Sinn Féin, the Labour Party and the Socialist Party) received €7.5 million under the Party Leaders Allowance legislation.

Fine Gael took over €2.6 million, with Labour drawing €1.7 million and Fianna Fáil taking €1.6 million.

The payment is linked to increases in the pay of civil servants, meaning that there was no increase in the Party Leaders Allowance during 2013.

The funding is not subject to income tax and may not be used for electoral or referendum purposes.

Non-party members elected to the Dáil and Seanad also receive funding under the Party Leaders Allowance legislation.

The amount payable to each such non-party member of Dáil Éireann during 2013 was €41,152 and the amount payable to each non-party member of Seanad Éireann during the same period was €23,383.

The total paid to non-party members was €878,389, though non-party members will not be required to make reports on expenditure to SiPO until next year.

The reports on the funding show that Fine Gael spent €880,000 on refurbishment of their Mount Street headquarters.

The two coalition parties are miles apart on spending on the coordination of their local branches, with Fine Gael spending €470,000 to Labour’s €11,000.

Labour, however spend more on promoting the participation of women.

Get breaking news from TheJournal.ie via Facebook.

Just click Like.

Email “Party leaders received €7.5 million in State funding last year”.

Feedback on “Party leaders received €7.5 million in State funding last year”.

Content copyright © Journal Media Ltd. 2014 Registered in Dublin, registration number: 483623.                 Registered office: 3rd floor, Latin Hall, Golden Lane, Dublin 8.

Please note that TheJournal.ie uses cookies to improve your experience and to provide services and advertising. For more information on cookies please refer to our cookies policy .

News images provided by Press Association and Photocall Ireland unless otherwise stated. Irish sport images provided by Inpho Photography unless otherwise stated. Wire service provided by Associated Press .

Journal Media does not control and is not responsible for user created content, posts, comments, submissions or preferences. Users are reminded that they are fully responsible for their own created content and their own posts, comments and submissions and fully and effectively warrant and indemnify Journal Media in relation to such content and their ability to make such content, posts, comments and submissions available. Journal Media does not control and is not responsible for the content of external websites.
