
Without sounding cynical, it appears the homecoming of the abducted girls at the Chibok Secondary School, Borno State, over a month ago will be long in coming. There are more than sufficient reasons to think as such. In spite of the global outcry that greeted and still greets the action of the Boko Haram sect as well as the proposed help by the international community, nothing auspicious seems to be staring the world in the face, much less the distraught girls and their folks.

Confident, daring and remorseless somewhat, the Boko Haram is no doubt in control of the situation as it continues to give and modulate at will, conditions for the release of the girls. And with great appreciation of the poor information system in the country, the terrorist group seems better positioned in the fight as it were.

Apart from sending periodic videos in order to allow the world keep up with its activities, its leader, Abubakar Shekau has also established at different times, the fact that it is invincible and better positioned than the nation’s security make-up. He once said in one of the early videos that he had married off the girls to its members and later came out with another video where he proposed selling the girls as slaves to neighbouring countries.

The latest of these excesses is the proposed swap of the girls in exchange for some of its detained members in different prisons across the country. Naturally, such an indecent proposal has elicited reactions, typically from members of the public, majority of whom opposed the idea of prisoner swap. Yet, there are those who feel that if it would only take such a deal to bring back the girls, then, so be it.

Although top government functionaries including President Goodluck Jonathan and the President of the Senate, David Mark, had said a rather weak and unconvincing no to the idea of prisoner swap, those who did not mind thought analysing the implications was of no use since it appears government has lost it with its feeble and timid disposition to national security. For that reason, negotiating with terrorists which though an impossible initiative in civilised climes might as well go on, they reckoned.

Convinced that government has no efficient strategy to either contain the growing insurgency or ensure the release of the girls, quite a number of persons and organisations in and outside Nigeria have continued to task the federal government to simply go ahead and negotiate with Boko Haram.

“Give them whatever they’re requesting, provided such a move would bring back our girls,” appears to be the underlining message in their support for negotiation. Sadly, chief amongst such supporters of a negotiation with Boko Haram is the Borno State Government.

That was Governor Kashim Shettima of Borno State speaking to CNN recently. Not a few held the same position, however. Although open to dialogue, the federal government said it was against the demand by Boko Haram for their imprisoned members to be released in exchange for the girls.

Even when openly agitating force, the federal government has never shied away from the idea of dialoguing with the members of Boko Haram. As a matter of fact, dialogue is part of the government’s two-prong response to the murdering orgy of the terrorist group.

Specifically, the Presidential Amnesty Committee on Dialogue and Peaceful Resolution of the Security Challenges in the North was set up to fashion out ways to negotiate with the sect so as to return peace to the Northern region. But none of such moves had yielded. It was either that the sect ridiculed such a government proposal or called its bluff.

The committee was chaired by the Minister of Special Duties, Alhaji Kabiru Turaki. In the early morning of July 8, 2013, Nigerians were treated to the news of the federal government’s alleged ceasefire agreement with Boko Haram on the front pages of major national dailies. Of course, the bearer of the ‘good news’ on Radio France International, Hausa service, monitored in Kano, was Turaki.

Dispelling all doubts, Turaki, had in a text message said the ceasefire was genuine, with the ‘mainstream’ Boko Haram and that the terrorist group had already directed its members to suspend further attacks.

According to him, a formal agreement was going to follow soon. “We have reached an understanding with them and they have already directed their men on the ceasefire, which we have accepted.

It would later turn out the good news was a faux when Shekau in a video denied the existence of a ceasefire.

Listen to him: “The claim that we have entered into a truce with the government of Nigeria is not true. We don’t know Kabiru Turaki. We have never spoken with him. He is lying. Let me assure you that we will not enter into any truce with these infidels. We will not enter into any truce with the Nigerian government,” said Shekau in the widely circulated video that was initially obtained by the AFP.

Without saying in clear terms if his group was responsible, Shekau said his group doesn’t attack “children and young girls or old women.” This is however one of the many such attempts at negotiation to bring the two parties to a table that had failed without any strategic follow up.

From last year till date, the Boko Haram sect has not grown any softer but bolder in its attack on the secular nature of the Nigerian state. The terrorist group appears not in the mood for any form of negotiation and its approach and ideology continue to change. From being a sect that doesn’t attack schoolgirls to one that now not only abducts but sells them, the changing nature of its ideology gives credence to the allegation that the group is a political tool being used to gain political capital by certain interests.

If the abduction was a calculated attack by the group to negotiate the release of its members, then the girls should not have been allegedly dispersed to neighbouring countries to begin with. Amnesty International and the CNN had said the video showing the girls reciting the Quran had faces of girls abducted as far back as two years ago.

The abduction may have been a miscalculation but the negotiation appears to be a well thought out plan to ridicule the federal government which is under local and international pressure to secure the release of the girls. It is based on this possibility that many are dissuading the federal government from engaging in any form of negotiation with the sect.

But Shekau has always maintained that the group had no need for amnesty being considered by the government. He even once glibly said his group should be the one talking of granting amnesty to the government for its wrongdoing.

Of what use also are such betrayers to the ideological cause of the sect? Why worry when it can continue to recruit new members? But these are essentially its own concerns as government’s major responsibility at this time is to bring the girls back home, safe and healthy.

Since Shekau announced through a video recording that his group was willing to free the girls in exchange for their members in various prisons and detention facilities  in Nigeria, concerns have mounted on the agenda of the sect as well as the security implications of its demand on the socio-economic environment of the nation.

Particularly, this pronouncement has sparked off debate on whether the Nigerian government should accept the offer or not. Although some people are convinced that government should not negotiate with the terrorists under whatever guise, the need to have the girls back is one pressure the government has not been able to contain.

While for instance, Mark and the Minister of Interior, Abba Moro, ruled out the possibility of negotiating with the Boko Haram, the Minister of Special Duties, Turaki has said as far as the federal government was concerned, all options were open.

But a lot of people base their rejection of the exchange offer on the grounds that Western countries on whose help Nigeria depends are fundamentally opposed to negotiating with terrorists. Unfortunately, the Nigerian government has found itself in this dilemma because the implication of accepting such an offer is that it could confer some legitimacy on the terrorist group and ultimately strengthen them the more.

Besides, the group could also use negotiation as a tool of propaganda. Negotiation can as well provide terrorists and other criminal associations with needed resources and strengthen their operations as well as enable them to cause more havoc on the society.

Government, some argue, could negotiate if the conditions are right and sensible. But in this case, Boko Haram is out to use the swap idea to negotiate for some form of concessions from the Nigerian government.

This could either see the Chibok girls being exchanged for Boko Haram detainees and/or extort a ransom or other material assets. The outcome will not only seek to strengthen the operational capacity of the sect, but do so to the detriment of the Nigerian government.

By drawing as much attention to the incident as it has, Boko Haram has placed itself in a vantage position because if it comes to negotiation, the group is in a much stronger position. Yet, a prisoner swap sets a very dangerous precedent.

The sheer volume of the publicity generated by the abductions could also work against a negotiated settlement. The awareness campaign has put the Nigerian government in negative light, thus embarrassing it badly. It could also have the unintended consequences of making it difficult for government to make any kind of compromise with Boko Haram, as this would be considered an even greater humiliation for the country. For President Jonathan, there’s no easy way out of this mess. At the moment, it seems the Boko Haram holds all the cards.

The United States of America set the ball rolling when it offered to assist Nigeria in the rescue operation of the girls. After the US made its offer which President Jonathan accepted wholeheartedly, Britain, France, Canada, China and lately, Israel followed suit. However, Nigeria and indeed the world had waited as days turned into weeks to see the girls freed and united with their families.

For most people, the coming of this foreign help in locating and freeing the girls gave a ray of hope that was long expected. Some observers believe that Nigeria’s cry for external help was late. President Jonathan had also come under stringent attacks for responding too slow to the abduction.

Still, many feel that security forces should tread softly because a full blown military rescue operation could amount to putting the lives of the girls and others at risk.

Caught in this dilemma therefore, Jonathan bowed to pressure for foreign assistance, albeit on intelligence mainly.  Some of these foreign troops are already in the country, reportedly sharing commercial satellite imagery with Nigeria.

AFRICOM is a product of neo-colonialism and Nigeria must continue to lead resistance to its presence on African soil. If foreign troops will be engaged against terrorism on the Nigerian soil, such engagement must subscribe to the summary 2012-2013 international intervention in Mali against the Tuareg rebels.

If Nigeria must therefore accept foreign intervention, it must be a rainbow coalition of international troops under the auspices of the United Nations and the operations must be restricted to the three Northern states of Yobe, Borno and Adamawa.

The duration, analysts contend, must not exceed 12 months maximum or wiping out of terrorism, whichever comes first and the number of troops must be limited. Such foreign forces should undertake the training of Nigerian soldiers in counter-terrorism and counter-insurgency measures while minimal collateral damage and civilian casualties must be guaranteed.

Most significantly, Nigeria must be in total command of the military operation to free the Chibok girls, with the latitude to halt the intervention as and when it pleases. In addition, the rules of engagement must be clearly spelt out and complied with while high-tech search-and-destroy assistance must be made available.

All these conditions are imperative because in international politics, even in international peace-keeping missions, nations never cede their sovereignty to foreign nations. Nigeria must be careful not to lose her sovereignty to any external force.

The truth about the president’s dilemma on the security situation is not known to many. While there is the political angle to it, the diplomatic indifference to this predicament is another factor responsible for the festering menace. It is true that a careful handling of the situation in the North-east zone of the country had become compelling for the president, who is neck deep in a re-election campaign.

Already, almost over half of the entire northern region resents President Jonathan and his bid to return to power in next year’s presidential election. The president, therefore, does not want to make the situation any worse and as such, was reluctant to what approach best suits the containment of the insurgency in that region.

That apart, there is also the question of which foreign help to seek since terrorist groups generally cannot stand some countries clearly marked as anti-Islam. Two of such are the US and Israel. The hatred for these countries had also spread to the Northern part of the country and as a result, compounded the path to solution or foreign help.

Most significant in the search for solution is that the US President, Barak Obama has always waved aside Jonathan’s call for help on the grounds of crime against humanity. Sources said each time Jonathan spoke to Obama on the need for help, he was always sermonising the need to be circumspect in order not to commit war crimes. These difficulties, however, allowed the insurgency to fester and blow out of the reach of local approach. But what with the foreign help? Time will tell!

From the outset, there had not been a reliable number of girls taken away by the insurgents. At first, it was 193, later it became 233 and eventually, it was put at 276. Some have had to put the number at “about 300.” The school's principal said the 223 girls were still missing, while other reports suggested the number is around 276 and that indeed, some had escaped. That, of course, should have brought down the number.

In her own account to Voice of Africa (VOA), Hausa, the principal claimed the figure of 129 initially given by the school authority was an error which was due to the fact that the officials on site didn’t take the arts students in the hostel into account. Then a new figure of 274 emerged when the Commissioner for Education collated her own new figures from those that claimed their children were missing.

Consequently, there was never really a correct statistic of the number of girls taken. This had aroused the curiosity of many as some now think that there is the possibility that with the 53 girls that escaped, it could be that all or a large number of the girls abducted had returned to their parents and that the figures going round are merely being circulated to embarrass the government.

This suspicion can be sustained by the fact that only 76 of the supposedly abducted girls have been identified by their parents.  Interestingly, the Commissioner of Police was quoted to have told President Jonathan that he made repeated announcements for parents of abducted girls to come and register their names with photographs of their abducted children, and nobody turned up.

Another suspicion doing the rounds is that the Borno State Government may know more than it is telling the world and that the political Boko Haram may have decided to leverage on the activity of the real Boko Haram, given the distraction it is causing the federal government. The consolation is that the video might as well turn out a proof that at least some girls are still alive, even though a CNN report had reportedly put a lie to the authenticity of the video.

As it is, Boko Haram’s latest indecent proposal, unlike the previous efforts at dialoguing, appears to have died on arrival. If the growing opposition to the idea is anything to go by, then a swap of the prisoners with innocent girls may never happen.

Publicity Secretary of the Lagos State chapter of the APC, Mr. Joe Igbokwe, did not mind if the president negotiated with Boko Haram, although speaking in personal capacity.

A  Jigawa State-based economist, Sanni Yau, said government should consider working effectively with the international community to help free the girls.

According to him, Shekau should not be trusted. “If his statement is properly analysed, we can decipher that he is actually offering nothing in return for the release of his cohorts in various prisons. His offer is that he will exchange ‘unconverted’ girls for his detained members.

“Who are these unconverted girls and how many are they? Are we to believe that it is possible for any of the girls to reject forced conversion in the face of Boko Haram's antecedents of bestial and maniacal delight in inflicting death on their captives mostly by beheading?” he reckoned.

Although not in a very authoritative tone, government has said no to a swap of the girls with presumed criminals. But such a stand has yet proffered solution to the captivity of the girls whose days in an unknown location have reached over a month as you read this report.

Besides, indications of an effective international aid have not begun to manifest, days after indicating their intention to help and reportedly arriving in bits.

Therefore, it is not clear yet, how many more days the girls would endure the sect’s insensitivity and perhaps abuse, before the so called foreign help translates into tangible result. But whatever path the government resolves to take, one thing is certain: Boko Haram’s indecent proposal is not the way to go, because it is first an anti-social group whose demands can neither be rational nor tenable.

Please leave your comment below. Your name will appear next to your comment. We'll also keep you updated by email whenever someone else comments on this page. Your comment will appear on this page once it has been approved by a moderator.

Please enter some keywords that you'd like to search for. Your results will be displayed below.
