
Makro yesterday opened a specialised Foodservice branch in North Pattaya to support restaurants and hotels in Pattaya's growing tourism industry.

The branch in Moo 6, North Pattaya Road, Naklua, is part of a targeted strategy by Makro to develop its supplies to key hotels, restaurants and catering companies in the city.

"Makro sees the significant growth potential of tourism in Pattaya," said Thitikarn Poolsawat, general manager of the North Pattaya branch of Makro Foodservice.

"The city is the third-largest contributor to Thailand's economy, with annual revenues from tourism of Bt60 billion, and has seen significant growth in its restaurant and hotel businesses. We are here to support this growth by offering our specialist food service to restaurant operators so they can purchase all their needs from a close and convenient location, saving them time and money."

The new branch is Makro's fifth Foodservice store in Thailand. Its relatively small format - a floor area of just over 2,800 square metres - allows it to be located near many customers, with a selection of more than 5,000 staple food items for the restaurant and catering trade. The range includes frozen foods, dried foods, ingredients, meats, eggs, vegetables for salads, cheeses, bakery, and food containers, as well as imported meats and beverages.

"The central location will help save our customers time, reducing their daily transport costs and the need to stockpile food. All of this helps reduce their costs, strengthens cash flow and enhances profit. Ultimately it just makes their business more sustainable," Thitikarn said.

Makro Foodservice North Pattaya branch is open every day from 6am to 10pm.

Users are solely responsible for their comments.We reserve the right to remove any comment and revoke posting rights for any reason withou prior notice.

GrabTaxi’s drivers and executives participate in the Ice Bucket..

1858/129 Floor 32  Bangna-Trat Road, Bangna, Bangkok 10260 Thailand.

Operation Hours : Monday to Saturday at 8.00 am. to 5.00 pm and Sunday at 8.00 am. to 12.00 am.
