
Hover cursor over this ticker to pause.

Less than two weeks after its first general elections - and just 16 months after it was founded - Agang SA could be heading for implosion.

Provincial and national leaders meet today to discuss the decision of the party's leader, Mamphela Ramphele, to appoint two youth members ahead of senior ones at the top of its election list, to parliament.

Ramphele, who was top of the list, was expected to go to parliament with Andries Tlouamma.

In the event that she decided not to join parliament, Tlouamma would have represented the party with Mike Tshishonga, according to the Agang SA list submitted to the Independent Electoral Commission.

But Ramphele singlehandedly chose to allocate the two parliamentary seats to third-placed Tshishonga and Nyameka Mguzulo, who was in ninth spot.

She disregarded Tlouamma and others higher on the list and instead hand-picked Mguzulo.

Now party structures have passed a vote of no confidence in her leadership and they want her recalled.

It is not the first time Ramphele has acted without the blessing of Agang SA members.

Before the elections she joined forces with Helen Zille to stand as the DA presidential candidate without apprising her own members.

She went back on the deal with Zille and returned to her party, which had by then passed a motion of no confidence in her leadership.

Agang SA's chairman in Gauteng Tshepo Setlai said provincial leaders were to hold a meeting today to decide on a way forward.

"Members are not happy with how things were done in relation to the list," he said.

Agang SA national spokesman Mark Peach said the vote of no confidence had come from only two of five regions of Gauteng.

"Three of the regions are not part of that action. [Ramphele] is still very much the president of the party. She is not resigning or retiring from politics in any way. She is simply taking a break to recharge her batteries. She is very much still the leader of the party. She is coming from a one-year campaign all over the country."

On representatives in the National Assembly, Peach said: "That issue is being resolved [today]. I am not able to give details but we will be issuing a statement tomorrow."

Peach said the vote of no confidence would be discussed by the party's national leadership.

Agang SA, which was formed last year after Ramphele went on a consultative tour across the country, performed below expectations in the elections, securing only two seats in parliament after garnering 52350 votes.

In a letter posted on the party's website, Ramphele shared her disappointment: "For an idealist like me, the national choice is disappointing, but I have to accept and respect it."

If you have an opinion you would like to share on this article,                 please send us an e-mail to the Times LIVE iLIVE team. In the mean time, click here to view the Times LIVE iLIVE section.

You need to be logged in to post a reply.

© 2014 Times Media Group. All rights reserved.
