
The German army has delivered to Poland by train the first batch of Leopard 2A5 tanks purchased last year under a government-to-government deal.

WARSAW, Poland, May 19 (UPI) -- The first batch of surplus Leopard 2A5 main battle tanks sold by Germany to Poland have been delivered to a Polish cavalry brigade.

The tanks -- 11 in all -- arrived in Zagan, Poland, by train last Friday, with more due this year and next, according to the publication Dziennik Zbrojny .

Under an intergovernmental agreement signed last year, Poland is acquiring 105 Leopard 2A5 tanks from Germany Army, or Bundeswehr, stocks, as well as 14 2A4 variants, 18 armored recovery vehicles, 120 Mercedes and Unimog trucks, light off-road vehicles and other equipment.

The deal has a value of more than $246 million.

Prior to the arrival of the tanks last week, the 34th Armored Brigade of the Polish Army has been equipped with PT-91 light tanks.

The Leopard 2, made by Krauss‐Maffei Wegmann, first came into service with the German Army in 1979. It weighs 68.7 tons, has a speed of about 45 miles per hour and an operational range of 340 miles.

Dziennik Zbrojny said the government plans to upgrade the tanks with new electric stabilizers for the main gun, add-on armor, a new auxiliary power unit and other equipment. So far only Polish Defense Holding -- teamed with Krauss Maffei-Wegman – have bid on the contract.

© 2014 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Any reproduction, republication, redistribution and/or modification of any UPI content is expressly prohibited without UPI's prior written consent.

UPI licenses content directly to print outlets, online media and institutions of all types. In addition, UPI's distribution partners provide our content to thousands of businesses, policy groups and academic institutions worldwide. Our audience consists of millions of decision-makers who depend on UPI's insightful and analytical stories to make better business or policy decisions.

In the year of our 107th anniversary, our company strives to continue being a leading and trusted source for news, analysis and insight for readers around the world.

© 2014 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

UPI.com is your trusted source for world news, top news, science news, health news and current events.

We thank you for visiting us and we hope that we will be your daily stop for news updates.
