
Good sense, finally, seems to be have prevailed.

Russian President Vladimir Putin’s decision to pullout troops from the borders of eastern Ukraine is though a belated gesture, but never too late. It is widely assumed that the standoff will come to an end, and Moscow could look ahead for normalisation of ties with the West. But again that might be a judgment in exigency, as the sources of irritation between their relations are Crimea and the rebels that continue to defy the lawful writ of the government in Kiev. This is where Kremlin has to focus its attention if it wants to restart with the West from where it burnt its boats after the fall of president Viktor Yanukovych early this year. Moreover, the million-dollar question is will Russia abide by its own words and ensure that the paramilitary units are pulled back from the brink? A similar announcement in the past was no more than a hoax, and the Nato reported that Moscow had amassed its troops along the international frontiers with Ukraine.

The transatlantic alliance, which kept its fingers crossed throughout the crisis, said that more than 40,000 Russian troops are on the move with heavy artillery apparently to coerce the Ukrainians. The build-up that had already led to severe political upheaval in Ukraine in the form of referendums and bloodshed should come to an end immediately, and Russia has to ensure that the May 25th lawful vote to elect the new president of the republic goes without any let or hindrance.

The point is that Putin hasn’t minced many words as he called for withdrawal of regular soldiers, which makes it an open-ended issue for all those who suspect Kremlin’s geo-strategic moves. What he needs to say categorically at this point of time is that Russia has no extra-territorial designs on Ukraine, and it will not be part of secessionist movement in the crisis-ridden country. Moreover, the future of Crimea is up for talks, and Moscow should hint at restoring the pre-annexation equation in lieu for comprehensive talks with all the stakeholders over its strategic interests in the region. This has also been the corner stone of West’s demand as it refused to accept the referendum and annexation of the Black Sea peninsula.

The sugar-coated words from Kremlin that it is pulling back troops from eastern zones after the completion of spring exercises is an effort to underwrite the entire affair that had hatched up diplomatic tension and led Russia and the West to a new phase of Cold War. Putin has to speak up and lead from the front in de-escalating the crisis.
