
A TRUCK mowed down several vehicles on Sunday night, injuring 12, and not one died contrary to rumors that more than 20 were killed.

The Isuzu Wing vehicle full of fresh eggs ploughed through five tricycles, four motorcycle, two SUVs, one pickup, one multicab, and one passenger jeepney.

The injured were identified as Ebora Danro, Abelino Dollano, Froilan Tenchavez, Gerald Alfeche, Ebora Teddy, Armando Matiga, Gicaro Lyne, Jayson Moreno, Mariviel Ranches, Ronald Sobio, Abad Roselyn, and Cirilo Icoy, the truck driver.

As of this posting Monday, two of the injured are in critical condition.

PO1 Jimmy Torres of the Calinan Police Station did not identify who were in critical condition although he confirmed that there were two. The victims were brought to the Isaac Robillo Hospital and Southern Philippines Medical Center.

Initial investigation conducted revealed that the incident took place around 5:40 p.m. near NCCC in Calinan.

Torres said the truck loaded with eggs on trays was headed to Davao City from Barangay Tawas in Bukidnon. The Isuzu Wing Van apparently lost its brakes upon reaching Lacson but the driver continued to drive along the road instead of swerving toward the side of the road, which were mostly grassland.

"Sa [Barangay] Upper Lacson pa lang na checkpoint sa Task Force Davao wala na mihunong ang truck. Tan-aw nila mga 20 minutes jud mi dagan nga wala'y break ang truck kay mibuto daw ang preno (At the Task Force Davao checkpoint in Barangay Upper Lacson, the driver already failed to stop for inspection. They estimate that the van ran on for more than 20 minutes with busted brakes)," Torres said.

"Giingnan man daw ang driver na muikyas sa mga sakyanan ug didto nalang sa may kalibunan deretso... unya kay mahadlok man siya mabuak ang mga itlog, mao to mibangga sa kadaghan sakyanan (The driver was told to just swerve by the side of the road, but apparently, he was afraid that his cargo of fresh eggs will break, and so he drove on to hit several other vehicles)," he added.

Torres said after the truck driver underwent a medical check-up, he was brought to Calinan Police Station, where he is now temporarily detained.

He added that the driver is facing charges of reckless imprudence resulting to physical injury and damage.

Published in the Sun.Star Davao newspaper on May 20, 2014.

DISCLAIMER: Sun.Star website welcomes friendly debate, but comments posted on this site do not necessary reflect the views of the Sun.Star management and its affiliates. Sun.Star reserves the right to delete, reproduce or modify comments posted here without notice. Posts that are inappropriate will automatically be deleted.

Forum rules: Do not use obscenity. Some words have been banned. Stick to the topic. Do not veer away from the discussion. Be coherent and respectful. Do not shout or use CAPITAL LETTERS!
