
Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdoğan phoned Bosniak member of the Presidential Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina Bakir Izetbegovic on Sunday evening to say Turkey will continue to meet the needs of flood victims in the country.

“I have spoken to [Izetbegovic] again this morning and learned that our aid has been delivered. We will continue to provide necessary items through our institutions, including the Prime Ministry Disaster and Emergency Management Administration [AFAD], the Turkish Red Crescent [Kızılay],” Erdoğan said in remarks at an opening ceremony in Ankara on Monday. “Our teams are there [in Bosnia and Herzegovina]. The Turkish Cooperation and Development Agency [TİKA] has been part of the [rescue] efforts from the beginning and continues its support,” he said.

Turkey has been expressing its support and offering aid to flood-hit Balkan countries. In remarks on Twitter on Sunday, Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoğlu said Turkey is closely following the flooding that has hit Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia. “I spoke with Izetbegovic. We are also in touch with Serbian officials. We are mobilizing all our means to help the Balkan people, who deeply felt the grief of the Soma mining disaster,” he said.

The Foreign Ministry has also extended its condolences to the victims of the flooding that has affected Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia. “We convey our condolences to the peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia for their relatives who have lost their lives in the disaster and wish a speedy recovery to the wounded. Turkey has been providing support to Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia since the first days of the disaster,” read a written statement on Sunday.

TİKA has sent two shipments of humanitarian aid to Bosnia and Herzegovina since the worst flooding in a century devastated the country in recent days.

AFAD has a team in Sarajevo to coordinate Turkey's assistance in Bosnia. Kızılay will deliver 2,250 blankets and 432 family kitchen sets to Bosnia and Herzegovina. In addition, the European Union Force's (EUFOR) rescue efforts in Bosnia are being conducted under the coordination of a Turkish colonel.

Three months' worth of rain has fallen in the region over three days this week, creating the worst flooding since records began 120 years ago.
