
Login or Signup now to share stories and leave comments.

Login or Signup now to share stories and leave comments.

North Platte Telegraph. May 18, 2014.

The impressive primary election victory of Ben Sasse last Tuesday has the punditocracy atwitter over the state of the Tea Party .

The philosophical mindset that is the Tea Party - that a $16.5 trillion national debt is a bad thing, that government is too big and intrusive and that common sense ought to count for something in government - has been a frustration to the political experts ever since we first heard of the movement.

And it has been amusing to watch the commentators in Washington try to deal with a “party” that has no national chairman, no huge building cranking out fundraising junk mail, and no national convention with delegates wearing silly hats. What they don’t recognize is that the need to get control of spending and government sprawl in Washington isn’t about another nice-sounding party platform that never results in change, but a fervent belief embedded deep in the minds of millions of Americans.

Sasse no doubt benefited significantly from his appearance here in North Platte with Tea Party favorites Sarah Palin, Mike Lee and Ted Cruz. His opponent Shane Osborn may have been hurt by the support of more traditional, establishment Republicans like Mike McConnell, John McCain and Grover Norquist.

We suspect that Nebraskans, in voting for Sasse , showed their frustration with Democrats who favor big government and many Republican leaders who can live with big government as long as they get to run the big government. With those choices from the traditional parties, it is little surprise that Tea Party types appeal to voters weary of huge debt, growing bureaucracy and the disappearance of our precious freedoms. This is about optimism and the belief that we don’t have to go over the fiscal cliff.

And yet in the national media, one of the main stories in recent weeks has been the supposed death, or at least terminal illness, of the Tea Party . They still don’t get it.

For those who support the status quo in Washington , the Tea Party has been nothing but a flash in the pan, another Sagebrush Rebellion that made headlines for a while, but soon disappeared from the national debate. What we see in the actions of the voters, however, is a glimmer of hope that we don’t have to keep going down the disastrous road we are on and that we can still leave a better country for our kids, instead of mountains of debt.

It is possible to be a Republican and embrace the common sense beliefs expressed by Tea Party supporters. In fact, it’s logical to do so. The party needs to embrace those beliefs, not reject them, and the success of candidates like Ben Sasse is an encouraging sign.

Our View: They still don’t get it.

Kearney Hub. May 17, 2014.

Republicans obsessing over Benghazi claim the Obama administration is trying to hide something, but the regrettable truth is, the GOP cannot hide its motive for keeping the issue front and center. The motive is politics, not what the party contends, the belief that unveiling all the facts in the 2012 embassy attack might help prevent the future loss of U.S. diplomats’ lives at some outpost in an unfriendly land.
