
NEW YORK — The upcoming Singapore International Water Week (SIWW) will take place in early June. Specifically, SIWW is scheduled for the opening week of June — June 1st through June 5th. And, the upcoming SIWW 2014 is a conference event not to be missed.

It has been acknowledged by many very senior professionals working in the global water and wastewater infrastructure and service sector that SIWW has clearly become a leading event on the global water calendar. It is specifically organized by the Singapore Government’s Ministry of the Environment and Water Resources, and PUB which is Singapore’s National Water Agency.

Without question, SIWW has clearly become one of the world’s exclusive integrated events focused on water and urban sustainability. SIWW seeks to re-enforce the importance of sustainable water management when it comes to achieving livable cities around the world.

It should be noted that SIWW 2014 is held in conjunction with the World Cities Summit and CleanEnviro Summit Singapore.

As reviewed in an earlier published article, SIWW 2014 will feature discussions and breakout sessions focused on four critical themes: Municipal Water, Industrial Water, Integrated City-Environment-Water and Future of Water. Via these four themes, SIWW will explore and review forward-looking solutions to meet future challenges and scenarios within the global water/wastewater sector arena.

And, SIWW delivers a range of flagship programs where industry players share the latest in business, scientific and technological innovation and policy developments in water. The Water Leaders’ Summit, the Water Convention, the Water Expo, the Business Forums and the prestigious Lee Kuan Yew Water Prize program will all present valuable opportunities for participants to network, exchange information and co-create innovative water solutions.

It is exciting to note that new pavilions for the upcoming water trade show this year hail from countries such as Denmark, France and the United States.

Please note that the Lee Kuan Yew Water Prize will be given out at an evening dinner event. The 2014 Prize has been awarded to an American municipal/regional authority — the Orange County Water District (CA) for their pioneering work when it comes to groundwater management and water reclamation via the use/employment of advance water reuse technologies.

It should be noted that the Lee Kuan Yew Water Prize is recognized as an international water award that salutes outstanding contributions towards solving the global water challenges by either applying innovative technologies or implementing policies and programs that benefit humanity. Orange County Water District is the sixth recipient of the prize. A senior official from the Orange County Water District will deliver the 6th Singapore Water Lecture prior to the actual evening award ceremony.

As an American who has actively participated in the past SIWW events, I think it is important that more American companies involved in both the national and global water/wastewater infrastructure and service sectors elect to attend SIWW. And more American companies really need to expand their presence within the global water/wastewater infrastructure project sector arena.

For the first time, there will be a U.S. Pavilion that will seek to promote U.S.-generated water-related technologies that could be embraced by other parts of the world;

A U.S. municipal district will be receiving the Singapore Water Prize this year. It would be terrific to have the presence of many American companies in support at the award ceremony;

It is a very useful conference program to learn about new water/wastewater practices that are being employed in other countries but are potentially adoptable in the U.S./North America;

It provides a good venue to explore possible partnerships with governments and international private sector companies for water project initiatives being pursued in different parts of the world including North America;

It provides a good opportunity to examine those issues surrounding the concept of Performance Public Private Partnership (PPP);

SIWW 2014 will enable water/wastewater practitioners to engage in highly interactive discussions with experts and delegates on ‘hot’ or emerging issues such as “Water Supply for Extreme Events” and “Exploring New Treatment Paradigms for Potable Water Reuse”  at the Water Convention. These kind of dialogues could be very useful for American water professionals working in drought stressed areas of the U.S.;

It will provide the opportunity to listen to a dynamic discussion/review among water leaders from around the world about best practices. Panel participants will include those from the United States such as George Hawkins, General Manager of the District of Columbia Water and Sewer Authority (DC Water); and Mike Markus, General Manager of the Orange County Water District;

It will enable American attendees to lend support to those U.S.-based water technology start-ups such as Puralytics who will be pitching their game-changing technologies to a global network of utilities, consultants, angel investors and venture capitalists at SIWW;

SIWW will enable American attendees to explore investment opportunities in environmental technologies and find out more about a collection of research project initiatives that are being pursued by Singapore via a collaboration with select departments within Columbia University;

SIWW will provide Americans with the succinct opportunity to network with the various players operating within the world’s water ecosystem including large industrial water users, engineering firms, manufacturing companies, water system operators, venture capitalists, project developers, etc.

Don’t miss out on SIWW 2014!  There is still time to book a delegate space for this amazing global water/wastewater conference and exhibition event. And, there are still hotel rooms and airline seats to be found.

Let’s increase the American presence at SIWW 2014!

For more information about SIWW 2014 and to register, visit the official website at www.siww.com.sg .

See you in Singapore!

Delegates and trade visitors at the Water Innovations @ SIWW booth at the Water Expo.

Prime Minister of Singapore Mr. Lee Hsien Loong speaking at the opening ceremony of the Singapore International Water Week, World Cities Summit and CleanEnviro Summit Singapore 2012.

Helen Clark (L), administrator, United Nations Development Programme, and Prof. Tommy Koh (R), chairperson, Water Leaders Summit, at the In Conversation.

Thank you for helping us to improve our forums. Is this comment offensive? Please tell us why.

© Copyright 2014 Grand View Media Group. Reprinted with permission from Water Technology magazine.

You may not download or reproduce any images on this site without written permission from GVMG admin for anything other than personal use.

Design, CMS, Hosting & Web Development :: ePublishing .
