
“There are more important than election dates abroad”: After the mine disaster in Soma grows in Germany the resistance against the appearance of the Turkish Prime Minister Erdogan – not only the Lord Mayor of Cologne indirectly requires a rejection.

On Saturday, Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan will occur in Cologne. In order that man comes to Germany, with the 301 dead insulted protesters after mine accident in Soma and was palpable. And his advisers came to a lying on the floor man.

About the party boundaries therefore growing criticism of Erdogan’s visit. “For me as a responsible politician, the decision would be given the dramatic and still to be resolved events with so many dead clear – there are now more important than pure election dates abroad perceive,” said the Mayor of Cologne Jürgen Roters (SPD), the “Kölner Stadt-Anzeiger “. He urged Erdogan indirectly to cancel his appearance at the Lanxess Arena.

The authorities expect, according to the “Kölner Stadt-Anzeiger” with more than 10,000 counter-demonstrators. The perhaps biggest protest organize the Alevi community Germany.

On August 10 are presidential elections in Turkey, for the first time can vote on their new head of state and outside the country Turks living without the need to travel to their old home. Erdogan announced his candidacy, although not yet officially announced, but in his AKP is deemed safe.

* The deputy CDU leader Julia Kloeckner called for a boycott of the Erdogan – appearance at the weekend. “I can only hope that as many living here of Turkish origin demonstrated by the absence that they are in agreement with his current acting in Turkey not me,” she said, “Welt am Sonntag” . Erdogan lacks ” empathy both in dealing with the mine disaster and in general to the needs of the Turks to respect for human rights and freedom of expression ” .

* The former leader of the Greens , Trittin , told the newspaper , Erdogan has lost all sense of reality.

Cologne Mayer Erdogan, Cologne Mayor Canceled Erdogan Campaign, Erdoğan, Erdogan Campaign Germany, Erdogan Germany Campaign Canceled, Erdogan Germany News, Erdogan Gertmany Campaign, Erdogan Turkey News, Germany Erdogan, Turkey, Turkey Erdogan News, Turkey news, Turkish PM Campaign Appearance Germany, Turkish Pm Erdogan, Turkish PM Erdogan Campaign Germany,
