
Cameron Strandberg / WikicommonsAbout 300 people were evacuated from the village of Dalny, where fires have destroyed two dozen homes.

The administration of the Siberian Irkutsk region has declared a state of emergency after forest fires spread to local villages, prompting large-scale evacuations.

More than 39,000 hectares of land in the Irkutsk region had been engulfed by 77 forest fires by Monday, the regional forestry department said, Interfax reported.

Irkutsk Governor Sergei Yeroschenko issued orders Sunday night to declare the state of emergency, banning all commercial activity in forests and dispatching additional resources to fight the fires, the local branch of the Emergency Situations Ministry said in an online statement.

About 300 people were evacuated Sunday from the village of Dalny, where fires have destroyed two dozen homes, the ministry said, Interfax reported.

Local news website NewsBabr.com also cited the ministry as saying that fires at a sawmill in the village of Bratsk and in the Usolsky region had been extinguished by Sunday night.

But a reader on the news portal denounced the ministry's statement as a "lie."

"I don't know what it's like in Bratsk, but in Usolye everything was covered by thick smoke yesterday from the morning until late night," the reader said in a comment Monday.

Any comment deemed non-constructive, personal attacks, spam and abuse will not be tolerated and will lead to you being banned from our website.

Russia's Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said Monday Russia had told Ukraine it intends to send another humanitarian aid convoy.

Chechen leader Ramzan Kadyrov has been inducted into Russia's biggest black-leather clad biker gang, the 'Night Wolves.'

Russian diplomats say they have been excluded from an upcoming summit of NATO member countries in Wales, Kommersant reported Monday, citing an unidentified diplomatic source.

Russia's space agency, Roscosmos, has launched an independent investigation into the cause of Friday's botched launch of two brand-new European navigation satellites aboard a Soyuz rocket.

A fiscal rule that prevents Russia from raising government spending reflects "old realities" and should be relaxed, Russian Economic Development Minister Alexei Ulyukayev said in an article published Monday.

Tsars, revolutions, two World Wars and the Soviet Union — if you're interested in Russia's rich history, these are the websites to explore.

Residents of Moscow's Taganka district woke up Wednesday morning to find a Ukrainian flag attached to the Soviet star on the spire of one of the area's iconic Stalin buildings.

Hollywood star Vin Diesel has challenged Russian President Vladimir Putin to pour a bucket of ice cubes over his head, as part of a global action to raise awareness for a degenerative motor neuron disease.

Two brides wed in Moscow earlier this month, with teeth-grinding authorities unable to prevent it despite a ban on same-sex marriage — because one of the brides was a man.

A children's fashion show in Moscow triggered outrage among bloggers after the show, titled "Children of the World Against War," depicted a child dressed up as Ukraine holding a gun to her head.
