
No cases in Pennsylvania, but health authorities want public to be aware.

As the deadly virus known as Middle East Respiratory Syndrome enters the United States, health officials in Pennsylvania want the public to know they're ready — and they want the public to be ready, too.

For now, no cases of MERS have occurred in Pennsylvanians, and the risk to the general public is low, Pennsylvania Physician General Carrie DeLone said. However, that can change. The number of cases in the Middle East has tripled in the last six weeks, DeLone said, and about 30 percent of those infected have died.

There is no antiviral medication for MERS, so physicians on a conference call with reporters urged the public to get informed as a good first step.

"The best thing the public can do is be aware," said Dr. John Goldman, an infectious disease specialist from Harrisburg.

Individuals can help themselves by following the usual steps to prevent the spread of viruses, Goldman said. That includes good hand washing practices and avoiding contact with those who have respiratory illness.

MERS hasn't shown to be easily or casually transmitted, so the people most at-risk are those who have close relations with the sick person or care for him or her.

Several conditions have to be present for a person to be a suspected MERS case, doctors said: a person with fever, pneumonia or acute respiratory distress; a travel history to the Middle East and then getting sick within two weeks, or close personal contact with someone who had been in the Middle East and got sick within two weeks. Illness alone would not generate the need for a MERS investigation.

If a person fits the requirements, the physicians said, the individual should contact a doctor immediately. They said those individuals should call their doctors first because they would want to keep the individual adequately protected or isolated from their other patients and office staff.

An individual swab test would determine if the patient had the virus. If that is the case, the patient would be isolated and treated until the symptoms pass. People who have had close contact with the individual also will be contacted for a test. Officials could not say how long a person would have to wait to get lab test results, but they said the state has adequate lab capacity.

In cases involving viruses, health care workers naturally are at risk, so Dr. Lora Regan, an occupational medicine specialist from Lancaster, said it's critical that they identify potential cases as soon as they access the health care facility by asking sick patients about their travel history.

In the United States, health authorities have identified three people with MERS, but along with other western countries, all 538 confirmed MERS cases originated in the Middle East. According to the World Health Organization, those countries include Jordan, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, and Yemen.

Patients in Florida, Indiana and Illinois have had confirmed cases of MERS; none has been fatal. They were all related to travel to Saudi Arabia. Goldman noted that disease presents "a spectrum of illness." The person in Illinois, for example, never exhibited any symptoms, while 173 people overseas have died.

The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said it has provided test kits to hospitals and set up quarantine stations at major U.S. airports, including Philadelphia International Airport.
