
In the latest cover story of a pro-gun magazine, Detroit's police chief defends his assertion that "responsible" and "good" residents in one of America's most dangerous cities should be able to protect themselves with guns.

The June issue of America's 1st Freedom magazine, published online by the National Rifle Association, includes a story with Detroit Police Chief James Craig who argues the value of the 2nd Amendment in light of the city's recent rash of self-defense shootings.

"What I have said, and continue to say, is I believe responsible, good Americans have a right to protect themselves from an immediate threat to their life or to the life of another," Craig told the magazine in the article "A Show of Courage."

"This is not about inciting vigilantism," he continues, "because in my view when you talk about vigilantism, you’re talking about someone who has made a decision to do law enforcement’s job -- go out and enforce the law. This is not that at all. This is about self-defense, protection, an imminent threat to life, very different response. So I say, let’s talk about the victims; let’s talk about the number of violent criminals in possession of guns."

There have been at least seven fatal shootings in the early part of the year stemming from homeowners protecting themselves from intruders. In February, a woman arrived at her home at night when a gunman approached her. She allegedly distracted him with her keys and then fatally shot him . That same month, a mother of two young children caught three teens trying to break into her house . She opened fire after warning them and they fled, eventually being caught by police.

Detroit has one of the highest crime rates in the country, though violent crimes were down 15 percent in the first quarter of the year compared to 2013. Additionally, the murder rate dropped 14 percent in 2013 -- but Detroit still recorded the same number of homicides as New York, 333, despite having less than a 10th of New York's population.

Some have criticized Craig's repeated, vocal support for Detroiters arming themselves, like Detroit Coalition Against Police Brutality spokesman Ron Scott.

“We are appalled at recent statements made by the Public Information Department of the Detroit Police Department and attributed to the Chief which separate which separate the so-called ‘good citizens’ from the ‘bad citizens,'” Scott said in a statement last month , according to CBS Detroit. “These kinds of incendiary and slanted statements only add to the sense of fear and promotion of violence that we are now experiencing in this city."

Craig, who was born in Detroit and began his law enforcement career there, took the chief position last June after leading Cincinnati's police department. He held a press conference Monday to address the magazine cover and article, saying Detroiters had praised him for speaking up for their right to arm themselves.

on March 30, 1981, President Reagan and three others were shot and wounded in an assassination attempt by John Hinckley, Jr. outside the Washington Hilton Hotel in Washington, D.C. Reagan's press secretary, Jim Brady, was shot in the head.

The Brady Handgun Violence Act of 1993, signed into law by President Bill Clinton, mandated that federally licensed dealers complete comprehensive background checks on individuals before selling them a gun. The legislation was named for James Brady, who was shot during an attempted assassination of President Ronald Reagan in 1981.

In 2004, ten years after it first became law, Congress allowed a provision banning possession of magazines holding more than ten rounds of ammunition to expire through a sunset provision. Brady Campaign President Paul Helmke told HuffPost that the expiration of this provision meant that Rep. Gabby Giffords's alleged shooter was able to fire off 20-plus shots without reloading (under the former law he would have had only ten).

In 2007 The U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia ruled to allow Dick Heller, a licensed District police officer, to keep a handgun in his home in Washington, D.C. Following that ruling, the defendants petitioned the U.S. Supreme Court to hear the case.

Following the deadly shooting at Virginia Tech University, Congress passed legislation to require states provide data on mentally unsound individuals to the National Instant Criminal Background Check System, with the aim of halting gun purchases by the mentally ill, and others prohibited from possessing firearms. The bill was signed into law by President George W. Bush in January of 2008.

In June of 2008, the United States Supreme Court upheld the verdict of a lower court ruling the D.C. handgun ban unconstitutional in the landmark case District of Columbia v. Heller.

In July of 2012, a heavily armed gunman opened fire on theatergoers attending a midnight premiere of the final film of the latest Batman trilogy, killing 12 and wounding scores more.  The suspect, James Eagan Holmes, allegedly carried out the act with a number of handguns, as well as an AR-15 assault rifle with a 100-round drum magazine.  Some lawmakers used the incident, which took place in a state with some of the laxest gun control laws, to bring forth legislation designed to place increased regulations on access to such weapons, but many observers, citing previous experience, were hesitant to say that they would be able to overcome the power of the National Rifle Association and Washington gun lobby.

On August 5, 2012, white supremacist Wade Michael Page opened fire on a Sikhs gathered at a temple in Oak Creek, Wis., killing six and wounding four more before turning the gun on himself.

Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day..

Use this form to alert a HuffPost editor about a factual or typographical error in this story.

Thank you!
