
BELGRADE --   Serbia can count on EUR 1 billion worth of aid from the European Union Solidarity Fund in dealing with the long-term consequences of the catastrophic floods.

Tanjug reported that this was announced on Monday by Kristalina Georgieva, EU Commissioner for International Cooperation, Humanitarian Aid and Crisis Response, Kristalina Georgieva.

Up to EUR 1 billion from the EU Solidarity Fund is available to Serbia as an EU membership candidate, the commissioner said at a press conference in Brussels.

Set up in the wake of the massive floods that hit central Europe in the past decade, the fund provides aid in case flood damage exceeds 0.64 percent of the afflicted country's GDP.

Besides, Enlargement Commissioner Stefan Fule is looking for a way for additional funds to be provided from IPA funds, she said.

Access to funds is more complicated for Bosnia-Herzegovina, which has not been granted candidate status, Georgieva said.

"We reacted as soon as we received the requests from Serbia and Bosnia-Herzegovina," she said, adding that high-capacity pumps, helicopters and boats were sent immediately, and that a total of 450 volunteers from EU member states have also been sent in the meantime.

That is more than Serbia and Bosnia-Herzegovina had asked for, but we stepped up the assistance due to the dramatic situation, she said.

Georgieva said that Serbia can also count on bilateral aid from EU member states.

Although the EU commissioner mentioned a billion euros earlier today, in reality the sum will likely be much lower.

After her meeting with Croatian FM Vesna Pusić, Georgieva clarified for reporters that this was the total sum of the EU fund, that Serbia "certainly cannot count on all that money."

Pusić announced that Croatia will also apply for the money from the fund, saying that her country was not in need of urgent assistance like Serbia and Bosnia, but that damaged buildings will have to be repaired so that people can return to their homes.

Georgieva explained that a country can apply if the damage was at least 0.64 percent of its GDP - which would come to EUR 175 million for Serbia, and EUR 250 million for Croatia.

"Once the Serbian authorities give us precise data about the damage we will see how much money we can be set aside," Georgieva said, and added that she would visit Serbia tomorrow.

OBRENOVAC -- Prime Minister Aleksandar Vučić told foreign reporters on Monday that 13 dead bodies have been found so far in the town of Obrenovac near Belgrade.

BELGRADE -- Defense Minister Bratislav Gašić has thanked Austria's government for quickly deploying personnel that helped evacuate people from flooded areas in Serbia.

ŠABAC, OBRENOVAC -- Local authorities in the town of Šabac, in western Serbia, on Monday announced that two more people had lost their lives in the floods.

KRUPANJ -- Serbian President Tomislav Nikolić on Monday visited Krupanj, a municipality in western Serbia that has been hard-hit by floods which also killed one resident.

BELGRADE -- Serbian President Tomislav Nikolić on Monday sent a convoy of humanitarian aid to the places in Serbia most affected by the severe flooding.

BELGRADE -- The first part of a humanitarian aid shipment sent by the United Nations arrived in Belgrade late last night, the Ministry of the Interior (MUP) said.

MOSCOW, BELGRADE -- Russia has sent a relief cargo to Serbia hit by heavy floods, a spokesperson for the Russian Emergency Situations Ministry has told Itar-Tass.

Belgrade, Moscow -- A helicopter of the EU mission in Kosovo, EULEX, sent to assist in rescue efforts in flood-hit Serbia landed in Belgrade on Sunday.

BELGRADE -- The bodies of 12 flood victims have been recovered in the town of Obrenovac, but it is feared the number of those who perished in higher, says Aleksandar Vučić.

BELGRADE -- Serbia has been affected by "millennial waters" PM Aleksandar Vučić said on Sunday as he chaired an emergency HQ set up to deal with the catastrophic floods.

BELGRADE -- People cannot return to their homes in Obrenovac because there are still no conditions for that, while the rumors about the number of victims are false.

BELGRADE -- The intense fight to save lives continued on Saturday, as the situation is the most critical in the completely flooded Belgrade municipality of Obrenovac.

BELGRADE -- Ivica Dačić has said that Serbia now above all needs assistance in equipment, along with rescue teams to save the affected towns and their residents.

BELGRADE -- The flood-hit areas of Obrenovac and Barič near Belgrade, Sremska Mitrovica in the north and Krupanj and Šabac in western Serbia remain the most critical.

BELGRADE -- Foreign Minister Ivica Dačić on Saturday expressed his gratitude "to all the countries and the EU" for the help they provided to the flood-stricken Serbia.

BELGRADE, ŠABAC -- The bodies of those who perished in the flood in Obrenovac are being recovered on Saturday, MUP Emergency Sector chief Predrag Marić has said.

BELGRADE -- Prime Minister Aleksandar Vučić late on Friday described the situation in Serbia, struck by severe flooding, as "catastrophic."

MOSCOW -- Russian Emergency Situations Minister Vladimir Puchkov has announced that his country had launched a large-scale humanitarian operation to help Serbia.

BELGRADE -- More than 7,618 people have been evacuated in Serbia in the past two days as the country battles severe flooding, the Interior Ministry has announced.

B92 is an environmentally responsible organisation.
