
MANILA - Manila Water Co Inc and 19 other firms were selected by the World Economic Forum (WEF) as among the "trailblazers" and "innovators" in their effort to improve the region.

In a statement, WEF said it has invited these 20 companies, which are the region's fastest-growing companies, based on "the strength of their ability to become future global leaders."

These Global Growth Companies (GGCs), "represent a broad cross section of industrial sectors, but share in common a track record in exceeding industry standards in revenue growth, promotion of innovative business practices and demonstration of leadership in corporate citizenship."

Aside from Ayala-led Manila Water, the other GGCs are: Acleda Bank Plc. (Cambodia); WanaArtha Life (Indonesia); LINE Corporation (Japan); Kakaku.com (Japan); Hearts United Group Co., Ltd. (Japan); Cross Company Inc. (Japan); Tokushinkai Group (Japan); Ferrotec Corporation (Japan); Myan Shwe Pyi Tractors Ltd. (Myanmar); Capital Diamond Star Group (Myanmar); Banyan Tree Holdings Ltd. (Singapore); ILJIN Group (South Korea); Fila Inc. (South Korea); Humax Electronics Co., Ltd. (South Korea); AA Corporation (Vietnam); The Gioi Di Dong (Vietnam); VNG Corporation (Vietnam); Thien Minh Group (Vietnam); Minh Phu Seafood Corp. (Vietnam).

“The World Economic Forum is proud to recognize these 20 champions that are at the forefront of driving responsible economic growth, job creation and entrepreneurism in East Asia. We look forward to the active and dynamic role they will play at our meeting in Manila, working with the region’s leaders to foster inclusive, sustainable growth in the region,” said David Aikman, Managing Director and Head of New Champions at the World Economic Forum.

Nomination as a GGC gives companies a chance to join the larger GGC community of over 360 companies worldwide. These firms contribute to WEF's meetings, projects and knowledge products, which in turn support them on their path to achieving responsible and sustainable growth.
