
MUZAFFARABAD/AJK - Backing the call of Ch Abdul Majeed, Prime Miniter of Azad J&K,  hundreds of thousands of youth and students on Monday observed Black Day across the territory to reiterate their solidarity with the struggling people of India-held parts of Jammu and Kashmir State.

chanted slogans condemning the ongoing Indian atrocities, oppression and suppression against the Kashmiris in the held Valley.

An AJK media note says 'Prime Minister himself led a rally and addressed the mammoth youngsters assembled in University ground Muzafarabad. All Parties Hurriat Conference (APHC) leaders Mirwaiz Umar Farooq and veteran leader Syed Ali Gellani made telephonic speeches on this occasion. The Prime Minister of Azad state of Jammu & Kashmir condemned cold-blooded brutal acts of Indian army against Kashmiri youth saying the only crime they had was their inexaustible love for Pakistan. “ I want to assure all my brothers and sisters especially the youth of IHK that we are with you in every thick and thin and its my prime responsibility as being the Prime Minister of the base camp (AJ&K) government to utilize all energies for the right to self determination of Kashmiri people who are struggling against Indian tyrant occupation”, he asserted.

He warned the international community that the world was on the verge of atrocious and nuclear third world war. “ India is inviting for nuclear war and one must not put out of his mind that this war would not come to pass between the two countries but ultimately result into world war three” he tipped off.  While phrasing the recent Indian polls a farcical drama in Jammu & Kashmir AJ&K Premier said it made no difference whoever comes into power in so-called secular democracy as Kashmiris never accepted Indian constitution and such elections under it.

position on Kashmir issue and unrelenting moral, diplomatic and political support of Kashmiri people. He applauded the General Raheel Sharif and welcomed his statement saying he assured them all Kashmiri youth, men, women and children were with Pakistan army.

youngsters were missing in IHK and thousand others are put behind the bars illegally but India could not stifle their voice.

Veteran   Hurriat leader Syed Ali Gellani during his telephonic speech thanked the government and the people of Azad Kashmir for their support. He said that a strong Pakistan and unity among the political leaders was the need of hour in Pakistan.

added.

presented a memorandum.
