
HYDERABAD: The ongoing standoff between students and the administration at the English and Foreign Languages University (Eflu) took a turn for the worse after police on Monday detained 140 protesters, including faculty members, students and human rights activists, who were raising slogans on campus.

Witnesses said the crackdown began shortly after people gathered to stage a dharna outside the varsity's administrative building demanding rollback of the May 6 order that rusticated three students - Mohan Dharavath, Satheesh Nainala and Subhash Kumar - for allegedly breaking the glass door of the library during an earlier protest.

On Monday, protesters under the banner Committee to Protest Against Rustication gathered to take forward the protest that has been going on for the past three weeks. However, cops detained most of them, including several faculty members and students from University of Hyderabad, Osmania University and Kakatiya University.

The first batch of protesters from Osmania University was picked up around 11 am. About 20 Eflu students, including a girl who was shouting slogans outside the building, were also taken to the local police station. Later, faculty members and students from UoH who came to join the protest, were picked up. City police confirmed that 140 students and faculty members were held and cases were registered under section 151 of CrPC (preventive arrests). They were housed in five police stations including Amberpet, Kachiguda, Malakpet, Saifabad and Uppal, sources said, and were released at night.

Earlier, the city police barricaded all three entrances of the university and cordoned off the vice chancellor's office when the protests began at 9 am. The police also barricaded lanes in front of the varsity to prevent people from joining the stir.

Meanwhile, vice chancellor Sunaina Singh met two of the students in her chamber and said she could reconsider the rustication if the students appealed. The students, however, maintained they would do so only if an assurance is given that the appeal would be considered within a short period of time without affecting the academic schedule of the three students.

Meanwhile, Eflu students complained of police curbs on the campus, where around 400 personnel were stationed. "Even after showing identity cards, students were not allowed to go out of the campus for lunch. The campus has turned into a police state and students were terrorized," alleged Shankar Sampangi, a student leader.

Protesters also alleged the varsity was trying to settle scores with them for revealing several cases of corruption involving top officials. "The rusticated students now plan to meet the governor and members of the newly-elected TRS government asking for help," a protestor said.
