
Suffolk Fire and Rescue Services put out a fire at a cottage in Monks Eleigh that broke out on Saturday night.

To send a link to this page to a friend, you must be logged in.

The owner of a thatched cottage which was severely damaged by a blaze has praised firefighters and the community for their help.

More than 10 fire engines and an aerial appliance were called to the 17th Century property in the Street, Monks Eleigh, on Saturday at about 9.15pm.

Grainne Marmion had been enjoying dinner inside with friends when someone knocking on the window alerted her to the blaze.

Speaking yesterday, she said: “The fire spread really quickly and they [the firefighters] worked on it all through the night.

The 57-year-old, who moved in a couple of months ago, described how the community rallied round to help move her possessions.

She said the first floor and the eaves of the property had been completely destroyed.

“It’s very, very shocking,” she said. “At the time you think it’s going to be all right, but this morning I realised it wasn’t all right.

Appliances from Hadleigh, Long Melford, Sudbury, Halstead in Essex, Bury St Edmunds and Ixworth, along with the Multistar from Bury St Edmunds and the Command Unit from Ixworth were the first to arrive and discovered the entire 10m x 4m roof was ablaze.

Two more crews from Princes Street, Ipswich, were then mobilised, followed by two more from Bury, one from Stowmarket and one from Needham Market.

The fire was under control shortly after 12midnight, although a single appliance remained on the scene yesterday morning.

An investigation into the cause of the fire is being carried out. A spokesman for Suffolk police said it is not currently believed to be suspicious.

Please log in to leave a comment and share your views with other East Anglian Daily Times visitors.

We enable people to post comments with the aim of encouraging open debate.

Only people who register and sign up to our terms and conditions can post comments. These terms and conditions explain our house rules and legal guidelines.

Comments are not edited by East Anglian Daily Times staff prior to publication but may be automatically filtered.

If you have a complaint about a comment please contact us by clicking on the Report This Comment button next to the comment.

Register to create your own unique East Anglian Daily Times account for free.

Signing up is free, quick and easy and offers you the chance to add comments, personalise the site with local information picked just for you, and more.
