
Fly Romania will operate three weekly flights to Tulcea , from Otopeni airport in Bucharest, according to a release of the company.

"Six years ago, I decided to invest in aviation. I bought an airline and for almost five years I had the misfortune of a poor management. Today we are in a position to be able to start commercial flights under this brand-Fly Romania. For now, we have regular flights to Europe, and to the extent to which these are profitable, we will think of intercontinental flights, too. The second step the airline has in view, following its nomination by the Government of Guinea Bissau as that country′s national airline, is starting flights linking Europe to South America. What we do here today, we will also do in April, in Guinea Bissau," Ovidiu Tender said.

According to the general manager of Ten Airways, Catalin Butu, as of May this year, the airline will operate flights from some Romanian airports-Henri Coanda Otopeni, Traian Vuia Timisoara and Danube Delta Tulcea, to six destinations in Italy, Spain, Germany and Turkey.

"Last year, we carried more than 300,000 passengers for other airlines in the 7,000 hours operated. This winter, our team reached the conclusion that the development of the airline requires setting up its own sales department, which can provide a position on the market for us, not only as a partner of traditional airlines, but also as a regular carrier. We targeted mainly the routes where there is room for one, two or three more operators. Equally, we targeted uncovered routes. Much of the destinations are new on the Romanian market, such as Hahn Airport, near Frankfurt, or Reus Airport, near Barcelona," said Catalin Butu.

For the domestic flights, tariffs will be flat: EUR 69.90 flight from Bucharest to Timisoara and EUR 49.90/ flight from Bucharest to Tulcea, while the prices for international flights start at EUR 29.90 / flight.

Ten Airways is an airline on Romanian capital, which started operating in 2010. So far, it has operated in charter and wet lease systems, which entail renting the aircraft and its crew and the other services to be operated in the name of other company. Among Ten Airways customers are Blue Air, Air Moldova , Aegean Airlines, Roya Morocco, Air Mediterrannee or Blue Panorama, in wet lease system, Perfect Tour and Paralela 45 in charter system respectively.
