
Espresso Communications is a boutique full-service communications consultancy that develops strategic campaigns to help clients meet their business goals and objectives.  We are passionate about our client’s business and take the time to truly understand their needs, which is why we are trusted by CEOs of publicly listed Australian and global companies, not-for-profit organisations and new ventures who are seeking to grow their business through communications.

Sydney, AUSTRALIA – 19 May 2014– GlobalCom PR-Network, a worldwide group of owner-managed full service PR and Marketing Communications agencies, will convene for its annual global meeting in Krakow, Poland from 21-24 May 2014.

The network has grown from around 50 agencies to 74 within two years and it is now represented in 71 countries. This growth has been led by an increasing demand for communication services specifically outside of Europe.

This year’s global meeting is organised by Polish PR agency, Planet PR . Representatives from 31 agencies covering 36 markets including a number of countries from the European Union, United States, Dubai, Saudi Arabia and the Philippines are expected at the event.

The GlobalCom PR-Network agency in Germany which goes by the same name (GlobalCom PR-Network) has become a pioneer in this field, managing the online magazine CleanEnergy Project ( www.cleanenergy-project.de ), an industry network with around 50,000 members. “Companies from this highly innovative and still relatively young sector are in need of PR partners who have the right industry expertise and a reliable network of contacts,” Hartmann added.

Cleantech is one of the key business areas for the GlobalCom PR-Network. Its client credentials from this sector include the international Standards Association of IEEE, the world’s largest professional association (supported in Germany, Japan, Korea, China and India) and international solar photovoltaic company, Trina Solar (Germany, United Kingdom and South Africa). GlobalCom agencies in South America, Europe, Asia and Australia are also providing communication services to SolarMax, a developer and manufacturer of solar inverters, headquartered in Switzerland.

GlobalCom PR-Network was founded as an agency network in 2006. It comprises practice groups for the industries Cleantech, IT & Technology, Healthcare, Financial Services and Consumer & Lifestyle. Clients in the network vary from startups to multinationals and organisations from the public sector.

GlobalCom PR Network is one of the largest PR networks in the world. Founded in 2006 by four European PR firms to serve international clients, the network has grown to a global organisation of 74 partner agencies with 1,400 consultants worldwide. GlobalCom PR Network represents the 21st century breed of global PR development. It is an association of independent agency teams with a proven track record in their domestic countries united in a global operating network. GlobalCom’s 70 offices cover all member states of the European Union, Africa, Asia Pacific, Middle East, North and South America. GlobalCom’s strong local expertise and international reach in more than 60 countries offers a most cost-effective approach by local agencies with a global approach to multi-market PR.
