
Brothers Tom (left) and Jack Megan received word from Stephen Sondheim in 2013 that their musical had won the Richard Rodgers Award for emerging theatrical talent. Starting tomorrow, “The Kid Who Would Be Pope” will kick off a three-day run in New York's Ars Nova, an off-Broadway theater.

Jack Megan was making his way across Harvard’s campus on a bitter January afternoon in 2013 when his brother Tom called, desperate to read him a letter. Broadway legend Stephen Sondheim had written to say that their musical had just won the Richard Rodgers Award for emerging theatrical talent.

Over the past year, that sense of living in a dream morphed into fast-paced reality as the pair fine-tuned their production for a three-day run that kicks off Tuesday in New York’s Ars Nova off-Broadway theater. With support from the Rodgers Award, which helped them secure the performance space and hire seasoned actors, the Megans will stage a stripped-down version of their show for a room filled with industry executives.

But getting the musical before an influential audience was never the original goal. The show was conceived in the 1990s, when the director of a nearby arts camp needed a summer theater piece in a hurry and turned to the brothers for help. The Megans, both artists and musicians, crammed to craft a story, compose songs, and write lyrics in three hectic months. Their work paid off, and the show was a smash. It was gaining commercial success and traction with local theaters in 2000 when accusations of sexual abuse in the Catholic Church shook the world.

The work sat on the shelf for almost a decade. Then, at the suggestion of a friend, Tom took a chance and submitted it to the New York Musical Theatre Festival. Of the 450 scripts submitted, 12 were accepted for production through the festival’s Next Link program in 2011. “Pope” was one of them.

“We suddenly had this new forum in New York with the show,” said Tom. The show again proved popular with audiences. Based on its sold-out run, the brothers applied for the Rodgers Award.

On the phone from New York after a long day of rehearsals, the two were at ease as only siblings comfortable with close collaboration, inside jokes, family history, and a shared passion can be. Growing up in a household with six musical kids, the Megan boys spent their early days fighting for the right to play the house piano, and composing songs and shows for family and friends. Though Tom chose a life as a professional composer, lyricist, and librettist, and Jack headed into arts management, they’ve continued to work closely on musical projects.

Decades later, musical theater is still child’s play for the brothers. The genesis of their current production was autobiographical, a combination of their love for Julie Andrews, the Beatles, and Stevie Wonder, and their experiences growing up Catholic. “It was also based on this notion of what it was like to be a child and to be enamored of an adult who saw the true you — the you you wanted to be and who made life exciting,” said Tom.

Perhaps the hardest time for Jack has been stepping into the spotlight. Anyone who knows the dedicated OFA director knows how he has shunned attention for the past 13 years, eagerly shining the light not on himself, but on Harvard’s wealth of talented students and his committed colleagues. His brother, said Tom Megan, “diminishes his own artistic gifts.” But Jack, a skilled jazz pianist and composer, recently admitted that there comes a time when you have to take a chance.

Brothers Tom (left) and Jack Megan received word from Stephen Sondheim in 2013 that their musical had won the Richard Rodgers Award for emerging theatrical talent. Starting tomorrow, “The Kid Who Would Be Pope” will kick off a three-day run in New York's Ars Nova, an off-Broadway theater.

Harvard School of Public Health Associate Professor of Environmental Exposure Biology Chengsheng (Alex) Lu outlines the danger posed to our food supply — and possibly to us — by the collapse of honeybee colonies.

Harvard researchers create a swarm of 1,000 tiny robots that, upon command, can autonomously combine to form requested shapes — a significant advance in artificial intelligence.

As freshmen move into dorms in and around the Yard, fellow students, faculty, and administrators offer tips on how best to adjust to the Harvard experience, from maintaining basic wellness to exploring the vast resources Harvard has to offer.

A new study by Harvard scientists suggests that, from a young age, children are biased in favor of their own social groups when they intervene in what they believe are unfair situations. But as they get older, they can learn to become more impartial.

HGSE economist Tom Kane explains the issues behind the debate over tenure policies for public school teachers in New York and California.

The Harvard Arts Medal ceremony kicked off this year’s Arts First festival, with Margaret Atwood receiving the award.

With a show on Broadway, artist-in-residence Jason Robert Brown explains his craft.
