
A U.S. Air Force KC-135 and French Rafale involved in an mid-air emergency over Mali.

Taken from a 100th ARW (Air Refueling Wing) KC-135 Stratotanker during what seemed to be (at least until then) a routine aerial refueling mission in support of Operation Serval, in Mali , the above image shows a French Air Force Rafale jet breaking to the left to separate from the tanker after the tip of IFR (In Flight Refueling) probe was severely damaged.

According to the Escadron de chasse 01.091 “Gascogne”, who posted the image, the aircraft, with full load of weapons, was refueling from the U.S. tanker in turbulent air due to an intertropical front.

A sudden and violent oscillation impossible for the pilot to compensate, forced the Rafale to disconnect from the tanker’s refueling hose causing a cloud of fuel to surround the cockpit and the basket to hit the probe of the receiver, damaging it.

As a consequence, the Rafale immediately separated from the tanker and, unable to return to N’Djamena, it proceeded to the nearest divert field, where it safely landed.

French pilots are like French citizens….no more complex than that.  Never fired…only dropped once.

We (FR) have stereotypes as well (even worse than that BTW) but we’re smart enough not to throw them around at every occasion.

Taxpayers!

Duh!

No one is going to invoice no one. Everyone will pay for its damages as part of the overall Mali operation budget. And I am pretty sure the American flight time and all is not billed to the French and viceversa.

Intervening in a war, either shooting or just supporting is a political choice motivated by all the stuff that politics is made of, not a sheer economic exchange.

…else the US had the longest list of suppliers to pay since the Korean war on.

Don’t worry the French and the US will be in Mali til they steal all their gold!

I think thats a KC-10. The hose is too long to be a 135. Correct me if I’m wrong.

I don’t think it’s a KC-10. The image was published by 100ARW and I think only KC-135 have been involved in Mali air ops.

Fortunately the probe debris wasn’t swallowed by the engine.

I have to wonder – is anybody proposing or working on actively stabilized or “flying” drogues for refueling? I would think you could mount aerodynamic controls on the drogue to take out most of the bumps.

© David Cenciotti - Contents of this blog/website may not be used without author's prior written permission. All rights reserved.
