
Evicted mothers describe the emergency accommodation they’re forced to live in due to the housing crises.

FIVE MOTHERS WHO were evicted over rent increases came out together today demanding action on the housing shortage.

Philomena Deans is a mother of two from Dublin 13.

She’s currently living in emergency accommodation in the city centre.

She explained how her nine-year-old son worries about being judged for living there.

Deans described the conditions at the emergency accommodation as damp and filthy saying that “the children are in and out of Temple Street with chest conditions”.

She also said the children had hair lice, rashes, midget bites and sores on their mouths due to the conditions of the accommodation.

A 7-month-old child had to go back to a hotel as the accommodation just wasn’t suitable for a baby.

Margaret Stapleton from Carpenterstown challenged politicians to live in her shoes for a week.

I want a home for my kids so they can work when they’re older and be good law abiding people.

The women said that it’s very difficult for people to deal with the taboo around homelessness.

Tamara Kearns said it’s degrading for people to find themselves in this situation and it’s through no fault of their own.

Another mother Gwen Connell said unless social housing is built this problem is going to get worse.

Nobody should be allowed be evicted after a rent increase if they have nowhere to go.

During the 1970s, the average build of social housing annually was between 6,000 to 10,000.

Last year, it was less than 300 and that’s with an increased population.

Tamara Kearns added, “This isn’t just about getting homeless people off the streets and under a roof.

Emergency accommodation is not suitable for families. They have to build actual houses, both social and affordable.

“What exactly did the establishment think was going to happen ? They allowed housing be controlled by the private market for profit and forced councils to put tenants in private accommodation at great cost to the taxpayer, rather than building homes.

A public meeting will be held tomorrow night in Mountview Community Centre, Dublin 15.

Get breaking news from TheJournal.ie via Facebook.

Just click Like.

Email “‘Mam I’m not going to school today, what if the kids ask me where I live’”.

Feedback on “‘Mam I’m not going to school today, what if the kids ask me where I live’”.

Content copyright © Journal Media Ltd. 2014 Registered in Dublin, registration number: 483623.                 Registered office: 3rd floor, Latin Hall, Golden Lane, Dublin 8.

Please note that TheJournal.ie uses cookies to improve your experience and to provide services and advertising. For more information on cookies please refer to our cookies policy .

News images provided by Press Association and Photocall Ireland unless otherwise stated. Irish sport images provided by Inpho Photography unless otherwise stated. Wire service provided by Associated Press .

Journal Media does not control and is not responsible for user created content, posts, comments, submissions or preferences. Users are reminded that they are fully responsible for their own created content and their own posts, comments and submissions and fully and effectively warrant and indemnify Journal Media in relation to such content and their ability to make such content, posts, comments and submissions available. Journal Media does not control and is not responsible for the content of external websites.
