
Posted: Tuesday, May 20, 2014 12:00 am | Updated: 11:08 pm, Tue May 20, 2014.

Second district attorney Marshall Kelly, 33, of Attica was charged with third-degree assault and second-degree criminal trespass, for the incident which allegedly occurred at 10:15 a.m. Sunday in the village.

District Attorney Donald O’Geen said he was informed of the arrest Sunday morning by Wyoming County Sheriff Gregory Rudolph.

Genesee County District Attorney Larry Friedman was appointed Monday morning as special prosecutor.

A “stay away” order of protection was issued, and Kelly has been released on his own recognizance. He is to appear June 9 in Village Court.

Kelly has been with the District Attorney’s Office since July 2010.

He has prosecuted several high-profile local cases, several of which are ongoing. They have included the upcoming trial of alleged serial speeder Nathan Hulme; the ongoing case of four Attica Correctional Officers charged with assaulting an inmate; the 2012 convictions of numerous residents involved in a string of robberies against seasonal farm laborers; and the extradition of fugitive rapist Eric Motzer.

Any pending cases Kelly was handling have been transferred to O’Geen or First Assistant District Attorney Vincent Hemming.

O’Geen declined to comment on the immediacy of Kelly’s firing, saying it was a personnel decision. He said the assistant district attorneys, generally speaking, serve at the district attorney’s discretion.

The victim was reportedly treated and released, O’Geen said.

Sheriff Rudolph said he could not release any further details due to the ongoing investigation.

Posted in News on Tuesday, May 20, 2014 12:00 am. Updated: 11:08 pm.

1 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language. PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.

2 Don't Threaten. Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated.

3 Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.

4 Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.

5 Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.

6 Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness acounts, the history behind an article.

Welcome to the discussion.

It's easy to do and it's free!

Wow posted at 10:17 am on Tue, May 20, 2014.

Right now there is alot going through my mind. 1st of all there must be enough information to have Mr. Kelly removed from his job.  2nd.  He knew better and should have known to walk away from this situation being in the position he was in as far as his job.  3rd.  Its a shame he has just tossed his career in the trash because of this.  4th- If this is his first offense, lets see if he can stay out of jail like Jacquetta Simmons.  He didn't hurt anyone severe enough to put the in the hospital.  Maybe he should retain her Lawyer.  Its sad this had to happen to someone that did have the road paved upward to a great job down the road.

UB posted at 8:00 am on Tue, May 20, 2014.

former batavian posted at 7:45 pm on Mon, May 19, 2014.

Do you think if there was any question about his guilt he would have been fired? Or should they wait for a trial and let him hurt /kill her in the meantime? If the evidence is there it SHOULD be acted upon immediately and she should be protected by more than a piece of paper that tells him he can't go near her. Maybe the courts are finally starting to realize the seriousness of domestic violence. He probably thought his "friends" would make it go away. Must have been pretty serious.

lucy2shoes posted at 3:54 pm on Mon, May 19, 2014.

Domestic violence is a crime. NYS has a very productive DV system and once the aggressor is identified by police, the "people" or DA hears the charge and proceeds with court.

See the problem hear? This person should know and understand how the system works given his job status.

Thus, the reason he was removed.

Coulda, shouda...wooda...He knows better and the DA position can not be compromised AND protect the other party in this case.

oldnnew posted at 12:15 pm on Mon, May 19, 2014.

So this guy was fired because of "allegations"??  Wow, fire first, ask questions later I guess.  Guy hasn't even been found guilty yet!

We're always interested in hearing about news in our community. Let us know what's going on!
