
The month of May had,  with an interval of a few days, two milestones. On May 9, the world  celebrated victory over the Germans in World War II, and on May 15, Nakba Day events were also held around the world.

The Allied victory over Germany did not end with outpourings of  reconciliation, quite the reverse. Between 12 and 16 million ethnic  Germans were expelled from central European states at the end of the war  and in its aftermath. Between 600,000 and two million were killed  during those expulsions, which included innumerable pogroms and  massacres. MV Wilhelm Gustloff, a German ship carrying refugees, was  sunk in January 1945 by the Soviet navy, taking with it 9,500 souls, but  who remembers? What is more, representatives of the vanquished and of  the refugees were not invited to the May 9 celebrations - their  narrative did not appear.

And yet those who celebrated this great victory over evil crossed  lines less than a week later to remember the great injustice that befell  the Palestinians. They never dreamed of honoring the German Nakba, only  the Palestinian one.

Now and then there have been proposals to pay compensation to those  exiled to Germany. The countries concerned, such as Czechoslovakia and  Poland, rejected the idea outright. No one denied the brutal pogroms and  expulsions. "If someone were to sue us", they made very clear, "we  would demand the money from Germany as war damages." Time passed, the  wounds festered, but there was no compensation, and certainly no return.  The European Court of Human Rights would take up a suit brought by a  deportee – and promptly reject it.

The ethnic Germans, most of them innocent, were not the only ones who  underwent forced displacement. Tens of millions in Europe and in Asia  experienced same trauma in the same decade, both before and after the  war's end. This is what happened to some 700,000 Palestinian Arabs.

And this is what also happened to 850,000 Jews. The Jews had a Nakba,  so did the Palestinians, and so did the Germans. There was also a  Polish Nakba, and a Hindu Nakba. Nakba was the cruel reality of that  time. It was a global Nakba. For every nation, a Nakba.

According to Palestinian historian Aref al-Aref, some 13,000  Palestinian Arabs were killed in the 1948 War of Independence. We should  indeed feel remorse for each death, but we should also take into  account the fact that - according to impartial reports of the number of  casualties, relative to the size of the population, or the number who  fled or were expelled - the Palestinian Nakba was smallest of them all.

For the sake of comparison, in contemporaneous population exchanges  between Poland and Ukraine, 100,000 people died out of the 1.4 million  who were expelled from their homelands. Is anyone organizing a worldwide  remembrance in their name? And yet, it is the Palestinian Nakba that is  remembered around the world.

The Palestinians suffered. Every expellee suffered, paying the price  for the actions of their leaders. The Palestinians had chosen Haj Amin  al-Husseini to lead them, and growing evidence has been uncovered in  recent years of his involvement in the extermination of the Jews.

Al-Husseini made clear that "the basic condition of our cooperation  with the Germans was the freedom to exterminate the Jews of Palestine  and the Arab world." He was one of the originators of the "Farhud" in  Iraq, the first Nazi-inspired pogrom against the Jews in an Arab state.  He worked against a deal to secure the release of Jewish children. He  was the creator of "Operation Atlas" of 1944, which apparently included a  plan to poison a quarter of a million Jews living in Palestine. He was  not the only Arab leader of the time to identify with the Nazis – Fawzi  al-Qawuqji and others did exactly the same.

Here and there one can hear claims that there is no connection  between the problem of the Palestinian refugees and that of the Jewish  refugees from Arab states. This is a ridiculous claim. A series of  pogroms directed against the Jews in 1940s - primarily in 1948 in Aden,  Syria, Libya, Iraq and Morocco - were a combination of anti-Zionism and  anti-Semitism. Similarly, the Arab League decided in the same year to  freeze Jews' bank accounts and to confiscate their money to fund the war  effort against "Zionist aspirations in Palestine." This was the Arab  struggle, managed by the Arab League and the Arab Higher Committee, and  headed by al-Husseini.

So there is indeed something absurd about the claim of "no  connection". The Palestinian problem is commemorated because the Arab  world has systematically refused any offer of restoration. The Arab  states even opposed UN General Assembly resolution 194, which offered  the possibility of some kind of Palestinian return to their former  homeland under certain conditions, on the grounds that it included  recognition of a Jewish state under the Partition Plan.

I have been saying it for years.

This quote provides the only explanation you need for the double standards that exist.

That quote from Ali Salim on the West/Europeans reminds me of a Midrash talking from the aftermath of Esau losing his birthright to Jacob, when Esau sought to ensnare Ishmael in the following plot by marrying Ishmael’s daughter.

"You – Esau said to Ishmael – kill your brother Isaac. I will kill my brother Jacob. Then we will become one nation, remaining sole heirs to all of Abraham’s legacy and property! Ishmael refused (seeing that Esau was unstable): ‘Am I then like Cain who killed his brother?! No, I will not do as you suggest.” Esau’s intention was to then kill Ishmael, and he would be left the sole heir."

While the above is surprising in the sense that in today's world muslims claiming themselves to be Ishmael's descendants seem to be both unstable and murderous whereas Esau's descendants in the West appear to be just unstable in despite the rational facade (while using muslims as proxies against the Jewish peopel without dirtying their own hands), it pretty much explains the Western self-destructive trait of hating Jews more than they hate / fear Muslims.

"Their dreams were destroyed...."

In just 50 years, almost a million Jews, whose communities stretch back up to 3,000 years, have been 'ethnically cleansed' from 10 Arab countries. These refugees outnumber the Palestinian refugees two to one, but their narrative has all but been ignored. Unlike Palestinian refugees, they fled not war, but systematic persecution. Seen in this light, Israel, where some 50 percent of the Jewish population descend from these refugees and are now full citizens, is the legitimate expression of the self-determination of an oppressed indigenous, Middle Eastern people.

This website is dedicated to preserving the memory of the near-extinct Jewish communities, which can never return to what and where they once were - even if they wanted to. It will attempt to pass on the stories of the Jewish refugees and their current struggle for recognition and restitution. Awareness of the injustice done to these Jews can only advance the cause of peace and reconciliation.

Don't let the Jewish Archive go back to Iraq!

Email me!

Save Ezekiel's Shrine!
