
More tourists are expected in 2014.

ISTANBUL – The 4th Istanbul Shopping Festival  (ISF) - one of the most important festivals in Turkey - which will be held on June 7-29  is aimed at attracting more Saudi tourists. In a press conference that was held in Istanbul Chamber of Commerce (ICOC) with the attendance of foreign media from around 19 countries, the general the manager of ISF, Fusun Tavus, said that the festival is aimed at attracting more than 1.1 million tourists this year. It targets over 10 billion Turkish lira returns.

The opening of the festival will take place on the night of June 6 that will include musical performance, dance shows and fireworks. It will conclude on June 28 at Vialand Mall.

Tavus said that they didn’t get the targeted number of visitors last year because of the political events, but this year they hope to reach the target and exceed it. She also added that they are targeting the whole world to visit Istanbul, especially countries within four hours flight to Istanbul.

Making 90 percent of its sales in exports, Osmanbey textile market will be making retail sales for the first time within the scope of ISF. The activity is to be held on June 14-15 and will include various activities as well as a huge fashion show on the most favorite streets of Osmanbey district. Osmanbey will be transformed for those 2 days thanks to all the fashion and street shows, musical performances and much more.

It was reported that a turnover of 8 billion 250 million Turkish lira was achieved in 2013 ISF event with number of tourists reaching 958,000, and he noted that they target over 10 billion Turkish lira turnover and more than 1 million tourists in 2014.

The ISF is promoted abroad by the Ministry of Culture and Tourism and supported by powerful sponsors including local and administrative bodies in Istanbul as well as companies such as Turkish Airlines.

- We call on all our readers and visitors to stay away from comments that are offensive or meaningful to a person or entity in any way.
