
The controversial statue of the then 10-year old Obama in a public park in Central Jakarta in Indonesia with students before it was pulled out.

There was renewed interest on President Obama’s persona when he set foot in Philippine soil for the first time last week and sampling Filipino cuisine in a well-prepared Malacanang state dinner.

Outside the defense, security and trade agendas, Filipinos still like to connect with the 44th president of the United States on more human terms based on his humble beginnings.

Like it or not, Obama is probably the first American president born in  the Pacific island of Hawaii and the first one to spend four years of his grade school days in Indonesia.

The Jakarta school where Obama studied was beaming with pride with one of its students being elected to the US presidency. The outpouring of pride was such it cooperated in the mounting of a controversial bronze statue at Taman Menteng Park in Central Jakarta showing the then 10-year old future US president wearing shorts and a T-shirt.

Costing more than $10,000, the statue was paid for by donations from eight individuals, a TV station, and an Indonesian charity.

Hastily pulled out of the park due to enraged Indonesians deploring a statue of an American boy in an Indonesian  park, the statue of then 10-year old Obama was designed to inspire young people, according to Ron Mullers, chairman of the non-profit organization Friends of Obama, which commissioned the statue.

In the state banquet hosted by Malaysia’s King Abdul Halim of Kedah before proceeding to the Philippines, Obama, recalled his late mother's fascination with batik, the cloth wraps and shirts traditionally dyed by hand, that are popular across Malaysia and Indonesia. He recalled that his mother – Stanley Ann Dunham, a teacher and anthropologist -- would come home from markets in Jakarta in the 1970s with her arms full of the intricately patterned fabrics. He told the banquet guests: "For my mother, batik wasn't about fashion. It was representative of the work and the livelihood of mothers and young women who had painstakingly crafted them. It was a window into the lives of others -- their cultures, and their traditions, and their hopes."

From  the book, “Obama – From Promise To Power,” author  David Mendell, makes note of the fact that  the US president  was born in Hawaii on August 4, 1961 to Stanley Ann Dunham,  then 18 and Barack Hussein Obama, Sr., then 23 and  a Kenyan foreign exchange student at the University of Hawaii. They met in a Russian language class and a few months later slipped off on the island of Maui and got married.

After his mother’s divorce to his biological father, Obama’s mother -- Stanley Ann Dunham -- married Lolo Soetoro, a Javanese surveyor from Indonesia who gained scholarship for graduate work through the East-West Center.

It was after the mother’s re-marriage that the new family moved to Jakarta.

Apart from the David Mendell book, other book references provide a clue to Obama’s early youth and later, his presidential ambitions.

His 1995 memoir, “Dreams from My Father: A Story of Race and Inheritance,” was written while he was preparing to launch his political career in a campaign for an Illinois office. It is a good look into his student life in a law school.

For its sheer candor and honesty, the book was described by Time columnist Joe Klein as “the best written memoir ever produced by an American politician” and by New York Times Pulitzer Price-winning book critic Michiko Kakutani as "the most evocative, lyrical and candid autobiography written by a future president.

Sold for only P50 in a Pasig book store, the book “Letters to President Obama” contains 300 to 500 letters from Americans from all sectors of society.

It reveals how a cross-section of Americans feel about the election of the first Black president. The letters also give the readers a very personal reading of the African-American experience starting from phases of slavery to the civil rights era to the twenty-first century with Americans of every race, color, gender, and age fully represented. From children and seniors, from cities and farms, the letters in the book have something unique to say and with very much to share about how Obama’s election was special to them.

Even if it is outdated by Obama’s election and re-election, one’s favorite reference to Obama’s private persona is David Mendell’s account of his pre-presidency years.

The Kansas-born grandma Dunham and her husband, Stanley, raised Obama for several years so he could attend school in Honolulu while their daughter and her second husband lived overseas. Her influence on Obama's manner and the way he viewed the world was substantial, the candidate himself told millions watching him accept his party's nomination in Denver in August.

It may be recalled that when Obama won the Democratic nomination for president, he had told the crowd the historic night was for his grandma. “My grandma is the one who poured everything she had into me and who helped to make me the man I am today," he had said.

 Obama’s only Philippine connection may be through the Filipino scholars he invited to his White House inaugurations on January 20 last year among them Salve Villarosa and Santiago Arnaiz both from the Ateneo de Manila University and participants in the Global Youth Leaders Conference.

Filipino violinist Diomedes Saraza, Jr. is the first known Filipino recipient of Outstanding Academic Achievement  awardee  of President Obama’s Education Awards Program.

President Obama with  Malaysia’s King Abdul Halim of Kedah during the state banquet in Kuala Lumpur.

Filipino student Salve Villarosa shows her White House invitation to the Obama inauguration last year. Photo by Tessa Villarosa.
