
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

BAY CITY, MI — Joe Madison warned the audience he was going to be frank.

Taking the podium at Bay City's Doubletree hotel and conference center on Sunday, May 18, the national radio show host and former NAACP leader, certainly delivered on that promise.

In an hour-long speech at the NAACP Bay City Branch's 58th Freedom Fund Banquet, Madison commented on a wide range of issues, including offering support for a raise to the minimum wage, equal pay for women and Obamacare.

He then touched on the possibility that if the U.S. Senate gains a Republican majority, President Obama could be impeached.

"It's not about whether they win or not; it's imaging," he said. "We elected the first black president of the United States — but we impeached him. It's about legacy, it's about history."

The banquet served as a fundraiser for scholarships awarded by the Bay City branch of the NAACP, as well as the organization's activities. Darold Newton, the branch's president, said the annual event serves as an opportunity for area residents to stay connected and informed.

"It keeps people aware of what's going on from a community standpoint, a regional standpoint, and a state standpoint," Newton said. "It's just an opportunity to have some dialogue with individuals who are in the mix of things, and to have a good time while we're in engaging in the affair."

During his speech, and after working to put current national issues in context, Madison called on those present to "keep moving forward."

"The difference between moment and a movement — and the difference is simple — a movement requires sacrifice," he said. "If you call in to my show, I always ask you, 'What are you going to do about it?' "

A number of area politicians attended Sunday's event, including state Rep. Charles Brunner, D-Bay City and state Rep. Stacy Erwin Oakes, D-Saginaw, who is currently a candidate for Michigan's 32nd District state Senate seat.

A representative from the office of U.S. Rep. Dan Kildee, D-Flint Township, was at the event, as was Ron Mindykowski, a candidate for the 31st District state Senate seat.

Newton said Gov. Rick Snyder and members of his staff were invited to the event, but they declined due to scheduling conflicts. He stressed that the NAACP is a non-partisan organization.

Lisa Brown, a Democratic candidate for lieutenant governor and Oakland County's clerk and register of deeds also attended Sunday's banquet.

During brief remarks, she criticized current Michigan educational policies, noting that 60 years after Brown vs. Board of Education, Michigan schools face significant challenges, from the loss of accreditation to underfunding, often resulting in the appointment of an emergency manager and the closing of school districts.

"The districts most affected and the communities that have emergency managers appointed, coincidentally, happen to be in urban areas where the majority of the population are people of color," she said. "You know, education has always been the equalizer; it's the best chance anybody has at a better future. But due to socioeconomic disparities, our kids are not all getting an equal education."

Furthermore, many Michigan schools are still largely segregated, Brown said, pointing to a report by the Civil Rights Center at UCLA, which states that a majority of Michigan's black students attend schools where 90 percent of the student body or more are minorities.

"We need to make sure Michigan is a place where our workplaces and classrooms reflect our diversity and everyone has equal opportunity, because nobody should face discrimination based on where they were born or what they look like," she said.

Three Bay City Central High School seniors were present at Sunday's program to receive scholarships, the size of which is to be determined by the success of the dinner fundraiser. Those students are Andre Houston, who said he plans to attend Eastern Michigan University; Lauren Legner, who plans to attend Delta College and later Michigan State University; and Aubrey Mielens, who plans to attend Delta College.

Ron Haughton, president of the Bay City Branch of the NAACP from 1967 to 1972, was honored at the event for his time as president and for years working in service of civil rights. Speaking moments before the dinner, he recalled that much of his work as president revolved around bringing more black teachers to Bay City schools as well as work toward affirmative action in employment.

He noted that he spent a considerable amount of time speaking with groups of white people — like a local Kiwanis Club, for example — about the desires of the black community.

"Things have opened up a lot, but yet we still have a lot to do," Haughton said. "There's still not enough communication across racial lines … that's why I did all that speaking. We're just like everybody else."

© 2014 MLive Media Group All rights reserved ( About Us ).

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
