
BACOLOR -- Advance Energy Technologies, a power firm specializing in renewable energy production will construct a biomass gasifier power plant in a still undisclosed site in the City of San Fernando with an investment of P500-million to produce four-megawatt electricity.

Samuel West Stewart, managing director of Advanced Energy Technologies, said the biomass gasifiers technology will be the first to be constructed in the Philippines, if not in Southeast Asia. He said the company is a subsidiary of US company General Electric.

Stewart said it will take 24 weeks or six months to construct the biomass plant, "which will surely generate employment and livelihood to surrounding communities."

Farmers will eventually benefit from the power plant project as the biomass gasifier is fueled by hybrid napier grass, a feedstock commonly known as "Packchong" in Thailand. It is being raised in a portion of land owned by this town's Mayor Jose Maria "Jomar" Hizon.

Hizon said there are huge available lands in Bacolor that are viable for growing hybrid napier grass. He said about 200-hectares of land will soon be planted with this kind of grass as fuel for the biomass plant.

He said the stalk of napier grass is use as fuel while the leaves will serve as feedstock.

This hybrid napier grass, Hizon added, easily grow and is weather resistant. It grows without the aid of chemicals or pesticides. He said a farmer can harvest the grass after 110 days or over three months from the day it is planted.

Hizon said the biomass power plant project will be built under the "build-operate-owned-transfer" scheme. This kind of technology, he said, had been found to be cost efficient and touted to be a source of green energy, which the government is pushing under its Renewable Energy (RE) Roadmap.

Last week, the Department of Energy and the Climate Change Commission has signed a memorandum of cooperation and understanding (MOCU) in an effort to aggressively push for a sustainable renewable energy program to address the adverse effects of climate change in the country.

“Our continuing goal is to triple our RE capacities by 2030. To date, we remain confident that this aim will be achieved,” said Energy Undersecretary Raul B. Aguilos in his speech during the signing of MOCU.

He added that the local government units will also play a significant role in this endeavor for the speedy development and successful implementation of RE programs executed under their localities.

The first customer of AET biomass gasifier, once it is operational, is the sprawling meat processing plant of Pampanga’s Best.

Published in the Sun.Star Pampanga newspaper on May 20, 2014.

DISCLAIMER: Sun.Star website welcomes friendly debate, but comments posted on this site do not necessary reflect the views of the Sun.Star management and its affiliates. Sun.Star reserves the right to delete, reproduce or modify comments posted here without notice. Posts that are inappropriate will automatically be deleted.

Forum rules: Do not use obscenity. Some words have been banned. Stick to the topic. Do not veer away from the discussion. Be coherent and respectful. Do not shout or use CAPITAL LETTERS!
