
IKEA has filed to build a museum in Almhult, Sweden, on the site of the recently relocated IKEA Almhult store (pictured). This is also the site of IKEA's first store built in 1958. The museum will open in fall 2015.

IKEA was founded by Ingvar Kamprad (pictured) in 1943 as an odds-and-ends company selling products ranging from cigarette lighters to nylon stockings.

IKEA maintains a corporate presence in Almhult, with furniture testing facilities and an exhibition of the company's history entitled "IKEA Through the Ages." This photo shows the first IKEA store in 1959 or 1960.

Today, there are 355 IKEA stores in 44 countries, including France, where this innovative "bathroom" billboard stands in Paris. The latest store opened in Tachikawa, Japan, in April.

When record high temperatures hit China in 2013, an IKEA in Beijing saw a surge in interest from citizens looking for air-conditioning, comfortable sofas and a good nap.

From the IKEA Museum, we expect at least one exhibition devoted to meatballs -- horsemeat scare and all.

These questions, and more, will no doubt be posed by the visitors who head to the new IKEA Museum opening next year.

Of course, we might need to hammer together our own answers, having wound our way through thousands of irrelevant facts first.

But perhaps a DIY museum experience will be even more satisfying once completed.

The furniture company that changed the affordability of design has filed to build a museum on the site of its first store in Sweden.

Tentatively scheduled to open in fall 2015, the museum will take up 7,000 square meters on the site of the recently relocated IKEA store in Almhult, also the site of IKEA'S first store opened by founder Ingvar Kamprad in 1958.

Almhult is known as "IKEA Town" for being the birthplace of IKEA, which still maintains a strong corporate presence in the city.

While the then-17-year-old Kamprad had already registered IKEA as a business in 1943, selling products ranging from nylon stockings to cigarette lighters, the Almhult site was the first brick-and-mortar store as well as the company's first furniture showroom.

A small exhibition of IKEA's history, titled " IKEA through the ages ," is already in place at the basement of the corporate culture center in Älmhult, but company reps are hoping that the new museum will be a much bigger tourist draw.

"In the IKEA Museum we plan to tell the IKEA story, focusing on range, business and people development over time," said Michele Acuna, managing director for IKEA Tillsammans, the corporate culture center.

"We also plan to have a museum shop and food services for our visitors," said Acuna, adding that the museum is expected to draw "roughly 200,000 visitors annually when it is in full steam."

Would you pay a visit to the IKEA Museum in Sweden? Let us know in the comments.

From Myanmar to Mickey Mouse, Stefan Zwanzger, aka The Theme Park Guy, gives his rundown of the best.

Four hundred years after the death of Countess Elizabeth Bathory, her murderous exploits prove a grisly attraction.

Formed by volcanoes and steeped in a rich history of Polynesian culture, Hawaii sounds more like a place in a fantasy novel rather than an American travel oasis.

Despite Kyoto's allure, until this year there's been a glaring absence from the city's travel scene -- a top tier, super-luxury hotel brand.

Why global adventurer Alastair Humphreys now looks for 'microadventures' close to home.

Don't order Corona and don't freak out when you see Jessica Alba without makeup and you might pass for local.

History buff? Hardcore surfer? These South Pacific islands have every traveler covered.

Airlines and airports are going high-tech to reduce your time in line.

Summer isn't over yet. These new hotels are keeping it alive and fresh.

Eight of the top 10 scoring cities in the Economic Intelligence Unit's annual Liveability Survey are in Australia and Canada.

When a man tells me to "trust him," my typical reaction is to run.

Efforts to preserve one of Hong Kong's most storied districts are underway in an old tenement building in Wan Chai.

From Colombia to Canada, this handful of urban centers is leading the two-wheel charge.

Photographer gives Hong Kong skyscrapers a radical new look.

A cage-free shark photographer gets up close and personal with the ocean's most feared predators.
