
After Resigning, Brahimi Says Iran's Syria Plan 'Worth Discussing'

Former U.N. special envoy for Syria reflects on the prospects for a political solution in the country.

Lakhdar Brahimi, the former United Nations and Arab League Special Envoy to Syria, says there are "hopeful signs" in political negotiations surrounding Syria.

WASHINGTON — Lakhdar Brahimi, who resigned on May 13 as Joint United Nations-League of Arab States Special Representative for Syria, said that an Iranian proposal for a political solution in Syria is "worth discussing."

“I told the Security Council the other day, one of the hopeful signs, maybe a straw that you are trying to catch out of this desperate situation, is that the Iranians have been saying let’s get all the foreign fighters out,” Brahimi said in an exclusive interview with Al-Monitor in Washington.

Brahimi, who succeeded Kofi Annan as Syria envoy in September 2012, lamented that divisions in the UN Security Council and the region complicated his diplomacy in support of a political transition in Syria.

The veteran Algerian diplomat, who previously served as the UN special representative to Afghanistan, Iraq, Haiti and South Africa, said that there may have been a missed opportunity with Russia early in the crisis.

“I think the Russian analysis was right at the beginning, but everybody thought that it was an opinion and not an analysis. The Russians were saying that Syria is not Egypt and it is not Tunisia, and the president of Syria is not going to fall in a matter of two or three weeks. People thought that this was not an analysis, it was an expression of position: 'We are going to support this regime,'” Brahimi said.

Brahimi said that while the Syrian government “is justified in drawing attention to the fact that terrorism, as they describe it, is a reality in Syria,” that is not the full story.

“The Syrian regime has got to accept that it is not totally innocent of what is happening there. And that it is because of the situation, the rigidity of the regime, the brutality of their answer to the arrival of the Arab Spring (if the Arab Spring exists) to their country, that has opened the country to terrorists and foreign jihadists. And we cannot forget that,” he said.

Brahimi reflected on some progress in the disposition of the Syrian opposition in the talks.

Brahimi appealed for those dealing with Syria to put the Syrian people first.

“This may sound like the language of a priest, but I very strongly believe a lot of people are not really thinking of Syria. There are a lot of agendas involved in this that have very little to do with the Syrian people,” he said.

The transcript of the interview follows.

Brahimi: First of all I think the secretary-general has put [not only] a lot of his personal thinking, but also a lot of his emotions, into this. He really cares for the Syrian people, for the country and for what is happening to it, and he really feels it is our common failure.

Why? The UN is the sum total of the parts that make the UN. And right from the beginning it was very clear that the region was divided. The Syrians were divided. And the best hope, both for [previous Syria envoy] Kofi Annan and myself was that we were to work from outside, and come into the inside, as it were. So we tried the outer ring, which is the Security Council, and for me that was specifically the Americans and the Russians.

The thing is, very soon in Syria things were polarized, and the circle that needed to be squared, was that one part of the parties, both inside Syria, and around Syria, and even further afield, was that there cannot be a solution with Bashar al-Assad and his immediate surroundings, while the other side said there cannot be a solution without Bashar al-Assad.

This is the circle that everybody tried to square, and failed, and to a certain degree it is still the question that is to be resolved.

Maybe, maybe if people listened to them, and went to them, and said, "Listen, you clearly know the situation in Syria better than anybody else. Let’s sit down and see how we can help Syria solve its problems." Perhaps things would have been different. But that did not happen.

Something extremely important took place on May 7, 2013, in Moscow, when [Russian Foreign Minister Sergey] Lavrov and [US Secretary of State John] Kerry agreed on four very important points.

One, that Syria was a very dangerous crisis for Syria, for the region and for the world.

Two, there was no military solution in Syria.

Three, a political solution is possible, and the Geneva Declaration contains the elements that can be the basis of a solution.

And four, we, Russia and America, are going to work together and with others, in particular the United Nations, to make that solution possible.

We have tried to widen the base of that agreement between the two parties. It has been very very slow, but we were making progress when Ukraine happened. And that is making it difficult for the Russians and the Americans to work together.

Copyright 2014 © U.S. News & World Report LP.
