
TURNING TASSELS — The University of Wisconsin-Whitewater ushered more than 1,400 graduates across the stage and into the next chapter of their lives on Saturday during commencement exercises at the Kachel Fieldhouse. Almost 5,000 people filled the filled the fieldhouse to help celebrate the accomplishments of those before them. Shown here are images from Saturday’s commencement.

TURNING TASSELS — The University of Wisconsin-Whitewater ushered more than 1,400 graduates across the stage and into the next chapter of their lives on Saturday during commencement exercises at the Kachel Fieldhouse. Almost 5,000 people filled the filled the fieldhouse to help celebrate the accomplishments of those before them. Shown here are images from Saturday’s commencement.

TURNING TASSELS — The University of Wisconsin-Whitewater ushered more than 1,400 graduates across the stage and into the next chapter of their lives on Saturday during commencement exercises at the Kachel Fieldhouse. Almost 5,000 people filled the filled the fieldhouse to help celebrate the accomplishments of those before them. Shown here are images from Saturday’s commencement.

TURNING TASSELS — The University of Wisconsin-Whitewater ushered more than 1,400 graduates across the stage and into the next chapter of their lives on Saturday during commencement exercises at the Kachel Fieldhouse. Almost 5,000 people filled the filled the fieldhouse to help celebrate the accomplishments of those before them. Shown here are images from Saturday’s commencement.

Posted: Monday, May 19, 2014 8:45 am | Updated: 8:49 am, Mon May 19, 2014.

WHITEWATER — Saturday was a day filled with pride and emotion on the University of Wisconsin-Whitewater campus as new graduates, family and friends gathered to celebrate accomplishments, achievements and a lot of hard work. More than 1,400 UW-Whitewater graduates received degrees in undergraduate and graduate commencement ceremonies in the university’s Kachel Fieldhouse.

Tears streamed down the face of Ashley Murphy, 23, of Racine, who graduated with a bachelor’s degree in communication.

UW-Whitewater Chancellor Richard Telfer said that, in his 29 years with the university, he’s seen the campus and the community develop together.

Telfer said that while most of the students come from the area around Whitewater, within about 80 miles of campus, the university also draws students from more than 30 counties. Saturday’s graduating class included students from places such as Germany, China and Saudi Arabia.

The graduates also included 44 students who are veterans and 137 who consider themselves nontraditional students.

“Regardless of the paths they have taken, our students are proud of the hard work and the time they have invested to reach their goals,” Telfer said.

The university just completed its 146th year and has an enrollment of 12,015 full- and part-time students. It currently offers 52 undergraduate majors, 11 master’s degrees, an educational specialist degree, and is now offering a Doctorate of Business Administration.

Saturday’s undergraduate commencement speaker, Donald Hughes, vice president and chief financial officer of Colony Brands, Inc., shared a bit of wisdom with students.

He noted that in the summer of 1976, Hughes was 15 years old when he lost his father in a car crash. Hughes told graduates that to find success in life, they should “show up,” always keep a positive attitude and persevere through difficulties.

Bernadine Stovall of Madison said she was terribly proud of her son, Quincy Barnes, who graduated with a bachelor’s degree in public policy and administration. Stovall said her son maintained his gradepoint average and kept his graduation on track, despite family challenges.

Posted in News , Whitewater on Monday, May 19, 2014 8:45 am. Updated: 8:49 am.

We're always interested in hearing about news in our community. Let us know what's going on!
