
CCAP executive director and spokesperson Alex Ilagan said consumers have to be smart when shopping online, aware about the whole purchasing process, know who they are dealing with, and assured their account and credit card details are being dealt with safely.

Online reputation can be checked through searches of the Internet for comments from others on consumer review sites.

But before sending credit card details, consumers are advised to find out about the billing, guarantees and delivery details as some online sellers are charging additional costs on top of the original price.

Look for a privacy policy and learn about whether the company uses your information beyond the purchase transaction, for example, to email you with updates or deals etc. or if it passes on information to third party merchants.

“When you make a card transaction, you should never be asked for your PIN or online banking password. Your PIN should only be inputted by you at cash machines and physical, point-of-sale terminals,” Ilagan said.

When making a payment online, the cardholder will be asked for the three or four-digit security number (CVV2 code), which is usually found on the back of the card.

Unless express permission has been given, sites are not allowed to store the customers card details after the transaction has been completed.

Ilagan also said it is necessary that credit cardholder should know the bank’s policy for online fraud protection as many credit card companies usually offer protection against purchases made without consent and have special clauses to include online purchases.

If the buyers have issues with the product delivered, immediately coordinate directly with the seller.

However, should there be issues with the amount charged, or overcharging and even unauthorized purchases, like fraud, cardholder should coordinate with issuing bank.

“Common requirements are an accomplished Dispute Form which they can request from the bank as well as proof of purchase or cancellation,” Ilagan said.

Meanwhile, the public is cautioned against email scams or phishing emails designed to obtain personal information, such as passwords and credit card details.
