
At least 17 people including two women were killed in different incidents of violence, enmity and mishaps over the past 48 hours.

According to details, in Jhang, one Hibat Khan, a resident of Mauza Papaliwala situated in the remit of Sattlite Town Police gunned down his sister Nasreen Bibi on the suspicion of having illicit relations with someone of the same village.

The police have registered a case while a person who received bullet injuries in the incident was admitted to DHQ Hospital.

In another incident, the salesman of a local beverage company identified as Muhammad Israr was shot dead on resistance by three armed dacoits. Two other persons also sustained gunshot wounds in the incident occurred in the remit of Mossan Police. The injured were admitted to DHQ Hospital. Israr was a resident of Basti Hussainabad on Jhang-Sargodha Road. The police have registered a case.

Similarly, a rickshaw river identified as Ghulam Farid, a resident of Adda Madhani Jutt was killed when a speeding car hit his rickshaw. Two other persons sustained critical injuries in the incident who were admitted to RHC Mochiwala. The Mochiwala Police have registered a case.

In yet another incident, one Nasir Ahmad, a resident of Basti Malah wali drowned in River Chenab near Mauza Patwana when he was swimming in the river.

In Muzaffargarh, three persons died on the spot while another sustained injuries in collision between car and a truck near Grid Chowk in Tehsil Jatoi.

The injured was shifted to Jatoi THQ Hospital.

The deceased and injured said to be residents of Rajanpur.

In another mishap occurred on Daira Deenpanah Road in Tehsil Kot Addu, five persons were seriously injured. The injured were shifted to Kot Addu THQ Hospital.

Similarly in Sheikhupura, three labourers died after a well they were digging collapsed in Dera Ghous Wala adjacent to village Rohi Wala.

Reportedly the deceased including 25-year-old Talib, 23-year-old Bashir and 24-year-old Sajjad were digging a well to install a tube-well in a field owned by a farmer namely Waryam. As they dug about 20 feet deep a heavy landslide fell on them, burying the three labourers under the debris.

Unfortunately nobody was present when the incident took place, therefore rescue operation could not be carried out in time. However, after sometime, three passers-by noticed the incident and called in other villagers who pulled out the dead bodies. TheSaddr Police have started investigation.

In another incident a motorcyclist died after being hit by a speeding car on Sharqpur Road. As per reports, the deceased Asghar Ali was going to his village when a speeding car hit his bike, killing him instantly. The car driver succeeded in fleeing the scene.

In Toba Tek Singh in a boy committed suicide in Gojra over unknown reason. Deceased Abdullah of Taaki Mohallah took poison after quarrelling with parents.

He was shifted to Faisalabad Allied Hospital where he died.

On the other hand, the Gojra Saddr Police recovered the dead body of an unidentified woman from Jhang branch canal near Chak 420/JB. According to police the body carried severe torture marks.

Meanwhile, in Arifwala, two youth were killed by lightning while harvesting wheat here the other day.

The incident occurred when six persons including Awais and Faqeer, residents of village 66/EB were harvesting wheat in village 82/EB. All of sudden it started rain and lightning struck both Awais and Faqeer alias bao, killing them on the spot.

In Hafizabad, two persons were shot dead in two different villages here on Monday.

According to police source, a young villager Amjad Ali in Thatha Raika was shot at and killed by his nephew Muhammad Asif due to family dispute.

It is said that both deceased and accused exchanged harsh words, thereupon, Asif opened firing on him as a result of which Amjad Ali died on-the-spot. His dead body has been shifted to the morgue for autopsy.

The police have arrested the accused Asif and registered a case Under Section 302 PPc.

An unidentified young man’s dead body was found lying in the graveyard of Papa Nagri. The dead body bore signs of bullet wounds. Somebody had killed him and thrown the dead body in the graveyard of Papa Nagri (Karyala).

The dead body has been shifted to the DHQ morgue. The motive of the offence has not yet been ascertained. The police have registered a case against unidentified accused. The body has not yet been identified.
