
Already have a Rappler Account? Login OR Register to create one.

Welcome to Rappler, a social news network where stories inspire community engagement and digitally fuelled actions for social change. Rappler comes from the root words "rap" (to discuss) + "ripple" (to make waves).

MANILA, Philippines – China's construction of a suspected airstrip in the West Philippine Sea (South China Sea) proves the need for the ASEAN Code of Conduct, according to President Benigno Aquino III.

Just days after the Department of Foreign Affairs (DFA) released photos showing the construction on Mabini Reef in the Spratlys , Aquino emphasized the need for something more concrete to guide actions in the region.

He said that at present ASEAN has a Declaration on the Conduct of Parties in the South China Sea (DOC) with China, but that it is not enough.

"In my view, what happened in Mischief Reef back in the day, what is being done now, all these are seemingly in violation with the agreed upon Declaration of Conduct," Aquino told reporters on Monday, May 19.

"The problem with the declaration is that it's not binding, it's not enforceable or operational. For it to become operational and enforceable, we need a Code of Conduct. That's why in 2012 in Cambodia, we pushed for the quick finalization of this Code of Conduct to stop this dispute or the potential to sow chaos."

Philippine Foreign Secretary Albert del Rosario said then that he simply wanted the statement to include his discussion on Scarborough Shoal. At the time, Manila was accusing Beijing of installing blocks on the shoal.

The ASEAN ministers' summit, however, ended not only without a mention of the disputed area, but with the absence of a joint statement altogether.

A lot have happened since then as both the Philippines and China insisted on their stand as far as the West Philippine Sea was concerned.

The latest was the protest lodged by the Philippines against China for the reclamation on Mabini Reef, which the Chinese snubbed.

He said this provision, which disallows any new facilities until territorial disputes are resolved, was clearly breached.

Fields with * are required.

Click close to continue.
