
(MENAFN - Kuwait News Agency (KUNA)) The Syrian opposition forces on Sunday made a big push into key positions controlled by the regime troops in the central governorate of Hama, and downed a military transport plane in the northern governorate of Idlib.

At least 34 military personnel, including officers and pro-regime militiamen, were killed in a coordinated attack by mainly Islamic factions on the strategic military checkpoint in Tal Malh town on the western outskirts of Hama, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights (SOHR) reported.

The attack, launched by Al-Nusra Front, Ajnad Al-Sham Islamic Union, Islamic Front and Al-Sham Army led to fall of the position and the town in the hands of the opposition forces and triggered air attacks by the regime.

The opposition forces also advanced in Tal Burhan in Qal'at al Madiq town, Idlib governorate, and Jabal Al-Turkman and Jabal Shalma in the western Latakia governorate, amid reports of regular troops defecting the army.

The SOHR affirmed that a military transport plane was shot down while trying to land at Abu Al-Duhur airport in Idlib.

The Syrian Air Force hit back by attacking with powder kegs the positions controlled by the opposition forces in the towns of Tal Malh, Sarja, Kafr Zita, Jabal Al-Zawya and Khan Shaikhon, Aleppo districts of Al-Mayser and Al-Sokkari, and parts of the southern governorate of Daraa; reports on casualties have yet to be received.

Meanwhile, battles are raging between the Free Syrian Army (FSA) and the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) in Deir-Ezor governorate, east Syria; at least one fighter belonging to the FSA was killed.

The state-run SANA news agency said the regular troops managed to recapture Al-Ousaj village in Al-Sanamayn District, Daraa, and reopened the Al-Sanamayn-Zamryn road.

On his part, Syrian Prime Minister Wael Al-Halqi condemned the UN Security Council Resolution 2139 as a political manipulation of the humanitarian dossier.

The Syrian Ministry of Foreign and Expatriates Affairs stands firm against such political endeavors through affirming the basic international principles governing the role of the UN notably the respect for national sovereignty, SANA quoted Al-Halqi as saying.
