
The Corporate Place in Mbabane. Mbabane is the most affordable place to invest in property.

MBABANE- An analysis of commercial property rates has unearthed that Ezulwini is the most expensive town to own and maintain property in Swaziland.

An analysis of the recently levied commercial properties rates in Mbabane, Manzini, Ezulwini and Matsapha showed that the valley’s commercial property rates were comparatively higher.

When compared with the rest of other towns, Ezulwini’s commercial property rates were 81.08 per cent higher than Mbabane. The valley also has commercial rates that were 50.45 per cent higher than Matsapha.

Meanwhile, Manzini’s commercial property rates were found to be 39 per cent lower than Ezulwini- which was recently christened as the fastest developing town in the country.

Principal Secretary in the Ministry of Housing and Urban Development Clifford Mamba said it was procedural for some towns to record a much higher commercial property rate.

Mamba explained that the major determining factor for commercial property rates were the value of the properties as calculated by the town’s valuer.

“All the levied rates are based on a report tabled by evaluators to the councils.

Upon completion of these evaluations, adverts are placed inviting property owners to make objections if they are not satisfied with the evaluations. These evaluations are then used to calculate the final commercial property rates,” Mamba clarified.

 In Swaziland, neither land prices nor property prices are regulated. This effectively means property owners, both residential and commercial, apply the ‘willing seller, willing buyer’ principle based on the fact that Swaziland is an open economy.

An open economy is an economy in which there are economic activities between the domestic community and outside; for example people, including businesses, can trade in goods and services with other people and businesses in the international community.

The snap survey on rates generally, disclosed that Manzini has the highest rates of commercial land, which was 83 per cent higher than that of Ezulwini.

Meanwhile, the capital city of Mbabane has commercial land rates that are 62 per cent lower than Manzini.

The industrial town of Matsapha has commercial land rates that are 38 per cent higher than at the hub of the kingdom.

In terms of residential land, Mbabane has the highest rates than the rest of the other towns.

Overall, Ezulwini emerged as the most expensive town to own and maintain property. This suggest it is more costly to buy and maintain property in Ezulwini than in Mbabane, Matsapha and Manzini.
