
We were sad to bid our ship farewell this morning. We purchased a bus transfer to the airport which I think was good value at $60.00 as the airport was quiet a long way from the port.

You will never guess who I stood next to at the airport today, Andre Reau couldn't believe my eyes I had to do a double take but yes it was him and him crew looking for their charter plane. If I had of been game I could have perhaps got his autograph.

Copenhagen airport is huge and very busy.  We have a few hours to kill so a good chance to catch up on our mail while we wait. $12.00 for two hot chocolates so it could've expensive wait.

. We did a tour called twin cities and Hamlets Castle. Our tour bus drove onto the ferry which was amazing. Once the bus was on the ferry we got off and went up some stairs and the ferry was amazing had bars, cafés, and even a shop like a mini market. Hardly enough time to check it all out as the crossing from Sweden to Denmark is only about 4k's and takes 20 minutes.

We did a walking tour of some very old building on the Swedish side dating back to 1462 then the ferry crossing and did a tour of Hamlet's castle one the Danish side. When we got back to the dock it started to rain so we got a little damp but not soaked as we waited for the tender boats. As it was Sunday not a lot was open but it made it much easier for our tour less crowds etc. Waiting on the dock were about half a dozen young girls all dressed in Swedish costumes handling out long stem rises to all the ladies which was absolutely gorgeous. I gave mine to Melody our little Philippino  girl who looked after us most evenings.

When we returned to our cabin last night Johnny had made us a towel monkey hanging from the ceiling with a rose in his mouth and chocolates in his paws. I have attached a photo for you.

Almost forgot to tell you the last sea day before Sweden we had a medical evacuation, a passenger was air lifted by the Denmark Coastguard. We had returned to our cabin about 8.15 and as the sun doesn't set until about 10 we decided it was too early to turn in so went down for a drink and while we were chatting with some people from QLD the captain came on the PA to announce they were going to do a medical evacuation so we raced up to the 12th deck and watched the helicopter land on the deck. A walk in the park as the Captain described it. I must say the sailing has been so smooth you have to keep looking out to make sure we were still moving.

Just ran into the Rock Tenors they are off to Russia to perform.

Not long to our flight leaves for Stockholm can't wait to see the kids.
