
The story has recently emerged of Ali Pektash - once a devout Muslim man from Turkey, who recently shared more about his testimony of how he traveled to Mecca to worship Allah and strengthen his Islamic faith, but instead returned home as a Christian after meeting Jesus Christ in a dream.

Pektash had been planning on going to the most sacred city in the Islamic religion after his friends convinced him to make the pilgrimage (Hajj) to Mecca to help him combat his addiction to alcohol.

When he arrived to Mecca, he cried out to God for help in the troubles he was experiencing, and then he fell asleep. It was at this time, he testifies that he met Jesus face- to-face.

"You believe in Me now; leave this place," said Jesus to Pektash after he touched him on the chest in the dream, according to Israel Today.

Additionally, when he took a shower the next day, he saw the hair on his chest had turned white in the shape of a hand where Jesus had touched him.

When he returned home to Turkey to a traditional homecoming celebration put on when after Muslims travel to Mecca, he stunned everybody with his newfound faith in Jesus.

In addition, he cried and apologized to his wife for the way he had been treating her before his journey.

Years later, he created a Christian church in the Turkish capital of Ankara, which he gave to loyal church elders when he started doing work near his hometown located in Eastern Turkey.

Pektash's new mission is to reunite the descendants of Abraham's sons: Ishmael (Arabs) and Isaac (Jews) through Jesus Christ. Pektash recently spoke at a conference at the Christ Church in Jerusalem called At the Crossroads to Arabs and Jews who converted to Christianity, in an attempt to mend the relationship between the two groups of people who have historically feuded with each other.

"We have a very important ministry - to reconcile the world," said Pektash. "Everybody in Turkey says they believe in God, but people are persecuting me!"

He now testifies his love for Jesus, and works to reconcile others with the love and forgiveness he has received himself.
