
Syrian expatriates around the world have been invited by Damascus to go to Syrian embassies and consulates on May 28 to vote in polls widely expected to give incumbent President Bashar al-Assad a third term in office.

The Tunisian government said on Monday that it would not allow Syrian nationals to cast ballots in their country's upcoming presidential election at the Syrian embassy in Tunis.

"There will be no Syrian electoral process on Tunisian territory," Foreign Ministry spokesman Mukhtar Shawashi told Anadolu Agency, noting that Syrian diplomats were currently absent from Tunisia.

Meanwhile, Ahmed al-Kahlawi, a vocal advocate for the restoration of Tunisia-Syria diplomatic relations, said Syrian presidential polls could not be held in Tunisia in the absence of Syrian diplomats.

"Nor have there been any requests for any of the embassies of other countries to run the affairs of Syrian expatriates," al-Kahlawi told AA.

Syrian expatriates around the world have been invited by Damascus to go to Syrian embassies and consulates on May 28 to vote in polls widely expected to give incumbent President Bashar al-Assad a third term in office.

Polling inside Syria is scheduled for June 3 – a process opposed by several Arab countries, as well as the Syrian opposition.

Interim Tunisian President Moncef Marzouki decided in February to sever diplomatic relations with Syria, while the Syrian ambassador in Tunisia was declared persona non grata.

Marzouki cited rising numbers of civilian casualties in the ongoing domestic conflict in Syria as a reason for the decision.

Syria has been ravaged by civil war for more than three years. In recent weeks, the balance appears to have tilted in favor of the Syrian regime, which recently announced the recapture of several areas from opposition forces.

The war has displaced millions of people – both inside and outside Syria – and given rise to an unprecedented humanitarian crisis.

U.N. envoy to Syria Lakhdar Brahimi announced his resignation on May 13, expressing regret for his inability to forge a coherent international response to the crisis.

© 2006 All Rights Reserved.

Copyright, trade marks and other intellectual property rights in this website can not be reproduced without the prior permission.
