
May 19, 2014, 8:30 p.m.

IT WAS another day of top competition for the Mount Isa Softball Association on Saturday with a couple of close games in all grades.

IT WAS another day of top competition for the Mount Isa Softball Association on Saturday with a couple of close games in all grades.

In the match of the day at T-Ball, Rebels fought hard to only lose to Wanderers 21-20, with some solid hits off the tee highlighting the players' talents.

In the 3-pitch, a gallant Wanderers went down to Pirates 10-7 with some excellent skills on show.

In under-12s, Wanderers had two close games, winning both by small margins.

In the under-15 competition, Red Devils beat both Wanderers and Pirates.

Rebels and Wanderers fought out the A-reserve men's clash with Rebels being narrowly defeated in an absorbing contest.

In A men Wanderers and Rebels fought out the first game with Wanderers winning a close game 7-6.

Some big hitting by Alex Kostowski, Jason Wellington and Ryan Smith helped get the Wanderers team home.

For Rebels, Matt Hovi and Alex Cleary worked tirelessly in their team's narrow defeat.

In the last A grade game, Red Devils defeated Pirates 7-2 with some big hitting on both sides. Reggie Nardoo and Josh Wagner launched long bombs.

The pitchers' battle between Phil Horne and Jaymon King kept this contest close until the end.

Open ladies had some fierce and absorbing games with a tight 4-4 draw fought out between the Pirates and Red Devils.

Some excellent defence from both sides and the pitching of Taelah Nardoo and the precision hitting of Kaye Smith kept Pirates in the contest.

Melissa Horne at the pitchers plate and Jodie-Lee King's big hitting kept Red Devils on pace with the opposition.

In the other open ladies games Rebels Red proved too strong for Wanderers Blue and Wanders Gold was too strong for Wanderers White.

Superb pitching from Megan Protheroe of Rebels Red kept the Wanderers Blue bats quiet, while Leanne Rumbalu ensured the Wanderers White batters had a hard day at the office.

The last open ladies match between Rebels Blue and Rebels White was a hard-fought affair with Rebels Blue finally winning the contest 4-3.

The big hitting of Sonya Reid and the wily pitching of Jo Jo Svenson got the Rebels Blue girls home in the twilight.

Taryn Mullavey was one of Rebels White's best, with her batting and excellent fielding helping to keep her team in the contest.

A GRADE MEN: Wanderers catcher Alex Kostowski takes the catch at home plate but Rebels runner Darryl Parker was too fast on his feet and made it safely across home plate to score his team another run.
