
Your Fairfax Membership account setup is complete. We are redirecting    you now. Please use this email "      " to log in to the Financial Review in the future.

Russia is set to sign a $US100 billion ($107 billion) deal to supply cheap gas to China that will weaken international sanctions against Moscow, as the two countries begin joint military exercises on Tuesday in disputed waters off the coast of Japan.

In a symbolic sign of warming neighbourly relations, Chinese President Xi Jinping and his Russian counterpart, Vladimir Putin, will jointly observe the war games for the first time. In another first, the annual exercises will be held in the East China Sea, a key regional flashpoint claimed by Tokyo and Beijing.

Chinese state media are promoting the exercises as “defensive” but the week-long event is set to further inflame tensions, as Beijing and Washington complete for strategic influence in the region.

The emergence of a Sino-Russian bloc is likely to further complicate Australia’s difficult position in region, where Canberra already finds itself caught between its biggest trading partner in China and its long-standing security alliance with the US.

“Australia does not want to see emerging rivalry between this China-Russia bloc on one side and the US bloc on the other,” said Mr Zhang.

In return for supporting Beijing’s war games, Russia is looking for trade deals as it finds itself increasing isolated after its invasion of Ukraine. Mr Putin and Mr Xi are expected to sign an agreement for Russia to pipe gas into China when they meet on the sidelines of a regional summit in Shanghai this week.

The first stage of the 30-year deal, which has been a decade in the making, is expected to be worth between $US10 billion and $US12 billion a year for the next 10 years, according to CLSA oil and gas analyst, Simon Powell.

A tentative agreement signed in March last year was for Russia’s government-controlled Gazprom to deliver the state-owned China National Petroleum Corp, 38 billion cubic meters of gas from 2018. There is an option to increase this to 60 billion cubic meters a year once the pipeline is completed.

According to Mr Powell, the deal is likely to be struck at around $US10 per million British thermal units, or million BTUs , far cheaper than the $US15/per million BTUs being paid for Australian liquefied natural gas.

“We are still exchanging views with Moscow and we will try our best to ensure that this contract can be signed and witnessed by the two presidents during President Putin’s visit to China,” deputy Chinese foreign minister Cheng Guoping said on Thursday.

Speculation a deal is imminent has sparked the longest rally in Gazprom’s shares since 2006. Any deal is likely to annoy the US, which urged China earlier this month not to ink significant trade or investment deals with Russia.

“We discussed, as we do with many nations, the impact our sanctions are having and the importance that they are not offset by others coming in,” US Treasury Secretary Jacob Lew said during a visit to Beijing last week.

Under the leadership of President Xi, Russia and China have become closer as both sides find themselves increasingly isolated. Mr Xi made Moscow the first overseas destination he visited after becoming Chinese President in March 2013.

During his meeting with Mr Putin, he called Russia a “good neighbour, good partner and good friend”. Mr Putin returned the compliment saying, Mr Xi had come to see a “good friend”.
