
This was closely followed by Australian confectionery company Nutworks and Big Retail, which manages the inflight retail operations across AirAsia and its subsidiary airlines.

In May last year membership stood at 87 companies so the new total of 102 companies represents an increase of 15% in 12 months.

During the past year the APTRA executive office has been expanding the work of the association which brings a range of benefits to members, including advocacy, training, research and access to a network of industry contacts across the Asia/Pacific region.

The announcement of the additional members was made at the Annual General Meeting which was held during TFWA Asia Pacific Exhibition & Conference in Singapore.

At the meeting, APTRA president Jaya Singh also announced that two members of the board, Gerry Munday of Furla and Steffen Brandt of Heinemann Asia Pacific, had resigned due to work commitments. In addition Thibaut de Poutier of Pernod Ricard has resigned since the 2013 AGM and has already been replaced by Ivy Wong of Changi Airport Group.

The new members elected by the membership to the board in their place yesterday are ADFS Group VP Global Business Development Andrew Ford and Gladys Rodriguez, Corporate Affairs and Communications director, Worldwide Duty Free at JTI.

Singh said: “It is my pleasure to welcome Pashma, Nutworks and Big Retail to this busy association. I would like also to welcome our new members to the Board and to express my sincere appreciation to those standing down for their commitment and hard work during their tenure.

“My first term as president has seen exciting plans initiated by my predecessor come to fruition, including the Responsible Retail Training Programme, which is on the brink of region-wide roll-out; the Issues Matrix which will assist us in our protection of the industry; the APTRA database – an essential resource containing details of all the go-to people in the industry; and our research reports containing actionable data on consumer behaviour by channel, product group and nationality.
