
PIGG’S PEAK – The Nsangwini chief’s residence has been petrol bombed. The incident happened on Saturday at around 8.30pm just when the inner council had gone to attend the funeral of the area’s Indvuna John Masilela.

Masilela’s homestead is less than a kilometre away from the chief’s residence. The Nsangwini Umphakatsi is under Chief Longeletjane and it is found 12 kilometres away from Nginamadvolo, to the East of Pigg’s Peak.

Unknown people are said to have sneaked into the umphakatsi, taking advantage of the fact that there was no one present and petrol bombed two rondavel flats. Items and property worth over E25 000 are said to have gone up in smoke.

It was also alleged that the gogo centre had been broken into. George Dlamini told a government delegation including Minister of Tinkhundla Administration and Development Mduduzi Dlamini and Hhohho Regional Administrator Prince Tshekedi that the umphakatsi was petrol bombed.

 “Upon receiving the information, we rushed to the umphakatsi and, indeed, we were welcomed by huge flames. At the time of our arrival firefighters were already on the scene. They tried to extinguish the fire but it was already too late. One of the rondavels, which had a roof of thatched grass, had been completely destroyed,” Dlamini said.

 “We discovered some bottles with petrol. The petrol bottles were lying all over the house. This then made us to suspect that the culprits used petrol to bomb the umphakatsi.  “We don’t know what the motive of the bombing was. Again, we still don’t know why the culprits broke into the gogo centre because there was nothing inside except maize.

“What is very disturbing is the fact that there are clothes which were inside one of the rondavels that were totally destroyed by the fire and had been removed and hidden within the umphakatsi. The owner of the clothes told us that he was away, probably also attending the funeral, when the bombing happened,” Dlamini said.

its sad we know.........sorry guys.God has reasons for everything that happens outcha.

There is no smoke without fire.niyasazi sisusa saloku.
