
The brand new Indian Lok Sabha is all set to place the tea boy Narendra Modi, born in Vadnagar in the Mehsana district of Gujarat in 1950, as the 14th Prime Minister of India. With vermillion powder on his forehead, Modi is here. The trajectory of Indian politics is taking a 180 degree paradigm shift with this overwhelming victory by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) led National Democratic Alliance.

Contrary to common perception, Indian voters have chosen BJP and its leader Narendra Modi for his established performance as economic growth guru in Gujrat during his long 13 year run as chief minister. Indians haven’t voted for Modi because they wanted Hindutva and extreme Hindu nationalism to prevail in India. They have selected him to replicate the same Gujarati economic turnaround throughout India. But what are Modi’s preferences are yet to be seen.

After corrupt and inept Congress rule, which is considered the most corrupt ever in Indian parliamentary history; the Indian public was really desperate for change. Congress sarkar has virtually ruined the last 20 years of unprecedented Indian growth. Indians had tasted the economic boom especially in IT, and so they were ill at ease, very angry watching it slip away due to corruption and callousness of Congress. They didn’t see any other hope but Modi who despite of all controversies had shown 13% growth in Gujarat during the same period when rest of India was languishing in downfall.

For business tycoons, Modi was the man. Modi gave big businesses free hand and free will to do whatever they wanted in Gujarat. He told them that they had all the freedom and their workers didn’t have any rights whatsoever. He assured and then proved practically that government of Gujarat would support capitalists in ever case no matter who was at fault. Businesses got established, boomed, employment for all emerged which directly translated into uplifting of society, and economic indicators surged.

With that success story in one hand, unlimited cash supply from tycoons in other hand; Modi devoured the weakling Gandhi family. Rahul and his mother didn’t stand a chance. So much desperation was there among the Indian voters for change, that they overlooked Modi’s blood tainted past in which he orchestrated and managed and then defended massacre of Muslims in Gujrat. With Modi in charge, the idea of India as a pluralist and inclusive landscape goes out of the window.

Modi is all-Indian Saffron boy who appeals dearly to the pracharaks of Hindutva. He joined Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), the extremist Hindu organization,  just when he was eight years old. RSS also resorts to violence and terrorism against Muslims and Christians whenever they get a chance. Modi has been carefully groomed by the RSS and other Hindu extremist group to rise and then become their boy. After spending 12 years as RSS pracharak, Modi then went to Nagpur to get further training as Hindutva worker and then was admitted in Sangh Parivar, an umbrella organisation consisting of the RSS, the BJP, Bajrang Dal, Vishwa Hindu Parishad and other extremists groups.

by swiftly attacking capturing the Kashmore/Guddu Barrage-Reti-Rahimyar Khan triangle. This is what Indian cold start is all about. Modi would be in search of a slight problem at LOC or in Kashmir to come out with full guns blazing.

Pakistan needs to rethink its foreign policy with India. Being soft and meek wouldn’t work with Modi. This will be taken as sign of weakness by the RSS groomed boy, who is itching to prove his Hindutva. Nobody wants war, but if Modi tries something funny, a befitting response is already very much ready here. The best thing is that PM Nawaz Sharif and COAS Raheel Sharif have already discussed this and a specific defense policy has already been chalked out and is in place with all the SOPs. Foreign policy and channels of talk are still to be finalized after checking Modi’s tone.

That is true. Muslims are poor in Afghanistan, Nigeria, Pakistan, Somalia, Bangladesh because of Hindus. Muslims are fighting each other, if not others in Iraq, Syria, Egypt,Tunisia because of Hindus. Muslims have contributed immensely to the economies of Saudi, Iran, Kuwait, Qatar with their entrepreneurial spirit, and not by selling oil, and fossil fuels. The entire world is out to get you.

I have immense respect for some Muslims that I know, their values, and their opinions. On the other hand, you should take a moment out of your insignificant life and think, we all have to take responsibility for our own actions, and stop blaming others for our inadequacies.

A vast majority of Indians will never vote for modi for his communal image, and that is the very reason why he had to reinvent himself as a good administrator and economic manager. People are fed up with the Congress government and it is manifesting in the results.

But I am apprehensive fro regional safety now as Modi might try something very silly. Pakistan and China won’t sit still and watch.

@Brig Zaman  A very interesting take on Modi by a patriotic Pakistani. The crinals in our Parliamnet is not something I am covering up but most of them are frivolous cases just filed by the opponenets and this malady has to be addressed speedily by the Judiciary.by keeping a time limit on investigation and filing of charges..”"”Indian voters have chosen BJP and its leader Narendra Modi for his established performance as economic growth guru in Gujrat during his long 13 year run as chief minister. Indians haven’t voted for Modi because they wanted Hindutva and extreme Hindu nationalism to prevail in India.”"  Modi got his votes because people from UP/Bihar who consitute the largest migrant labout and work in gujerat have seen the progress and word of mouth it spreads in other states. But Indian people may not want Hinduthva but there is systematic polarisation of votes against appeasement politics by Secularists who were mollycoddling even anti/national and terrorist acts of Muslims.So the ordianry poor Indian has spoken against this Muslim pampering.by socalled Secular leaders from Congress, BSP,SP and Left. But in Tamilnadu and Bengal the two ladies could hold their own by their own development model which in Tamilnadu is superior to Modi’s Gujerat.

There are elements in Sangh parivar like Muthaliks and togadias whom he has to keep in check. Also he will soon learn India is vastly different from Gujerat and if only he curtails freedom tjhis will immediately boomerang. Hope he takes up big ticket items like connecting rivers, connecting all India electricity grid etc.

Pakistan may be thinking of using the apprehension of Indian Muslims by engineering riots which was exposed by the arrest of agent sent by your Colombo embassy in Tamilnadu. Also the arrest of an Hindu mafia agent of yors tasked to kill MIM’s Owaisi in Hyderabad which would have sparked riots also shows old habits die hard.

For me the greatest asset is that Modi is not beholden to USA and western interests in any way. I think this should be used by pakistan to take relations forward. The influence of world bank leaders have gone but powewrful Media and Delhi club are still active.to bring Modi by trumpeting his RSS connection.

Rest of other Pakistanis  are declared Deo-bandis — interestingly in all MASALIKs/Cast of Muslims above mentioned majority wise — strictly/religiously wish to impose Islamic Sharia Laws — but ruling elite is still successfully to dodge rest of these poor & ignored who are called in majority/Pakistanis.

Are you trying to sell to us India is heaven for minorities? Bother reading the Sachar committee’s report on plight of Muslims ? Ever heard about Kashmir? It’s funny how you’ve completely white washed your crimes against humanity and blamed the victim instead. That too while proclaiming your good motives. Care to tell us why so many educated Indian Muslims are forced to migrate to other countries to lead a normal life? Why are they denied jobs and basic human rights? Most of the Muslims countries you mentioned are better in many ways than your hell hole. So, instead of blaming others go and have a look in the mirror. Your so called “modern” state of India is WORSE than sub-saharan Africa in poverty, malnutrition , deprivation. Human rights are non-existent. Women harassment is prevalent so much so your country is termed the worst place for women. Caste based apartheid and history of religious riots and discrimination make your democracy a joke of the world. Extremist Hindutva right is flourishing. With butcher Modi as head of your state, bury your head in humiliation.

And nobody is asking you for respect. The notion of respect is beyond your feral understanding.

TPS has started observing minimal and mainly automatic comments moderation. Our automatic moderation tool tries to moderate comments on the basis of inappropriate keywords. If you feel that your valid and proper comment has been moderated, then please let us know, and we will promptly look into it. If you feel that an inappropriate comment has been ignored by tool, then let us know please, and we will check it. Thanks for your visit and help.
