
MANILA, Philippines -  Gabriela partylist lawmakers and a militant group on Monday blamed the Aquino administration for the death of the newborn daughter of detained activist Andrea Rosal, who, they said was deprived of proper medical care despite repeated calls for her to be transferred to a hospital as she was just weeks from delivering when arrested.

“The regime can afford to give proper medical care to high-profile detainees like (former President Gloria) Arroyo and (alleged pork barrel scam queen Janel) Napoles, how come they could not give the proper medical care for Andrea and Diona Rosal?” Vencer Crisostomo, Anakbayan national chairperson, said, referring to Andrea, daughter of the late Communist Party spokesman Gregorio “Ka Roger” Rosal, and her infant Diona, who died two days after being born at the neonatal unit of the Philippine General Hospital.

Lawyers for Andrea and human-rights groups had repeatedly drawn attention of authorities to the conditions of her detention right after she was seized by a combined NBI-PNP team. Her detention site conditions, they said, put her and the infant in her womb in peril. She was finally moved to PGH just before she delivered, and the infant lived only two days.

Representatives Luz Ilagan and Emmi de Jesus said "words cannot approximate the sorrow nor the rage that we, as women and mothers, would like to express as we hold no less than President Aquino and his Oplan Bayanihan accountable for this murder."

Two-day-old baby Diona Andrea Rosal succumbed to hypoxemia or oxygen deficiency in the blood Sunday afternoon.

Rosal was arrested on March 27, 2014 in Caloocan City on charges of kidnapping and murder.  She was seven months pregnant then.

"The chronology of events that led to her daughter's death all indicate that Andrea Rosal was deliberately deprived of much needed medical care while in detention," Ilagan and De Jesus said.

"Andrea had uterine contractions since the evening of May 15 but was brought back and forth from Camp Bagong Diwa ang the Philippine General Hospital (PGH) because BJMP authorities said there was no available room for her. She was finally admitted on the evening of May 16 and gave birth in the morning of May 17," Karapatan added.

The party-list lawmakers said that "Clearly, Andrea's rights were violated. The deliberate absence of medical attention despite her condition led to the death of Baby Diona Andrea."
