
Syria 's air defense chief has been killed during an offensive by government forces against rebels east of Damascus, according to Islamist rebels and a monitoring group.

They said General Hussein Ishaq died on Sunday from wounds suffered on Saturday during an assault by Assad's forces on the town of Mleiha. The assault appears aimed at expanding the government's control of areas around the capital before a June 3 election.

The air defense forces, which have a large base in Mleiha and are responsible for defending against air attacks, have played little part in the war because the rebels have no air power.

However, Ishaq is one of the most senior military officials to be killed in three years of conflict.

The last high-ranking casualty was Hilal al-Assad, a cousin of President Bashar al-Assad and regional head of the National Defense Force militia, who was killed two months ago in the Mediterranean province of Latakia.

"We announce good news to the Islamic nation, of the killing of one of the leaders of unbelief, General Hussein Yaqoub Ishaq, head of the Air Defense Administration in Mleiha," the Islamic Front said in a statement.

The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, a Britain-based monitoring group, also reported Ishaq's death in Mleiha, which is close to the road linking central Damascus to the international airport.

Mleiha lies on the edge of the eastern Ghouta region - a mix of farmland and small towns that have formed a base for rebel fighters but which have been surrounded by government forces for more than a year.

The army, backed by Shiite fighters from Iraq and Lebanon's Hezbollah group, has pushed back the rebels around Damascus and consolidated the government's grip over central Syria, including the Lebanese border the country's third-largest city, Homs.

State media made no mention of Ishaq's death but pro-government Internet sites said he was "martyred" in Mleiha.

North of Damascus, rebels killed 34 pro-government fighters when they attacked an army post near the town of Tel Malah in Hama province on Sunday, the observatory said.

Video footage released by the rebels showed the building - a school they said the army had commandeered as a base - along with a captured armored personnel carrier and a tank.

The area has changed hands several times during Syria's protracted conflict, and the rebels said it was the third time they had taken control there.

The town of Tel Malah lies on a road linking two Christian towns in Hama province and is also close to several Alawite villages.

Assad's family is from Syria's Alawite minority, who mostly support the president, and many Christians also back him, fearing the increasingly radicalized Sunni Muslim rebels.

The rebels who took over Tel Malah included fighters from the Nusra Front - al-Qaida's official branch in Syria - and the Islamic Front.

. All rights reserved. The content (including but not limited to text, photo, multimedia information, etc) published in this site belongs to China Daily Information Co (CDIC). Without written authorization from CDIC, such content shall not be republished or used in any form. Note: Browsers with 1024*768 or higher resolution are suggested for this site.
