
DAVAO (Updated) -- Suspected New People's Army (NPA) members attacked a police station in North Cotabato on Tuesday, leaving a police officer wounded while three rebels were killed and another hurt during an encounter in President Roxas town.

The provincial police identified the wounded officer as Senior Inspector Bernabe Rubio, chief of the President Roxas Municipal Police Station. Rubio sustained a wound in his head due to broken window glass when the rebels attacked the station.

Eastern Mindanao Command (Eastmincom) Public Information officer Captain Alberto Caber said close to 100 communist rebels attacked the President Roxas Municipal Police Station around 3 a.m. He added that based on 57th Infantry Battalion's information, the rebels came in three vehicles, a multicab, and two mini-trucks.

Caber said the firefight lasted for around 30 minutes before the rebels withdrew toward Barangay Tuael, leaving three bodies of slain rebels at the town hall and police station compound, and another wounded rebel at the mini-dump truck.

"The communist rebels started to fire automatic towards the municipal police station and our PNP (Philippine National Police) men there fought back while waiting for the army reinforcement," Caber said, adding that no casualty was recorded among the government troops.

Lieutenant Colonel Nilo Vinluan, commander of the Army's 57th Infantry Battalion, identified the fatalities as Ronald Arnado, alias Kumander Revo, Totoy Gamay, and Ibot Gumay, of Sitio Buaybuay in Barangay Basak in Magpet town, North Cotabato.

Vinluan said another rebel identified as Orly Gabison, a resident of Amabel in Magpet, was wounded and was brought to hospital in Kidapawan City.

Meanwhile, he said one hand-held radio and an M16 Armalite rifle with M203 were recovered beside him.

"It [such move] was a desperate act by NPA to divert military operations against communist rebels in the tri-borders of Bukidnon, Davao City and North Cotabato," Vinluan said, adding that although the policemen were outnumbered, they were not outsmarted by the surprise attack of the rebels.

DISCLAIMER: Sun.Star website welcomes friendly debate, but comments posted on this site do not necessary reflect the views of the Sun.Star management and its affiliates. Sun.Star reserves the right to delete, reproduce or modify comments posted here without notice. Posts that are inappropriate will automatically be deleted.

Forum rules: Do not use obscenity. Some words have been banned. Stick to the topic. Do not veer away from the discussion. Be coherent and respectful. Do not shout or use CAPITAL LETTERS!
