
Laura Alexander, a 2010 graduate of Pembroke High School, has become the second Hobart and William Smith student this academic year to earn a Fulbright U.S. Student Award to support an English Teaching Assistantship. A double major in writing and rhetoric and English, Alexander will begin teaching English in Malaysia this fall.

Last spring, Alexander traveled to Thailand with 26 other students in the first trip of the new January-term program offered through the Center for Global Education. Following that course, “The Revolutionary Power of a Love-In with Elephants: Environmentalism, Peace and Healing in Thailand,” Alexander knew she wanted to return to Southeast Asia.

Following the Fulbright, Alexander plans to pursue graduate studies in social work or public health with the aim of working further in the education sector.

Created in 1949, the Fulbright Program is the U.S. Government’s flagship international exchange program. The program is designed to increase mutual understanding between the people of the U.S. and numerous nations around the world. Recipients are selected for their academic merit and leadership qualities, and will spend a year living, studying, teaching and conducting research abroad in effort to promote mutual understanding through intellectual freedom, academic integrity and openness.

Posted in News on Monday, May 19, 2014 9:00 am.

1 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language. PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.

2 Don't Threaten. Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated.

3 Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.

4 Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.

5 Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.

6 Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness acounts, the history behind an article.

Welcome to the discussion.

It's easy to do and it's free!

We're always interested in hearing about news in our community. Let us know what's going on!
