
IRINA ZHOROV: Bette Faust is one of the charter members of the Geowives, and a Wyoming native who came to Casper in the 1950s.

ZHOROV: She says many of the women who arrived in Casper were educated do-gooders, but this group was envisioned as a strictly social club.

FAUST: We just come and we laugh and we talk and we have fashion shows.

ZHOROV: Our conversation is cut short be the beginning of the day’s program. Yes, a fashion show. A member, who that day is wearing glittery tights, invited the designers and young models to entertain the group.

FAUST: I’m 93 and I’ve been a caregiver for my husband for 14 years. And I’m exhausted. I’m just a shadow of myself, I really am.

ZHOROV: But you’re still active here.

Faust: Yeah, I try.

FAUST: Oh, I love people, don’t you? I’m a people person.

ZHOROV: As the fashion show starts up the women I’m sitting with joke about picking out an outfit for the upcoming dance they’re planning with the Wyoming Geological Association, the male counterpart to the Geowives. The clothes, made by a young local designer, are sculptural, and, well, perhaps a little riske for some of those present. One flowing gown is white, and a little see-through.

ZHOROV: After all, the youngest girls there are in their 50s.

NIMI MCCONIGLEY: People think, oh, these are women who lunch. They have fashion shows and they have a good time.

MCCONIGLEY: It’s a healthier way than hitting the bar, I think. And it’s certainly cheaper than going to the a psychiatrist if you can meet another woman who’s got a husband in the field and is alone or has lost a husband or has lived through boom and bust, what better support can you get from somebody who’s been on the same journey.

ZHOROV: McConigley sometimes gets frustrated with the exclusively social aspirations of the club, but she says many of the women who arrived in Casper with their husbands, like she did, without knowing anybody, eventually joined the Geowives just to have a place to complain and seek solidarity. It’s a unique kind of sisterhood. Mary McPherson, who joined Geowives 3 years ago, agrees.

MARY MCPHERSON: They all understand about the transferring, the ups and downs, the cyclisity of the industry, you could use the terminology, they understand that, and they’ve just got really great stories about the old days of being out on the wells, perhaps sleeping in cars as their husbands are logging a well and stuff like that.

ZHOROV: Her husband works in the energy industry, but she herself is a geologist, too. In that way, she’s unique.

MCPHERSON: I’ve encountered situations where I’ve been in small towns working in oil fields and been one of the only women that was associated with a property or whatever. Spouses of some of my co-workers they may have been curious about me…[laughs]. Because, you know, there was a time when I was only one of six women earth scientists in all of Chevron USA, so we were an oddity.

ZHOROV: McPherson was only able to join Geowives once she retired. Tuesday afternoon lunches, after all, aren’t ideal for working women. In this way, the group is showing its age. Elizabeth King, who’s been a member since 1975, says it’s hard to attract young members.

LIZ KING: So many of the younger women who come to town are working women. And that’s where our culture has moved.
