
We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. By continuing to browse our site, you are giving your consent for us to set cookies.

However, if you would like to, you can change your cookie settings at any time. Read our cookie policy .

DAKAR (Thomson Reuters Foundation) – There were no windows at Camp Martyr, the Chadian prison where dictator Hissene Habre locked up dissenters. Just eight dark cells, reeking of sweat and urine, where hundreds of men were crammed together, awaiting torture and execution.

Men were beaten. Some were tortured with electric shocks to their chests or genitals. Others had tubes shoved down their throats and their stomachs pumped full of water, said Abdourahmane Gueye, a former prisoner who had been accused of being a spy.

During Habre’s rule in the 1980s, his secret police, known as the DDS, were responsible for political killings, systematic torture, thousands of arbitrary arrests and the targeting of particular ethnic groups, according to  Human Right Watch .

But an unexpected decision last month by the  Chambres Africaines Extraordinaires (CAE), the special court set up to try Habre, to extend the initial 27-month trial by just over a year has come as a blow to victims, already frustrated by years of delay.

Marcel Mendy, spokesman for the CAE, said the 13-month extension would allow the judges to gather the evidence required to try Habre, but it could take longer.

"In Chad, the average life expectancy is 56 years and these crimes took place 23 years ago. Since we started, two out of the seven key witnesses that came to give their testimonies have already died," Brody said. Habre himself is now a frail 71-year-old.

Habre is charged with crimes against humanity, torture and “barbaric acts”. The charges date from 1982 when he seized power in a coup, to 1990 when he was ousted.

"Between 2001 and 2005, Belgian judges gathered a substantial body of evidence to build a strong case against Habre," a diplomat privy to the trial procedures, who didn’t want to be named, told Thomson Reuters Foundation.

The trial budget, seen by Thomson Reuters Foundation, shows the CAE will pay for the extension. The additional costs of judges’ salaries, travel expenses and exhumations will be covered by cutting spending on communicating the work of the court to victims back in Chad and axing financial support for poor victims seeking justice.

We welcome comments that advance the story through relevant opinion, anecdotes, links and data. If you see a comment that you believe is irrelevant or inappropriate, you can flag it to our editors by using the report abuse links. Views expressed in the comments do not represent those of the Thomson Reuters Foundation. For more information see our Acceptable Use Policy .
