
That a one-day old baby named Diona Andrea, whose mother is a detainee at Camp Bagong Diwa in Taguig, died Sunday at the neonatal intensive care unit of the Philippine General Hospital is in itself devastating. All infant deaths, especially when they are from preventable causes, are tragedies.

But when this particular case is taken together with the medical privileges enjoyed by high-profile prisoners—one Janet Lim Napoles immediately comes to mind—the private grief of immediate family members turns to public outrage.

Last week, authorities from the Bureau of Jail Management and Penology delayed Rosal’s transfer to the PGH, which had been granted by the court. Despite her uterine contractions which began on May 15, Rosal was brought back and forth from  the detention cell to the hospital because there was no room available. She was admitted the following evening, after further delays.

She gave birth on May 17.    After her delivery, Rosal was made to leave Diona Andrea at the hospital because the infant needed a respirator and oxymeter.  When she returned and held her baby for the first time, Diona Andrea was dead.

In contrast, the notorious Mrs. Napoles, detained at a comfortable cell in Laguna, has access to doctors and hospitals whenever she feels she needs attention. She stayed for weeks at the Ospital ng Makati prior to an operation; she spent more days there, recuperating. It is also the taxpaying public footing the bill for her upkeep in Laguna—less fancy than the opulent houses she may have been used to, but still  immensely better than the cramped cells many inmates endure, whether or not they are guilty.

There is something to be said about a government which allows this scandalous inequality to persist despite its pronouncements of “tuwid na daan.”  The contrast between the almost-solicitous treatment of Mrs. Napoles and the disregard of the needs and rights of an expectant mother is just galling, especially when taken in the context of Napoles’ supposed knowledge of the dark secrets of those in government, many of whom swear to lead moral, honest and transparent lives.

It’s not just Diona Andrea or her mother, either. The situation is as real for every other detainee who suffers lack —if not absence—of access to medical attention, as if it were not a basic human entitlement, whatever the crime he or she is accused of is.
