
TWO soldiers were wounded in another encounter with communist rebels in Barangay Napnapan, Pantukan in Compostela Valley on Monday morning.

Lieutenant Colonel Norman Zuniega, spokesperson for the Army's 10th Infantry Division, identified the wounded soldiers as Sergeant Freddie Lindo Magdagay and Private First Class (Pfc.) Ellsworth Bañaga, both members of the 71st Infantry Battalion.

Zuniega said the incident happened around 8 a.m. while the troops were on their way to schools, to assist in Department of Education's (Deped) Brigada Eskwela, when they encountered some 30 rebels at Sitio Diapalo.

He added that the firefight last for about 10 minutes. He said the troops encountered members of the Pulang Bagani Command 3-Southern Mindanao Regional Command of the NPA. The troops are already conducting a pursuit operation against them, Zuniega added.

The Eastern Mindanao Command (Eastmincom) has joined the youth and various organizations in the kick-off of Deped's Brigada Eskwela on May 19.

Troops belonging to 10th Infantry Division and 4th Infantry Division under the command were deployed not only for security but also to assist in Brigada Eskwela.

Eastmincom Public Information Office head Capt. Alberto Caber said other troops were deployed with brooms and carpentry tools to assist in the repair of classrooms and other school equipment.

He added that this is part of the soldiers' commitment to provide a safe environment for the students this school year.

The soldiers from Eastern Mindanao Command, Naval Forces Eastern Mindanao and 5th Civil Relations Group will undertake Brigada Eskwela at different schools in Davao City on a scheduled basis as several schools and parents have requested for the help of the soldiers.

The 4th Infantry Division will also send its soldiers to schools in Cagayan de Oro City, Bukidnon, Misamis Oriental, Agusan Provinces and in Caraga while the 10th Infantry Division will conduct Brigada Eskwela in Compostela Valley Province, Davao del Sur, Davao del Norte, Davao Oriental, and other parts of North Cotabato.

Published in the Sun.Star Davao newspaper on May 20, 2014.

DISCLAIMER: Sun.Star website welcomes friendly debate, but comments posted on this site do not necessary reflect the views of the Sun.Star management and its affiliates. Sun.Star reserves the right to delete, reproduce or modify comments posted here without notice. Posts that are inappropriate will automatically be deleted.

Forum rules: Do not use obscenity. Some words have been banned. Stick to the topic. Do not veer away from the discussion. Be coherent and respectful. Do not shout or use CAPITAL LETTERS!
