
Bloomberg News is seeking reporter for its debut First Word Oil service. This position will be based out of our London office and will provide intraday commentary on oil futures markets to complement our coverage of physical oil markets.

Candidates will have in-depth experience covering oil markets and a thorough knowledge of which pieces of breaking news on macro-economic, FX, political, supply and demand topics typically affect prices on an intraday basis. The individual in this role will be responsible for providing fast and concise stories on the oil futures and options markets and developments and news that may affect them, providing succinct perspective on ``what is happening'' and "what it means", for traders.

All candidates must have the ability and market-specific knowledge to immediately discern actionable information from breaking news. They must have strong writing skills and will be expected to develop new contacts and turn them into sources.

Bloomberg, the global business and financial information and news leader, gives influential decision makers a critical edge by connecting them to a dynamic network of information, people and ideas. The company's strength, delivering data, news and analytics through innovative technology, quickly and accurately is at the core of the Bloomberg Professional service, which provides real time financial information to more than 315,000 subscribers globally.

Bloomberg's enterprise solutions build on the company's core strength, leveraging technology to allow customers to access, integrate, distribute and manage data and information across organizations more efficiently and effectively. Through Bloomberg Law, Bloomberg Government, Bloomberg New Energy Finance and Bloomberg BNA, the company provides data, news and analytics to decision makers in industries beyond finance. And Bloomberg News, delivered through the Bloomberg Professional service, television, radio, mobile, the Internet and three magazines, Bloomberg Businessweek, Bloomberg Markets and Bloomberg Pursuits, covers the world with more than 2,400 news and multimedia professionals at more than 150 bureaus in 73 countries. Headquartered in New York, Bloomberg employs more than 15,000 people in 192 locations around the world.

Bloomberg is an equal opportunities employer and we welcome applications from all backgrounds regardless of race, colour, religion, sex, ancestry, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, disability or any other classification protected by law.
