
BELGRADE --  People cannot return to their homes in Obrenovac because there are still no conditions for that, while the rumors about the number of victims are false.

This is what MUP Emergency Situations Sector chief Predrag Marić told B92 on Sunday. Officially, five people have so far died in the floods in Serbia.

Marić also denied that "Obrenovac was sacrificed for the sake of Valjevo" and that the town suffered a large number of victims.

Beside the five persons that have been confirmed dead in various parts of the country - one of them a rescue worker - another person from Varvarin on the Morava River is missing, Marić told a meeting of the national emergency situations HQ.

The catastrophic floods in Serbia have caused the evacuation of 24,352 people, while 2,260 buildings are under water and another 1,763 are in danger of being flooded, Marić pointed out.

Marić told B92 that a team was set up to define measures of assistance to those who are not directly in danger of the floods, and need food and medicines, and will also deal with disinfection of the affected areas.

This HQ is chaired by Gendarmerie commander Milenko Božović, and its members come from different MUP sectors and rescue teams that arrived from Russia, Slovenia, and other countries.

According to Marić, water levels in Obrenovac receded by almost a meter and trucks can now reach many locations there.

Elsewhere, this MUP official said, the situation is closely monitored above all in Sremska Mitrovica and Šabac, but the flood wave on the Sava River weakened as it passed through Croatia, which is favorable for Serbia downstream.

Marić added that he did not expect any significant problems in Belgrade, a city located on banks of the Sava and Danube rivers.

MOSCOW, BELGRADE -- Russia has sent a relief cargo to Serbia hit by heavy floods, a spokesperson for the Russian Emergency Situations Ministry has told Itar-Tass.

Belgrade, Moscow -- A helicopter of the EU mission in Kosovo, EULEX, sent to assist in rescue efforts in flood-hit Serbia landed in Belgrade on Sunday.

BELGRADE -- The bodies of 12 flood victims have been recovered in the town of Obrenovac, but it is feared the number of those who perished in higher, says Aleksandar Vučić.

BELGRADE -- Serbia has been affected by "millennial waters" PM Aleksandar Vučić said on Sunday as he chaired an emergency HQ set up to deal with the catastrophic floods.

BELGRADE -- The intense fight to save lives continued on Saturday, as the situation is the most critical in the completely flooded Belgrade municipality of Obrenovac.

BELGRADE -- Ivica Dačić has said that Serbia now above all needs assistance in equipment, along with rescue teams to save the affected towns and their residents.

BELGRADE -- The flood-hit areas of Obrenovac and Barič near Belgrade, Sremska Mitrovica in the north and Krupanj and Šabac in western Serbia remain the most critical.

BELGRADE -- Foreign Minister Ivica Dačić on Saturday expressed his gratitude "to all the countries and the EU" for the help they provided to the flood-stricken Serbia.

BELGRADE, ŠABAC -- The bodies of those who perished in the flood in Obrenovac are being recovered on Saturday, MUP Emergency Sector chief Predrag Marić has said.

BELGRADE -- Prime Minister Aleksandar Vučić late on Friday described the situation in Serbia, struck by severe flooding, as "catastrophic."

MOSCOW -- Russian Emergency Situations Minister Vladimir Puchkov has announced that his country had launched a large-scale humanitarian operation to help Serbia.

BELGRADE -- More than 7,618 people have been evacuated in Serbia in the past two days as the country battles severe flooding, the Interior Ministry has announced.

BELGRADE -- The Slovenian government sent on Friday the assistance to Serbia for countering the floods and the aid exceeds the announced quantities.

MOSCOW -- Two more planes of the Russian Ministry for Emergency Situations will deliver humanitarian aid to Serbia, hit by the most severe floods in the past 120 years.

BELGRADE -- PM Aleksandar Vučić was in the Belgrade municipality of Obrenovac on Friday where he said that the whole flood-stricken town will have to be evacuated.

BELGRADE -- In addition to its desire to join the EU, Serbia will "also be guided by its national interests" when it votes in international institutions, says Ivica Dačić.

BRUSSELS -- The EU has activated its civil defense mechanism after Serbia and Bosnia requested assistance due to the massive floods that hit large parts of both countries.

BELGRADE -- Belgrade's municipality of Obrenovac has been completely flooded since last night and although the rain stopped, the water was still rising on Friday morning.

B92 is an environmentally responsible organisation.
