
After the catastrophic flood waters recede, residents fleeing towns in Bosnia and Serbia could return to another deadly threat.

When the flood waters recede in the Balkans another danger will remain.

The landslides have dislodged some of the munitions which are now in unmarked places or have been washed into rivers. In some cases the mine warning signs have been washed away.

During the war about a million land mines were planted. Since then a clearance scheme has destroyed most of them but almost 120,000 remain in more than 9,000 marked minefields. The munitions have killed 601 people since 1995.

An official at Bosnia's Mine Action Center, Sasa Obradovic, said: "Mines have surfaced now in areas where they have never been,"  Bosnia has suffered more than 2,000 landslides since the crisis began last week.

This could create a more widespread problem downstream from the tributaries of the Sava river in Bosnia.

The river flows along the border with Croatia and then meets the Danube just outside Belgrade in Serbia. That in turn flows down through Bulgaria and Romania and into the Black Sea.

Experts fear that some mines could travel hundreds of miles or even become jammed in the machinery of a hydroelectric dam.

Mine clearing is a hugely expensive business. A landmine can be bought for a few dollars, but the UN estimates that it costs about $1,000 per mine to clear them once they are placed in a mine field.

As well as causing thousands of fatalities in countries no longer at war, their presence renders large areas of often agricultural land unusable for years after a conflict has ended.

Hundreds of thousands are still to be recovered and remain a daily threat in Angola, Somalia, Mozambique, Nicaragua, Chad, Vietnam, Thailand, Afghanistan, Rwanda, Bosnia, Croatia, Iraq  and many other countries.

Sky's Tom Parmenter reports from Obrenovac in Serbia on the strength of the floodwaters and how far the damage extends.

Grand Slam tennis champiopn Novak Djokovic says he is "devastated" by floods hitting his home country Serbia and several neighbouring countries. Djokovic is donating his winnings from the Italian Open to victims of the floods.

Sky's Tom Parmenter reports from the Serbian town of Obrenovac on the River Sava where flooding has been causing widespread damage.

Video: 'The Worst Flooding For A Century'

At least 44 people are now known to have died after the Balkans were hit by the worst flooding for more than a century.

'The Worst Flooding For A Century'

Video: 'The Worst Flooding For A Century'
