
Representatives from the operations and maintenance industry across the world are gathering in Dubai to discuss industry trends, the latest technologies on offer and industry best practice at the 12th annual international operations and maintenance conference in the Arab countries, OMAINTEC.

This year is the first time the event, organised by OMAINTEC Institute & ExiCon International, is being hosted outside Saudi Arabia, and will is being held under the patronage of His Excellency, Dr. Abdullah Belhaif Al-Nuaimi, UAE Minister of Public Works, running from yesterday (Sunday) until tomorrow (Tuesday).

The event also features an exhibition entitled “12th Arab Maintenance Exhibition” which will take place within FM EXPO, being held at the Dubai World Trade Centre from 19-21 May. The exhibition will feature leading companies with expertise in operations and maintenance within the Arab world including Saudi Oger and the Bin-Ladin Group.

“It is clear that in the GCC, Saudi Arabia is a monolith in terms of infrastructural growth. Construction is expected to grow by 10.5% this year in the Kingdom, led by public works. Surging business confidence and market activity promises to drive positive expectations for the facilities management industry within Saudi, including an increased interest in adopting best practices through learning from success stories in neighbouring GCC nations,” said Jaafar Shubber, senior project manager, FM EXPO 2014.

OMAINTEC will be held under the theme of “Maintenance towards Globalisation” this year, focusing on identifying ways to develop engineering services in the field of operations and maintenance in the region and increasing nationalisation within the industry.

The event will also include a number of seminars covering areas such as operations and maintenance of facilities, incorporating electricity production, electricity generation, transport networks, operations and maintenance of water desalination facilities, water facilities and the economics of operating desalination plants and activating maintenance and rehabilitation of water pipelines, pumping stations and sewage treatment plants.

In addition to this, the programme also features 22 workshops conducted by both regional and international experts in the field of operations and maintenance on topics including maintenance materials and spare parts management in the digital era, strategic planning for biomedical engineering departments and reengineering of municipal maintenance departments.

and         enter the result. E.g. for 1+3, enter 4.
