
HAPPENING TODAY: GEITHNER LIVE! — Join Mike Allen and me today for a Playbook Lunch in D.C. with former Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner. We will discuss his new book “Stress Test: Reflection on Financial Crises” as well as the person (outside his family) that Geithner would most like to spend a month with on a deserted island. Top nominees include Neil Barofsky and Sheila Bair.

Seriously though, expect discussion of Geithner’s tenure at the NY Fed leading up to the crisis; his relationship with President Obama; the nature of the crisis response and whether anything could have been done differently to address populist concerns; the AIG bonuses; the decision not to nationalize any banks or impost haircuts; the limited efforts to aid home owners; and what Geithner actually spends his days doing now.

THE BIG IDEA: HOW NOT TO BAILOUT WALL STREET AGAIN — James Pethokoukis in “The Week”: “Geithner is wrong when he said, as he did to The New York Times, that Americans are ‘deeply confused and mistaken’ if they think there was ‘a way to somehow protect people without doing things that looked like you were protecting the banks.’ Actually, there was an option that would have accomplished just that. … The politicians could have let insolvent banks simply go bust. True, such a move would have hammered an already weak economy.

HAPPENING TODAY: FSOC ON ASSET MANAGEMENT — Per Treasury: [T]he Financial Stability Oversight Council will host a conference on the asset management industry and its activities that will help inform the ongoing assessment by FSOC of potential risks to U.S. financial stability, per release.

GOOD MONDAY MORNING — M.M. took the family to Yankee Stadium yesterday where we were treated to a win in the first game and then scooted before the second, which the Bombers dropped. This clearly means the Yankees should comp us tickets to all home games. Because in this case, correlation clearly does indicate causation.

MERGER MONDAY: AT&T BUYS DIRECTV — WSJ’s Thomas Gryta and Shalini Ramachandran: “AT&T … agreed to acquire DirecTV … for $49 billion, a deal that would make it a major player in pay television and increase its clout with media companies at a time when video consumption is moving online. The agreement, which the companies' boards approved on Sunday, comes just three months after Comcast Corp’s … $45 billion agreement to buy Time Warner Cable … The deals show how the biggest companies in television and telecommunications are bulking up to face a changing media landscape. Growth is slowing in some markets, like pay TV and wireless subscriptions, and is exploding in others, like streaming video.

SULZBERGER’S LAST STAND — POLITICO’s Dylan Byers: “New York Times publisher Arthur Sulzberger fired executive editor Jill Abramson after concluding that she had misled both him and chief executive Mark Thompson during her effort to hire a new co-managing editor, according to two sources … While several factors contributed to Sulzberger’s frustration with Abramson’s management of the newsroom, the sources, who are sympathetic to the Times management, said it was this incident that sealed her fate. In conversations and emails, Abramson led both Sulzberger and Thompson to believe that she had consulted with other newsroom leaders about her decision to offer The Guardian’s Janine Gibson a job as co-managing editor, the sources said.

Friends E-mail(s) Separate emails with a comma. Maximum of 5 emails allowed.
