
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

MOBILE, Alabama – The lone Republican candidate in Alabama House of Representatives District 103 has dropped out of the race, leaving the party scrambling for a replacement two weeks before the primary.

Ralph Carmichael Sr. had been assured a spot in the general election against the winner of the Democratic primary matchup between Barbara Drummond and Charlie Staten. But Mobile County Republican Party Chairwoman Terry Lathan said Carmichael cited family health issues in withdrawing.

The district takes in a chunk of Mobile, including land on either side of Interstate 65 south of Airport Boulevard, Dauphin Island Parkway and the Dog River area. It snakes south of the city, takes in Theodore and extends all the way to Fowl River Road. It is about 65 percent black.

The incumbent, Rep. Joseph Mitchell, is retiring.

Carmichael could not be reached for comment. Neither could Staten. Drummond, a former aide to ex-Mobile Mayor Sam Jones, said she is concentrating all of her energy on winning votes next month.

"I'm focused on the primary," she said. "I haven't even looked toward November."

Lathan said she has spoken with one potential candidate who had considered running before. She said she believes that person probably is leaning against running.

"I've asked the party members, especially the ones who live in District 103, to look around," she said. "We're very interested in finding someone."

If more than one person expresses an interest, Lathan said, the party would talk to each one. The state party's candidate committee would make the selection.

State GOP official Harold Sachs said the party has until several weeks after the primary runoff election in July to pick a replacement for Carmichael. But Lathan said, "The sooner the better."

The general election figures to be tough sledding for any Republican recruited to run. It is solidly Democratic.

Carmichael ran less than a year ago in a special election to fill a vacancy in neighboring House District 104, finishing last in a Republican primary field of five. Margie Wilcox eventually won the nomination in a runoff and went on to win the general election.

New district lines taking effect this year place Carmichael's home in District 103, making him eligible to seek that seat. He had raised $1,736.52 – $500 from state Republican Party Vice Chairman George Williams and $1,236.52 from himself. He spent most of that on that candidate filing fee.

© 2014 Alabama Media Group All rights reserved ( About Us ).

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
