
Recently there has been a recurring claim that Turkey has stopped introducing new judicial and political reforms. Critics claim that the Turkish state has forsaken its reform agenda which it followed until the 2011 elections and wants to maintain the status quo that developed under its rule since 2002.

This is not true. Since 2010 the government has introduced a large number of new laws and regulations, all of which are either derived from the Copenhagen criteria or have been suggested by the EU since Turkey's accession talks began in 2005. These reforms have been supported by a large group of opinion makers, politicians and the public at large.

-The National Climate Change Strategy Document and Action Plan were accepted In addition to these reforms, a number of steps were taken in regard to compulsory education, law governing political parties, protection of children, the Kurdish issue, the headscarf ban in public offices and the use of languages other than Turkish. Under the socalled "4+4+4 law," compulsory education in Turkey was extended to 12 years.

-Headscarves have been allowed in public offices including the Turkish Parliament.

As part of this package, two other important steps have been taken. The first is the return of the Mor Gabriel Monastery land in Mardin to the Assyrian Church. Apart from the Mor Gabriel Monastery land, other religious minorities have begun reclaiming their old properties which were lost or confiscated over the last 60 years.

The second step concerns the Romani citizens of Turkey. The Romani initiative, introduced in 2010, had already recognized the rights of Romani citizens. Now an Institute for the Study of Romani Language and Culture has been established to conduct research on the cultural heritage of Turkey's Romani citizens and address their social and economic needs.

In November 2013, the EU opened Chapter 22 for Turkey, which covers regional policy and key issues such as job creation, innovation, economic growth, sustainable development, competitiveness and improved quality of life.

In December 2013, Turkey signed the readmission agreement with the EU to start the process of visa liberalization for Turkish citizens.

Turkish citizens are expected to be able to travel to EU countries without a visa within the next four years.

On March 2, 2014, the government introduced a number of new measures against illegal wiretaps. Special courts with extraordinary powers, criticized by lawyers and human rights groups, have been abolished and the maximum 10-year sentences issued by special courts have been limited to five years. This has allowed a number of high-profile figures to be released after they have served rather unfairly long detention periods.

There are certainly more steps to be taken to meet the Copenhagen criteria and make Turkey an advanced democracy. But the claim that Turkey is no longer interested in reforms is simply not supported by the facts on the ground.

The fact is that the battle for a new Turkey continues unabated. The so-called Dec. 17 process turned into a coup attempt against the democratically elected government. It tested Turkey's strength economically and politically.

But Turkey has showed resilience and withstood the challenge. The government moved to make substantial changes in the judiciary and the security sectors to prevent misuse of judicial and police powers. The March 30 elections gave Turkey another chance for political stability and economic growth.

The desire to hit Turkey by all means and at all costs does not make for a good strategy.

Legitimate, constructive and result-oriented criticism should be welcomed. Turkey's reform agenda should be kept above petty politics.
