
NEW DELHI: Pakistan on Monday said India should not shy away from dealing with "contentious" issues like Jammu & Kashmir which need to be resolved for the two countries to move on.

Pakistan's high commissioner to India  Abdul Basit also said first four-five months of the new government will be important and will determine how the bilateral ties will go forward.

"It (J&K) is an important issue and government of India has to fulfil its commitment given to the world. It is part of the composite dialogue. We should not shy away from contentious issues. When we will deal with each of the issues, we will be able to move forward," he said in an interaction with members of the Press Club of India.

Basit said there was a national consensus in Pakistan to have normal friendly relations and Islamabad was willing to engage with the new government in New Delhi.

"But there cannot be precondition for any talks," he said, adding Pakistani Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif and the new government in India have come to power with decisive mandate and they were in a position to take "decisive decisions".

"The next 4-5 months are important ... how things move forward," he said.

Asked whether there is possibility of "third party intervention" to resolve bilateral issues, Basit said countries like the US always encourage India and Pakistan to have dialogue but "at the end of the day, the two countries have to sit together and discuss".

Asked to flag issues which are doable, the high commissioner said all issues, including Jammu & Kashmir, Siachen, trade and cultural issue, can be discussed and all issues are doable.

"We have been engaged in composite dialogue process. All can be discussed and everything is doable. Once the process is started, we will progress. One cannot expect progress in each areas but there are many areas where we can move forward. There are areas where we can move fast while there are areas where longer time will be taken to resolve issues," he said.

Asked about Prime Minister-designate Narendra Modi's comment that terror and talks cannot go together, Basit said it was correct to say that both cannot go together and peace has to be there for improving bilateral relations.

He said the issue of lower percentage of polling in the just-concluded Lok Sabha election in Jammu & Kashmir has to be taken note of.

On the slow progress of trial in the Mumbai terror attacks case in Pakistan, Basit said Islamabad is pursuing the case after receiving documents from India and trying hard as it follows a policy of zero tolerance towards terrorism.

"We are not doing anything under pressure. We are doing it in our own interests. Pakistan is the greatest victim of terrorism. The issue is underway. Pakistan is committed to bring the perpetrators of the crime into justice," he said.

The envoy, however, said it was a judicial process and the court takes decision on the basis of evidence and even in India, 26/11 case accused Fahim Ansari and Sabauddin Ahmed were acquitted of all charges.

Besides, he said, in Pakistan people ask what happened to Samjhauta Express blast case and what happened to the accused.

"We have not heard anything (on Samjhauta case). We have not seen any progress. In the 26/11, case we will do it on our own interest. If it is proved, justice will be done," he said.

Asked why Pakistan is not taking action against India's most wanted terrorist Dawood Ibrahim, the High Commissioner said New Delhi has not provided any specific dossier on him and if anyone has any information about his location in Pakistan, they should share it with Pakistan for action.

"We do not have any information about him. We will take action when we get that," he said.

Questioned about recent exchange of firing along the LoC, Basit said, "I am confident that we will see calm along LoC. Small incidents sometime turn out to be big. It is the desire of both sides to respect ceasefire."

Referring to contrasting news that appear in Indian and Pakistani media, Basit said when Indian newspapers report that there were unprovoked firing from Pakistan side, the media of that country reports that there were unprovoked firing from Indian side.

He claimed once when leaders of both countries almost reached on an agreement on Siachen issue, there were lots of hue and cry in India and that resulted in stalemate.
