
Maxim Stulov / VedomostiA man leaving a voting booth at a polling station during Moscow's mayoral election last September.

As the State Duma mulls alternative methods of selecting Russia's mayors, a new poll reveals that a substantial majority prefer the option of direct elections.

Of the respondents polled in April by independent research organization the Levada Center, 77 percent voiced support for the continuation of direct mayoral elections in Russia's cities. The option of mayoral appointments by regional governors took a distant second, with 9 percent of respondents voicing support for the method.

Only 8 percent of respondents favored the option of mayoral appointments by city legislatures, the method initially proposed in a bill that passed in its first reading by the Duma last month. Notably, Moscow and St. Petersburg were excluded from the bill.

While the bill enjoyed support from United Russia and LDPR deputies, it faced criticism as well. A Just Russia deputy Mikhail Yemelyanov complained that the bill "furthers the bureaucratization of local government," Gazeta.ru reported.

Based on objections voiced during the first reading, the Duma Committee on Local Administration has approved certain changes to the bill since the Levada Center poll was conducted.

"The main innovation is the addition of a stipulation that would allow the governments of each Russian federal subject to determine for themselves how to select local government officials," United Russia's deputy Duma faction head Vyachelsav Timchenko said on his party's website.

In the present version, regional authorities would be offered four options. One option simply provides for direct mayoral elections. The second provides for direct mayoral elections, but stipulates a power-sharing agreement between the mayor and an official appointed by a commission comprised of the regional mayor and a group of local legislators. A third option provides for the appointment of a mayor by a directly-elected municipal legislature. The fourth provides for the appointment of a mayor by a municipal legislature, the members of which had been appointed by a directly elected regional legislature.

The bill is scheduled for a second reading in the Duma on Tuesday.

The Levada Center poll was conducted between April 25 and 28. The results were calculated based on the views of 1,602 respondents in 45 regions across Russia. It carried a 3.4 percent margin of error.

Any comment deemed non-constructive, personal attacks, spam and abuse will not be tolerated and will lead to you being banned from our website.

Russia's Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said Monday Russia had told Ukraine it intends to send another humanitarian aid convoy.

Chechen leader Ramzan Kadyrov has been inducted into Russia's biggest black-leather clad biker gang, the 'Night Wolves.'

Russian diplomats say they have been excluded from an upcoming summit of NATO member countries in Wales, Kommersant reported Monday, citing an unidentified diplomatic source.

Russia's space agency, Roscosmos, has launched an independent investigation into the cause of Friday's botched launch of two brand-new European navigation satellites aboard a Soyuz rocket.

A fiscal rule that prevents Russia from raising government spending reflects "old realities" and should be relaxed, Russian Economic Development Minister Alexei Ulyukayev said in an article published Monday.

Tsars, revolutions, two World Wars and the Soviet Union — if you're interested in Russia's rich history, these are the websites to explore.

Residents of Moscow's Taganka district woke up Wednesday morning to find a Ukrainian flag attached to the Soviet star on the spire of one of the area's iconic Stalin buildings.

Hollywood star Vin Diesel has challenged Russian President Vladimir Putin to pour a bucket of ice cubes over his head, as part of a global action to raise awareness for a degenerative motor neuron disease.

Two brides wed in Moscow earlier this month, with teeth-grinding authorities unable to prevent it despite a ban on same-sex marriage — because one of the brides was a man.

A children's fashion show in Moscow triggered outrage among bloggers after the show, titled "Children of the World Against War," depicted a child dressed up as Ukraine holding a gun to her head.
