
Sorry, but your browser needs Javascript to use this site.

BEIJING – China’s communist authorities ban their own people from accessing major global social media sites, including Facebook, Twitter and YouTube. But when it comes to self-promotion, they are increasingly keen users themselves.

The official Xinhua News Agency, the Communist Party mouthpiece the People’s Daily and state broadcaster CCTV all have Twitter accounts, as do a host of city and provincial authorities.

When the city of Hangzhou, renowned for its lakes and canals, looked to raise its international profile, it turned to Facebook.

China’s Internet users, who now number 618 million, have been blocked from using it since 2009.

But the city’s “Modern Marco Polo” competition — akin to Australia’s “best job in the world” contests — involves no fewer than six Facebook apps. The winner, to be announced Tuesday, will receive €40,000 ($55,000) and a two-week trip to Hangzhou in exchange for promoting the city on Facebook and Twitter for a year.

Michael Cavanaugh, a consultant for British-based PR Agency One, which has been promoting the contest, said increasing official use of such sites is “inevitable.” He declined to say how the winner was expected to post to them from within China.

The authorities maintain a tight grip on expression — both online and off — fearful of any dissent that could spiral into a challenge to one-party rule.

Some Internet users and businesses use virtual private networks (VPNs) to bypass the vast censorship apparatus known as the “Great Firewall,” and state-run media often use foreign bureaus to accomplish the same goal.

Hangzhou itself used a digital agency in Hong Kong, where Facebook is not blocked, to administer its contest — an increasing trend by cities and provinces.

The social media giant is actively seeking business in the country. “We want to help tourism agencies in China tell the rest of the world about the fabulous things in China that are really not that well understood,” Vaughan Smith, Facebook’s vice president of corporate development, told a Beijing audience last month.

Its executives are making increasingly frequent appearances at high-profile events in China. The chief operating officer, Sheryl Sandberg, drew international headlines last September when she met the head of China’s State Council Information Office, which oversees propaganda efforts.

Google also seeks advertisers in China and has three offices on the mainland, but pulled out its servers in 2010 in a dispute about censorship.

Twitter, which is a prominent advocate for free speech online, has shown few signs of interest in setting up in China, although CEO Dick Costolo met Shanghai government officials during his first China visit in March.

Duncan Clark, chairman of Beijing-based tech consultancy BDA, said Chinese local authorities have huge budgets, and their tourism advertisements are probably lucrative.

However, Facebook is unlikely to see them as a way of gaining access to Chinese users, Clark said.

Other promotions include the “Rebirth of the Terracotta Warrior” Facebook contest launched last month by Shaanxi province, home to the tomb of China’s first emperor, Qin Shihuang.

A “Chengdu Pambassador” campaign gave contestants a chance to become a “guest panda keeper” at the southwestern city’s giant panda base through a series of Facebook activities.

But critics of Chinese censorship say such schemes give Beijing a soft-power boost through sleight of hand.

“That helps China, for sure, because it gives this impression that Facebook is actually open and free for the people, who don’t know that it isn’t,” he added.

The double standards have not escaped the notice of Chinese Web users.

The Shaanxi provincial government announced the opening of its tourist board’s Facebook, YouTube and Twitter accounts in a posting on the Weibo microblogging site in February.

Several users angrily responded that they were unable to open the links, the Southern Metropolis Daily reported.

“We’re not advocating that domestic tourists visit these pages,” a provincial government representative told the paper, drawing even greater fury.
