
Jilted by his 26-year-old girlfriend, a 30-year-old IT professional allegedly recorded an obscene video of hers and threatened to upload it on social networking sites. He also allegedly threatened to throw acid on her if she refused to marry him. The victim finally approached the police and registered a complaint following which the accused was arrested by the Matunga police.

According to the police, Abhisekh Kumar Sinha (30) was arrested from his residence in Kalachowky for allegedly making an obscene video of the victim who currently is pursing her medical studies in the city.

Sinha and the victim came to know each other last year through a common friend and since then they had been visiting each other's house. "Both of them are originally not from Mumbai. But, after they were introduced by a common friend, they kept in touch and later got into a relationship," said an officer from Matunga police station.

According to the police, Sinha, who had been trying to woo the victim for marriage, took her to his Kalachowky residence on May 5. There he allegedly made an obscene video of the victim and threatened her to upload it on social networking sites if she refused to marry him.

Sinha allegedly sent the obscene video to the victim using WhatsApp. However, things got ugly on May 14 when Sinha sent her a picture of an acid bottle through WhatsApp in order to make her agree to his marriage proposal out of fear.

The victim, who resides in a posh locality in South Mumbai, approached a senior police officer who directed her to Kalachowky police station. A case was registered there and later it was transferred to a senior lady officer posted at Matunga police station. Both Kalachowky and Matunga police stations come under the same zone.

"We have recovered the phone, laptop, camera and an acid bottle from Sinha's residence," said a police officer on condition of anonymity.

He further added: "The victim was scared when she approached the police. She even provided the police with the obscene video that Sinha had sent her and also the picture of the acid bottle along with messages."

Sinha has been booked for molestation, sexual harassment and under various section of the IT Act. The police have sent Sinha's phone, laptop and camera to Kalina forensic laboratory to retrieve further data. Sinha was remanded in judicial custody on Monday.
