
SOUTH CHARLESTON, W.Va. (Katelyn Sykes) -- A witness to Monday morning's home invasion in South Charleston is speaking out, while some people living in the neighborhood told Eyewitness News they are not surprised this shooting happened.

The woman, who didn't want to be identified, was inside the home on the 4800 block of Ohio Street when a man came in through the front door, and a second came in through the back.

"I've never been through anything like this in my entire life," she said.

She said one of the men fired two shots, one of which hit her boyfriend's brother. She identified the victim, but Eyewitness News is withholding that information until police release it.

"I think it's pretty messed up," she said. "I mean, there's better things you can do out there with yourself besides robbing people. Get a job at least."

Dennis Wilson has lived on this street for 13 years. News of the violent home invasion right next door, surprisingly, doesn't phase him.

"I figured it would come down to this and something's going to have to be done," Wilson said.

Wilson said he moved to this neighborhood because it was "nice and quiet." He said recently, his neighborhood has been anything but, and said some of the trouble is coming from this house.

"We've complained," he said. "I've got a list, a big list of of license plate numbers and cars going in and out for the last two weeks."

Wilson said he has handed that information over to police but so far that hasn't gotten anywhere. Wilson said he's frustrated.

"We've tried and tried and people say well we can't do anything so what are you going to do? Just sit back and let it happen and hope nobody gets killed," Wilson said.

South Charleston police are still searching for the two men involved in Monday morning's shooting so they cannot close this case and give the people living in this house some peace of mind.

"I'm still shaky and every little noise I hear in the house I'm paranoid now because I don't know if they're going to come back because they haven't caught them yet," the witness said.

The witness said she didn't recognize the two men who came inside the house because their faces were covered.

Anyone with information is asked to give South Charleston police a call.

SOUTH CHARLESTON, W.Va. (Katelyn Sykes) -- South Charleston police are investigating an early morning home invasion where one man was shot in the leg.

It happened about 1:15 a.m. Monday at a home in the 4800 block of Ohio Street.

South Charleston police aren't releasing too many details at this time, but Eyewitness News has learned one person was shot in the leg during a home invasion. The victim was taken to Charleston Area Medical Center General Hospital. No word on his condition or identity at this time, but police said the man is in his 20s.

Police said they are looking for at least two people in connection to this shooting. They brought in a K-9 team but so far haven't found anyone.

Police also were interviewing several witnesses who were at the scene. Officers said there were a number of people inside the home when the shooting happened, but no one else was injured.

South Charleston police are asking anyone with information on the shooting to give them a call.

A motive for the shooting hasn't been released.

SOUTH CHARLESTON, W.Va. (Trevor John Anderson) - police are in pursuit of at least one suspect they believe is involved in a home invasion.

It is happening in the 4800 block of Ohio Street in South Charleston. Police are currently setting up a perimeter around Ohio and Ford streets and K-9 units are arriving at the scene.

Eyewitness News has a crew on the scene and will update this story as more information becomes available.

A prominent cabinet manufacturer plans to add 80 full-time jobs and invest $30 million at its West Virginia facility.

In a story Aug. 22 about wild horses in eastern Kentucky, The Associated Press reported erroneously that 28 horses were found shot to death. Kentucky State Police said a detective and trooper responded to such a report but found only one deceased horse and weren't able to determine the cause of death because of decomposition.

Police say a plane has crashed shortly after takeoff at a regional airport, killing four people about 15 miles northeast of Cleveland.
