
CHARLESTON, W.Va. (Kera Mashek) A Florida state trooper is now recovering, after a serious motorcycle accident in Kanawha County Sunday.

Eyewitness News spoke exclusively with that trooper Monday.

Donald Currier is hundreds of miles from his Florida home, cooped up in a Charleston hospital bed.  Sunday afternoon, he was headed home from a regional meeting of the Iron Pigs, a motorcyle club of police and firefighters, when he crashed along Route 60 near Belle.  Currier, a seasoned motorcycle police officer, says he was riding alongside another biker, and couldn't avoid running right into a deep pothole.

"My wheel went hard to the right, smashed the bike out of my hands, and I went over the top at 60 miles an hour," Currier said.

He broke both ankles, fractured several ribs, has road rash, a possible torn rotator cuff, and will have to undergo at least one more surgery Tuesday.

"It's going to be a long recovery time,  I'll have to do rehab and physical therapy before I'll be able to go and start walking again," said Currier.

Currier says as a police officer, concerns about his personal recovery are second to his fears for the public's safety because he thinks West Virginia has some of the worst potholes he's seen anywhere in the country.

"I think that's the state's responsibility to make sure the roads are safe for everybody no matter if they're on a motorcycle or a car," Currier said.

He's pleading that what happened to him be a call to action to get the roads repaired, and action is being taken.  Crews are repairing potholes in the very spot where the accident happened, but due to the size and number of potholes, it's just going to take some time to get them all fixed.

Putnam County Iron Pigs member and former motorcycle safety instructor Joe Tyree says those repairs can't be finished soon enough, across all of Route 60.  That's because in just a couple of days, thousands of bikes will travel that road, for the annual Memorial Day ride to the Vietnam Wall in Washington, D.C.

"Whether you're traveling through or doing business commercially, the roads are our lifeblood.  This time of year, they're our window to the world.  That's how people get here.  Let's fix the roads.  The last thing we want is someone to get hurt," Tyree said.

The West Virginia Division of Highways says it was already working on Eastbound US 60 and that US highways are the first priority in pothole repairs.  It's hoping to make significant progress in the next few days to give Memorial Day travelers a smooth, safe ride.

Meanwhile, Donald Currier is hoping to be released from CAMC and head home to Florida by the end of the week.

A prominent cabinet manufacturer plans to add 80 full-time jobs and invest $30 million at its West Virginia facility.

In a story Aug. 22 about wild horses in eastern Kentucky, The Associated Press reported erroneously that 28 horses were found shot to death. Kentucky State Police said a detective and trooper responded to such a report but found only one deceased horse and weren't able to determine the cause of death because of decomposition.

Police say a plane has crashed shortly after takeoff at a regional airport, killing four people about 15 miles northeast of Cleveland.
