
SOUTH PLAINFIELD, N.J., May 19, 2014 /PRNewswire/ -- PuraCap Pharmaceutical today announced the visit of Max Baucus, US Ambassador to China, to the PuraCap Softgel Capsule Manufacturing Plant in Wuhan, China on May 14, 2014. Ambassador Baucus had the opportunity to tour the entire manufacturing plant. This visit is part of the Ambassador's plan to visits enterprises throughout China. Ambassador Baucus is the 11th Ambassador to China, assuming office on Mar 20, 2014. He was accompanied by Vlad Lipshutz, US Consulate General in Wuhan.

"The Wuhan facility is a state of the art softgel capsule manufacturing plant and we are pleased that Ambassador Baucus had an opportunity to visit and observe manufacturing operations. We are excited that Ambassador Baucus chose to visit the PuraCap-China manufacturing facility so early in his tenure as Ambassador," said Dahai Guo, CEO of PuraCap. Plant Director Maboob Rahman had the opportunity to demonstrate first-hand, the quality standards developed and implemented to meet strict US FDA cGMP manufacturing requirements. PuraCap is currently manufacturing and importing capsules to supply the US OTC market. Many US customers are now being supplied with softgel capsule pharmaceutical products manufactured by PuraCap.

Operational since 2011, the Wuhan pharmaceutical manufacturing facility was designed and built to meet and exceed regulatory standards, both from the US FDA, EMEA and CFDA quality requirements. The 140,000 sq foot facility is located in the capital of Hubei in Wuhan, China.

Copyright ©2014 MarketWatch, Inc.  All rights reserved.

Intraday Data provided by SIX Financial Information and subject to terms of use .                 Historical and current end-of-day data provided by SIX Financial Information. Intraday data                 delayed per exchange requirements. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones & Company, Inc.                 All quotes are in local exchange time. Real time last sale data provided by NASDAQ. More                 information on NASDAQ traded symbols and their current financial status. Intraday                 data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, and 20 minutes for other exchanges. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM)                 from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. SEHK intraday data is provided by SIX Financial Information and is                 at least 60-minutes delayed. All quotes are in local exchange time.
