
Dubai: A maid who is accused of attempting to kill her sponsor’s three children could face life imprisonment, said Dubai’s Attorney-General on Monday.

“The housemaid tried to kill her Emirati sponsor’s three children with a cleaver and boiling water. She has been referred to the Dubai Court of First Instance and Deira Prosecution will be seeking life imprisonment against her,” said Essam Eisa Al Humaidan, Dubai’s Attorney-General.

Chief Prosecutor Younus Al Beloushi, Head of Deira Prosecution, said the defendant has been charged with attempting to murder the three children, attempted robbery and destroying private property.

“Al Beloushi and Prosecutor Fahd Bin Toq questioned the defendant, who confessed that she attempted to murder the children after her Emirati sponsor refused to cancel her residency and deport her. Hearing the statements of the children was very difficult for prosecutors considering their emotional state due to their burns and injuries. The children were petrified following the incident,” said Al Humaidan.

The children, a 15-year-old girl, A., her 14-year-old sister, R. and their 10-year-old brother K., told the investigating prosecutor, according to the Attorney-General, that they woke up when the defendant attacked them with a cleaver and boiling water.

“They went through horrific moments until the police arrived at their house and saved them. Medical reports have confirmed that the children’s injuries and burns haven’t healed so far. Due to the gruesomeness and ruthlessness of the attack, prosecutors are seeking the toughest punishment applicable against the defendant, who was merciless when she committed the crime. The children’s cries and begging didn’t refrain the suspect from attacking them,” said Al Humaidan.

During prosecution questioning, the Ethiopian said that she wanted revenge because her sponsor refused to cancel her work permit and allow her to travel back home.

Records said the children escaped from her and hid in the washroom. The police’s swift intervention foiled the suspect’s attempt to abscond.

A hearing will be scheduled soon.

1.
