
Oh, dear heavens. Victor Voronov has gone to the police again because Johnny Weir allegedly attacked him. Voronov has scratches and bruises. The two announced the end of their divorce proceedings two weeks ago. This spat was because of mean text messages Weir found about himself on Voronov’s phone, which Voronov says were from during the last breakup.

Was the Comcast-Time Warner merger not enough for you? AT&T has reached a deal to buy DirectTV for around $50 billion, giving them about 25 million video subscribers, enough to challenge the new Comcast, assuming the feds allow the deals to go through. Now if you’ll excuse me, I have to go open my cable bill and sob in the corner.

Because of course he is, anti-gay Louisiana Governor Bobby Jindal will be honoring anti-gay Duck Dynasty star Phil Robertson with the first Governor’s Award for Entrepreneurial Excellence. So he invented an award to give him right before the new season of the show. Perfect.

While we still don’t have any idea what Wonder Woman will look like in Batman vs. Superman, we do know how perfect Gal Gadot looks as her alter ego Diana Prince.

television, and only 36% felt it was appropriate. Equal, but out of sight.

I’m not entirely sure who Katie Hopkins is, but she seems to have a lot of opinions about Tom Daley. She feels that his coming out video “It was really lame… we all knew he was gay. People love Tom Daley and the people who watch divers [are the] kind of the people who like to read Women’s Weekly.” She does hope that her own son is gay. “Oh, I’m hoping he is… because he likes skipping, he likes hairdressing. When I’m fifty and I’ve got a gay son, I’m totally sorted. [He'll say] ‘Mom your hairdo is awful, you have hair under your chin. I think he might be [gay] – I mean, he’s quite good-looking, like my girls aren’t good-looking but he totally is.” I’m sure all her children love her now.

Normally, when I see the Kissing Family on Saturday Night Live, I just leave the room. It kind of grosses me out. But this week, they used their evil powers for good, by using it to comment on the Michael Sam kiss controversy that seems to have uncovered a nasty reminder that while gay acceptance is rising, the abstract is more agreeable than the practical.

True Blood is headed our way for a final season, and it looks like Bon Temps is under siege, and Sookie is feeling responsible. From all this chaos and violence, one has to wonder if they’ll have time for all the naked shenanigans that we all love it for. Something hot must be happening somewhere, because Lafayette is fanning himself.

I still haven’t seen The Amazing Spider-Man 2, but from the trailers, I thought the physics of his swinging looked incredibly fake. But this reel from the special effects department shows that I’m wrong. A lot of those moves were modeled on a stunt man and the physics are accurate. I guess it’s like Jurassic Park, where they tried to animate the dinosaurs correctly and it looked fake, so they went back and changed the motions so it looked real. As a bonus in this video, we find out that the suit was subjected to a jiggle test so that they could get the muscles right. Oh – and the muscles you see bulging? Not real. Sorry.

Watch!

Watch!
