
In a milestone decision, the United States has filed charges against Chinese government officials for the alleged hacking of American corporations via the Internet, NBC News reported Monday.

It will mark the first time the US government has officially accused and charged another nation with stealing American business secrets via the Internet and using them to leverage unfair economic advantage, ABC News reported.

Cyberespionage was directed at six companies in metals, nuclear power and solar products, NBC said — Westinghouse Electric, US subsidiaries of SolarWorld, AG, US Steel, Allegheny Technologies and Alcoa.

Criminal indictments have been filed against five Chinese military officials.

“This is a case alleging economic espionage by members of the Chinese military and represent the first-ever charges against a state actor for this type of hacking,” Attorney General Eric Holder said, NBC News reported. Holder held a news conference later Monday morning to address the charges.

“For too long, the Chinese government has blatantly sought to use cyberespionage to obtain economic advantage for its state-owned industries,” FBI Director James Comey told NBC News.

American officials have been concerned for some time that hacking into US secrets has been occurring, particularly by China.

The move is largely symbolic since the US cannot force extradition of the Chinese officials. However, if guilty it would prevent the individuals from traveling to the United States or any other country with an extradition agreement with the US, Reuters reported.

“It sends a strong message to China,” said James Lewis, a senior fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, Reuters reported in a story carried by The Chicago Tribune.

But Eric Johnson, an information technology expert at Vanderbilt University, was not so sure.

“It won’t slow China down,” he said.

Allvoices is an exclusive community where great writers can connect, share their original content, gain exposure and earn money.

Our team of professional editors curates all content to make sure our readers have fresh, interesting reads everyday.

BrandSpace is a venue for our best sponsored content to be featured on Allvoices.com . PulsePoint is a leader in the content marketing space, and our stable of great content creators helps our partners reach and connect to their desired audience. BrandSpace is where that content lives.

We want to give our buyer and seller clients priority access to smarter impressions across the web so they have better targeting, better insights, and better ROI. We do this through impression-level transparency on proprietary audience, content and engagement data segments.

Our writers come from all walks of life, from full-time freelancers looking to build a larger following to desk jockeys who want to keep the creative juices flowing. Allvoices’ writers are passionate and insightful, and they have unique perspectives about a variety of subjects.
