
Maple Grove Police are not releasing any new details Monday as to why they are searching the home where 13-year-old Amy Sue Pagnac lived when she went missing in 1989.

Law enforcement started to search the home on the 9700 block of Hemlock Lane North around 9 a.m. Sunday. Police are not commenting on the search and would not say if a new tip has led to the recent efforts. The search warrant is currently sealed.

Records show the home is still owned by Marshall Midden and Sue Pagnac; police asked the couple to leave while they execute the search warrant. Police expect to be at the home all week, maybe longer.

KSTP spoke to Susan Pagnac, who said police would not say what they are looking for. She is hoping this recent search will turn up more clues. "I've kept everything from Amy. They may find something missed," she said.

Susan Pagnac believes her daughter is still alive and may have been a victim of human trafficking. "Someone knows something," she said.

"We have no reason to believe Amy's dead," she said. Susan Pagnac said she just wants her daughter to find a way to get back home or find a way to let them help her.

No one has been taken into custody, and no suspects have been named. Police confirmed Monday that Amy Sue Pagnac's parents are not suspects.

Police said they would like to hear from the friends of Amy Sue Pagnac to help give them insight on her disappearance. Amy Sue would have been 37 years old today.

A KSTP crew saw about 100 investigators working at the property Monday morning, and utility crews were seen marking underground utilities. Neighbors say police told them to expect heavy machinery to come into the area in the next day or so.

Police said Monday there has been no digging at the home.

On Aug. 5, 1989, Amy Sue Pagnac was reported missing from the Holiday Gas Station located on the 100 block of Central Avenue in the city of Osseo, less than a mile from their home. She was last seen sitting in her non-biological father’s vehicle when he went inside to use the restroom. She has not been seen since.

The Maple Grove Police Department, Hennepin County Sheriff’s Office, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation are all investigating.

Amy Sue Pagnac was one of three children to go missing in 1989 in Minnesota.

Jacob Wetterling was abducted near his home in St. Joseph, Minnesota, on Oct. 22, 1989 when he was 11. He was with his brother and another friend when they were threatened at gunpoint by an unknown individual.

Aaron Anderson was last seen playing in his yard in Pine City, Minnesota, on April 7, 1989 when he was 2 years old.

Susan Pagnac believes her daughter is still alive and may have been a victim of human trafficking.

Amy Sue Pagnac, 13, was reported missing Aug. 5, 1989, from the Holiday Gas Station located on the 100 block of Central Avenue in the City of Osseo.

Authorities are searching the Maple Grove home where 13-year-old Amy Sue Pagnac lived when she went missing in 1989.
