
Issue 20, Volume 18.

You need Flash player 8+ and JavaScript enabled to view this video.

TEMECULA - The  Riverside County sheriff's deputies who make up the Temecula Police Department planned to crack down on seatbelt violators starting today as part of the 2014 nationwide Click It or Ticket campaign, a sergeant said.

"Even with a seatbelt usage rate of 97.4 percent, California still has 800,000 or more who aren't buckling up," said Temecula police Sgt. Joseph Greco. "In a crash they stand a 50 percent greater chance of being killed than those who have taken the two seconds to buckle in."

"Memorial Day weekend kicks off summer vacation season, and we want to ensure that everyone arrives at their destination safe and sound," said Temecula Police Chief Jeff Kubel. "If you are not wearing your seatbelt, you will be ticketed."

The California Highway Patrol and police and sheriff departments statewide will take part in the seatbelt crackdown campaign May 19 through June 1, Greco said.

A seatbelt violation for an adult over age 16 costs a minimum of $161 for the first offense, he said. The penalty for failing to properly buckle up any child under 16 is a minimum of $490 per child for the first offense plus a violation point added to their driver's license, Greco said. If a parent is not in a car the driver gets the ticket.

Sheriff's deputies plan to ticket drivers who don't buckle up in Temecula as part of a two-week nationwide seatbelt enforcement campaign, a sergeant said today.

Deputies will start their crackdown Monday on motorists who fail to use their seat belts during the Click It or Ticket effort, Riverside County sheriff's Sgt. Joseph Greco said.

The enforcement will end June 1, Greco said.

Images, Formatting, or HTML is not allowed : plain text only. You may post up to 5 website addresses within your comment.

The Valley News has tightened its' policy regarding comments.

While we invite you to contribute your opinions and thoughts, we request that you refrain from using vulgar or obscene words and post only comments that directly pertain to the specific topic of the story or article.

Comments that are derogatory in nature have a high likelihood for editing or non-approval if they carry the possibility of being libelous.

The comment system is not intended as a forum for individuals or groups to air personal grievances against other individuals or groups.

Please, no advertising or trolling.

In posting a comment for consideration, users understand that their posts may be edited as necessary to meet system parameters, or the post may not be approved at all. By submitting a comment, you agree to all the rules and guidelines described here.

Most comments are approved or disregarded within one business day.
