
An Arizona man is in jail and facing felony child abuse charges after he was seen in a surveillance video throwing his 23-month-old daughter into a swimming pool as a means of punishment. Corey McCarthy of Phoenix can be seen in the clip throwing his toddler daughter Mia high into the air before she lands face-first in the pool and another woman retrieves her.

This is pure speculation, but I’m guessing some of McCarthy’s fellow inmates have also seen the clip because according to his family he was in the infirmary at the time of the news report after being beaten up while incarcerated — twice.

Meanwhile, Corey McCarthy’s brother D.J. later spoke with KTVK in defense of his brother. “Corey told me he realizes what he did, he didn’t mean to do it to that extent, that he was trying to teach her water safety, but which I told him, ‘In that video, Bro, that’s not water safety, you could have went about that a different way,” D.J. says.

“He knows what he did, he knows he’s ashamed, it’s just hard seeing my little brother in jail,” D.J. says.

Kaitlyn seems to suggest that it is Corey who is the deadbeat parent, telling KTVK that he was essentially just baby-sitting Mia at the time of the incident and that he has never really played a big role in her life. “What happened was horrible and thank God Corey got exactly what he deserved, but Mia doesn’t have to relive that,” Kaitlyn says.

To be perfectly honest, that’s a TERRIBLE method, BUT a lesson about not murdering living creatures isn’t that much of the bad idea for that kid.

She is less than two. I doubt she meant to kill it. Babies throw things in water to see what happens, what sinks and what floats, how big a splash it makes. It is a failure on the parents’ fault for not supervising the child and puppy properly. They are lucky she didn’t drown.

I totally agree she shouldn’t have been unsupervised with the dog near the pool. It’s obvious she doesn’t have the parents of the year.

Oh, sorry.  Just read this after I wrote the first comment.  Exactly.  It’s on them.

She didn’t murder a live creature.  She’s a baby.  There was an accident.  They shouldn’t let the baby by the pool with the dog.  That is their own fault.  Throw THEM in the pool for not watching that baby close enough with the dog.

Please tell me this is not a serious comment. Or maybe you’ve never been around a 2 year old or do you have zero understanding of their development, they are not capable of “murdering” anything, they don’t have the comprehension of life and death. 2 years olds still think Dora on TV is actually talking to them, so the idea of them being murderers that need to taught not to kill is ridiculous. She just as easily could have drowned herself by falling in unattended. A friend of the my family accidentally drowned a kitten at the same age because she thought she was giving it a bath. She did not “murder” anything, she was an unsurprised TODDLER which resulted in the death of the animal. Blame the ADULTS who should have been watching her, they are the ones that need a “lesson”.

*unsupervised. Sorry that comment annoyed me so much. It’s just reminded me of this idiot I got into an argument with recently who told me she would smack her 3 MONTH OLD babies hand and yell at her when she was squirming around while she tried to change her diaper. Her defense was “well she needs to learn to not be naughty and listen to me when I say stop”. 3 months old. Some people shouldn’t have kids or be around them.

Wow. I wonder what this parent’s upbringing must have been like for this to represent a logical train of thought for them.

Ugh, my mother in law told me once she would pop her boys on the mouth while she was breastfeeding, if they bit her. Infants, toddlers, they don’t understand. For someone who wants to think of herself as world’s best mom and that her sons think she did a wonderful job as a mother, she’s a bit off the mark. And surely they had breast pumps in the late 70s/early 80s. Of course, she’s the kind of kook who would consider herself a failure for withholding the nips. So slap your babies, it’s *totally* ok, they’ll learn.

And this kid (he’s certainly not a man) is a real piece of shit. I’m glad he got his ass beat. I think they need to throw him in a pool. And his brother is clearly just as ignorant as he is. Throw him in while they’re at it.

Wow how sad for your mother in laws boys! Breastfeeding is about love, comfort and nourishing! I breastfed my first for almost 4 years and currently breastfeeding my 23 month old.. Each time one of them bit during the early stages of teething I just un latched them and firmly said no and waited a moment then put them back on. Took maybe 5 times for them to understand that biting means no more nursing for a little bit and they stopped doing it.

And if you think this was a good lesson please do not have kids or ever work around them. Or take a basic child development class first.

Is that seriously an excuse?  That puppy wouldn’t have ended up in the water if she had had parental supervision. No 23 month old should be alone by themselves, ESPECIALLY around a pool. It is AMAZING to me that d*mn near drowning your toddler is a means of “teaching a lesson.”How do you teach her a lesson when the outcome of everything that happened was YOUR fault?! Just disgusting to me that his brother even defended him. How do you defend that? Good thing he got his *ss beat. Natural consequences for being do stupid.

Totally agree, if she had been supervised by the pool he would have seen the puppy go in and been able to pull the puppy out. Lucky it was the puppy not the child the first time.

Exactly! I bet that puppy was expensive and this revolves around money, which makes me want to vomit even more. It’s terrifying to think that this could have ended VERY differently.
