
CONCEPCION, Tarlac -- The Intelligence Unit of the Concepcion Police Station recently apprehended an elusive suspected drug pusher in a buy bust operation.

Chief Inspector Rey Apolonio, Concepcion police officer-in-charge, identified the suspect as Christian Marcelo, alias Muslim, 34, and a resident of Sto. Rosario, Mabalacat City, Pampanga.

Apolonio said that Marcelo, who is in the target list of the Tarlac police, was in Barangay Sta. Rita, this town to deliver illegal drugs to a buyer when arrested by the operatives after a police asset who acted as a poseur-buyer was able to purchase 0.246 grams of shabu from the suspect for P500.

During the buy bust operation, Apolonio said that Marcelo was surprised when operatives jumped on him as he was not able to leave the area. He did not resist arrest when the operatives read his rights.

"Siguro kaya ang gamit na alias ng suspek ay Muslim pero Christian ang tunay na pangalan ay para iligaw ang mga operatiba. Matagal na naming gustong mahuli itong si Muslim para hindi na madami pang madamay sa ginagawa niyang paninira ng kinabukasan ng mga kabataan," Apolonio said.

The suspect was brought to the police station and appropriate charges of violation of Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act are being readied for filing before the Provincial Prosecution's Office.

Mayor Andy Lacson congratulated the Concepcion police for the arrest of Marcelo as the local chief executive has a clear and strong campaign against illegal drugs in his town.

Published in the Sun.Star Pampanga newspaper on May 20, 2014.

DISCLAIMER: Sun.Star website welcomes friendly debate, but comments posted on this site do not necessary reflect the views of the Sun.Star management and its affiliates. Sun.Star reserves the right to delete, reproduce or modify comments posted here without notice. Posts that are inappropriate will automatically be deleted.

Forum rules: Do not use obscenity. Some words have been banned. Stick to the topic. Do not veer away from the discussion. Be coherent and respectful. Do not shout or use CAPITAL LETTERS!
