
Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos on Monday denounced his main challenger in the May 25 election for running a "criminal campaign," as evidenced by a video showing candidate Oscar Ivan Zuluaga meeting with a man recently arrested for cyber-espionage targeting the government.

Santos spoke bluntly for the first time about the content of this video that shook up the campaign over the weekend and about which he said on Sunday that the "twisted, criminal methods" of his rival do not alter his determination to make peace in Colombia.

"We are now entering a phase of criminal campaigning that is totally unacceptable," Santos said on Blu Radio.

The video and another audio recording, posted on the respective Web sites of newsweekly Semana and the daily El Tiempo, showed that Zuluaga was well acquainted with the arrested cyber-spy Andres Sepulveda, knew what he was up to and even asked him for plans to torpedo Santos.

When the scandal broke about Sepulveda, who is charged with trying "to sabotage" the Santos administration's peace talks in Cuba with the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC, Zuluaga said he barely knew the suspect.

"He has consistently lied," Santos said. "First, that he (Zuluaga) did not know this gentleman (Sepulveda), a lie, and then that he was only doing some work of influencing social networks, a lie, and then that he had received the hacker only in his campaign office, a lie, and then that he had gone to the hacker's office for just a few minutes, another lie," Santos said.

The incumbent is in a technical tie with Zuluaga, according to the latest survey ahead of next Sunday's ballot.

Santos said he was "horrified" to see that in the video, Sepulveda revealed that "they were infiltrating police and army intelligence, and even the AWACS of U.S. intelligence in the Southern Command."

Both Zuluaga and his mentor, former President Alvaro Uribe, have said that the video is a "montage," which they attribute to the Santos campaign, though without indicating the false elements among the images.

The discovery of Sepulveda's spy operation came three months after Semana exposed a covert military intelligence scheme to monitor government and rebel delegates to the peace talks in Havana as well as journalists covering the negotiations.

Two army generals were cashiered in the wake of those revelations and a subsequent probe determined that unknown individuals had intercepted at least two of Santos' e-mails.

Launched in November 2012, the negotiations between the government and the FARC are aimed at ending the longest-running armed conflict in Latin America.

The FARC and others have accused Uribe of being behind the spying operations.

Uribe, a hardliner who governed from 2002 to 2010, vowed during his presidency to defeat the rebels militarily.

He has been a fierce opponent of the peace process and accuses Santos - who was Uribe's defense minister - of squandering eight years of military gains and elevating the FARC's political stature.
