
On May 18, massive anti-Chinese protests in Hanoi and other Vietnamese cities were put to a stop by armed police squads. The violence in Vietnam has finally seen an end. On the other hand, the Chinese Communist Party’s (CCP) Ministry of Foreign Affairs said that some bilateral programs between China and Vietnam have been put on hold, and warned Chinese citizens not to visit Vietnam. Photos uploaded online capture CCP militaries marching toward Vietnam. Commentators said the current global situation may drive the CCP authorities to strike a war preparation pose, but that it won’t really start a war.

On May 18, groups of Vietnamese civilians in shirts printed with their national flag assembled in the streets around the CCP Embassy. Some held signs with slogans such as “Vietnam Loves Peace” and “CHINA GET OUT.” Protesters were intercepted by police when they attempted to enter the embassy. It was reported that one had been arrested.

In the meantime, Vietnamese police continuously patrolled near local Chinese and Korean restaurants. According to Taiwanese business owners in Vietnam, the violent incidents against Chinese that broke out days ago had been quelled for the time being.

Despite that, Taiwanese president Ma Ying-jeou has required all departments to be prepared to help Taiwanese people leave Vietnam when necessary.

The CCP’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs also announced the evacuation of Chinese living in Vietnam. About 3,000 Chinese have returned to China.

On the other hand, Chinese netizens revealed that a large delivery of heavy artillery was brought from Chongzuo of Guangxi province to Pingxiang, a border city between China and Vietnam. Weapons include tanks, panzers and commanding vehicles. Chinese netizens said the Friendship Pass between the two countries had been closed.

Wu Fan commented that tensions in South China waters are exactly what the CCP authority wants right now. Wu said the CCP is facing a serious economic slowdown and more social turbulence. As the anniversary of the June 4 Incident approaches, the CCP authority urgently needs to shift public attention to foreign affairs.

Currently in China, the number of arrested dissidents continues to increase. In many cities armed police are publicly: “demonstrating their power.” Police in major cities have been guarding crossings with guns.

On May 13, massive anti-Chinese protests broke out in Vietnam. Nationalist sentiment drove Vietnamese people to loot and burn any factories with Chinese characters on their signs. The riot results in closure of over 1,000 factories. At least 16 Chinese were killed and more than a hundred were injured.

The dispute between the CCP and Vietnam mostly lies in the location of the oilrig, which is 120 nautical miles off the Vietnamese coast. Vietnam insists in claiming the region is part of Vietnam’s exclusive economic zone.

Historical records show that after World War II the Republic of China had taken over the South China Sea islands according to the Cairo Declaration and the Potsdam Proclamation. In 1948, the Republic of China announced its map of administrative divisions. The map included an eleven-dotted line covering the positions of islands in South China Sea. The map was not challenged by the international community at that time.

In 1953, the CCP made an adjustment on the eleven-dotted line to hook in Vietnam’s Communist regime. Two lines in the Gulf of Tonkin were removed and the eleven-dotted line was reduced to nine lines.

In 1982, the United Nations passed the Law of the Sea Convention, which clearly defined borders in East and South China Sea. Although those borders seriously contradicted with the borders previously defined by the Republic of China, the CCP authority had attended the conference and signed the treaty.

Wu Fan commented that now the CCP’s placement of oilrigs in that region is actually forcing all neighbors and the United States to either accept the nine-dotted line or begin a war.

However, Politics Professor at City University of New York Xia Ming commented that as the CCP and the Vietnamese Communist Party are the two biggest Communist regimes in the world, a war between the two would be a deadly hit to the Communist bloc.
