
KARACHI: A local court in Karachi ordered that the case against the Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI) agent, who was apprehended at Jinnah International Airport, should be dropped, Express News reported on Monday.

The FBI agent , Joel Cox, was arrested at the Karachi airport on May 5 for carrying ammunition. He was later released on bail on May 8.

A district judge in Karachi, Hasan Ali Kalwar, quashed the case after police failed to present any evidence against the agent.

Cox was presented before district court Malir and the police presented a final report regarding the case after which the court gave the order. On May 10, the court had ordered  the police to submit the final challan today (Monday). In the final report the police had said that this whole situation had occurred because of a misunderstanding.

Kalwar said police had invoked an incorrect section of the law.

“He was not carrying any weapon but was carrying only the bullets and magazines,” the judge was quoted as saying by a court official.

During the hearing of the FBI agent case today, the court also ordered that his belongings be returned to him.

Police did not pursue the case after the interior ministry informed them that the agent was authorised to carry the ammunition, police officer Khalid Mehmood told AFP.

A letter from the US embassy was also presented before the court by the FBI agent’s lawyers. The letter stated that Cox was on a mission and was allowed to carry the ammunition.

Cox was travelling from Karachi to Islamabad by PK-308 on the evening of May 5 when a routine search by Airport Security Force (ASF) staff at the Jinnah International Airport found  15 bullets and a magazine  in his bags.

He was detained before being handed over to the airport police station. A case was lodged against him under Section 23 1(a) of the Sindh Arms Act, 2013. When he was presented before the district Malir court the following day, the court had sent him into judicial remanded till May 10.

The district and sessions court Malir  had released  Cox after the payment of a surety bond worth Rs1,000,000.

I wonder what that mission might be that would require use of lethal force.

This was unnecessary drama from the beginning.

the pakistani government should not negotiate on the behalf of proven associates of terrorism.

No thank you. We are better off one terrorist less!

I am not surprised you made this comment.

that’s not true, keep arms and bullets while going on plane will give you some years punishment.

To what lengths you will go to cover the incompetency of your Interior Minister? Let me tell you, you end up making it worse for yourself and the party you support.

Not only the accused but all his family and relatives has been arrested and had been taken to undisclosed place and later dead bodies has been found at remote places !

over a couple of people, we should simply look the other way.

Dear Mirza,

Perhaps you are correct, but my advise is not to try a similar minor crime if you are visiting New York. Several unfortunate things could happen to you, but at the very least you would probably be imprisoned for approximately 99 years.

Your comments may appear in The Express Tribune paper. For this reason we encourage you to provide your city. The Express Tribune does not bear any responsibility for user comments.

Comments are moderated and generally will be posted if they are on-topic and not abusive. For more information, please see our Comments FAQ .

Notify me of new posts by email.

Unless otherwise stated, all content is copyrighted © 2014 The Express Tribune News Network.
