
SASKATOON - The would-be sister-in-law of a man who has been missing since the night of his stag party says police have told her family they believe the man's body has been pulled from the Saskatchewan River.

Kara Kohle, whose sister was engaged to Gregory Miles MacIntosh, says RCMP contacted her family on Sunday stating they believe it was MacIntosh who was found over the weekend north of Melfort, Sask.

RCMP say marine researchers stumbled upon a body in the river near Wapiti Regional Park on Saturday.

Mounties say it's a Caucasian man, but aren't saying who it is, and that an autopsy will be performed Tuesday to help confirm the identity.

Macintosh is believed to have fallen into the South Saskatchewan River, which flows into the Saskatchewan River, and drowned just after midnight on Feb. 2 in Saskatoon.

Police say MacIntosh, a former resident of Lunenberg, N.S., was on a pub crawl with friends when he got into a fight with someone on the bus.

The park where the body was found is close to 200 kilometres from Saskatoon.

"They believe it was Myles who they found in the river," Kohle said.

On the night of his disappearance, MacIntosh had been asked to leave a bar and got aboard the pub crawl bus that was headed for another night spot. He reportedly got into fight on the vehicle before getting off.

Police officers who were called to the scene were told by witnesses that a man had fallen in the river. DNA analysis later confirmed that blood found on the riverbank in the area came from MacIntosh.

We encourage all readers to share their views on our articles and blog posts. We are committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion, so we ask you to avoid personal attacks, and please keep your comments relevant and respectful. If you encounter a comment that is abusive, click the "X" in the upper right corner of the comment box to report spam or abuse. We are using Facebook commenting. Visit our FAQ page for more information.
