
Jesse L. Hermann, 27, of Alma, was sentenced to three years of probation and six months in jail for felony drug possession of meth. A charge of possessing drug paraphernalia was dismissed. Jail time will be reduced by time already served as well as credit for time in residential treatment.

Keith W. Marshall, 42, of Spring Valley, Minn., was sentenced to a year of probation and 185 days in jail for fourth-offense operating while intoxicated. Marshall’s license was revoked for two years and vehicles must be equipped with ignition interlock devices for 24 months. A charge of possessing marijuana was dismissed.

Phillip J. Pyka, 22, of Arcadia, was sentenced to 90 days in jail and three years of probation for misdemeanor sexual assault. Pyka pleaded guilty to two counts of fourth-degree assault. Two counts were recorded and dismissed as part of a plea agreement.

Steven R. Coey, 41, of Cochrane, was sentenced to 60 days in jail for domestic abuse disorderly conduct. Coey violated probation, leading Judge James Duvall to revoke it and give Coey 30 days in county lockup with credit for time served.

Andrew D. Miller, 24, of Rochester, was ordered to spend 60 days in jail and two years on probation for felony second-offense possession of marijuana.

Dawn H. Grable, 38, of Cochrane, pleaded guilty to domestic abuse disorderly conduct and was ordered to serve a year of probation with prohibitions on consumption or possession of alcohol.

Beverly J. Smith, 29, of Sparta, pleaded no contest to a felony charge of possessing narcotic drugs and given a year of probation and 15 days in jail.

Glynn C. Garnett, 34, of Mondovi, was sentenced to 60 days in county jail with credit for time served on a charge of felon in possession of a firearm.

Sandra M. Moldenhauer, 37, of Winona, is scheduled to have a plea and sentencing hearing May 30 on misdemeanor charges accusing her of criminal trespass to a dwelling and possession of a controlled substance.

An arrest warrant was issued for 20-year-old Katelyn Kay Hanson of Milwaukee after she failed to appear in court as scheduled on a felony forgery charge and misdemeanor theft.

Ryan J. House, 25, of Eau Claire, has a plea and sentencing hearing July 23 on two charges of theft and issuing a worthless check.

Steven R. Kennedy, 26, of Somerset, Wis., has a hearing June 18 on a felony charge accusing him of second-offense possession of marijuana.

Ronald P. Pichler, 51, of Mondovi, has a hearing July 9 on two felony charges accusing him of forgery.

Copyright 2014 Winona Daily News. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Breaking News, News Update and Sports Update Headlines. Delivered at 9a.m. daily.

Local homes for sale.

I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site consitutes agreement to it's user agreement & privacy policy.

Username & Password Required!
