
A former state Department of Natural Resources conservation warden has been charged with felony theft and felony misconduct in public office, following an investigation by state Capitol Police.

The DNR said that it found evidence of misconduct after David Horzewski, 45, of Reedsburg, a conservation warden in Sauk County, was terminated from his job in July 2013.

Details of the charges were not immediately available. The Wisconsin Circuit Court Access system says that Horzewski has been accused of six counts of theft between 2003 and 2013 and two counts of misconduct in public office.

Horzewski faces penalties of up to $10,000 and six years in prison if convicted of the theft charges, or both; and up to $10,000 and 31/2 years in prison for the misconduct charges, or both.

Monroe County District Attorney Kevin Croninger is serving as special prosecutor in the case.

The DNR said it asked Capitol Police to investigate the case to avoid any potential conflict of interest.

The DNR said the agency believes the charges are the first time a conservation warden with the DNR has faced felony charges. The conservation service was established in Wisconsin in 1879. There are 189 credentialed conservation wardens working at the DNR.

Chief Conservation Officer Todd Schaller said Horzewski, a 19-year veteran of the agency, had earlier been terminated for work-rule violations.

In an interview, Horzewski declined to discuss the matter.

Schaller said in a statement that allegations against Horzewski "are not acceptable to the public or the law enforcement community."

He declined to elaborate on details of the case.

© 2014 , Journal Sentinel Inc. All rights reserved.

The latest local news delivered to your inbox Monday-Friday around noon – or whenever there’s big breaking news.

Enter your e-mail address above and click "Sign Up Now!" to begin receiving your e-mail newsletter Get the Newsletter!

Login or Register to manage all your newsletter preferences.

Milwaukee Crime & Safety : Use our frequently updated interactive map and page to explore recent 911 calls and incident reports, read recent crime news, follow crime and safety tweets and more.

Journal Sentinel reporters take a closer look at murder in the city.

Search homicides in the city of Milwaukee by location, age, race, gender and date.
