
POLICE investigations into a suspected attempted armed robbery and shooting incident at Highland Park this morning are continuing.

Police have said preliminary information suggests a man carrying a handgun confronted a security guard at a tavern located on Alexander Drive, Highland Park about 7.40am this morning.

A struggle took place between the two men and a number of shots were fired by the security guard.

The alleged offender sustained several gun shot wounds and died at the scene. He is believed to be a 46-year-old Upper Coomera man but has not yet been formally identified.

The security guard, a 47-year-old man, sustained minor facial injuries as a result of the incident.

A vehicle located in a nearby street found about midday has been seized by police for scientific examination.

A Police Operations Centre has been established at Coomera Police Station where investigations by detectives, uniformed and intelligence officers, as well as scientific and scenes of crimes officers continuing.

Alexander Drive, between Cozens Street to Explorers Way, was closed to westbound traffic but has since re-opened.

Police continue to appeal for witnesses to the incident to contact them, or if members of the public noticed anyone acting suspiciously in the area at the time to call Crime Stoppers.

A SECURITY guard is being questioned after he allegedly shot dead a bandit who tried to hold up a pub on the Gold Coast this morning.

Police said a man was shot during an armed robbery attempt outside the Highland Park tavern.

About 7.40am a male security guard was conducting a cash courier service when he was confronted by a man armed with a handgun at the Alexander Drive premises, they said.

A struggle took place between the two men and a number of shots were fired by the security guard.

The alleged offender received a life-threatening injury and died at the scene.

The security guard sustained minor facial injuries as a result of the incident and is currently assisting police with their inquiries.

Police are appealing for members of the public who may have seen anyone acting suspiciously in the area at the time to contact Crime Stoppers.

A crime scene has been established and investigators remain on scene.

Alexander Drive remains closed to westbound traffic between Cozens Street to Explorers Way.

There is no further information available at this stage.

Help make the news! Share your photos, stories, events or just post a general notice to the community.

© Central Queensland News Publishing Company Pty Ltd 2014. Unauthorised reproduction is prohibited under the laws of Australia and by international treaty.

Refer to our helpful FAQ section for any problems you might be experiencing.
