
Even before  the nomination day, DAP’s Teluk Intan by-election candidate Dyana Sofya  Mohd Daud had created so much buzz in the news media, and UMNO is the  major contributor to it.

Instead of promoting BN candidate,  Gerakan President Mah Siew Keong, UMNO leaders seemed to have their  eyes gazed on Dyana, who is also the political secretary to DAP advisor  Lim Kit Siang.

UMNO Wanita  chief Shahrizat Jalil set the ball rolling by belittling Dyana’s  credential alleging that she allowed herself to be used by DAP to  further its political agenda.

Going by  racial breakdown, Teluk Intan constituency has 23,301 Malay voters  (38.6%), 25,310 Chinese voters (41.9%) and 11,468 Indian voters (19%).

Next comes UMNO information chief Ahmad Maslan who alleged that Dyana was part of DAP’s ploy to deceive the Malay voters in Teluk Intan.

However, the  deputy Finance Minister believed that Mah has an edge over Dyana as the  former had served as Teluk Intan MP for two terms prior to the 13th General Election.

"There are more Chinese voters in Teluk Intan, so BN's choice of Mah for the by-election is most apt,” Maslan was quoted saying by Malaysiakini.

Diana  meanwhile, remained unfazed with the attacks. In a statement retorting  Shahrizat’s allegation, Dyana said the former’s statement reflected the  party’s failure to promote women in politics.

"It is  precisely this sort of negative attitude that originates from BN woman  leaders that has constantly robbed women of opportunities to lead in  this nation,” she said.

The Teluk Intan seat fell vacant following the death of its MP Seah Leong Peng on May 1.

Nomination day is on May 19, while early voting is on May 27 and polling day on May 31.

Komentar yang diutarakan melalui laman sosial ini adalah milik peribadi dan tanggungjawab pemilik akaun laman sosial ini. Malaysia Chronicle tidak bertanggungjawab diatas segala komentar yang disiarkan dibawah. Para komentar dinasihatkan bertanggungjawab dalam menulis dan elakkan komentar berbaur perkauman, seksis, serangan peribadi, lucah ataupun menghina.

Komentar yang berbentuk "drama bersiri", yakni salin & tampal artikel pihak ketiga secara bersiri ataupun komentar yang keluar tajuk juga ditegah dan akan dianggap sebagai penyalahgunaan kemudahan komentar ini.

Harap maklum bahawa anda perlu log-masuk melalui Facebook, Yahoo, MSN atau akaun sosial media yang disediakan untuk meninggalkan komentar. Juga maklum bahawa terpulang kepada jalur-lebar di kawasan-kawasan tertentu, komentar anda mungkin tidak akan disiarkan dengan serta-merta.
