
More than 20 veterans came to Russellville City Council meeting with something on their minds and their hearts Thursday night. They want a building or place downtown that speaks to the more than 5,000 veterans who live in the area — like the above words taken from a memorial from another community.

They wanted to make aldermen aware that with the exception of a memorial in front of the Pope County Courthouse, Tucker Coliseum on the campus of Arkansas Tech University, and the old Gardner Junior High building, there isn’t a dedicated memorial or facility to honor the area’s veterans.

Allen Kimball explained the coalition is asking for ideas where names of local veterans can be seen, possibly a well-planned and organized wall, that would attract tourist interest in the downtown area. A building could be used to enhance a veterans memorial in many ways. He passed out photos of other veterans memorials for aldermen to view. He added one community charged $100 per brick for those who wanted to honor veterans.

There is a Veterans Park, but it is not really a suitable area for what the men and women who have served and are serving this country are trying to do, River Valley Veterans Coalition Bill Hefley explained.

“We have 5,237 veterans (in Russellville area, counted in 2012),” he said. “Our purpose is two-fold: One, to make the council aware we are here to establish a veteran’s memorial. Our goal is to have a memorial that represents our veterans and represents our town and the River Valley in a visible and respectable manner.

The River Valley Veterans Coalition, along with the Pope County Veterans Services Office, will present a Memorial Day program at 10 a.m. on May 26 at Depot Park at the corner of Denver and C Street. In the event of rain, the program will be moved to the family center at Central Presbyterian Church, located at 400 W. Main St.

The next meeting of the River Valley Veterans Coalition is 8 a.m. June 11.

The Russellville City Council’s Finance Committee tabled action on elected officials compensation until a later date.

An appropriation for $310,088 (for construction on East H and Parker from City Corp.).

An appropriation of $23,373 (replace 2013 Ford pickup truck totaled by insurance company).

An appropriation of $660 (replace allocation capital funds to purchase six police cars, a tractor for Recreation and Parks, a fuel truck for the Regional Airport, cameras for City Hall and to put $100,000 in the Fire Department’s new truck fund.

The Courier - Your Messenger for the River Valley in Russellville, AR.
