
Brother Six had the fastest speedboats in Hong Kong, rigged with four outboard engines to outrun the police on both sides of the border.

He knew the best smuggling routes around the islands and waterways of the Pearl River Delta and had a team of sworn “brothers” ready to die for him.

So in the bloody aftermath of the 1989 Tiananmen massacre, as China’s Communist Party hunted down the leaders of the student protests, activists in Hong Kong gingerly brokered a meeting with the underworld boss.

“We met in a hotel in Kowloon, around a week after the massacre,” said Brother Six at his tiny office in central Hong Kong in his first interview with a member of the Western media in two decades.

In the room at that meeting were two Hong Kong film stars who had become involved in the cause of the Tiananmen students, Alan Tang and John Shum. “They asked me if I was willing to join the operation to get the students out,” said Brother Six, whose real name is Chan Tat-ching. “I just said yes. I knew the risks and I knew if I thought too much about it, I would not be able to make a decision.

What followed was a series of incredible escapes engineered by political activists, triads such as Brother Six and Western diplomats that spirited at least 150 people out of China under the noses of the authorities, first to Hong Kong, still a British territory at that time, and then onwards to France and the United States.

“It was a strange alliance, between the political activists and the underworld, but it worked,” said Lee Cheuk-yan, the chairman of the Hong Kong Alliance, which supported the Tiananmen protesters, and now the leader of Hong Kong’s Labour party.

Now a writer in Maryland, Mr Yan was deemed a “black hand” behind the protests and put on a wanted list. He fled with his wife to Guangzhou, from where they were driven to Aotou to make their crossing.

“A guy in a yellow raincoat took us to the beach and we got on board the speedboat.

It was fast and we were soaked by spray. We arrived an hour later at an island with a 50ft hill, a cave and a stone basin filled with drinking water.

At dawn, there was another, faster, boat. We got on it and other boats secured a perimeter for us as we sped to Hong Kong. We lay down under the deck in case police spotted us.

We dumped our luggage in the sea and emptied our pockets so that we had nothing to show our identity. They said if we were stopped I should say we were day tripping.

Now a writer in Los Angeles, he witnessed one of the protests’ bloodiest scenes in Liubukou, where three tanks charged into rows of students. He fled via Macau to tell the world about friends he feared would be executed.

“I gave the smugglers in Zhuhai all the money I had and they said it was no problem to cross to Macau, it was only a shallow creek and I should swim as a boat would attract attention.

At the crossing spot I realised it was actually a wide bay and the water was freezing as it was February. It took me four hours to swim.

Smugglers on the other end took me to an apartment and I called a friend in the US for help. He contacted the people in Hong Kong and they sent two students to check me out.

They sent a picture of me out to be verified, then they sent a boat over to get me.

XIANG XIAOJI, 57.

Now a lawyer in Boston, he was unofficial chairman of the “Dialogue Delegation,” which tried to negotiate with the government. He and his wife fled to Guangzhou where they made contact with the “underground railroad”.

“The man who met us said next time we saw someone who showed us an HSBC keyring, with a bull’s head on it, we should follow them. On Aug 24, two men called us down to the hotel lobby. They showed us the keyring and we got into a taxi together. We drove for an hour and picked up six others, in two or three taxis. We waited until the night when two more cars came to take us to Humen.

At 9pm we all got in one boat and at 11pm we arrived at Dragon Tiger beach in Yuen Long, Hong Kong.

From Brother Six’s office, guys from the Hong Kong Alliance took us to a building where we stayed until it was our time to leave.

Now professor of Chinese literature at the University of California, she was among leaders on the “21 Most Wanted” list. She eventually fled with a faked work certificate, helped by the Hong Kong Alliance.

Three friends went into the train station before me and checked for surveillance cameras. We booked a cabin. I slept in the middle bunk and the others played cards, blocking any strangers from coming close.

In Guangzhou two people were waiting for us. They gave the agreed code and we followed them. A van came to get us… to Shenzhen. I was put into a two-room apartment. Next day, five or six people came in, telling me to follow them. It was night and I was taken to a car.

The full details of the rescue mission, which much later came to be known as Operation Yellowbird, have never been told.

The memory of the Tiananmen massacre, which claimed hundreds of lives, has been all but erased from modern China’s consciousness by the Communist Party, so deep were the scars left on it by the months of protests, and their bloody suppression in the early hours of June 4, 1989.

That moment and his own history of persecution galvanized him to take part in the risky rescue mission. In 1971, he had been forced to swim the nine-mile crossing between Guangdong and Hong Kong to escape Mao Tse-tung’s Cultural Revolution. “I was the division chief of a printing factory that made Mao’s Little Red Book but they labelled me a counter-revolutionary and I had to smuggle myself out,” he said.

Now 70, his left arm hangs awkwardly. In 1996, he was hacked with cleavers by four attackers as he ate at a food stand. He lost seven pints of blood and doctors feared he might end up paralysed.

Before the Tiananmen protests, he smuggled cars, car parts and “anything which had a high import duty” from Hong Kong to the mainland. “We bought the cars second-hand in the U.S. and we could turn HK$200,000 [$27,400] to HK$300,000 on each one. We would boat them out to international waters then hoist them on to a speedboat with a crane,” he said.

For the rescue mission, he put together a team of 10. “One was Brother Seven, my brother, and the others were all people I knew would risk their lives for me,” he said.

The students and intellectuals smuggled to safety remember travelling to one of the safe houses on the mainland and then boarding the boats under the cover of darkness, sometimes stopping at islands on the way to wait for a clear run into Hong Kong. “We lay under the deck and other boats secured the perimeter for us as we sped to Hong Kong,” said Yan Jiaqi, 72, now a writer in Maryland in the United States.

“We were told that the next time someone showed us an HSBC keyring with a bull’s head on it, we should follow them,” said Xiang Xiaoji, 57, now a lawyer in Boston.

In Hong Kong, they were taken to a safe house in Sai Kung, said Mr Lee. “We helped them go through the embassy and be assessed for political asylum,” he said. “We got them plane tickets out and gave them money.

“The French did most of it. The British had a role to play as the Hong Kong government, to screen the people coming in and decide whether they qualified for political asylum. But the French helped around 100 of them leave.

The French consulate began issuing visas for the exiles without waiting for approval from Paris.

“Sometimes when a decision is taken it does not need a very official process, it can be a local decision,” said a source with knowledge of the episode. “That year was the bicentenary of the French Revolution, it was quite symbolic in terms of human rights. No one at that time really cared about whether it might upset the Chinese.

Although Brother Six and others involved in the mission believe Chinese officials in the south turned a blind eye to the rescues either because they had been bought or because they sympathized with the students, the operation was not without danger. Two of his men died in a boat collision. Another two were imprisoned after a sting operation by the Chinese police.

The men, Li Longqing and Li Peicheng, confessed and told police about the operation, after which they were jailed for six years. Their imprisonment meant the end of the mission for Brother Six, although others continued the operation for several years.

“Afterwards, I gave the Hong Kong Alliance half a year to get them out of jail, and when they failed, I decided to negotiate directly,” he said.
