
Company: Gulfstream Aerospace Corp.

Related Experience: Dixon served as vice president, Mid-Cabin Programs, overseeing all activities relating to Gulfstream’s mid-cabin aircraft, including the G150 and G280 programs.

Duties: Muhlhan’s tasks will include social media management, media relations, writing press releases, blogging, creating and managing websites, search engine optimization and event planning.

Related Experience: At Georgia Southern University, she was a member of Public Relations Student Society of America (PRSSA), Phi Kappa Phi, Delta Epsilon Iota and Kappa Kappa Gamma. Muhlhan also wrote for Eagle PRide, PRSSA’s monthly newsletter, and served as secretary for the Bateman campaign.

Duties: Hill will interact with local businesses and organizations to build collaborative relationships with the station. She will also assist with fundraising and marketing efforts.

Related Experience: McDonald worked in new home sales with Fred Williams Homebuilder, Inc. selling new homes in Pooler, Richmond Hill, Savannah, Rincon and Portwentworth. He became a licensed Georgia Realtor in 2006 and is a certified new home sales specialist through the National Association of Home Builders.

Lt. Gen. (Ret.) William Glenn Webster, Jr. has become a member of the Savannah Technical College Board of Directors. He was appointed by the Technical College System of Georgia state board.

Priya Goeser, an associate professor of engineering studies at Armstrong Atlantic State University recently received the American Society for Engineering Education (ASEE) 2014 Outstanding Mid-Career Teaching Award-Southeastern Section. The award recognizes faculty members who have demonstrated exceptional contributions to engineering or engineering technology education through outstanding classroom performance.

LETR & Co. has won two American Web Design Awards. The annual awards, sponsored by Graphic Design, USA, recognize design excellence of websites and online communications to attract audiences, disseminate ideas and information, generate response and promote products, services and ideas.
