
Crowds attended Ringwood Manor's reopening on April 25 following two years of renovations. Unknown to the public at the time was that the manor had been burglarized just five days before.

Police credit a new security system with foiling a Wanaque pair’s alleged attempt to burglarize Ringwood Manor on April 20. The pair was arrested on May 7, officials said.

It may be in an isolated area of Ringwood State Park, but Ringwood Manor is not an easy mark for thieves, state officials said, due to security upgrades that were made there following a 2011 burglary that resulted in the loss of a Hudson River School painting valued at more than $150,000.

"We want to get the message out with this arrest that security is in place," said Larry Ragonese, spokesman for the state Department of Environmental Protection (DEP), on Friday. He acknowledged that previously, isolation was a concern even though the manor is only 1.5 miles from the Ringwood police station and is subject to frequent patrols from both local and State Park Police. Now the new state-of-the-art system is doing its job.

Ringwood Manor was reopened to the public on April 25 after being closed for renovations for more than two years following a furnace malfunction. But the manor grounds remained open during the renovations, and Ragonese said the suspects were seen on surveillance video allegedly scouting the place during the day on April 20.

Later that night, surveillance video allegedly recorded them again – this time forcing open a window in the rear of the 51-room house and also forcing open the front door to enter and exit the manor, the DEP said in a press release.

"We don’t believe they took anything," Ragonese said.

Robert Prevete, 44, and Donna Hopper Prevete, 48, have each been charged with burglary and criminal mischief. They were lodged in the Passaic County Jail on $30,000 bail apiece, and are now both free on bail pending their court appearances, according to the DEP.

Using the surveillance footage, State Park Police were able to provide photos of the suspects to area police. With the assistance of Wanaque police, they were able to identify the couple, and the Prevetes were arrested at their home on May 7. The investigation was conducted by State Park Police officers were Detective Steven Franzone and Officer Jose Salerna, assisted by Detective Tim Kasony. Ringwood police also assisted in the investigation.

When asked if the April 20 incident may be tied to a 2011 burglary of the manor, Ragonese would only say, "The case is under investigation."

During the March 3, 2011 crime, a burglar or burglars disabled the former alarm system and absconded with two of Jasper F. Cropsey’s Hudson River School paintings, as well as antique guns, three bayonets, antique dolls and clocks, vases, silverware, and a statue. One of Crospey’s paintings was later discovered on the grounds of the manor and restored, Ragonese said, but the remainder of the stolen goods are still missing.

That break-in and theft went undiscovered until employees arrived at 7 the next morning for work at the estate. A source told The Record that the crook or crooks managed to get into the park office, locate the alarm box, and cut wires.

It was a major loss to the manor, as the artwork, painted at the height of landscape artist Cropsey’s career, is valued at $150,000 per painting by conservative estimates.

In an interview with Suburban Trends, art recovery specialist Christopher Marinello held out hope that the painting might be recovered eventually through use of an art loss database – the same database that brought in a missing million-dollar Matisse.

Ringwood Manor, a 19th-century mansion, is a National Historic Landmark that reflects North Jersey’s rich ironworks history and its early impact on industrial commerce in the United States.

Ringwood Manor was closed to the public in January 2012 following a furnace malfunction that spread soot throughout the interior of the museum, covering its historic collections.
