
By From Staff Reports.

By From Staff Reports.

Smyrna, Del.

Smyrna Police have arrested a 16-year-old runaway from Wilmington following a pursuit Friday.

On Friday at approximately 11:54 a.m., officers of the Smyrna Police Department observed a silver Volvo traveling southbound on Rt.13 in Smyrna. The vehicle was observed with equipment violations and no registration plate displayed. As officers attempted to perform a traffic stop on this vehicle, the driver allegedly failed to stop and increased its speed and attempted to elude officers while driving in a reckless manner weaving in and out of traffic, police said. The suspect then lost control of the vehicle in the area of Garrisons Lake south of Smyrna and crossed the median into oncoming traffic, drove through a fence and crashed into a business, Portable Buildings, Inc., causing approximately $9,000 in damage.

Police said the operator then allegedly fled the scene on foot while two female juvenile passengers remained inside the vehicle. The passengers provided officers with the clothing and physical description of the suspect. The two female juvenile passengers were transported to the Kent General Hospital by Ambulance 64 for minor injuries, police said.

After a registration check on the vehicle, officers determined that the vehicle was stolen from Philadelphia, Pa. Officers from the Smyrna Police Department and the Delaware State Police later located the 16-year-old suspect on Route 1 not far from the accident location attempting to flag down motorists for a ride. Police said the juvenile was taken into custody and determined to be a runaway from Wilmington since April 11. The juvenile suspect also was found to be wanted in the State of Delaware in the New Castle County Family Court.

The suspect was charged with receiving stolen property, criminal mischief, disregarding a police officers signal, reckless driving, driving without a valid license, failure to have two head lamps, unsafe passing on the left, failure to have required insurance, and overtaking/passing on the right. The juvenile was committed to Stevenson Juvenile Detention Facility in Milford in default of $6,703 secured bond.

By From Staff Reports.

Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.
