
Please register to gain free access to WSJ tools.

An account already exists for the email address entered.

The email address you have entered is already in use.

Please re-enter the email address.

Heads of state from almost a dozen Asian nations will descend on Shanghai on Tuesday to discuss tighter security measures in a region beset with border and ideological conflicts.

Chinese President Xi Jinping will host representatives from more than 40 nations, including the leaders of Russia, Iran and Kazakhstan, as well as the secretary-general of the United Nations, at a full-day event Wednesday called the Conference on Interaction and Confidence Building Measures in Asia.

The trust-building event is pitched as an opportunity for Asian leaders to boost cooperation against terrorism and to improve their economies, all within a forum that reflects the complexity of Asia while limiting input from the U.S. and its regional allies.

“Through the summit, we hope to offer a platform for countries to exchange views on security and cooperation,” Cheng Guoping, a vice foreign minister, told reporters over the weekend, according to state media.

Mr. Xi intends to propose in a speech he’s set to deliver on Wednesday beefing up regional security dialogue and cooperation, according to the official Xinhua news agency.

Russian President Vladimir Putin is expected to arrive early Tuesday in Shanghai, and he told Chinese media ahead of the visit that bilateral ties are progressing in the right direction; Russia and China also have scheduled joint military exercises this week off the city’s coast involving surface ships, submarines and aircraft. After visiting Shanghai, Mr. Putin will head to Beijing for a state visit, where energy deals are to be in focus.

Membership in the conference is limited to states with part of their territory on the landmass of Asia. That construct appears to exclude membership to the island nations of Japan, Indonesia and Sri Lanka, as well as Pacific nations such as the U.S. (though all four hold observer status).

Highlighting the challenges of cooperation in Asia is a recent flare-up in tensions between two conference members, Vietnam and China. After Chinese ships escorted a huge rig into disputed waters off the South China Sea with plans to drill for oil, protests broke out in in Vietnam against foreign businesses that left at least two Chinese dead. Over the weekened, China suspended certain exchanges with its southern neighbor.

Vietnam says it will disptach its vice president, Nguyen Thi Doan, to attend the Shanghai meeting. “Vietnam’s delegation to [the conference] represents the country’s reponsiblity and its goodwill in regional and international issues,” a statement from Vietnam’s Foreign Ministry said.

Under rules of the forum, heads of state will speak for seven minutes. As an observer, the U.S. will be represented by the second in command at its Beijing embassy, Dan Kritenbrink, who will be permitted to make a three-minute statement.

Security is tightening in Shanghai ahead of the conference. Over the weekend, police foot patrols included officers carrying automatic rifles. Some 300,000 so-called “citizen volunteers,” mostly elderly folks, were outfitted in yellow smocks and red armbands to man important urban sites and enforce temporary measures like a ban on fireworks and curbs on the use of loudspeakers.

The meeting itself is scheduled for the grounds of the World’s Fair that Shanghai hosted in 2010. Traffic won’t be permitted in three major areas of the city for two days, including People’s Square in the city center and the Pudong financial district. Restrictions will limit access to bridges, subways and ferries while the leaders are in town. Most schools in the city will close on Wednesday, along with many government and private offices.

The conference, established more than two decades ago, is the brainchild of Nursultan Nazarbayev, the president of Kazakhstan, where the organization is based and who is expected in Shanghai. The consensus-based grouping gathers its top leaders every four years to reaffirm “a spirit of peaceful cooperation and consideration of major issues” such as defense, economics and national sovereignty, according to the organization’s website .

China assumes chairmanship of the conference through 2016, and local scholars have penned recent editorials saying the grouping shouldn’t be regarded as an anti-West alliance. Instead, they say, it connects leaders who best understand Asia’s complexities and that the understandings they reach should help outsiders— including the U.S.—improve their appreciation for the region and avoid blunders.

Chinese scholars downplay any expectations for significant achievements during the meeting.

“At present, important initiatives in the military-political field are launched jointly by China and Russia, as other members do not have enough capability and authority to do so,” according to an editorial published in Monday’s China Daily by Yang Danzhi, a researcher at an international strategy institute within the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences.

An error has occured and your email has not been sent.

• Seperate multiple addresses with Commas.

• Must enter an email address.

• You must enter the verification code below to send.

• Invalid entry: Please type the verification code again.

An error has occured and your email has not been sent.

• Seperate multiple addresses with Commas.

• Must enter an email address.

• You must enter the verification code below to send.

• Invalid entry: Please type the verification code again.
