
Navy Reserve Capt. Nancy Stewart Lacore of Norfolk, Va., formerly of Albany, has completed duty as director of Obangame Express, a training exercise that involved naval forces from the United States, Europe, South America and Africa.

The weeklong exercise involved 31 ships near the coasts of Nigeria and Cameroon.

Lacore, a 1986 graduate of the Academy of the Holy Names , Albany, is commander of Commander Destroyer Squadron 40 at Norfolk, Va., and a veteran of the Afghanistan war.

The sailors trained to improve tactical expertise and cooperation as well as those maritime forces' collective ability to deter illicit activity and threats in the Gulf of Guinea. Security skills were also tested.

"Every nation represented here today plays a critical role in regional maritime security, and we all know that no one nation alone can ensure safe maritime preparations," Lacore said at the start of Obangame. "It is through exercises such as Obangame that nations can work together to lay the foundation for the regional cooperation that will ensure the safety and security of military, commercial and civilian operations at sea."

Obangame tested skills such as sailors ability to visit, board, search and seizure, medical response, radio communications and information sharing.

Angola, Belgium, Benin, Brazil, Cameroon, Ciote d'Ivoire, Equatorial Guinea, France, Gabon, Germany, Ghana, The Netherlands, Portugal, Republic of Congo, Sao Tome and Principe, Spain, Togo and Turkey also participated in the training.

Focusing on counterpiracy and maritime security operations, the exercise included a wide variety of scenarios for participating forces to test a variety of skills, including at sea boarding procedures, queries, medical familiarization, air operations, communication drills and regional information sharing.

Members of the New York Air and Army National Guard mourn the loss of retired Maj. Gen. Robert A. Knauff , former New York Air National Guard commander, who was killed in a glider accident in Aguila, Ariz. May 3.

Knauff commanded the 6,000-member New York Air National Guard and served as deputy commander of the 17,000 men and women of the New York Army and Air National Guard before he retired.

Knauff was a pilot with 3,900 flying hours in F-106 Delta Daggers, F-15 Eagle, F-16 Falcon and OV-10 observation aircraft. He commanded the 174th Fighter Wing at Hancock field from 1996 to 2003.,

The 1975 graduate of the Air Force Academy undertook a series of flying and command assignments culminating with his duty at the New York State Division of Military and Naval Affairs in Latham.

He was a combat veteran with more than 3,900 flying hours.

Knauff's awards included a Legion of Merit, a Meritorious Service Medal, an Air Force Commendation Medal, Combat Readiness Medal, an Air Force Outstanding Unit Award, a New York State Conspicuous Service Medal and a New York State Defense of Liberty Medal.

A Memorial Day ceremony will be held by the Town of Colonie Veterans Memorial Committee at the Veterans Memorial at 6 p.m. Wednesday at The Crossings of Colonie, off Albany Shaker Road.

The men and women, both living and deceased, who served in the Armed Forces will be honored, said Melissa Shaw , committee secretary.

Veterans organizations' representatives will present memorial wreaths.

A Memorial Day ceremony will be held at 11 a.. May 26 at the American Legion Pavilion at 275 Grooms Road, Halfmoon.

New York Army National Guard Lt. Col. Robert Mitchell , an Afghanistan war veteran and joint service deputy director of Civil Support Operations, will speak.

Bruce Maikels of Niskayuna, a veteran of the war in Iraq, was promoted to sergeant first class while serving with the 2nd Weapons of Mass Destruction Civil Support Team, which is headquartered at Stratton Air National Guard Base in Scotia.

Darren A. Heller , son of Claudia Heller of Glenville and Eric Heller of Colonie, was promoted to Air Force staff sergeant at Minot Air Force Base, North Dakota. He has been reassigned to Osan Air Base, South Korea.

Army Pvt. Christopher Cortese of Knox, and Army National Guard Pvt. Alexander Sheldon of Ballston Spa have graduated from basic infantry training at Fort Benning, Columbus, Ga.

Air Force Airman Jacob M. Bates of Averill Park has graduated from basic military training at Joint Base San Antonio-Lackland , San Antonio.
