
NEW YORK >> More than 24 kilos of heroin were seized in a bust that shut down a drug ring that was a key supplier to Connecticut, authorities said Monday in a press release.

Local and federal authorities in New York said two ringleaders of the multi-million dollar drug distribution network were arrested in Hartford after a six-month investigation. The press release said the network was “responsible for supplying massive amounts of heroin and other drugs throughout the Northeast.” Police also seized more than 9 kilos of cocaine, three guns (including two assault rifles) and $85,000 in cash. The heroin is worth $11 million, according to NBC New York.

Investigators said the heroin was to be distributed in Connecticut and other New England states, where its street value is at least double what it is in New York.

The crackdown on heroin dealers is part of an effort by local and federal police agencies to combat the rise of the opioid in the U.S. Earlier this year, Attorney General Eric Holder said he would make it a priority to cut-off heroin supply lines and arrest dealers. The U.S. has seen a rise in overdose deaths , including in Connecticut , where 257 people died of heroin-related overdoses in 2013, up from 174 in 2012.

Police charged Edualin Tapia, 28, and Guillero Esteban Magarin, 33, both of the Bronx, New York, with first-degree criminal possession of a controlled substance and first-degree conspiracy. The two men are currently being held in Hartford pending extradition proceedings that could send them back to New York.

Last Thursday, a New York City-based drug enforcement task force, known as Group T-42, which is made up of DEA agents, NYPD detectives and state police investigators, conducted a surveillance operation in the Bronx as part of the investigation. The agents and officers said they saw Tapi and Margarin entering a suspected “heroin mill,” on Orloff Avenue, where heroin is processed and packaged. The men were carrying suitcases and a white box, police said.

On Friday, police said they learned a Jeep Cherokee linked to the drug ring was traveling north on Interstate-95 toward Connecticut. The DEA’s New Haven District Office and Hartford Resident Office assisted in the investigation and police said they learned the Cherokee was driving in tandem with an Acura RDX. The task force followed the vehicles to Hartford.

At about 1:45 p.m., the Cherokee and Acura parked in the back lot of 24 Bulkeley Ave., a low-rise residential building, according to the release. Police said Margarin exited the Cherokee and Tapia got out of the Acura. Investigators said they saw Tapia removed a “weighted white box” from the Jeep and walk toward the building. Agents conducted a “walk by” and said they saw brick-shaped packages inside the white box, which they later determined to be nearly 10 kilos of heroin.

When police entered the building, they said they saw people at the sink with the water running, trying to dump a white substance down the drain. The apartment was secured and police said they found another 13 kilos of heroin in an open closet. They also found $75,000 in plain view on the backseat of an Infiniti associated with the apartment, which was also seized.

Search warrants for apartments in the Bronx were obtained by the Special Narcotics Prosecutor’s Office and police found 3 kilograms of cocaine and a small amount of heroin. Police also search an apartment where Tapia lives and seized a kilo of heroin and $10,000 in cash, the release said. From a Honda Accord found there, police seized nearly 4 1/2 kilos of cocaine.

On Saturday, a search warrant was issued for a storage unit in the Bronx that police said was a “stash location.” Inside, officers found two assault rifles, one loaded handgun, 2 kilos of cocaine and about 200 pills of “Molly,” a synthetic drug.
