
Huaitang, a mountain village in Wannan in eastern China's Anhui province, has earned the name "Euro village" as half of its residents have worked or are currently working in Europe and at least 80% have family members living overseas, reports the Guangzhou-based Southern People Weekly.

A number of these residents still earn their money in Euros and speak a number of European languages. Many of their children were also born in Europe. Meanwhile, nearly half of the residents of the village, which has a population of 2,000, have traveled or are traveling to Western Europe to seek job or business opportunities, the magazine said.

As spring approaches, the village is unusually quiet and hardly anyone can be seen on the street. Only Qiu Haiyan, 48, was seen checking her mobile phone app WeChat to see photos of her son taken in Spain, where he has lived for 12 years. Qiu said that her son went to study in Spain when he was 16 years old. After completing his studies, he chose to stay there for work and now owns two stores selling car accessories.

"Many villagers are working in Europe and we have a few relatives living there as well," Qiu told the magazine.

The trend of Huaitang residents moving abroad began with Zhen Zhaorong and Hu Keyu. Zhen was the first villager from Huaitang to travel overseas. His grandfather went to Italy as a laborer during the Second World War and stayed when the war was over. Zhen's grandfather passed away in 1971 so he went to Italy to inherit his grandfather's property and enormous wealth.

Hu Keyu is another legendary figure from the village, known for leaving Huaitang to find his fortune in Europe. Hu decided to move to Yugoslavia after reading a news story about Yugoslavia's president visiting China in 1978. He eventually arrived in the Netherlands and built up his wealth from scratch by running a Chinese restaurant.

Following on from the success of Zhen and Hu, many people began to aspire to find their own success and since the 1980s, many villagers have tried their luck in the Netherlands, Italy, France, Germany and Spain.

Luo Yinliu, 92, told the magazine that she has over 40 family members working in Europe, including her children, grandchildren, and their in-laws. She said that she currently lives in a fairly large home built with the help of money sent to her from overseas.

Huaitang has earned a considerable amount of money for the village as it gets more than 50 million yuan (US$8 million) in remittances from Europe every year. However, even though they have strived to earn a living in Europe for many years, the majority of villagers still find it difficult to adapt themselves to the culture and lifestyle prevalent in continental Europe.

Meanwhile, some people from Huaitang see China as a better destination for investment. Wang Yongqian, a Spanish national of Chinese descent, recently purchased 20 acres of land in downtown Huangshan city and invested nearly 100 million yuan (US$16 million) in a hotel chain. Another Spanish national of Chinese descent named Wang Zhen runs a cafe in the city's gymnasium.
