
Ashley Williams of McPherson has had a hard life for her young age of 23.

Ashley Williams of McPherson has had a hard life for her young age of 23.

When she was a child, her parents were drug addicts and manufactured meth.

She recalls waking up to the awful smell of the meth cooking in her parents’ trailer and the sound of the police breaking down the door to arrest her parents. It sounded like the Army coming into the family’s home.

“I had to grow up fast,” she said.

Ashley herself also abused drugs for about two years.

Despite this and many other struggles, Ashley said she believes she has finally found hope — and a path out of generational poverty.

Ashley was one of 16 individuals who graduated Thursday from the Circles of McPherson County’s fifth Getting Ahead class.

The class teaches the hidden rules of class and helps the participants identify strengths and weaknesses and set goals.

Circles of McPherson County was recently recognized at a national convention in Colorado for having the highest percentage of families out of poverty — 10 families with 23 children. The program has another 37 families who have individuals who are circle leaders.

The Kansas state chapter was recognized at that same convention as the most active chapter in the country.

Within the next weeks, Ashley will be become what the program calls a circle leader and begin working toward her goals. She will be matched with at least two volunteers from the community who will support her as she works toward those goals.

Ashley has many goals, but she faces many challenges.

Ashley still bears many of the emotional scars from growing up in a meth house. She feels the loss of growing up without a father because he was in prison. She struggles with anxiety and is shy around large groups of people.

She became pregnant for the first time when she was 15, and by the time she was 18 had a second child.

Her youngest is 10 months old.

She wants to provide a better life for herself and her three children.

Ashley recently lost her job, so her No. 1 priority is to find a new job. She has had to move in with her parents, who are now clean, but she wants to have a safe place for her family to live on their own.

She also wants to complete her high school diploma and work to provide better financial stability for her family.

Through the Circles program, Ashley already has found a support system, she said.

Page 2 of 3 - But Ashley’s ultimate goal is not something that can be measured in dollars. Her goal since she was a child was to be able to tell other people about her struggles and give them hope that there is a way out of a lifestyle of drugs and poverty.

Erin Bates, another Getting Ahead graduate, also knows what it is to live a life of drugs.

Bates, 37, of McPherson started abusing drugs and alcohol when at age 15 she became pregnant and then lost the child at birth.

After so many years of drinking and using drugs, Bates said she was approaching her 40th birthday and realized she had nothing to show for her life except being a mother.

Even that has been a struggle; three of her four living children do not live with her.

Bates also comes from generational poverty, and drinking and using drugs was a way to dull her pain and escape form the chaos of her life.

Bates often has struggled to make ends meet, and her paycheck often went solely to pay for her drug and alcohol habit.

Coming to Circles, Bates learned she could have relationships with people in other classes. She said she found herself having political and philosophical conversations she never thought she would have with people she never thought she would be able to sit with in the same room.

Bates said her priorities have changed. Today her focus is on caring for her disabled mother, caring for her youngest daughter, working and maintaining her sobriety.

She wants to give back. Her goal is to go back to school and earn a degree to become an addictions counselor.

Bates said she already has been out promoting the Circles program to others in the community. She said she wished she could shout with a bullhorn from a mountain top about the program.

Other Getting Ahead graduates include Tira Bowen, Sue Ann Buster, Laura George, Tammy Geren, Salina Maddox, Katrina McMurray, Brandi Opat, Stephanie Pfeiff, Rhonda Redger, Sandi Sanders, Kamie Scanlon, Matt Siemens, Jessica Stevens and Damion Williams.

Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.

Your privacy is important, read our privacy policy.
