
Chinese-Israeli ties grew on Monday as Tel Aviv University and Beijing’s  Tsinghua University signed a $300 million deal to establish a joint research and  education center, to be called XIN, and the Hebrew University of Jerusalem  inaugurated a Confucius Institute.

Xin, which means “new” in Chinese,  will operate at both universities “to develop bold and original solutions that  will contribute significantly to their countries and to humanity as a whole,” focusing on fields such as nano-technology and addressing global issues, such as  water, energy, health and the environment, known as Grand Challenges.

The idea  is for each side to bring its unique cultural academic strengths to the  program.

The first round, which will focus only on nano-technology, will  recruit only seven advanced degree students from Tel Aviv University and 14 in  China this summer.

While governments are pitching in some money for the  $300m. price tag, the universities will seek private donations for the  rest.

Israel’s Infinity group set up $16m. fund, comprising investors  from Chinese industries and Tsinghua University alumni to help foot the  bill.

“China-Israel cross-border innovation as well as ‘innovating’ is at  the core of Infinity’s strategy, vision and activity.

This is why  Infinity has committed to mentoring and investing in select projects at the XIN  Center, which have the potential to positively change the world,” said Amir  Gal-Or, managing partner at Infinity.

Also on Monday, students and  delegates from across the globe gathered to see Vice Premier of The People’s  Republic of China Lui Yandong speak at the inauguration of the Confucius  Institute at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem.

Confucius Institutes  have been established at universities around the world by the Chinese Ministry  of Education to promote the learning of Mandarin Chinese and Chinese  culture.

This is the second such institute, following the founding of Tel  Aviv University’s Confucius Institute in 2007.

“All of us, even those who  speak of research that is far removed from China appreciate the growth of  Chinese academia and its international importance,” said university rector,  Prof. Asher Cohen, who introduced the ceremony.

After the opening words  from Cohen there were performances by students, of traditional Chinese and  Jewish song, dance and martial arts.

“The institute in Tel Aviv is for  basic Chinese teaching. Here in the Hebrew University they have East Asian  studies and they’ll be cooperation with that. Here there’ll be advanced study of  Chinese history and culture,” said 21-year-old student Noa Yang, who not only  helped organize the event but also sang during the ceremony.

A student  from Peking University in China, Yang came to the Hebrew University for a spring  in Jerusalem program, to study international relationships and  communications.

“Israelis also come to China for business, for commerce,  to study. I think the cooperation is going to be strengthened in a few years  because there will be a stronger foundation,” Yang said.

Yandong spoke last, telling the crowd via translator that in  an effort to further strengthen Chinese/Israeli academic cooperation, she and  the People’s Republic of China would be inviting 100 students from Israel to  study in China, contributing 3,000 copies of language reading materials to the  institute and awarding 100 scholarships to Israeli college  students.

“Common destiny has brought our two peoples together,” said  Yandong.

The  initiatives are the latest in a wave of cooperative agreements between Israel  and China, not just in education, but also politics and business.

In  September, Technion-Israel Institute of Technology in Haifa received a $130m.  grant from the Li Ka Shing Foundation to build an academy called the Technion  Guangdong Institute of Technology as a joint venture with China’s Shantou  University.

Netanyahu and President Shimon Peres visited China in the  past year, and Netanyahu has cited it as a central engine for Israeli economic  growth due to its growing markets.

Earlier on Monday, Netanyahu met with  Yandong and announced a new cooperation initiative for emergency  times.

“China is Israel’s largest trading partner in Asia and fast  becoming perhaps Israel’s largest trading partner period as we move into the  future. We see the great success of China. We admire China and we think there  are complementary things that Israel brings to this relationship,” Netanyahu  said, specifying the Chinese desire for Israeli innovation.

Chinese  delegations are expected this week at MIXiii, Israel’s innovation conference,  which will include a seminar on China-Israel relations.

At the same time,  the Israel China Interflow Association (ICIA) and the Knesset Hi Tech Caucus will host 20 prominent Chinese businessmen and investors for the Israel-China Economic Summit, a conference devoted to Israel-China Economic cooperation primarily in the hi-tech  sector.

Your comment must be approved by a moderator before being published on JPost.com. Disqus users can post comments automatically.

Comments must adhere to our Talkback policy . If you believe that a comment has breached the Talkback policy, please press the flag icon to bring it to the attention of our moderation team.
