
Why spend billions in research and development if you can steal it? China's secretive PLA Unit 61398 isn't alone in stealing secrets through the portals of the internet. All nations, including Australia, are building capacity to hack into networks. And it's not just cyber theft that worries governments. Defence experts in the United States believe cyber warfare is the greater threat to their homeland than terrorism.

CHRIS UHLMANN: China's secretive PLA Unit 61398 isn't alone in stealing secrets through the portals of the internet. All nations including Australia are building capacity to hack into networks.

And it's not just cyber theft that worries governments. Defence experts in the United States believe cyber warfare is the greater threat to their homeland than terrorism.

Frank Cilluffo is the head of the Homeland Policy Institute at George Washington University.

FRANK CILLUFFO: You know, they are part of the PLA and they've been engaged in what's called "computer network exploit" and "computer network attack"; in other words, these are the cyber-warriors of the Chinese military. Not only are they engaged in military activity, but have also been identified as a perpetrator behind what is referred to as the "advanced persistent threat", or APT1, and have been engaged in extensive computer espionage, or computer network exploit.

FRANK CILLUFFO: You know, they target pretty much anything that has any economic value to not only the Chinese government, but also to Chinese companies. So Mandiant did a significant report about a year ago identifying some of their activity against media companies and the like. And most recently, as the indictment makes clear, they were engaged in a bunch of activity against companies in Pennsylvania; energy companies, aluminium companies.

FRANK CILLUFFO: You know, it's a significant development. I think it was the attorney-general Eric Holder who put it: "enough is enough". While these issues have been addressed at the highest levels - at the head of state level, from secretary to minister of defence level - it seems that there was a challenge by the minister of defence: show me the money. And in this case - and show me the evidence - and in this case, I think, since he hadn't seen any curtailing of that activity they thought show the evidence.

And it is somewhat unique in that you've got a state actor that is being identified in the indictment. And I think people had concluded that political activity just hadn't gone far enough; that perhaps criminal proceedings would initiate some changes in behaviour.

FRANK CILLUFFO: You know, that's why I think it's fair to say they've got smoking keyboards here. As you know, smoking guns are hard to find in a physical case, but in this case smoking keyboards, given attribution and the anonymity of cyberspace, is even that much more difficult. But I don't think they would come forward with these complaints if they didn't have all the criminal evidence they need to not only identify the perpetrators but prove their guilt.

FRANK CILLUFFO: You know, I wouldn't only look at corporate America. The bottom line is, the entire world is vulnerable and susceptible to computer network exploit or hacking, theft of intellectual property.

The way to think about it is, whereas technology changes, human nature remains pretty consistent and if it happens in the physical and real world it's happening exponentially in the cyber-world, because you never have to step foot in the given target area to be able to glean secrets.

FRANK CILLUFFO: You know, I wouldn't suggest or even insinuate that the US is lagging in computer network warfare, computer network attack capabilities. But there's a big difference. There's this moral equivalency being made whereas you have state resources trying to glean national political military secrets is very different than stealing, using state resources on behalf of US companies, which to the best of my knowledge simply does not occur.

FRANK CILLUFFO: You know, I think people are becoming more and more aware of some of the vulnerabilities that we have in cyberspace. I don't think it will ever replace kinetic or physical warfare, but certainly any conflict will have a cyber component going forward.

CHRIS UHLMANN: Frank Cilluffo is the head of the Homeland Policy Institute at George Washington University.

If you have inside knowledge of a topic in the news, contact the ABC .

This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.
