
Prime Minister Tammam Salam warned on Monday of the dangers of presidential vacuum in Lebanon, saying that efforts should be exerted to avoid it.

“We need all sides to cooperate in order to avert vacuum,” he stressed, while saying that Lebanon cannot be governed unilaterally by one party without of other political partners.

The premier said that as the government was successful filling vacancies in various administrative posts, lawmakers should be able to elect a president and avoid vacancy in the country's top post.

“We are here to fill vacancies, not create them,” remarked Salam.

Al-Rahi echoed his statements, saying that lawmakers have a duty to elect a president.

It is not logical for Lebanon to have vacuum in the presidency, he said, while criticizing MPs for failing to reach an agreement over a candidate.

“They have had ample time to agree on a successor for President Michel Suleiman, so why haven't they reached an agreement on one yet?” wondered the patriarch.

Lebanon has failed to elect a president after four rounds of presidential elections at parliament.

During he first round, neither of the candidates, Lebanese Forces leader Samir Geagea and Democratic Gathering MP Henri Helou, received the necessary votes of 86 lawmakers to be elected president.

The next three rounds failed to be held due to a lack of quorum after the majority of the MPs of the March 8 camp boycotted the session over the ongoing dispute with the March 14 camp on a presidential candidate.

The fifth round of the elections is scheduled for Thursday, two days before Suleiman's term ends.

Hizbullah chief Sayyed Hassan Nasrallah stated that there are “no red lines” in the “security war” with Israel, reported al-Akhbar newspaper.

Speaker Nabih Berri has said that his rejection to extend parliament's term should be used as a “pressure card” to speed up the election of a new president.

Al-Mustaqbal movement leader ex-PM Saad Hariri made on Friday a surprise return to Beirut and met with Premier Tammam Salam at the Grand Serail.

(CNN) -- Comedic actor Robin Williams died at his Northern California home Monday, law enforcement officials said. Williams was 63.

(CNN) -- The face of 15-year-old Aziza says it all.

This is a brutal example of how far the struggle between Muslims and Catholics in Nigeria has reached.

The Church of England overcame bitter divisions Monday to vote in favor of allowing female bishops for the first time in its nearly 500-year history.

Two nuns and three orphans were freed on Monday in Iraq's Islamist militant-held second city Mosul, the country's top Catholic leader said.

William Hague's surprise resignation as Britain's foreign secretary is the latest twist in a political career that has seen soaring highs and deep lows.
