
In a case resulting in unprecedented charges, U.S. officials say six businesses were targeted.

Attorney General Eric Holder announces charges against the alleged Chinese military hackers Monday as David Hickton, U.S. Attorney for the Western District of Pennsylvania, looks on.

A U.S. grand jury has indicted members of China’s People’s Liberation Army for allegedly stealing trade secrets and communications from U.S. companies.

Five members of China’s army are accused of offenses that include economic espionage and computer hacking, employing means such as sending emails carrying malicious links – a tactic known as “phishing.” They allegedly aimed to steal technological secrets and communications that would reveal company strategies, in order to benefit competing businesses in China.

U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder said during a press conference announcing the charges that even though “all nations are engaged in intelligence gathering,” the Obama administration condemns economic spying by governments to benefit companies, a practice China has denied. China rarely – if ever – extradites its citizens to the U.S. for trial, but Holder said the U.S. will use “all the means available” to make sure the suspects are tried in an American court.

The five Chinese military members facing U.S. charges.

The Department of Justice said the case marks the first time criminal charges have been filed against "known state actors" for hacking. Holder said the charges should be a warning to online trade spies in other nations.

The six businesses reportedly targeted are nuclear firm Westinghouse Electric Co.; solar energy business SolarWorld; aluminum maker Alcoa Inc.; and metal industry groups Allegheny Technologies Inc., United States Steel Corp. and the United Steelworkers labor union.

The case took years to build, and the charges are being filed because China has not responded to public diplomatic efforts from the Obama administration to halt online trade theft, said Robert Anderson, executive assistant director of the FBI’s criminal, cyber, response and services branch.

Information-sharing between companies to guard against cybersecurity threats and combat hackers is a priority of the White House, which has called on Congress to ease that process through legislation.

Despite the U.S. government’s condemnation of online trade spying, news reports based on documents leaked by former National Security Agency contractor Edward Snowden have accused the government of conducting economic espionage through means such as installing spyware on computers.

When asked how the actions would reflect on the U.S., which conducts extensive surveillance through the NSA, Holder said economic spying is not acceptable international behavior for a government.

Years worth of security reports – both from the government and the private sector – have pegged China as a hub for international hacking, in part because its government has a vast cybersecurity operation built for duties such as online censorship. In 2013, online security firm Mandiant warned that a Chinese army unit was linked to hacks of more than 140 companies and groups based in the U.S. and other nations.

In February, hackers potentially based in China used the confusion of a winter storm to expose a previously unknown gap in Internet Explorer security and target users of the Veterans of Foreign Wars website to gain information about current and ex-military personnel, according to cybersecurity firm FireEye Inc.

Copyright 2014 © U.S. News & World Report LP.
