
Cobb County police today identified two men who were killed in a shootout Sunday evening that left two other people hospitalized.

Authorities confirmed that David Blount, 20, of Smyrna, and Ryan Christopher Bobbitt, 24, of Marietta, died in the shooting in the 2100 block of Cardell Road in Austell shortly after 6 p.m.

“I heard one shot out here, neighbors down the street said there was about six or eight shots,” witness Julia Biddy told Channel 2 Action News.

Two people were killed and two others were taken to area hospitals, Cobb police spokesman Mike Bowman told The Atlanta Journal-Constitution in an e-mail late Sunday night.

Biddy told Channel 2 that she went to the aid of one wounded man.

“He was in pretty bad shape,” Biddy said. She said she was putting pressure on the bleeding man’s wound when a man drove up in a gray Hyundai asking about a black bag at the scene.

She said the man in the Hyundai loaded the bleeding man — and the black bag — into the car and left the scene.

Bowman said a K-9 unit was brought in after the shooting.

No arrests have been made.

The investigation is continuing, and anyone with information on the case should contact Cobb police at 770-499-3945.

—Angel K. Brooks contributed to this report.

Learn how to volunteer in Atlanta and north Georgia, browse volunteer events and search local groups who need volunteers in the arts, community, food programs, housing, animal rescue and more.

Thank you for registering!

We have sent you a confirmation email. Please check your email and click on the link to activate your account.

Thank you for registering!

We look forward to seeing you frequently. Visit us and sign in to update your profile, receive the latest news and keep up to date with mobile alerts.

Don't worry, it happens. We'll send you a link to create a new password.

We have sent you an email with a link to change your password.

We've sent an email with instructions to create a new password. Your existing password has not been changed.

To sign in you must verify your email address. Fill out the form below and we'll send you an email to verify.

Check your email for a link to verify your email address.
