
Legendary "Saturday Night Live" announcer Don Pardo died Aug. 18 at age 96.

James Jeffords, the former U.S. senator from Vermont who gave Democrats control of the closely divided chamber in 2001 when he left the Republican Party to become an independent, died Aug. 18 in Washington. He was 80.

Actress Lauren Bacall in 1945. The screen icon died at age 89.

Oscar-winning actor and comic Robin Williams died August 11, 2014 of an apparent suicide. He was 63.

Veteran soap opera actor, Charles Keating, has died at the age of 72. He had been fighting cancer. Here, Keating attends the 23rd Annual Daytime Emmy Awards on May 22, 1996 at Radio City Music Hall in New York City.

Attorney Ralph G. Scheu, longtime president of the 100 Club of Chicago, was passionate about the civilian organization's mission to provide for the families of fallen firefighters and police officers.

Mr. Scheu, 85, died Friday, May 16, at Northwestern Memorial Hospital.

His father, businessman Ralph J. Scheu, became interested in the 100 Club in the 1960s, when the organization had chapters in Detroit and Florida. For decades, the nonprofit group has offered emotional, financial and educational support to the families of slain police officers, firefighters and other law enforcement personnel.

The elder Scheu started a 100 Club in Chicago in 1966. His son, Ralph, took over in 1975 when his father died and ran the 100 Club of Chicago as president until 2010. More recently he was chairman emeritus.

"He loved this organization," said 100 Club of Chicago CEO Joe Ahern.

Mr. Scheu's son Stephen said: "Back in 1966 there were no benefits for police or firemen in the line of duty. But (the 100 Club) came in and started taking care. … He just felt it was right that someone would be there for them."

Stephen Scheu, who also is involved in the organization, said his father helped many widows over the years, including one who contacted him because she could not afford the payment on a new Toyota.

"My dad said, 'Wait a minute,' got on the phone, called the powers-that-be at Toyota and said, 'Look here's the deal,' " Stephen Scheu said. "They rewrote the financial papers so she could afford it."

On Friday, Stephen Scheu said almost a dozen police officers and the department's chaplain asked what they could do to help. He even received a call from former police Superintendent Phil Cline.

"They couldn't have been nicer," Stephen Scheu said. When his father's body was moved to the medical examiner's office on the Near West Side, an honorary police guard accompanied him, Stephen Scheu said.

During the past 47 years under Mr. Scheu's watch, the 100 Club of Chicago served 251 families, Ahern said. The organization has given away more than $9 million in assistance to families of fallen police officers and firefighters during that time.

Ahern said he saw Mr. Scheu recently at a board meeting at the club's John Hancock Center headquarters and at a private reception held at one of the members' homes afterward.

"He was still dedicated to the organization," Ahern said. "It was Ralph's vision and his tremendous support of this organization that served all those families for all those years."

Ahern recalled that every holiday season at the club's Gold Shield Families dinner, Mr. Scheu would meet with the spouses of those killed in the line of duty. "They spoke of him with the great compassion that he had for their families when they were at their worst time," Ahern said.

"He would go from table to table, wishing each family a Merry Christmas," Ahern said. "He will be sorely missed by everyone that has been served by the organization and those who serve in it. It's a very, very sad day."

Mr. Scheu, who was divorced, also is survived by sons Barkley and R.J., five grandchildren and one great-grandson.

There will be no services, at Mr. Scheu's request.
