
A body found in the River Wear has been identified as that of missing student, Luke Pearce.

The remains were spotted yesterday morning by members of a rowing club and were quickly recovered by police.

And formal identification has now taken place.

A Durham Police spokesman said: “A formal identification has now been carried out on the body of a young man found in the River Wear yesterday morning.

“The procedure confirmed the body was that of Luke Pearce, aged 19 who had been missing since last Sunday, 11th May.

“Luke’s family live in Hounslow, Surrey and while staying in Durham he was a resident of Fonteyn Court, university accommodation in the Old Elvet part of the city.

“A post mortem was conducted yesterday, the results of which will now be forwarded the coroner.

“There are no suspicious circumstances and an inquest on Luke’s death is expected to open in the next few days.

But police were called to the river on Sunday morning by members of Durham Amateur Rowing Club after they spotted someone in the water near to Bath’s Bridge in Durham City, at just before 8.45am.

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

Join us on social media.

For the latest local news straight to your Twitter, Facebook feed or e-mail inbox.

Tell us about it and, if possible, send us a picture.

The Chronicle is read by more adults than any other regional newspaper on sale in the area. With 170,115 average issue readers, this reach extends to 366,753 weekly readers – that’s over 1/4 of adults in the area!

The average time spent reading the Chronicle is 31 minutes; which shows the length of time that readers are engaging with the editorial and advertising content.

49,199* copies of the Chronicle are sold on average each day as it continues to be an integral part of the region.

Audience figures from Omniture, monthly average (Jul - Dec 2012).

More than 1 in 3 ChronicleLive users have clicked through to an online advertisement, demonstrating that our users are responsive and receptive to Internet advertising messages.

ChronicleLive reaches an internet-savvy audience, with 84% of users having purchased products or services online in the past 12 months.

Download our rate cards for all the prices of our print and digital products.

Darren was appointed editor of the Chronicle in September 2011, following a six-year spell as editor of the Evening Gazette in Teesside.

He has held a number of senior roles on regional newspapers across England, Scotland and Wales over the last 15 years and is now editor-in-chief of Trinity Mirror North East.
