
TULSA, Okla. - Tulsa police told FOX23 they're trying to prove where an accused rapist was actually living.

FOX23 reported on Sunday that police arrested convicted sex offender Kyle Hancock for on suspicion of raping a 5-year-old girl in east Tulsa.

FOX23’s Janna Clark found this is another example of how the sex offender registry may give people a false sense of security.

Hancock registered as a sex offender at a home just off a rural road in Sapulpa. FOX23 went there to find out if he's really been living there.

The man who lives at the home asked FOX23 not to show his face or his home but said Hancock doesn't live there.

The Creek County sheriff told FOX23 it's difficult to check up on registered sex offenders. It's up to the two investigators who handle all the crimes for the county to check on sex offenders, too.

A sergeant told FOX23 Hancock didn't show up in April to update his registry, and she has no idea where he went.

It's a similar problem in Tulsa.

In a FOX23 investigation last week, FOX23 revealed there's one Tulsa police officer to handle registering more than 400 sex offenders.

TPD does have grant money to pay officers overtime to do checks.

“We do the best we can,” said Sgt. Adams, with TPD.

Adams told FOX23 because about 85 percent of Tulsa is off-limits for sex offenders to live, that causes them to go rogue.

“They can't live where their family, where their support system lives - so they're still going to do it, they're just not going to register,” said Adams.

Adams said the registry is really just a false sense of security, “it.

“There may be someone next-door; you have know idea they're a sex offender?” said Clark.

“You have no idea they're a sex offender,” said Adams.

Tulsa police believe Hancock was actually living in east Tulsa with a family member not far from where he's accused of raping a 5-year-old girl.

FOX23 went to that neighborhood, only five blocks away.

Two neighbors didn't want to talk on camera but said they recognized Hancock’s photo when FOX23 showed it to them.

They said he was living in the area, and they told FOX23 they had no idea he was a convicted sex offender.

A FOX23 investigation also showed there are more than 1,000 sex offenders who are simply lost; who leave prison and never register.

Thank you for registering!

We have sent you a confirmation email. Please check your email and click on the link to activate your account.

Thank you for registering!

We look forward to seeing you frequently. Visit us and sign in to update your profile, receive the latest news and keep up to date with mobile alerts.

Don't worry, it happens. We'll send you a link to create a new password.

We have sent you an email with a link to change your password.

We've sent an email with instructions to create a new password. Your existing password has not been changed.

To sign in you must verify your email address. Fill out the form below and we'll send you an email to verify.

Check your email for a link to verify your email address.
