
A woman in China who claimed she was attacked by a parking warden was exposed as a liar when photos of her lashing out at him were posted to the internet.

Niu Tuan, 35, launched into a frenzied assault on Zhang Mintong when she saw him writing out a ticket for her illegally parked car in Haikou City, southern China.

The 43-year-old traffic policeman needed hospital treatment for his injuries, but that didn't stop Niu from telling regular officers that he was the one who attacked her.

The eyewitness who photographed the assault said that Niu had told Officer Zhang she had only been parked in the spot on Zijing Road, Jinmao District, for a minute.

She flew into a rage after he refused to tear up the ticket.

The eyewitness who took the photographs gave them to police when they arrived, and then also posted them to the internet.

Ou Yinglin, 43, who was working with Officer Zhang, said Niu punched and scratched his colleague, knocking off his hat.

But when reinforcements arrived to deal with the now hysterical woman, she told them that she was the victim and that she had been attacked by both men.

She was taken to the police station by Officer Ou and colleagues, where examinations showed she was unhurt. Nevertheless, she initially told police who interviewed her that she wanted to make a complaint of assault.

Officer Ou said: 'She slapped Zhang in the face knocking off his hat, and then she punched and scratched him and was screaming all the time that he was attacking her.

'She was pretty hysterical and I am not quite so sure why she decided to just fly off the handle, but my poor colleague who wouldn't hurt a fly was pretty traumatised.

'He had to go to hospital and is still off work while she was left without a scratch.

'It was good that somebody managed to take a few snaps because it proved who was the aggressor, I hate to think what would have happened to Zhang if it had just been her word against his.'

At the police station, when she was confronted with the images, Niu broke down in tears and admitted she was in the wrong, saying that she had been under stress when she saw him giving her a ticket.

Officer Ou said the attack had affected his colleague badly.

My colleague wasn't feeling too well that day anyway, but had volunteered to come in anyway,' he said. 'Now I can guarantee he feels a lot worse and I doubt we will see him for a few weeks.

'It's ironic, because he really is the gentlest person I know, and would never hurt a woman.'

The comments below have not been moderated.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
