
May 20, 2014, 4 a.m.

A MAN caught speeding at what police estimated was 140 kilometres an hour at Mount Panorama has been fined and disqualified from driving for six months.

A MAN caught speeding at what police estimated was 140 kilometres an hour at Mount Panorama has been fined and disqualified from driving for six months.

The matter involving Michael Emmett O’Neill, 24, of Benelong Place in Orange, was heard before magistrate Michael Allen in Bathurst Local Court.

Police facts tendered to the court told how on March 29 this year,  Chifley Highway Patrol police were conducting speed enforcement duties near Forest Elbow on Mount Panorama.

Police could hear a loud engine and tyres screeching, and then saw two vehicles driving towards Forest Elbow.

At this point police observed a blue Holden Commodore, followed by a Mitsubishi Lancer both accelerating.

Police estimated the Commodore was travelling at a speed in excess of 100 kilometres an hour in a 60km/h zone before braking, and the Lancer, close behind the Commodore, travelling at between 90 and 95km/h, braking at the same bend. It appeared to the police the Lancer was trying to keep pace with the Commodore.

Police caught up with the Lancer as the blue Commodore continued to accelerate away at an estimated speed of 140km/h.

When police stopped the Commodore, the driver,  O’Neill, was remorseful and apologetic. He returned a negative roadside breath test.

Police said O’Neill made frank admissions to exceeding the speed limit but said he did so to try and avoid the Lancer which was travelling very close behind him. He went on to say he had been travelling behind the other vehicle across the top of Mount Panorama and the driver had waved him to overtake his vehicle.

On the class A motor vehicle exceed speed limit by more than 45km/h, Mr Allen convicted O’Neill, fining him $800. He also disqualified him from driving for six months, with Section 225 (3) of the Roads and Traffic Act to apply.
