
WASHINGTON—A grand jury in the Western District of Pennsylvania (WDPA) indicted five Chinese military hackers for computer hacking, economic espionage, and other offenses directed at six American victims in the U.S. nuclear power, metals, and solar products industries.

The indictment alleges that the defendants conspired to hack into American entities to maintain unauthorized access to their computers and to steal information from those entities that would be useful to their competitors in China, including state-owned enterprises (SOEs). In some cases, it alleges, the conspirators stole trade secrets that would have been particularly beneficial to Chinese companies at the time they were stolen. In other cases, it alleges, the conspirators also stole sensitive, internal communications that would provide a competitor, or an adversary in litigation, with insight into the strategy and vulnerabilities of the American entity.

Chinese government officials on Monday strongly rebuked the U.S. over its claims of cyber-spying by five Chinese military officers, saying the Justice Department indictment was based on  “fabricated facts” and would jeopardize U.S.-China relations.

Note from Hot Air management: This section is for comments from Hot Air's community of registered readers. Please don't assume that Hot Air management agrees with or otherwise endorses any particular comment just because we let it stand. A reminder: Anyone who fails to comply with our terms of use may lose their posting privilege.

China also denies the existence of Tiannamen Square and claims its coal plants emit only unicorn farts.

Phew.  At least they weren’t cyber-spying.

Some Filipino hackers just messed up 200 Chinese commie websites in revenge for their bullying re. the “disputed” Philippine islands.

I read somewhere today that China will probably retaliate with indictments of their own (I can’t find the article to link to but it is China’s typical response to this kind of thing). Obviously I want us to stick it to China for their cyberspying and other goofball crap in the SCS for instance…but it would be hilarious if they indicted Holder out of spite. Holder will at last be formally charged with something, somewhere….LOL….

If you say so Erika.

@William Eaton, could they add Holder’s boss too? I’d be willing to trade their indicted for our indicted.

If you say so Erika.

Ah, the word “China” is in the headline, so the Bagdad Bob of the murderous, mega-corrupt Chinese regime magically appears!

OutStanding!

This is true, and they have brainwashed their population to believe that the United States made up the Tiannamen Square Massacre as well.

A Chinese girl who worked at my company for a few years always denied that it happened, and no amount of evidence I showed her could convince her that it happened.  And she is very bright.

…a few decades…too late.

Ah, the word “China” is in the headline, so the Bagdad Bob of the murderous, mega-corrupt Chinese regime magically appears!

I hope your charity work is going well friend.

Gotta hand it to Clinton.

He just sold it and didn’t do all this caterwauling….

China also denies the existence of Tiannamen Square and claims its coal plants emit only unicorn farts.

There is no Tiannamen Square, but Tiananmen Square does exist.

…but it would be hilarious if they indicted Holder out of spite. Holder will at last be formally charged with something, somewhere….LOL….

If it don’t work the first time, they’ll just indict him an hour later….

Yeah, well? In retaliation the Glorious Peoples Republic of China will retaliate by exporting poison dog food and shoddy merchandise containing ungodly amounts of lead.

I hope your charity work is going well friend.

It is!

If you want a clever, sarcastic weekly (?) report on the latest corruption and/or scandals in China, I highly recommend subscribing to China Uncensored on YouTube.

It is!

China dismisses U.S. indignation over international spying.

America confirms it has proof: Sun Kailiang was recorded talking in Hong Kong elevator about spying on U.S., and was heard whispering about his hacking expoits while in bed with his mistress, on 8 separate occasions.

Charged In Absentia doesn’t count. Does anyone think China will extradite these people? It’s all smoke and mirrors, like this administration,

I hope your charity work is going well friend.

It is!

Wow! Thank you very much!

Please specify Davao City Outreach. Again, thank you!

I got there, in Dulles, in ’98 just after they completed CC2 and exited in ’01, after AOL “bought” Time-Warner.

Great Shakes!

Nobody cares about China as a potential threat, or they wouldn’t have spend twenty years after the fall of Soviet Union pushing NATO to the East and buying a fight with Russia.

You can be friendly with China and use it to contain Russia. That’s the Nixon Option. And it made sense in the Cold War when the Soviet Union was the greater threat.

Or you can be friendly with Russia and use it to contain China. Which would make sense now, as China is a rising giant, while Russia is no longer Communist and has an economy about the size of Italy’s, and is in decline.

You can’t do both.

Given this fundamental strategic choice, all talk of containing China on any level is bogus.

There is no Tiannamen Square, but Tiananmen Square does exist.

China also denies the existence of Tiannamen Square and claims its coal plants emit only unicorn farts.

Sounds like we need to import their clean coal technology.

You must be logged in and have JavaScript enabled to post a comment.
