
Tata Motors owned JLR roped in British adventurer Bear Grylls as Brand Ambassador of Land Rover.

SummaryA BCom student at Delhi University killed herself and left a suicide note on video alleging that she was being stalked.

A BCom student at Delhi University (DU), who killed herself and left a suicide note on video alleging that she was being stalked, has named her stalkers in the video, police said.

The girl, 20-year-old Ravina, has named three persons in her video message, who were her neighbours in East Delhi’s Krishna Nagar, police said.

Police have seized the video and the cellphone containing the video, but are yet to make any arrests. “Police are conducting investigations. I do not want to comment on our investigation,” DCP (East) Ajay Kumar said.

Ravina, who was pursuing her BCom from the School of Open Learning at DU, reportedly committed suicide on May 13.

Police said when her father Mukesh Upadhaya, a journalist who works for a Hindi daily, returned home every night, usually it was Ravina who answered the door. But on May 13, when he came back past midnight, she didn’t answer the door.

His wife told Upadhaya that Ravina might not have heard the doorbell. When Upadhaya went to her room upstairs, he found her body hanging from the ceiling fan with her chunni, police said. Ravina was rushed to GTB hospital, where doctors declared her brought dead.

From her room, police recovered a suicide note, in which she asked her parents to check her mobile phone. Police said Ravina recorded the video minutes before ending her life.

In August last year, Ravina had filed an FIR against the three persons she has accused of driving her to suicide in the video message. In the FIR registered on August 15, the three were booked on charges of molestation and causing hurt. The three had also been sent to Tihar jail and were presently out on bail.

“My daughter had stopped stepping out of the house because of those three men. She was worried that they would assault her. Last August, when my daughter objected to them passing remarks at her, she was dragged and beaten in front of everyone. The whole neighbourhood is afraid of the three men. They were threatening her for the past few weeks,” Upadhaya said.

Upadhaya said Ravina seemed to be in tears while she was recorded the video message.

PM Narendra Modi pitches for 'zero tolerance' towards terror Prime Minister Narendra Modi today told leaders of five-nation grouping BRICS that the "choices" they make now will shape the future of the world at large.
