
The board of library trustees voted unanimously on May 9 to turn the case of the missing murals over to police.

PROVINCETOWN — The board of library trustees voted unanimously on May 9 to turn the case of the missing murals over to police.

This decision follows on the heels of a request by the town’s art commission that the library board take action. The art commission has declined jurisdiction over the matter as the panels are not listed as part of the town’s official art collection.

The oil painted panels, created and donated to the town in the early ’80s by artist Steve Toomey, were once part of the iconic installation of the half-scale model of the schooner Rose Dorothea in the Heritage Museum, before the town decided to transform the building into the library, in 2002.

The mural panels — reportedly six in number and four feet by eight feet in size — were last seen in the concrete storage building behind the library around Labor Day 2013.

While there has been much speculation as to who might know the circumstances surrounding the panels’ disappearance, so far nobody has come forward.

Last year, Josephine Del Deo, who personally commissioned the pieces, proposed that the mural panels could be repurposed as room partitions in the new Veterans Memorial Community Center. When longtime library trustee Mick Rudd sought to retrieve the panels in order to photograph them for a pitch to the art commission about their new use, the panels were not to be found.

According to the town’s website, the art commission is charged with “the responsibility for cataloging, appraising, restoring and maintaining the many works of art owned by the town of Provincetown.” The art commission also reviews “new gifts of art to the collection.” Apparently, however, these panels were never on the commission’s radar.

“There’s a carefully kept inventory list. All works previously accepted appear on that list and these murals do not,” said art commission chair James Bakker. He added that he has never seen images of the murals.

As to where this art went, it is beyond the art commission’s purview, but Bakker hopes some answers will come out of the police investigation.

The murals mystery has frustrated the library trustees. “I feel like we’re at a brick wall with no place to go,” said chair Lyn Kratz at their May 9 meeting. It was the first board meeting since the resignation of Library Director Cheryl Napsha and the May 6 town election of two new library trustees, James Johnson and Mark Westman, who fill the seats vacated by outgoing trustees Mick Rudd and Louise Venden.

Page 2 of 2 - Acting Town Manager David Gardner pointed out to the trustees that while the mural panels were not registered in the town’s art collection, they were, “at a minimum, property in [the town’s] custody.” He favors the police investigation, even if it leads nowhere. “What [the police involvement] will do is help put [the issue] to rest. This has certainly raised concerns about security of town property,” he added.

The locks were recently changed on the storage building where the murals were last seen. Before then, reportedly at least two members of Friends of the Library had a key to the building. They used the storage space for book sales. Another key was kept at the library’s circulation desk.

The trustees also voted to accept the nomination of Steve Desroches for the remaining open trustee seat. Desroches’s nomination will be brought to the board of selectmen for their final approval at the selectmen’s May 27 meeting. Desroches looks to fill the seat vacated in late March by Anne Packard.

Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.
