
Gas deals for China are in their final stages of preparation, Russian president says.

SHANGHAI, May 19 (UPI) -- Russian President Vladimir Putin said Monday from Shanghai that a stronger energy relationship with China would provide mutual benefits.

A 2009 framework agreement between Gazprom and China National Petroleum Corp. calls on the Russian company to export as much as 2.4 trillion cubic feet of natural gas to the Chinese market each year. Both sides have discussed options for building a natural gas pipeline to enhance deliveries.

"For Russia, implementing these agreements means diversifying gas supply destinations, while for our Chinese partners ... it could be a remedy for energy shortage and helps ecological security," he told China's official Xinhua News Agency.

Formal natural gas deals, he said, are in their final stages.

Putin is expected to spend two days on a state visit to Beijing this week.

Alexei Miller , the top executive at Russian energy company Gazprom, met Sunday in Beijing with Zhou Jiping, his counterpart at CNCP.

"The parties addressed the crucial issues of the bilateral cooperation prior to the oncoming official visit of Russian President Vladimir Putin to China," the Russian gas company said in a statement .

Miller's weekend visit to Beijing is his fourth since the beginning of 2014 .

© 2014 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Any reproduction, republication, redistribution and/or modification of any UPI content is expressly prohibited without UPI's prior written consent.

UPI licenses content directly to print outlets, online media and institutions of all types. In addition, UPI's distribution partners provide our content to thousands of businesses, policy groups and academic institutions worldwide. Our audience consists of millions of decision-makers who depend on UPI's insightful and analytical stories to make better business or policy decisions.

In the year of our 107th anniversary, our company strives to continue being a leading and trusted source for news, analysis and insight for readers around the world.

© 2014 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

UPI.com is your trusted source for world news, top news, science news, health news and current events.

We thank you for visiting us and we hope that we will be your daily stop for news updates.
