
Frederick County residents have an opportunity this week to screen a film about Ethan Saylor. The movie, "Justice for Ethan," will be shown on Wednesday, May 21st at 7:00 PM at the ARC of Frederick County, located at 620 Research Court.

"This is not a Michael Moore smear piece," says Ed Rhodes, the film's director. "This is absolutely a movie to help promote the necescity of training."

Ethan Saylor, 26, of New Market died in January, 2013, following a struggle with off-duty sheriff's deputies inside a movie theater at the Westview Promenade. He had down syndrome.

The management of the theater had asked the deputies, who were working security, to remove Saylor from the theater. He had just finished watching "Zero Dark 30." Management wanted him to leave or pay for another ticket.

The Maryland State Medical Examiner's Office ruled that cause Ethan Saylor's death was asphyxia, the manner of death was homicide. The three deputies were placed on administrative leave following the incident. A Frederick County Grand Jury examined the case, but declined to issue indictments.

Rhodes says the film project originally was to tell the story about Ethan's death, but he later expanded it to include the work Ethan's mother, Patti Saylor, whose been pushing for better training for police officers, medics and other first-responders in dealing with individuals with intellectual disabilities. "The incident surrounding Ethan's death, everything could have been prevented," Rhodes said. "I firmly believe, and other people in the community firmly believe, that training needs to be mandated for first-responders."

He said Montgomery County provides "extensive training" for its first responders in dealing with persons with disabilities. "Frederick County is right next door. It's easy to involve them in this type of training, and Montgomery County has the resources," Says Rhodes.

The film, "Justice for Ethan," has been described as a "rough cut," but Rhodes calls it a "rougher than a rough cut." "Since expanding into other intellectual disabilities and the whole training scenario, we'll be shooting through the summer. So I have put together a collection of sound bites from interviews. So I'm going to show that at the forum, and hopefully get some good feedback," says Rhodes.
