
please see ,CAT FOUND NEAR EAST BRAINERD AND WINDSTONE and let me know if this is your cat.

This is the perfect example of the need for something like a 3 strikes law. This guy should be put away forever. Obviously he can't live any other way than by being a criminal.

There is a typographical error near the end of the story. I seriously doubt that the Red Bank Police Chief has convictions dating back to 2007. I think the sentence should read: "Vaughan has convictions dating back to 2007."

Does WDEF have anyone actually edit these stories?  They appear to be written by a person that never completed the third grade.

If the Commissioner had not WASTED money on that "farm" and removed so many properties from the tax rolls maybe we would not be in such  bad shape.  Put the farm on the open market and sell it. quit throwing money away on "special projects"

Good Lord... one of the dumbest things I've ever read.  I guess that sentence would have garnered me some kind of punishment at that dump of a school, lol.  Is there ever any good news out of our educational system anymore?  Wow.

We feel like peaches was stolen from our fenced-in yard during the night. She was last seen Thursday night 8/14/2014 around 11pm.If you have seen Peaches, please notify me 423-314-1398. My grand daughters have had this pet since she was born. NO QUESTIONS ASKED!

So sorry my last post posted 3 times but update on my little Katie bug, she can't eat crunchy foods because of her jaw broken but she is eating mushy food by hand  and when we go visit with her she wags her tail when she see us so that makes me very very happy. Still can't bring her home yet. :-( but very excited when we get to.

Thank you for your concerns immickslady, I really appreciate people like yourself. Katie living has been a miracle from God, I give God all the credit.

The content has been reported and it will be reviewed by a moderator.

The newly modeled East Ridge Residence is a must see with its spacious comfortable apartments. Plus, 3 delicious meals daily, geriatric physician, home healthcare services and fun festive activities. Schedule your visit today!

Together we can make a confident retirement possible. Simply click to get started with your private wealth advisor. Talk to Jimmy Scotchie, Certified Financial Planner.

Get started at $79.99 a month for 12 months. Plus, get a $75 VISA® Prepaid card.
