
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .

If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .

Opportunities abound in business and foreign policy, but we must expect the unexpected.

Illustration: Matt Golding.

After years of slowing growth, corruption and political paralysis, Friday’s resounding change of government in India promises to be a turning point in the development and self-confidence of the world's largest democracy.

The victory of the charismatic, intensely driven Narenda Modi and his Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is also good news for Australia’s relations with India.

But amid the excitement, it will be important for Australia and other friends of a rising India to keep some perspective and manage what will be a juggernaut of expectation.

The vast constituency of Indians who have embraced Modi's message of economic growth, good governance and national pride are right to celebrate.

The BJP, led by Modi, secured an historic 282 seats in the Lok Sabha, India’s lower house of Parliament. Although accounting for only 31 per cent of the vote, the BJP now holds enough seats to form government without the unwieldy array of coalition partners usual in Indian politics.

This is the first such decisive mandate since 1984, and the first time it has been delivered to the nationalist, right-leaning BJP rather than the Indian National Congress, the party of Indian independence and the left-liberal secular establishment.

Indeed, Congress, which has led coalition governments for the past 10 years, secured only 44 seats and 19.3 per cent of the vote. This is a humiliating rejection of dynastic politics, a loss of faith in the Congress party’s ability to govern. These results cast serious question on the electoral survivability of the Nehru-Gandhi dynasty, led so blithely to oblivion last week by Rahul Gandhi.

Importantly, these results also reaffirm the strength of India’s democracy. There were record voter turnouts, with a participation rate of 66 per cent, higher than the level of voter engagement in some other countries with non-compulsory voting systems, notably the US.

Foreign prejudices about India often focus on the entrenched inequalities of the caste system, but Modi’s win was an undeniable victory for merit and social mobility. Quite separately from its association with Hindu culture, the BJP this time mobilised tens of millions of the young and the aspiring in a nation undergoing rapid social change.

And India's increasingly influential business community has been in lock step behind Modi for months, perhaps years, dazzled by his achievements as chief minister of the economically vibrant state of Gujarat.

Yet Modi’s mandate brings with it enormous expectations. There will be a honeymoon period, but voters will expect to see the moribund economy kick-started. According to Lowy Institute polling, 96 per cent of Indians think – no doubt rightly – that corruption is holding their country back. Modi will need to take direct action on this score, which may not end up endearing all his business backers.

Modi and his team will need to demonstrate quickly how they can roll out the better aspects of his Gujarat governance nationwide. If not, there may be the temptation to mollify the Hindu nationalist elements of his constituency instead, which will be dangerous for communal harmony in India.

The Muslim minority is just one part of India’s diverse society that has not forgotten the mass killing of Muslims during riots in Gujarat in 2002, early in Modi’s rule there. A conceivable major act of jihadist terrorism early in his prime ministerial term will test his ability to manage both India’s security and its social fabric.

In general, foreign and security policy will not be among Modi’s initial priorities, another reason for foreign partners such as Australia to temper their expectations.

That said, the Abbott government may find a kindred spirit in Modi in  his determination to co-ordinate diplomacy with trade and investment priorities, while giving unprecedented rein to go-ahead Indian states to pursue their own international investment links.

This economic agenda aligns well with the Coalition’s mantra of economic diplomacy, and provides opportunities to strengthen Australia’s flagging trade and investment relationship with India. Expect movement to finalise a uranium deal. On this score, Australia should ensure its safeguard standards discriminate neither against India nor for it.

Rhetorically at least, the BJP has set out a more ambitious agenda for India as a great power, and this will offer scope for Australia to deepen a logical Indo-Pacific security partnership with India, including means to offset China’s power.

A creative starting point will be for Abbott and Modi to work together to deepen ties with Indonesia. From a domestic political perspective, Modi will be wise to reach out to Indonesia to counter any lingering views about anti-Muslim prejudice. This aligns well with Australia’s own interests.

Another area of striking strategic convergence will be for Australia and India to work together on strengthening ties with Japan, in recognition of Japan’s emerging confidence and strategic potential. Tokyo was willing to engage with Modi when much of the West was shunning him over the legacy of 2002.

Given Abbott’s own closeness to Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s ambitious strategic agenda, a trilateral dialogue between Australia, India and Japan about how to shape a changing Asia is in the interests of all three states.

Yet this should not be rushed, as Modi will be careful not to be seen to be containing China’s rise. Despite his suspicion of China’s strategic intentions, Modi more than any previous Indian leader admires the Chinese model of development.

At the same time, Australia is well-placed to help Modi’s India in pragmatically rebuilding bridges with the US, a relationship damaged by the US denial of a visa to Modi in 2005, among other perceived slights.

The little-known but notably far-sighted decision by the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade to invite  Modi to Australia on a special visit in 2001 has laid the groundwork for some rapid progress on cultivating India’s new leader.

So Canberra will be right to seek a full bilateral visit to Australia by  Modi, in addition to his attendance at the G20 summit in Brisbane in November. And, in the meantime, Abbott will be well-advised to brave the temperatures of New Delhi in summer and pursue one of the first visits to the new India by a foreign leader.

Rory Medcalf chairs the Australia-India Roundtable for the Lowy Institute and the Australia India Institute. Danielle Rajendram is a research associate at the Lowy Institute.

Good article. Australia must forge good relationship with India. This will help both Australia and India  especially in Trade, with the Modi at the helm of affairs now. He is pro-business.

I am an Australian Citizen currently living India. I can tell you that it was an amazing win by BJP/Modi.

This piece seems to just focus on how the business community will benefit and totally ignore the fat that Modi is a Hindu nationalist.

When asked by the New York Times what he regretted most about the massacre in Gujarat resulting in the deaths of 790 Muslims and 254 Hindus, his only response was he wish he had managed the media better!

Its unfortunate part of history in state of Gujarat..

both encourage illegal immigration, in india's case hundreds and thousands coming from bangladesh and in australia's case the boat people.

there were candidates standing in the indian election who had openly supported the view of let these practices go on and also the one's who wanted to let the convicted mumbai terrorist freed along with the parliament house attackers..

thankfully in both australia and india common sense prevailed and better party won the election.

Pragmatic article and very positive for India-Australia relations. There will be opportunities galore for economic cooperation. However the need to take up causes of Australia's Christian rightist groups needs to be tempered. The US slight on Modi by denying him US visa in 2005 over the 2002 Muslim-Hindu riots for over 12 years was the most shortsighted move that will cost the US dear. It had more to do with the BJP state governments laws introduced in 2003 to ban coerced or induced conversions of tribals to Christianity. The US simply caved in to its Christian fundamentalist lobby. There is every chance that given its majority the BJP federal government may enact similar laws at a national level. Trust Tim Costello, World Vision is a significant player in the evangelical game, along with others to lobby strongly against a Modi led BJP. Tony Abbott or his Liberal or Labour successors should keep Australia's economic and security interests at heart in keeping an arms length from any such efforts.

In a country with guaranteed freedom of religion as per the Constitution, there is no role for the BJP or any other RSS linked group to legislate against people following their religion.

Doubtful that the new Govt will attempt to do any thing of that sort ,,,,but the RSS trouble makers will try.

'Modi, however, is a deeply polarising figure whom many Muslims in India – around 14% of the population – fear. A former organiser in the country's biggest Hindu revivalist organisation, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), he has been accused of failing to stop, or even encouraging, riots in which 1,000 people, mostly Muslims, were killed in Gujarat shortly after he took power there.

The violence followed an arson attack on a train full of Hindu pilgrims in which 59 died. Modi has always denied wrongdoing and a supreme court investigation found insufficient evidence to support the charges against him'

Accusations without any concrete evidence deserve to be treated merely as mud-slinging. The Supreme Court;s special investigation could not find any concrete evidence of wrongdoing by Modi, and as PM he will be under a lot more scrutiny.

India, like many other countries around the world, will destroy their environment in an effort to drive the economic growth, and in the end it will be all for naught.  As China is starting to realise, ignore environmental impacts at your peril.

Family, friends and civil rights leaders attend the funeral of Michael Brown, remembering the slain Missouri teenager with words of goodwill and joy.
