
Burnett Coleman, right, founder of the Matthew 25 Center, at a recent Loris City Council meeting.

The gate of Tabor Correctional Institute is a quarter mile from the Matthew 25 property.

Most people have heard of the Ronald McDonald houses around the country where people can stay free of charge while their child is hospitalized nearby.

Soon, if everything goes according to plan, there will be a facility where families can stay while they visit a spouse or parent incarcerated at the Tabor Correctional Institute in Tabor City.

Right now, it is just a big empty lot at the corner of Swamp Fox Highway and Willoughby Road in Tabor City, but Burnett Coleman is working feverishly to place a Matthew 25 Center on the property.

According to information presented to Loris City Council recently, the Matthew 25 Center will be located on property previously owned by Burnett’s grandparents who donated two acres to the ministry.

“They were very community-oriented people. We knew they would want to be very involved in something like this if given the opportunity,” Burnett said.

The 4,000 square-foot center will be located a quarter mile from the Tabor City prison which will make it very convenient for families visiting inmates at that location.

Burnett said the center will also be used by those visiting inmates at facilities in surrounding areas, such as the J. Reuben Long Detention Center in Conway.

Loris council watched a video that gave details about the Matthew 25 Center and its mission.

“The restoration of family bonds is our most powerful tool to change lives,” the narrator said.

It’s important to keep the ties with the family, council was told by the video, because if they don’t, when they get out, statistics show they are more apt to become a repeat offender.

The mission of the center is to bring hope and life change to those with a family member in prison.

The inspiration for the soon-to-be-built facility comes from a Matthew 25 Center which opened in 2004 in Burgaw, N.C.

“It was the first of its kind and has had a positive effect on the community and family of prisoners,” Council was told.

Jesse Hufton, a graduate of Southeastern Community College, said a Matthew 25 type center would have been a big benefit to his family when he was a child.

The facility will provide a place for guests to sleep, a fully stocked kitchen, play areas for children, and places for prayer and counseling. Staff will assist guests in obtaining the required passes to visit the prison.

Families must live 50 miles or more from the prison in order to stay at the center overnight.

All services will be provided free of charge, although offerings will be accepted. A volunteer board of directors has been established to help raise funds to build the facility and oversee the construction.

1 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language.

2 Don't Threaten or Abuse. Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated. AND PLEASE TURN OFF CAPS LOCK.

3 Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.

4 Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.

5 Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.

6 Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness accounts, the history behind an article.

Welcome to the discussion.

We're always interested in hearing about news in our community. Let us know what's going on!

We're always interested in hearing about news in our community. Let us know what's going on!
