
To ensure the safety and security of people from the northeast settled in the national capital, Delhi Police has initiated several measures.

Recently, a special interactive review meeting on the security of northeast people was held in the capital city.

At the meeting, Deepak Mishra, Special Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) launched a Facebook page "Delhi Police for North East Folks".

The page will deal with complaints and act as a forum for interaction on problems faced by the NE residents in the capital.

" This is our effort to build a bridge with the Delhi Police and the people of Delhi Vis-a-Vis the northeastern people of our country. This is a small attempt in our part so that we can come closer emotionally and communication can take place in a better, faster and effective manner," said Mishra.

Some of the important initiatives taken are -- Adoption of standing order by Delhi police based on Zero tolerance Policy for tackling the problem faced by NE people, appointment of IGP rank officer from NE as chief Nodal officer for Delhi Police and 11 district DCPs as Nodal officers for their respective jurisdiction.

The Delhi police have also started a helpline to address their grievances. Apart from calling 100, any person from the Northeast can contact the police on the helpline number 1093.

Special preventive policing is also being ensured in areas where people from the region reside.

" It is a very good initiative for the first time CP, joint Commissioner have come along with Northeast students we are very happy that this thing has happened and we have lots of expectation out of this and all the individual has given some points and suggestion so I hope Delhi police will listen to us and implement it," said Maivio, President, NSUD.

" Now, there is some changes in the capital which is very good because our people are now having helpline number but unfortunately lots of people are not aware of this helpline but as of now Delhi police are giving good response to the situation whatever we face here in Delhi so such thing is really improved now," said Gladdy, a designer from Manipur .

Valerie, a student from Nagaland who recently completed her higher education from New Delhi, and is now pursuing a career in Mass Communication, believes the attitude of local people towards those hailing from the northeast is changing.

" I think there is lots of changes has happened finally Northeast student stood up together and raised the voice that we are very much part of India and you need to do something," she said.

Unauthorised use of any content from this website is strictly prohibited.
