
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

BAY CITY, MI — Crying and brimming with apologies, a 26-year-old Bay City man who robbed his aunt asked a judge for mercy and help in overcoming his drug addiction. The judge, however, said he had to send the man to prison, though he encouraged him to pursue a future free of drugs.

"I would like to apologize to you and the courts," Darrell A. Spiker told Bay County Circuit Judge Harry P. Gill at his sentencing hearing on Monday, May 19. "I'd like to apologize to my family. I know what I did was wrong, and I'm truly sorry. I have drug problem; please help me get help. I don't believe prison is the answer for me."

Spiker, shackled and in an orange jumpsuit, began choking up at this point, saying his eyes have been opened by the time he has spent in jail over the past few months.

"I'm ready to begin my life drug free and become a positive and productive member of society," Spiker said, adding he wants to attend Delta College to study as a welder. "Basically, I'm asking for a second chance, your honor. I need help."

Spiker's defense attorney, Paul F. Beggs, said that his client was motivated in his crimes by a drug addiction, but in the months since, he has seen a significant change in him, both in his demeanor and physical appearance.

"He likes himself now; he's bound and determined to maintain a path of sobriety," Beggs said, describing his client as a smart kid with lots of potential.

Gill, though, said that sentencing guidelines didn't leave him much in the way of options.

"I have no choice but to send you to prison," Gill said. "I do think you have potential. I do think you are a drug addict, and I think you can deal with that. I think that it's up to you. They don't have the programs I'd like to see in prison, but they do have some programming. You need to take advantage of that."

Gill advised Spiker to participate in Alcoholics Anonymous and Narcotics Anonymous. "When you get out, you're going to need to follow that up," he said.

"(Drug addiction) will follow you."

Gill sentenced Spiker to three to 10 years in prison on a count of larceny from a person, 23 months to 10 years on a charge of breaking and entering with intent and one year on a count of delivery of heroin less than 50 grams. All three sentences are concurrent, and Gill gave Spiker credit for 180 days already served.

Spiker previously pleaded guilty to all three counts. In exchange for his pleas, the prosecution dismissed a life offense of armed robbery.

The armed robbery and larceny from a person charges stem from an incident that happened on Wednesday, Nov. 20, when police responded to a home in the 1200 block of Andre Drive in Monitor Township after resident Starlith Spiker, 57, called 911 to report she'd been robbed.

Starlith Spiker told police that her nephew, Darrell Spiker, had called her asking if he could stop by and borrow $10. When he arrived at her home, she said he stuck a gun in her face and stole $820 from her Social Security check.

"Thanks, now I got my money for my pills," Darrell Spiker told his aunt, according to court records.

Darrell Spiker then got in a car and drove away, Starlith Spiker told police.

Police later spoke with a woman named Lynn M. Walters who said she was in the car with Spiker and that he had gone to his aunt's to get pills. She said she stayed in the car while he went inside.

Interviewed by police, Darrell Spiker said, "I ain't got no gun and I didn't steal nothing." Police wrote in their reports, contained in court records, that they had not mentioned a gun to Spiker before he made that statement.

Spiker went on to say that his aunt was mad at him because he had loaned her $10 when she really wanted $20, court records show.

Police arrested Spiker. They noted in their reports that he appeared intoxicated at the time and that he told police he had injected the prescription painkiller Dilaudid.

Gill ordered Spiker to pay his aunt $820 in restitution. He also said he would not oppose Spiker entering a Michigan Department of Corrections boot camp program after he serves the first year of his sentence.

© 2014 MLive Media Group All rights reserved ( About Us ).

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
