
Jill Hansen, a 30-year-old professional surfer and model, has been arrested and charged with attempted murder after allegedly hitting a 73-year-old woman with her car last week in what is being reported as an apparent act of road rage.

Hansen was arrested by police in Manoa, Hawaii, late Wednesday evening after she allegedly fled the scene on foot, leaving her car in the parking lot where the assault took place, Hawaii News Now reported .

Conklin told reporters that she couldn't remember what happened to her after she parked her car.

"I parked in my normal parking place, and I got out and all of a sudden I woke up in an ambulance," Conklin told ABC News from her Honolulu hospital bed.

After the initial assault, Hansen apparently put the car in reverse and attempted to allegedly hit Conklin again when a bystander jumped in and using a crowbar broke her back window. The surfer subsequently abandoned her car in the parking lot, ABC News reported .

"He saw her in her car getting ready to hit me again. He totally saved my life," Conklin added.

When police arrived at the scene, they found the 73-year-old laying on the ground bleeding from multiple cuts and bruises on her body, Hawaii News Now noted.

In the police report, authorities wrote that "Hansen intentionally struck Conklin with her vehicle."

Hansen's motivation for allegedly striking Conkling has yet to be determined by police, however Conklin believes the surfer was jealous of her car and wanted it for herself.

"She saw my car. It was the car she wanted. She followed me, she was going to kill me and get the car," Conklin told ABC News.

Hansen is currently being held on $1 million bail.

Just hours before her arrest the 30-year-old surfer, who is also a model and has her own line of wetsuits, was celebrating her new found success in her career, posting photos of her house and car on Facebook while writing, "I am becoming a professional! I have worked SOOOO hard to get to today. I am so grateful for all the support of the surfers and the ASP (association of surfing professionals)."

Send me more news as it happens.

>> Login if you are already a member.
