
Police in Creve Coeur can only speculate what a Peoria man might have been planning to do with a stolen handgun loaded with hollow-point bullets.

A quick check of court records, however, revealed that Donaven Watson, 22, had already served a four-year prison term for burglary and had two other convictions for that crime when an officer encountered him as a passenger in a van he stopped last week.

Watson now sits in the Tazewell County Justice Center awaiting a June 5 court date on charges of aggravated unlawful use of a weapon as a felon, a second felony weapons use violation and possession of a stolen firearm. His bond is set at $50,000.

Circumstances of the traffic stop, which were not detailed in court records, prompted a village officer to summon a K-9 unit, or police dog, to the scene when the van was stopped on May 7. When the dog signaled an alert in an external survey of the vehicle, the officer asked the vehicle’s occupants to step outside, according to a prosecutor’s court affidavit.

Watson, who was sitting in the back seat behind the front passenger seat, was seen moving around before he stepped outside, the affidavit stated. Moments later the officer found a black and silver .38-caliber handgun under the front seat that appeared to have been pushed there from behind, the affidavit stated.

The weapon was loaded with eight hollow-point rounds, including one that was chambered to be fired with a pull of the trigger. A later check of its serial number revealed that the firearm had been stolen, the affidavit stated.

Watson commented at the scene that, because the handgun was not near him in the vehicle, it couldn’t be connected to him. A woman who also was in the vehicle, however, later said she’d seen him with a black and silver handgun in the past, the affidavit stated.

Four years ago, when he was 17, Watson was charged as an adult and convicted of burglary in Peoria County and was sentenced to four years in prison, according to court records. He also had a second burglary conviction in the county that year.

He was sentenced in 2012 to four years probation for a third burglary conviction in Peoria County and ordered to undergo drug and alcohol counseling.

Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.

Your privacy is important, read our privacy policy.

Original content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted.
