
BEIJING, May 19  -- Top Chinese legislator Zhang Dejiang on Monday held talks with visiting Speaker of the Samoan Legislative Assembly Laauli Fosi Schmidt on stronger bilateral ties.

Zhang, chairman of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress (NPC), the country's top legislature, said Samoa was among the first Pacific island countries to establish diplomatic ties with China, hailing Samoa China's sincere friend and important partner in the Pacific.

China and Samoa forged diplomatic ties in 1975.

China has always maintained countries, big or small, strong or weak, poor or rich, are equal members of the international community, Zhang said, stressing how China-Samoa relations are a paradigm of how countries can get along.

As next year will mark the 40th anniversary of the establishment of China-Samoa relations, China would like to wore more closely with Samoa, help improve Samoa's development and bring more benefits to the Samoan people, Zhang said.

China appreciates the Samoan government's friendly policy with China and firm support to China on issues concerning China's core interests, Zhang said.

He underscored China's support to Somoa's path of development and efforts to develop economy, improve people's life and play an active role in international issues.

On legislative relations, Zhang said the NPC and Legislative Assembly of Samoa play an important part in domestic politics.

The NPC would like to work with the Legislative Assembly of Samoa to enhance friendly ties, enhance pragmatic cooperation and make contribution to consolidating political trust,enhancing people's friendship and promoting common development, Zhang said.

Laauli Fosi Schmidt characterized China as Somoa's "friend and brother", appreciating China's long-term support and aid and hailing China's achievements.

Samoa respects China's sovereignty and territorial integrity and adheres to the one-China policy, Laauli Fosi Schmidt said.

He said the Legislative Assembly of Samoa would like to seek stronger relations with the NPC.

He will conclude his six-day China visit on Friday.
