
The opposition lawmakers in Senate Monday called for some soul-searching to defeat certain forces that are out to roll back the democratic system, saying it will directly put the federation in jeopardy. Speaking on a motion jointly moved by some seven opposition senators, Raza Rabbani said the days are gone when media could be gagged.

He said the time has come for the democratic and progressive forces to find reasons as to why the situation is deteriorating rapidly, adding the political parties must set aside their petty differences to save the system. He also warned that any move to change the parliamentary system into a presidential, technocratic or Ameerul Mumineen system will put the very existence of the country at stake.

"Any such move to change the system will have serious repercussions on the federation of Pakistan...after the 18th Constitutional Amendment, the political parties should struggle for their rights by remaining within the constitution," he added. He said the security forces could not cope with the growing militancy and extremism in parts of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Sindh and interior Punjab. This is the need of the hour that all political parties and the people must stand by the armed forces to eradicate the menace of militancy, he added.

Rabbani said during dictatorial regimes, the provincial autonomy was rolled back. The sense of deprivation, he added, will once again surface, and the trust deficit between Karachi, Lahore, Peshawar and Quetta will increase, paving the way for the undemocratic forces to exploit the situation.

"The dictatorships of 1960s, 1970s, and 1990s increased polarisation which gave birth to intolerance in society and the provinces but today's Pakistan could not afford such an adventurism," he maintained. After the death of Quaid-e-Azam Muhammad Ali Jinnah, he added, Pakistan was turned into a garrison state and this was the reason we are facing multiple challenges. "The transition of the power from one democratically elected government to anther after completing five years is not enough as supremacy of the constitution is just taking roots," he added. Rabbani said that his party was not happy with last year's general elections but it accepted the results for the sake of teething democracy. "Making the election commission controversial; questioning the role of former Chief Justice of Supreme Court; infighting within the media; curb on media; creating hatred against each other...all these things are interlinked [and] all these remind one of Pakistan National Alliance (PNA) Movement of the 1970s," he maintained.

The leader of opposition in Senate Aitzaz Ahsan said that TV channels busy in bashing Geo must know its closure will be the first step towards imposition of curbs on other media outlets. The ban of Geo will be a ban on freedom of expression which is not acceptable, he added.

He said stoking unrest cannot be justified after Dr Shaista Lodhi - the anchorwoman of the controversial morning show on Geo TV - had tendered an apology with her eyes full of tears. "We're being banned in the world like lepers for not administering polio vaccination to children; some people are trying to impose their schools... stop this situation or its repercussions will be disastrous," he added.

Senator Farhatullah Babar said that accusations were levelled against such an organisation which has a background of allegations. However, we do not support the bashing of a national institution in such a way. "We're concerned that the media are at loggerheads and the Senate must play its due role and form a committee consisting of senators to look into the matter," he suggested. Senator Saeed Ghani said the nation is being misled by certain quarters by bringing the people on the streets. He questioned why the matter of Geo's morning show is not resolved yet even after an apology by that channel.
