
Around 97 people have been arrested in a worldwide crackdown on the creators,    sellers and users of a piece of malicious commercial software called    Blackshades Remote Access Tool (RAT).

The application can remotely seize control of a victim's computer, access and    view their documents, record keystrokes and even activate their webcam to    take surreptitious pictures and video. It is also able to encrypt files in    order to extract a ransom for their release.

The software was used last year to capture naked photographs of the then    19-year-old Miss Teen USA Cassidy Wolf.

The “sextortion” case made headlines in the US when it was revealed that the    perpetrator, 20-year-old Jared James Abrahams, threatened to post the photos    online unless Wolf gave him a nude video. Abrahams was later sentenced to 18    months in prison.

Blackshades RAT is a commercial product costing less than £100 which was    marketed as a tool to test network security. However, it is widely used by    hackers and was even said by the Electronic Frontier Foundation to have been used    against Syrian activists by the government in 2012 .

European law enforcement agency Europol    estimates that it has been sold to “thousands of individuals    throughout the world” by a company called Blackshades.

During a two-day operation this week, international police forces conducted    359 house searches. Europol puts the number of arrests at "more than 80",    but the European Union's Eurojust said in a statement that 97    people had been taken into custody .

It is believed that 17 arrests have been made in the UK, including: a man in    Derbyshire; a man in Birmingham; a man in Halesowen; a man in Wolverhampton;    a man in Newcastle-under-Lyme; a man in Brixham; a man in Andover in    Hampshire; a man in Ashford in Kent; two men in Liverpool; one man in    Manchester; one man in Warrington; one man in Woodford Green in Essex; one    man in St Andrews; one man in Glasgow; one man in London and one man in    Leeds.

The National Crime Agency (NCA) also said in a statement that it is aware of more people in the UK who bought the software but are    yet to use it. It is working to warn them that "they are now known to    the agency" and that "any movement into criminality will result in    further action".

Over 1,100 data storage devices suspected of being used in illegal activities    were seized, claims Europol, including computers, laptops, mobile    telephones, routers, external hard drives and USB memory sticks.

Substantial quantities of cash, illegal firearms and drugs were also seized.

A recent case of Blackshade use in the Netherlands involved an 18-year-old man    who infected 2,000 computers and used it to take pictures of women and    girls, said Europol.

People are typically infected by clicking on malicious links on social    networking sites, which installs the malware. In many cases those affected    will have no idea that anything is wrong.

Investigators from the National Crime Agency believe that around 200,000    usernames and passwords for various online services may have been extracted    by Blackshades RAT users in the UK.

Andy Archibald, deputy director of the NCA’s National Cyber Crime Unit, said: “Criminals throughout the UK and across the world are finding out that    committing crimes remotely offers no protection from arrest. The unique    scale of this cyber operation shows what can happen when law enforcement    agencies at local, national and international level work together to tackle    the perpetrators and help keep people safe.

Several users of the Hack Forums website, which claims to be "your entry    into the dark world of hacking", have reported being raided by police    in recent days.

Other countries involved in the operation against the creators, sellers and    users of the malware included the Netherlands, Belgium, France, Germany,    Finland, Austria, Estonia, Denmark, USA, Canada, Chile, Croatia, Italy,    Moldova and Switzerland.

Meetings attended by police from all involved countries were held in Europe    prior to the arrests to coordinate efforts.

Mr Troels Oerting, head of the European Cybercrime Centre at Europol, said: “This case is yet another example of the critical need for coordinated law    enforcement operations against the growing number of cyber criminals    operating on an EU and global level. EC3 will continue - together with    Eurojust and other partners - to work tirelessly to support our partners in    the fight against fraudsters and other cyber criminals who take advantage of    the internet to commit crime.

Troy Gill, senior security analyst at AppRiver, said: “Blackshades has been    circulating for years now. It is a remote access Trojan that gives the    attacker a great deal of control over the victim’s machine.

“In addition, Blackshades behaves like a ‘worm’ in that it contains    self-propagation mechanisms to facilitate its spreading to other machines.
