
For the second weekend in a row, New Orleans police were kept busy investigating several shootings in the Crescent City.

According to the major offense logs over the weekend from the New Orleans Police Department, investigators were called to reports of a shooting in Tremé on Friday about 6:20 p.m. in the 2400 block of Dumaine Street. In that incident, police said a victim was standing at the intersection of Dumaine and N. Rocheblave streets when two men clad in black clothing approached the victim. One of the men brandished a silver handgun and shot the victim in the upper left leg. The two men fled after the shooting, police said.

Late Friday, police began investigating a shooting in Mid-City near the intersection of Banks and S. Murat streets. The shooting happened about 11:22 p.m. According to police, a group of six people were approached by a man with a gun who demanded their property. The group refused and the man started shooting at them, striking a 24-year-old woman in the head. The victim was taken to a hospital and listed in stable condition.

The third shooting police were investigating happened in the 700 block of Canal Street on Saturday about 7 p.m. Police said a verbal argument with a large group of juveniles escalated when a fight broke out and gun shots were fired. A victim suffered a graze wound to their knee.

On Sunday about 2:30 a.m., police said a victim was sitting on his porch in the 1400 block of N. Villere Street in the Seventh Ward when he was approached by two men who shot at him.

About 11 hours later at 1:36 p.m. Sunday, police responded to reports of a shooting in the 2100 block of Westbend Parkway in Algiers. Police said a victim was in a parking lot, talking to a friend, when the friend produced a handgun and fired the gun, striking the victim. The victim was taken to a local hospital.

Six hours later about 7:30 p.m., police responded to another report of a shooting in the 1800 block of Conti Street near the Tulane-Gravier neighborhood. A 26-year-old man was walking in the area when someone opened fire, striking the victim. He was taken to a local hospital for his injury.

Then about 11:14 p.m. Sunday, police said three people were injured in a shooting in the 1200 block of Independence Street in the Ninth Ward.

A shooting was also reported about 2:55 a.m. in the 1700 block of St. Andrew Street in Central City, New Orleans police said. According to police, the victim was approached by two armed men as he sat in his car. Police said one of the men pulled the victim from his car and threw him to the ground. The victim ran and was shot at by the two men in the armed robbery.

Shortly before 8 a.m., New Orleans police said a person was shot in the 3300 block of Thalia Street in Central City. His condition wasn’t immediately known.

Anyone with information on a crime is asked to call Crimestoppers at 504-822-1111.

The views expressed are not those of this site, this station or its affiliated companies. By posting your comments you agree to accept our terms of use.

"Breaking Bad" is in blue heaven.

© 2014, New Orleans Hearst Television Inc. on behalf of WDSU-TV.
