
Project Milwaukee Executive Producer Ann-Elise Henzl talked with Bob Bach about some of the reasons for the state’s high rate of black male incarceration, as well as the impact of the numbers and some possible solutions.

In preparation for Tuesday night's town hall forum, WUWM reviews the causes and impact of Wisconsin's high rate of black male incarceration.

Wisconsin incarcerates a greater percentage of black men than any other state. One in every eight African American men of working age was in prison or jail at the time of the 2010 census.

The town hall forum will take place Tuesday, May 20, from 6:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. in downtown Milwaukee, in Centennial Hall of the Milwaukee Public Library. Reserve your spot for this special event.

Poverty and unemployment contribute to the high rate of black male incarceration, especially in Milwaukee’s central city. Milwaukee Ald. Joe Davis says the city never recovered from its loss of industrial jobs a few decades ago. Davis says in neighborhoods with few job opportunities, some people are more likely to turn to crime, such as selling drugs, to earn quick cash. “It’s not an excuse, but it is a fact that given one’s social conditions, they turn to certain things for survival,” Davis says.

In the 1990s, as crack cocaine made inroads in Wisconsin, state lawmakers approved policies such as mandatory minimum sentences for drug offenses, and Truth in Sentencing, which eliminated parole. Both drove up the prison rate.

Advocates for a lower prison population argue the state locks up too many people, who would be better off in the community. Retired pastor Joe Ellwanger has been working on the 11x15 campaign, which seeks to cut the prison population in half by 2015. The effort is organized by WISDOM, a coalition of faith groups throughout the state. Ellwanger wants Wisconsin to follow Minnesota’s lead. “Minnesota has its prison rate down to less than half of what Wisconsin’s is. They deal with low risk persons who have underlying drug addictions -- and that’s the root of the crime -- they send them to treatment in the community rather than to prison, and Wisconsin could do the same thing,” Ellwanger says.

Workers at the COA Goldin Center on 24th and Burleigh say most of the kids they serve come from single-parent homes. Some of the boys in those homes lack positive role models, making them more likely to get into trouble. Quintrell Boyles, who works with teens at the center, says children don’t think about long-term consequences of their behavior, because they’re overwhelmed by their current desperate circumstances. “What we’re looking at is a population that’s worried about the gun violence in my neighborhood, will I make it home tonight? What will I eat? A population of kids that’s worried about the temperature’s dropped below 50 degrees and I only have a hoodie to wear to school. And these are things that overshadow what they might be thinking about happening 10 years from now,” Boyles says.

When inmates are nearing the end of their sentence, and are preparing to reenter the community, they may find their record leaves them with limited job options. State Rep. Mandela Barnes of Milwaukee says one person’s struggles end up affecting the whole community. “There is so much they’re not able to do, they’re not able to be productive, they’re not going to pass a background check, there’s not much that’s available to them, they’re not going to be able to be taxpayers, they aren’t going to be able to generate revenue for the state. And I think the biggest piece is going to be the cycle of crime that’s created because the opportunity that’s taken away,” Barnes says.

Men who are in prison often have wives, children, parents and others at home, who feel their absence acutely. Some of the family members and friends struggle to come up with the time -- or gas money -- to visit men who are housed in prisons throughout the state. A number of Milwaukee neighborhoods have former inmates, or homes where someone is incarcerated, on every block. The 53206 zip code is where the concentration is the highest.

Advocates for a lower prison population say the numbers will drop if the state invests more in options such as drug courts and mental health courts, which offer treatment and a clean record, if someone completes the court’s program. They also say more nonviolent offenders should be offered alternatives to prison. The advocates say when nonviolent people are locked up with hardened criminals, they may adopt their attitudes and behaviors, increasing the risk of recidivism – and the threat to the community -- upon their release.

David Liners is with WISDOM, a coalition of faith groups working to reduce the prison population. He says minor traffic violations can be part of what causes some people to spiral downward. “Traffic tickets all by themselves aren’t what land people in prison, but they’re just one more straw, one more burden that gets laid on people who are having a hard time making a go of it,” Liners says.

A number of groups are pushing to end or reduce the easy access to public records on CCAP, saying the website makes it too easy for employers and landlords to discriminate against someone with a criminal record.
