
Anchorage police search for missing 14-year-old girl: The Anchorage Police Department is asking for the public’s help in locating Krystal Gabriella Toledo, 14, who was last seen at West High School on Thursday. Toledo is described as a 5-foot-4-inch white female weighing 120 pounds, with long brown hair and brown eyes. Toledo was last seen wearing blue jeans, a black shirt and shoes with a camouflage design. She may be wearing a brown “Hello Kitty” backpack. Anyone with information about her whereabouts is asked to call APD dispatch at (907) 786-8900.

Troopers make Anchor Point heroin bust: Alaska State Troopers seized $19,000 worth of heroin and $2,500 from a man and a woman in Anchor Point Saturday afternoon, according to a trooper dispatch. Troopers report 24-year-old Wade W. Thurmond and 35-year-old Monica C. Pelkey are facing drug charges, and Thurmond is additionally charged with violating his probation on previous felony convictions. According to troopers, around 2:30 p.m. on Saturday, law enforcement arrived at a residence near mile 2.5 on North Fork Road in the Kenai Peninsula town after someone tipped them off that Thurmond was selling drugs. Troopers said they found Thurmond and Pelkey sitting inside a white truck, where investigators claim that the woman had purchased a "large amount" of heroin then began using it shortly before troopers arrived. Troopers said they found 33 grams of heroin, cash and drug paraphernalia. Both Thurmond and Pelkey were taken to the Homer jail.

U.S. unfocused in Arctic, says GAO report: The U.S. Department of State and other government agencies responsible for Arctic issues need to sharpen their focus and tighten their procedures to prepare for U.S. chairmanship of the Arctic Council, says a new report released Monday by the General Accountability Office . Lack of clear procedures to set priorities and track progress means that many worthy Arctic policy goals, though articulated, are not being accomplished, the GAO report said. That is the case at the Arctic Council as well, the GAO report said. State Department officials interviewed for the report said the council “has produced valuable work, but the recommendations have not historically produced actions leading to measurable results in addressing Arctic issues, “ the report said. To prepare for U.S. leadership of the council, scheduled to start in 2015, the State Department needs to develop a formal strategy that is coordinated with other government agencies, a formal process for tracking progress in achieving Arctic goals and, with the help of the other Arctic nations, establish guidelines for making and ranking policy recommendations. Sen. Lisa Murkowski, one of the officials who requested the report, said it show that the U.S. government is running late with its Arctic planning. “This is one of the reasons we need an Arctic Ambassador with the authority to make decisions, and coordinate and oversee projects as we’re at this crucial juncture,” she said in a statement.

All Rights Reserved.
