
AT&T's acquisition of satellite TV operator DirecTV for US$48.5bn may have little impact on DirecTV's Latin American operations, which could be sold off, according to analysts.

The merger, which is still pending regulatory approval, comes at a time of consolidation in the US cable TV and cable infrastructure sectors. The merger would create a pay-TV giant similar in size to where Comcast will be if it completes its acquisition of Time Warner Cable.

The deal will also give AT&T a strong foothold in Latin America, which represents about a quarter of DirecTV's income. DTVLA owns approximately 93% of Sky Brasil, 41% of Sky Mexico and 100% of PanAmericana, which consists of DirecTV's Latin American operations outside Brazil and Mexico.

AT&T also announced it plans to sell its long-held US$6bn stake in Mexican telecoms giant América Móvil (NYSE: AMX) to avoid potential regulatory conflicts.

According to Jan Dawson, of consultancy Jackdaw Research, the main focus of the acquisition is the US market and there are limited cross-border synergies.

"The Latin American business is more likely to be a distraction than a benefit for AT&T, with limited synergies between the domestic and overseas operations. As such, it's quite possible that it will look to offload rather than keep the Latin American assets either immediately or over time," Dawson said in a research note.

"The US and Latin America are fundamentally different markets with different cultures, spend levels, content consumption habits. It appears DirecTV Latin America has been somewhat successful, and this business is growing. But I'm not convinced AT&T can add much value to that business other than perhaps providing funding for a more aggressive expansion plan." Dawson said.

The analyst said that AT&T may just allow DirecTV Latin America to continue to operate largely as it has.

With AT&T's assets and experience in telephony and internet, there is the question of whether the telco could help DirecTV push a more integrated offering.

Cesar Bachelet, senior analyst with Analysys Mason, commented that if the transaction goes ahead the combined entity would be better positioned against global OTT video players such as Apple , Netflix and Amazon for content acquisition.

He added that the merger would "lead to a more closely integrated and interactive service, combining multimedia content from various sources (e.g. broadcast or internet) to the TV, eventually extending a similar user experience to any connected screen, even in a car or on a plane."

Up to now, DirecTV has resisted being drawn into the triple play battle with telcos, opting to play up its "premium" TV service.

The company offers mobile broadband services in Brazil and Argentina and is reportedly due to introduce the service in Colombia this quarter.

However, it is debatable whether AT&T would want to invest in the level of infrastructure that would be needed to make DirecTV a fully fledged telco in Latin America.

"The company would still have to organically or inorganically acquire the assets necessary to offer those services, and AT&T doesn't bring anything other than cash to the table there either," Dawson said.

Copyright 1996-2014 All rights reserved.
