
Police attended a string of violent incidents in the corridor on Saturday night.

Whistler RCMP, along with officers from the Lower Mainland, Squamish and Pemberton, beefed up patrol in town for the notoriously busy May long weekend.

A 19-year-old Surrey man was sent to hospital after he was slashed in the face outside a Whistler nightclub on Saturday night.

The incident was just one of four altercations RCMP were called to that night. Police say a doorman at the club approached police -- who had beefed up patrol in preparation for the May long weekend -- around 10:50 p.m. to report that a fight had broken out in front of the venue. Officers found the man with a slash to the right side of his face, along with about 100 intoxicated people outside the club. "The victim was intoxciated and didn't know who slashed his face," said Staff Sgt. Steve LeClair with Whistler RCMP. "He provided a vague description of a South Asian male wearing a blue, plaid shirt, jeans, short spiky hair, about six feet tall with a medium, stocky build and a full, short beard. He said this male had a black eye from his altercation with the victim."

Police later stopped several men matching that description, but were unable to locate the suspect. The victim was released from hospital later that night. Officers continue to investigate.

The string of altercations began earlier that night around 7:30 p.m. when a man approached officers on foot patrol in the Upper Village and told them that another man had been assaulted by a large group of men outside a nearby hotel. When police arrived at the scene they found a man bleeding from his head, but he was uncooperative and wouldn't provide any information, LeClair said.

Shortly after, another person came up to the officers and said there had been a stabbing in one of the hotel rooms. "Police located a different victim who appeared to be in medical distress, however he had no apparent signs of being stabbed," LeClair said. "He didn't want to give details to police or receive medical attention."

The victim was an 18-year-old from Surrey.

Then around 8:15 p.m., officers were dispatched to the 2200-block of Brandywine Way when a witness at a party called police to report that a fight had broken out between around 20 to 25 men and women. The group was locked out of a house and some people began to bang on the door when a man came out with a knife and stabbed a telephone pole. He then allegedly grabbed a female by the throat and pulled her into the house. "Police went to the residence to clear it out for the safety of everybody inside," LeClair said.

A 17-year-old man from Surrey who allegedly had bear spray and a pellet gun in his possession was arrested and charged with possession of a weapon dangerous to the public.

They found a woman inside the home, but she was not the same person who was allegedly assaulted. She told police she was staying at a hotel on Northlands Boulevard. Police attended that residence and found seven women, including one who matched the description of the victim. She told police she had not been at the house and was not injured.

Police were also called to a hotel in Pemberton around 5:50 p.m. after a man pulled a hunting knife on one of the employees in the hotel's fitness area. Officers found the suspect in a hotel room and arrested him for assault with a weapon. They're recommending charges of possession of a weapon dangerous to the public peace against a 30-year-old Vancouver man.

LeClair said that police also curbed several other incidents before they escalated, thanks to increased patrol. "You look at the pattern and it's typically young males from the city that are having problems with each other," he said. "There are lots of people out enjoying the concerts in the Village and that type of thing. It's unfortunate there are a few groups of individuals causing problems, but I believe the public is safe. These people are having conflicts with each other. It's not that they're having conflicts with locals."

NOTE: To post a comment you must have an account with at least one of the following services:                     Disqus, Facebook, Twitter, Google+                     You may then login using your account credentials for that service.                     If you do not already have an account you may register a new profile with Disqus                     by first clicking the "Post as" button and then the link: "Don't have one? Register a new profile".

The Whistler Question welcomes your opinions and comments.                     We do not allow personal attacks, offensive language or unsubstantiated allegations.                     We reserve the right to edit comments for length, style, legality and taste and reproduce them in print, electronic or otherwise.                       For further information, please contact the editor or publisher, or see our Terms and Conditions.

Sign Up For Our Newsletter!

Have the Whistler Question delivered to your inbox every week! You can contact us or unsubscribe anytime.
