
A 4-year-old boy who accidentally shot himself after he found a .25-caliber pistol last week has died, according to the Dorchester County Coroner's Office.

Coroner Chris Nisbet identified the boy as Jeffery Scott of Otranto Road in North Charleston. He died Friday afternoon at Medical University Hospital, where he was being treated following the May 12 incident.

Nisbet has ruled his death an accident.

Summerville Police Capt. Jon Rogers said detectives are still trying to determine who owned the gun. The case remains under investigation, and no criminal charges have been filed, he said.

The boy's 75-year-old grandmother, Margaret G. Wilson, called 911 around 4:40 p.m. on May 12 to report the shooting at 811 W. Richardson Ave.

She later told police that she had just returned home with the boy and was putting away groceries when she heard the lone gunshot.

Wilson rushed outside and found the boy lying in the front yard. He was bleeding from a wound to his head, the report stated.

The pistol rested nearby.

"I don't know where he got a gun from," Wilson told the 911 dispatcher. "Somebody, please come. Come quick."

The boy wasn't breathing, his grandmother told the dispatcher. Scott's eyes were closed.

No one else was home at the time, Rogers said. The boy was visiting.

Paramedics, firefighters and a deputy from the Dorchester County Sheriff's Office were already there when Summerville police officers showed up.

By then, the .25-caliber Taurus pistol had been placed on the dining room table, and the boy was lying on the floor.

A helicopter later flew him to a Charleston hospital.

Andrew Knapp contributed to this story. Reach Glenn Smith at 937-5556 or Twitter.com/glennsmith5.

The Post and Courier is pleased to offer readers the enhanced ability to comment on stories. Some of the comments may be reprinted elsewhere in the site or in the newspaper. We ask that you refrain from profanity, hate speech, personal comments and remarks that are off point.

We do not edit user submitted statements and we cannot promise that readers will not occasionally find offensive or inaccurate comments posted in the comments area. If you find a comment that is objectionable, please click the X that appears in the upper right corner when you hover over a comment. This will send the comment to Facebook for review. Please be reminded, however, that in accordance with our Terms of Use and federal law, we are under no obligation to remove any third party comments posted on our website. Read our full terms and conditions .

© 2014, The Post and Courier, an Evening Post Industries company.

All Rights Reserved.
