
KARACHI - Seven people were killed in separate incidents in Karachi on Monday.

Shaukat Hussain Shirazi, a trustee of Shirazi Imambargah situated in Mithadar area, was gunned down along with an elderly man who has yet to be identified. Police said the victim was sitting at his office next to the Imambargah when two gunmen riding a motorcycle came and sprayed bullets. Shirazi was shot four times while another victim was shot dead on the spot. The bodies were taken to Civil Hospital Karachi for autopsies.

The body of Shirazi was handed over to the family after autopsy while the body of unknown victim was shifted to morgue for identification. The victim was the resident of Moosa Lane, Lyari. Police suspected sectarian the motive behind the murder.

Similarly, Sajjad Hussain, 53, was shot dead inside his drycleaner shop situated in Federal B Area. Police officials said the victim was sitting at his shop when two armed men riding a motorcycle came and escaped after shooting him multiple times. The body was taken to Abbasi Shaheed Hospital.

In another incident, an owner of the motorcycles service station was shot dead in Liaquatabad police precincts. The victim was identified as Agha Mohsin, 42. He was also killed on sectarian grounds. The body was taken to ASH for autopsy.

Majlis Wahdatul Muslimeen (MWM) spokespersons condemned the incidents of targeted killings of his community members and demanded immediate arrests of the culprits.

“The killing of Shia people has been continued in the City and authorities seem reluctant to take action against the outlawed militants organisations involved in sectarian killing. MWM announced countrywide protest against the Shia genocide.

Separately, the owner of the marble factories was shot dead at Mianwali Colony, Manghopir Road. The victim was identified as Fareed Afzal, 44, resident of Federal B area. SHO Aslam Shah said the victim was running his own two marble factories in Manghopir area. The incident took place when the victim was moving from one factory to another as per routine.

Four armed men riding two motorcycles intercepted his car and sprayed bullets. Initial investigation revealed the victim was killed when he refused to pay extortion money to the militants.

Meanwhile, a woman was shot dead inside her house in Docks Colony in Jackson police precincts. The victim was identified as Sadaqat Bibi, wife of Zohaib. Police officials said unidentified culprits shot her dead when she offered resistance in a robbing bid. Further investigation was underway.

Meanwhile, a police constable Arshad Arain, 35, was shot dead in Yousuf Goth area. Police said the victim was going home from somewhere when unidentified armed riders shot him dead.

The assailants managed to flee from the scene. The victim was shifted to Civil Hospital Karachi where doctors pronounced him dead and handed the body over to the family after autopsy.

Moreover, a pickle vendor namely Ashraf Umar was shot dead in Dalmia area. DSP Nasir Lodhi said the victim was standing at his pickle stall when two armed riders shot him dead.

The officer suspected personal enmity the motive behind the murder. Further investigation was underway.
