
An Aceh police officer, identified only as Brig. HUS, has been arrested for his alleged involvement in the murder of a National Aceh Party (PNA) member, Faisal, who was shot dead in March.

Brig. HUS was detained following the arrest on May 16 of three other suspects — Nasir bin Yunus, 35; Rifki bin Mustafrin, 34; and Usman bin Yunus, 29 — followers of the Al–Mujahadah Foundation in Ujong Kareung, Sawang district, South Aceh regency, which was led by Tgk Ahmad Barmawi.

“Even though the murder case occurred ahead of the legislative election [on April 9] and the victim was a legislative candidate, the case has nothing to do with political issues,” said Aceh Police chief Insp. Gen. Husain Hamidi.

Faisal, 40, was shot and killed while he was driving between Meulaboh, West Aceh, and Tapak Tuan in South Aceh, at around 8 p.m. on March 2. His car was hit by over 40 bullets.

Previously, it was believed the shooting was related to the upcoming legislative election as the province had seen an increased number of cases of election-related violence.

The Aceh Police formed a team to implement a special operation aimed at securing the election in what is categorized as a violence-prone region, in an effort to minimize election violence in the province.

Husain alleged that HUS killed Faisal because the latter was investigating alleged heretical teachings at the Al-Mujahadah Foundation.

Al-Mujahadah has been deemed heretical by the Ulema Consultative Assembly (MPU). The government sealed the foundation’s office on Feb. 28, but the followers continued surreptitious activities. Faisal uncovered the underground activities angering Barmawi and his followers, including Brig. HUS.

“I still have no idea whether Brig. HUS also funded the activities carried out by the organization. The suspect is an officer assigned to Sawang police precinct,” Husain said, adding that the police were still investigating the case. The police have also arrested Barmawi.

Meanwhile, local activist Akhirudin Mahyudin lauded the police for their work on the case and the arrests. He called on the police to conduct a transparent yet fair investigation into the involvement of their personnel in the murder case.

“The police have to reveal the true motive behind the shooting. They should not draw conclusions by saying that the case has nothing to do with politics,” Akhirudin said.

He added that it was too premature to say that the shooting was not politically related. “The police should reveal the mastermind behind the case,” Akhirudin went on.

A number of violent incidents ahead of the legislative election in Aceh had raised concerns among residents, local activists and even European Union ambassadors in Indonesia.

Faisal was one of three PNA members and legislative candidates killed ahead of the election. The PNA is considered to be the Aceh Party’s (PA) strongest rival.

In February, two masked men shot at a campaign post of the National Democratic party (Nasdem) in North Aceh regency.

In early April, three people were killed while in a car that bore Aceh Party stickers in Bireuen regency.

Selected comments will be published in the Readers’ Forum page of our print newspaper.
