
An escaped prisoner and convicted murderer who absconded while on day release has been found and arrested in Oldham.

Arnold Pickering, 44, from Chadderton , who has escaped prison twice before, failed to return to HMP Kennet in Maghull, Merseyside on Saturday afternoon. He was arrested today just before midday.

Pickering was serving a minimum 18-year sentence after he stabbed a blind man to death in Oldham .

Pickering last escaped prison in 2009 when he was on day release from HMP Kirkham as part of a pilot scheme where prisoners worked on the bins in Manchester city centre.

He handed himself in four days later in Motherwell, Scotland.

Pickering escaped on Saturday with fellow inmate Thomas Moffett, 51, from Blackburn. Both men returned to their respective home towns as Moffett was arrested in Blackburn on Sunday.

Both the prisoners were risk assessed as suitable for temporary release on licence by the Ministry of Justice.

They were supposed to return to prison by 4:30pm on Saturday.

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

The Manchester Evening News and www.manchestereveningnews.co.uk conform to the newspaper industry's voluntary Code of Practice, administered by the Press Complaints Commission.

If you feel we have made an error in a report, or have fallen below our usual high standards, please write in the first instance to: Rob Irvine, editor, Manchester Evening News, Mitchell Henry House, Hollinwood Avenue, Chadderton, Oldham OL9 8EP.

M.E.N. Media is one of the north west’s largest media providers and reaches 7 out of 10 people in Greater Manchester every week.

Online, manchestereveningnews.co.uk welcomes 2.4million unique users who experience12.4million page views every month.

Our newspapers include the flagship Manchester Evening News - Britain's largest circulating regional daily with up to 130,485 copies - as well as 20 local weekly titles across Greater Manchester, Cheshire and Lancashire.

Free morning newspaper, The Metro, published every weekday, is also part of our portfolio, delivering more than 200,000 readers in Greater Manchester.

Greater Manchester Business Week is the region’s number one provider of business news andfeatures, targeting a bespoke business audience with 12,687 copies every Thursday.

Every month, M.E.N. Media’s print products reach 2.2 million adults, spanning from Accrington in the north to Macclesfield in the south.

Rob Irvine was appointed editor-in-chief of MEN Media and Trinity Mirror Huddersfield in April 2012.

Rob joined Trinity Mirror in 2001 and was editor of the Daily Post North Wales for seven years. He was also publishing director for Trinity Mirror North Wales and Cheshire.

He grew up in Stockport, Greater Manchester and has worked in the local newspaper industry for 27 years.
