
A 79-YEAR-OLD nun resumed values formation for Pasay City cops, after a number of missions in other parts of the country and abroad. The unavailability of the police officers themselves due to their sworn duty put an indefinite breather to her long-running apostolate with the law enforcers.

Sr. Gloria V. Felix, Daughters of Street Paul, FSP, the congregation’s translator of Italian texts into English, said the values formation for Pasay cops took a respite in the recent past, since there was no one in the congregation who could take over while she was undertaking other things.

Still faithful to the ministry for which she spent many years as a nun, Sister Felix is steadfast in her desire to help the city’s new generation of cops become better agents of peace and justice. She had also worked with the Movie and Television Review and Classification Board (MTRCB) in Zamboanga.

The policemen have their own manual that stipulates the values each of them has to live by accordingly, Felix said. Part of her push is to jog their memory on the values that are stated in the manual.

Felix noted that government officials should be reminded that a cop is not their property who could be used as they pleased. Policemen, who are paid by people’s taxes, are employed by the people to keep public order and peace.

While cops are required by law to work in cooperation with government officials for the public good, she said, men and women in uniform should not be compelled into using police power to pursue the personal interests of government officials.

Felix cited a Pasay police officer who was discharged from his post for refusing to do an order of a particular mayor, whose name she did not disclose.

Police officers are also required to demonstrate in public a standard of values higher than what average citizens have, said the values-formation program presented by Felix.

The same program also stated that historically, police power tends to be abused to deprive people of their liberties.

Felix also discourages parents, who wish to reform their mischievous kids outside the home, by dispatching them to police boot camps as a recourse to reform them.

Felix also denounced the culture of hazing, which involve physical injury, abuse and humiliation in both police and military camps.

Men and women, who constitute the organizations of both the Philippine National Police and the Armed Forces of the Philippines, should get inspired by the lives of “martyrs who sang to their death” because they gratefully stood for their calling until the end.

Felix was a daughter of a constable. At the time, constables were generally respected by society, contrary to the reputation currently demonstrated by the police officers of today, she said.

She commended cops who remain honest and honorable in their job despite alleged rampant corruption among policemen.

The septuagenarian nun has been conducting values formation for Pasay cops since the time of the late Mayor Pablo Cuneta, who was one of the longest-serving mayors in the country, up to present.

Not everybody could do the ministry with the cops and military, Felix said. One should know the psychology of men, who constitute most of the institution, and be also psychologically prepared to work with them.

She currently facilitates the edification of some 300 cops under the oversight of Pasay Police Chief Supt.Renz Ortilla.

If Pope Francis exhorts the religious and laypeople of the Catholic Church to smell like a sheep as hands-on shepherds of the faithful, she has long since smelled like a cop in her decade-old ministry with the PNP and the AFP during the time of Marcos.
