
The Justice Department has brought its first charges of cyber espionage against a nation-state with the May 19 indictment of five officers in China’s People’s Liberation Army.

The five officers from a PLA hacking unit in Shanghai are charged with stealing proprietary economic information from six major U.S. companies and organizations, including producers of nuclear energy and aluminum.

Attorney General Eric Holder said the indictment was a shot across the bow to countries that would use intellectual property theft as a tool of statecraft.

The six companies alleged to have been hacked are Allegheny Technologies Inc., Alcoa Inc., U.S. subsidiaries of SolarWorld, Westinghouse Electric Co., U.S. Steel Corp., and the United Steelworkers union.

The United States does not have an extradition treaty with China and the likelihood of the five defendants appearing in a U.S. court seems slim.

Prosecutors hope an indictment will yield better results than diplomacy has in deterring China from sponsoring cyberattacks on U.S. firms. A February 2013 report by U.S. security firm Mandiant pinpointed the same Shanghai offices as a launching pad for cyberattacks. Less than two months later, Washington and Beijing agreed to set up a cybersecurity working group in an effort to ease tensions on the issue.

While U.S.-China cooperation on cybersecurity appears strained, the indictment “may create momentum on the international stage for some type of agreement on cybercrime” in forums such as the European Union’s Convention on Cybercrime, according to Matt Rhoades, a cybersecurity expert at the Truman National Security Project.

The Obama administration is “looking to be more aggressive in their prosecution” of economic cyber theft “because it is damaging to the U.S. economic recovery,” he said in an interview.

Please post your comments here. Comments are moderated, so they may not appear immediately                     after submitting. We will not post comments that we consider abusive or off-topic.

© 1996-2013 1105 Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved. This copy is for your personal, non-commercial use only.
