
KOZHIKODE: Police and intelligence agencies are probing the origin of a 'circular' purportedly written by an  Indian Mujahideen operative, which details the recruitment drive initiated by the banned terrorist outfit in Kerala.

The circular is in the form a directive to fellow cadres demanding a coordinated move to revive the organization that is facing serious trouble after security agencies started a crackdown against it. The letter asked the cadres to assemble at a particular place on a given date to discuss future course of action. The letter also allegedly contains the numbers of vehicles used by cadres of the outfit.

The incident assumed another level when a notice attached to the circular appeared in the city on Sunday. The notice was pasted at a public place under the town police station limits. Police had received the same notice along with the circular, which was meant to be circulated among a particular community.

Senior police officers admitted the existence of such a poster, but refused to divulge more details. District police chief (Kozhikode city)  A V George is leading the probe.

Probe is on to establish whether the letter has really originated from the terrorist organization or is the handiwork of mischief-mongers who wish to perpetrate communal tension. The way the document landed in police hands also seems to be shrouded in mystery. It is learnt that the letter reached the police 'accidently' while they were scanning packages sent through courier services.

What adds to suspicions about the authenticity of the document is the fact that IM cadres in Kerala have not, till date, used the name of the organization to describe themselves. Though Thadiyantavide Nazeer and K P Sabir had links with Indian Mujahideen leaders, they did not consider themselves cadres of the organization.

According to the dossiers of the Union ministry of home affairs, the Kerala module was operating under the banner of Jam-Iyathul Ansarul Musallimeen (JIAM).

The name Indian Mujahideen first surfaced in an email sent to the media claiming responsibility for the  Uttar Pradesh serial blasts in 2007. An email was also sent just before the Ahmedabad blast in 2008. This is the first time that a poster has appeared in the name of the organisation.
