
The Department for Children and the Publicity Department of the All-China Women’s Federation (ACWF) jointly held a press conference on May 16 in Beijing, to report activities that are to be held on International Children's Day.

ACWF officials, including Director of ACWF's Department for Children Zhang Xiaoyuan, Director of the Publicity Department Wang Weiguo and Director and Deputy Director of the Department for Children Zhang Xiaoyuan and Wu Xinping attended the press conference and addressed the gathered journalists and reporters on the scheduled activities. They also clarified the report on establishing a service mechanism for left-behind children in rural China whose parents have left their homes to seek better paying jobs in cities.

According to the press conference, leading up to International Children's Day the ACWF will host an exhibition on "Good Mothers, Fathers and Family Trait" and an exhibition on "Second National Children's Paper-cutting Works." The federation will also host a gala named "Hope under a Blue Sky" and promote an opera named "Mum Loves Me Once More". Officials from the ACWF will go to south China's Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region to visit local children who are in need of help. During their visit, they will attend the opening ceremony of newly-constructed Children's Happy Homes there.

Zhang Xiaoyuan further elaborated on the Children's Happy Homes program. Zhang also said that services for left-behind children will be directed by the government and will involve the participation of schools, communities and children's families.

Messages that harass, abuse or threaten others; have obscene or otherwise objectionable content; have commercial or advertising content or links may be removed.

Chairman Ma Zedong once said that in China women uphold half of the sky.  I am preparing an invited editorial on healthcare in women in China and would like very much to quote his saying in Chinese in his own calligraphy.  I wonder if you would be ab ...Professor Tsung O. Cheng, M.D. from Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
