
The Penang opposition is demanding the outcome of a rights and privileges committee investigation into a claim made by one of its members accused of making racial slurs against Chinese doctors at two hospitals in the state.

Datuk Roslan Saidin(BN-Pinang Tunggal) was referred to the committee last year for his claim that several Chinese doctors in Penang had ill-treated their non-Chinese patients.

He made the claim at the state legislative assembly meeting in July last year and created a ruckus there.

Today, on the first day of the new meeting, Roslan (pic) asked Speaker Datuk Law Choo Kiang to reveal the committee's finding.

Law, however, declined and said the finding would be tabled in the following meeting, six months from now.

Law said the delay was because he needed to study the documents prepared by the secretariat.

"This has to do with the name of an elected rep. I want to handle this in a serious manner," he said as the Barisan Nasional assemblymen kicked up a fuss.

Opposition leader Datuk Jahara Hamid (BN-Teluk Air Tawar) and Muhammad Farid Saad (BN-Pulau Betong) also urged the assembly to follow convention and table the findings as soon as possible.

RSN Rayer (DAP-Seri Delima), who is on the committee, said it had not reached a decision on the matter.

Mohd Zain Ahmad (BN-Penaga) who is also a member of the committee, however, disputed the claim and said a decision had been made on Roslan's case.

He urged Law, who is the chairman of the committee, not to delay the tabling of the findings as justice delayed was justice denied.

Roslan then stood up and pushed for the findings to be revealed.

"My reputation is at stake. I was sent to the committee and I subjected myself to be judged.

"I had to defend myself and furnish proof to explain myself... I cannot accept what you say," he said, addressing Law.

Law said again the house must prepare the necessary documentation.

Supporting Law, state exco Jagdeep Singh Deo, a lawyer, commented that “justice hurried is justice buried”.

In the lobby, Jahara said a decision was made after the committee met four times over two months but she was in no position to reveal what it was.

Roslan first made the allegation on July 3 when addressing the state legislative assembly, saying that he received complaints from his constituents of Chinese doctors ill-treating their Malay patients.

He brought up the controversial “Chinese tsunami” that delivered Pakatan Rakyat's big win in the recent general election.

He was then challenged to furnish proof and was widely slammed on the Internet for making the racial allegation. He called a press conference on July 23 in Kepala Batas where several complainants backed his allegation and spoke of their ordeal.

When he was referred to the committee, Roslan protested that he never uttered the word racist and said it was the Pakatan Rakyat assemblymen who used the term “racist doctors” when they started criticising him.

The Health Ministry had since looked into the matter and revealed that the entire issue was due to poor language command and miscommunication between the doctors and their patients in Kepala Batas and Seberang Jaya Hospitals. &ndash; May 19, 2014.

Racists doing their best to play up racist sentiments before May 25th by election in Penang,later this week Sunday.

I wonder.

Please help us to maintain a healthy and vibrant community by reporting any illegal or inappropriate behavior. If you believe a message violates the Code of Conduct please use this form to notify the moderators. They will investigate your report and take appropriate action. If necessary, they report all illegal activity to the proper authorities.
