
It was dark and very early on Friday morning, and the owner of the Glenview Market in Laurel County got a wake up call saying his store was broken into.

"I mean I didn't expect that. It really bothers me a lot," said Ashvin Patl.

When he got to his store, he found his front door busted and other signs of theft. He turned to his surveillance video which caught the break-in. On the footage, a car is seen backing into door causing the glass to shatter. A shadowy figure stepped in and wrapped something around the ATM in an apparent attempt to rip it from the floor.

The attempt failed, so the suspect turned back and settled for the quarter machine and a box of colored contacts on display on the store's counter.

"This is the first time we've had anything like this," said Detective Joshua Scott of the Laurel County Sheriff's Office.

Detective Scott said the good news is the video is full of clues to work with.

"The suspects in question drove a Pontiac Sunfire through the front door of the store," he said, "I guess they're just using what they have."

Investigators were able to track the car to Robbie Baker, but they haven't found him or the other person involved.

"In the security footage, the suspect was inside the store while the vehicle was moving and the lights were going off and on, so there's definitely a second person involved," Detective Scott Explained.

The Sunfire is dark colored and has a license plate that reads 2-2-3 P-A-B,. Detective Scott said it will also have some kind of damage that should match up with the damage done in the burglary. As for the owner of the store, he recognized Baker as someone who's come around the store before.

"He comes here all the time and we didn't know he was going to do all this stuff," Patl recalled that he'd come in to buy cigarettes or gas. In a more bizarre twist, Patl believes he passed the vehicle that night but failed to see the damage or anything more because of the rush he was in to get to the store.

This case goes deeper too, as investigators say this wasn't the only store hit that night. Before this attempt, Detective Scott said a similar break-in was reported at the Speedy Mart across town. So deputies are keeping their eyes open and asking for your help in finding their burglars.

"There's always concern that there could be another attempt or another burglary," said the detective.

Baker is described as being 5'8" with brown hair and blue eyes. The 35-year-old man is also said to be a convicted felon. The Sheriff's Office is asking that anyone who knows Baker or anything more about this crime call them at 606-864-6600 or 606-878-7000.
