
Asian carp are an invasive fish taking over portions of American rivers like the Missouri and Mississippi. The only way to beat them may be to eat them. But Americans don’t have a taste for the carp. Until they do, fisheries are looking overseas.

Water experts worried about Asian carp may have new hope. They’re turning their eyes to China, where a carp-hungry populace may be the key for stemming the tide of the invasive fish.

Asian carp are taking over U.S. waterways, including the Mississippi River and tributaries like the Illinois and Missouri Rivers, where they out-compete native fish.

In China, carp is cheap and a common meal-time fixture. Now, a carp fishing industry is springing up along carp-infested U.S. waters and processors are exporting the U.S. problem fish to Chinese diners.

Two Rivers Fisheries opened in Wickliffe, Ky., in 2013, near the point where the Ohio River flows into the Mississippi. Jeff Smith, the company’s operations manager, says his freezer is full of thousands of pounds of Asian carp.

Fisheries researcher James Garvey says there is no silver bullet that would stop the spread of Asian carp. He says harvesting the fish is the most immediate option, despite some limitations.

Chinese customers like his carp, Smith said, because they are big. Most carp in China are farmed and grow to about two pounds. His fish weigh between 15 and 25 pounds.

Last year, Two Rivers shipped 250 tons to China. This year, they hope to grow their exports to 2,000 tons.

Two Rivers’ owner Angie Yu markets her carp as “Kentucky White Fish” in China, a name that describes the meat color and ties it to another popular brand.

Wild carp is hard to come by in China, but they are spreading like wildfire across American waterways, according to James Garvey, director for the Center for Fisheries, Aquaculture, and Aquatic Sciences at Southern Illinois University.

Asian carp already make up more than half of the fish biomass in the lower Illinois River, according to some studies. In other words, Asian carp represent 60 percent of all the fish in the river, by weight. And Garvey thinks that number applies to other areas where they’re established.

There’s an electric barrier on the Illinois River to keep them out of the Great Lakes and it has been successful so far, Garvey said. Other fixes include water guns, poisons and injecting carbon dioxide into the water, but those technologies aren’t ready yet.

“Harvest seems to be our only method right now for really taking these fish down,” Garvey said.

Still, the Asian carp industry is still in its infancy. There are a few other plants, mostly in Illinois. There is even one that makes Asian carp hot dogs. And fish research biologist Duane Chapman, with the U.S. Geological Survey in Columbia, Mo., says commercial fishermen have to catch a lot of Asian carp to make ends meet.

The infrastructure to get the Asian carp catch to market, and on to China, isn’t quite there yet. Many fishermen have to travel for hours to get their catch to a processor.

Still, a Chinese market for a problem fish could continue to spur development. And while the Chinese market is the most promising right now, it doesn’t have to be that way.
