
only building three models for sale. Another one is being kept in-house in Sant’Agata just so Lamborghini can keep studying it for its future models.

As far as the three, we already know where the two are. They’re both in the U.S. To be more specific, the rare Lambos are in the garage of Lamborghini Long Island owner Antoine Dominic in New York and that of Tequesta Investments managing director Kris Singh in Florida. Both paid $4 million for their respective Venenos, thereby assuring their place in a most exclusive of clubs.

As for the third Veneno, that one is reportedly headed to Macau, China, or as folks on that side of the world would call it, the high-rollers’ playground. It’s only appropriate that a $4 million supercar would find its way to a loving owner in Macau who probably spends that much money in a day’s worth of gambling anyway.

run the roads like nobody’s business. But even those exotics will surely slow down and acquiese to the Veneno when its new owner proudly takes it out for a spin.

That’s the cache that comes with being an ultra rare $4 million supercar like what the Veneno is.

Click past the jump to read more about Lamborghini Veneno.

It’s safe to say that all three Lamborghini Venenos are accounted for and once the third and last of its kind meets its owner, we’re going to have to wait for the secondhand car market if we want to own a piece of Lamborghini history.

There’s a good chance thought that if that time comes, it won’t just sell for $4 million.

Love it or hate, you can’t deny that the Lamborghini Veneno is about as exclusive a car as there is in the world today.

Unveiled at the 2013 Geneva Motor Show, the new Veneno supercar is based on the latest Aventador, but it takes its design language to extremes. The model can be easily distinguished, thanks to its large aerodynamic wing with huge channels and those Y-shaped angular headlamps.

Under the hood, the model gets an updated version of the 6.5 liter, V-12 engine found in the Aventador. In the Veneno the engine delivers a total of 750 horsepower, and thanks to its reduced weight, the sprint from 0 to 60 mph is now made in 2.8 seconds and top speed goes up to 221 mph.

Quite stunning for a supercar whose design leave a lot of people on the fence in regards to it. Then again, a car this exclusive still merits a lot of adulation.
