
Tata Motors owned JLR roped in British adventurer Bear Grylls as Brand Ambassador of Land Rover.

SummaryTwo years after he was buried, a Delhi court has ordered the exhumation of a child’s remains to establish the identity of the victim in a kidnap-and-murder case.

Two years after he was buried, a Delhi court has ordered the exhumation of a child’s remains to establish the identity of the victim in a kidnap-and-murder case.

The court of Additional Sessions Judge Kamini Lau passed the order after it was noted that the DNA from the body did not match the DNA of the parents of a six-year-old boy who had gone missing after he was reportedly kidnapped in 2012.

According to the prosecution, one Ashish had reportedly kidnapped his landlord’s minor son in 2012    to seek revenge. Reportedly, Ashish was in an illicit relationship with a woman, a co-accused in the case, and his landlord was against it. Ashish, police said, was fed up with his landlord’s interference and had reportedly kidnapped his son to teach him a lesson. The child’s body was later found near a drain in Swaroop Nagar, which police identified as that of the missing child.

However, during the trial, the DNA conducted on the court’s order did not find a match between the boy and his parents.

“Though the correctness and authenticity of this (DNA) report has been challenged before court by the prosecution, yet, assuming that the same is correct, then the entire case put forth by the prosecution against the accused collapses. The two questions which then arise are firstly — where is the missing child and, secondly — who is the child whose body was found near the drain,” the court said.

While hearing the final arguments, the court deferred the proceedings, saying it cannot rush to any conclusion on the basis of incomplete particulars.

“I have considered the submissions made before me and am of a view that it is necessary for this court to ensure that complete truth emerges and justice is done. I therefore defer the proceedings... and permit exhumation of the skeletal remains of the child, who I am informed was buried at Libaspur Cremation Ground. Exhumation shall be done under the personal supervision of the ACP concerned,” the court said.

The prosecutor argued that the possibility of the DNA report being erroneous could not be ruled out. The court said after the SHO/ACP are able to exhume the skeletal remains, they shall immediately seal the same and inform the court.

Thereafter, the exhibits (exhumed remains) will be sent for expert examination/DNA fingerprinting, the report of which should be obtained on priority, the court said.

Malaysia announces probe into crash of Malaysia Airlines MH17 plane in Ukraine Prime Minister Najib Razak today announced an immediate probe into the crash of a Malaysia Airlines aircraft, which was reportedly shot down over Ukraine today.
