
Senior investigator at the time, DCI Mike Fowkes, stands at the spot where Dale Normington was found.

THE FAMILY of a man who died after being found bruised and bleeding in a Devonport stairwell in 2009 claim there are still unanswered questions over his death.

The father and sister of Dale Normington, who died in December 2009 after he was found suffering head injuries in Devonport, say they have been fighting for justice since his death, which was at one stage treated as murder. They have now launched an appeal for more information which they hope will put the case to rest.

Laurissa Stanbury, Dale's sister, said Dale's paternal family have tried everything to get his case reinvestigated, but to no avail.

They now question parts of the police investigation and the inquest's findings.

She said: "A lot of what happened with Dale's case has never made sense. No explanation for anything was ever given.

"For the last six years my father and I have been fighting for answers.

"The last six years have been nothing but agony for my family, and as the years carry on we are all still stuck in limbo."

Laurissa revealed that her side of Dale's family – Colin Stanbury was Dale's natural father – were explicitly told by the police not to speak to the media during their inquiry, instead leaving all media contact to be made by either senior detectives or Dale's mother, Sandie Normington.

But now Laurissa said they will no longer remain silent and have gone public with their questions.

Laurissa claims she has since learned of what the family believes is another set of  "inquest" dates, held on September 21 and 22 in 2009, just a few days ahead of the public inquest heard on September 25.

The Stanbury family say they were invited to a meeting at Crownhill police station the evening before the inquest where they were finally told the verdict would be "accident", as opposed to an "open verdict".

Colin said: "The day before the inquest we were told it would be accidental death, not an open verdict. But no-one could prove that he fell."

The family also questioned why police said Dale died suffering injuries to the back of his head, suggesting he had fallen backwards down the stairwell of the flats in Albert Road.

Laurissa said Dale's injuries actually included abrasions to the right side of his head, above his ear, cuts to the front of his left ear lobe, an abrasion above his right eyebrow, a 1cm cut over the bridge of his nose, a cut to his shin, part of a front tooth missing, two sets of grazed knuckles and two black eyes. She said there were more than a dozen people who saw these injuries, including medical staff. However, at Dale's inquest police said his injuries were not consistent with an attack.

Among the family's questions were why was there no blood at the stairwell when there was blood all down the front of his shirt and on a woman's jacket.

Laurissa said there was never any explanation for how the woman's jacket – taken from The Clipper Inn in Union Street – had ended up in Dale's possession, nor how Dale had travelled from the Barbican to Devonport.

The inquest also saw police reject  claims by an alleged witness as those made by "a fantasist who led this enquiry down the wrong path".

Laurissa has now revealed that the family name of "Stanbury" led to strange responses from police, after senior detectives claimed a witness saw Dale holding a piece of paper with the name on it. Laurissa and her father feel it may be linked to an ongoing family hunt of missing trust funds and jewellery left to the family by a deceased grandmother.

Colin said: "Dale's wallet has never been found, nor has a silver ring which he wore.

"This has been an ongoing thing for our family. There's years of things that we've recorded and put down on paper about what's happened.

"Some of it is surreal. We ask questions but can't get any answers."

Laurissa said one particularly odd incident included an unannounced visit to Colin's home by an officer involved in the case.

She said he arrived and was seen to be wearing a handgun holstered under his jacket. He stayed for around two hours, but on receiving a phone call, left shortly after.

Colin said: "It absolutely stinks. That's why we're doing what we're doing. We've got to get answers."

The Stanbury family have now launched a website – www.justicefordale.co.uk – which gives details of the family's hunt for information. It includes numerous documents as well as everything the family experienced during the investigation and after the inquest finished.

They have also posted what they believe is new evidence surrounding Dale's death.

Laurissa said: "We all still think that Dale was murdered – murdered by someone close to him, someone that he knew and trusted".

The family have urged anyone with information regarding the death of Dale Normington to contact Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555111.

The Herald contacted Devon and Cornwall Police who said they were unable to comment on the Stanbury family's claims.

DALE was found in the early hours of December 16, 2007 at the bottom of a stairwell in Albert Road.

The 30-year-old painter and decorator had suffered serious head injuries following a works Christmas do at the View 2 bar on the Barbican. Police were not informed of this incident until two days later.

Despite an initial recovery, where he spoke to family members, he later suffered two massive seizures on Christmas Day and lapsed into a coma from which he never regained consciousness. He died on December 30, 2007 after his mother and step-father took the difficult decision to turn off his life support system. He left behind a daughter, Paris, who was aged just 10.

Following his death, police launched what was claimed as one of the largest murder inquiries in the city in recent years. His mother revealed that during his moments of consciousness, when asked ‘who did this to you’ Dale replied ‘they did’. A bruise on his leg was explained by Dale as ‘that’s where they kicked me’. Dale’s Animal wallet, cigarettes, lighter were all missing. At the time his step-father, Tony, who tragically died fighting cancer a little over a year after Dale’s death, said it was odd that Dale had come home without even a penny in his pocket.

Dale was found covered by a size 24 black New Look woman’s jacket. The owner was never traced.

In February 2008 four people were arrested by police on suspicion of manslaughter, and later released without charge. In July 2009 police ruled out murder, claiming Dale’s death was an “accident”. An inquest in September 2009 recorded Dale’s death as an accident.

The police didn't want an open verdict because it'd have been them admitting they didn't know how he died. So by getting an "accident" verdict it got them off the hook and they could close the case all neat and tidy. If I was the family I'd complain to the Police Complaints Commission.

From experience I think the family are right to be suspicious, but with Denial & Coverup Police it can be difficult to tell what's cock up and what's conspiracy.

If Dale had fallen, and it was in a public place. It is possible, if it can be proved that a breach of Health & Safety took place; you could apply, providing you were not offered an Inquest by Jury, to ask for the verdict to be quashed due to this point.  Its a narrow line but, one we used in the Murial Elliot case.  Its worrying that Inquests are in-affect being judged behind closed doors primarily due to cost, as the cost falls on the Council.  Another worrying trait, although it does not apply in this case is the use of narrative verdicts!  What is clear is the simple thing that all Inquests should be open and transparent and not swayed by political pressure from any body.  This is something Nigel Meadows, a once Plymouth Coroner would not stand for....He was subsequently moved on for reasons never fully explained.

The family are correct - this clearly stinks...the Police have failed the family and Dale...and clearly are covering up (as they often do) I hope that the families quest for justice is supported and the persons involved are tracked down...and punished...the same goes for any Police who have been found to cover up parts of this story (which is clearly the case) Sad times, but this case highlights the world we live in today. RIP Dale.
