
Three members of the Shia community were among the seven people shot dead in separate acts of target killings on Monday.

The Majlis-e-Wahdat-e-Muslimeen (MWM) announced a countrywide protest on Friday over the frequent incidents of targeted killings of members of the Shia community. Shaukat Hussain Shirazi, a trustee of the Shirazi Imambargah in Mithadar was gunned down along with an elderly man, who has yet to be identified. Kharadar police officials and witnesses said that the deceased was sitting at his office, known as the Muttahida Amn Mohaz, located next to the imambargah when at least two armed men riding a motorcycle opened fire at him.

The inquiry officer, ASI Imran, confirmed to The Express Tribune that the deceased was a trustee of the imambargah and the incident took place when he was sitting at his office, adding that his companion, who has yet to be identified, was also killed. The deceased, Shirazi, was shot at least four times and the other victim was shot once. Both of them died on the spot. Their bodies were taken to Civil hospital for autopsies. Shirazi was a resident of Moosa Lane in Lyari. The police said that it seems to be an act of sectarian targeted killing but further investigations are still underway.

Similarly, 53-year-old Sajjad Hussain, son of Hussain Ali, who also belonged to the Shia community, was shot dead inside his laundry shop in Federal B Area. Jauharabad police officials said that the deceased was sitting in his shop when at least two armed men riding a motorcycle shot at him multiple times. His body was then taken to Abbasi Shaheed Hospital for an autopsy.

In another incident, an owner of a motorcycles service station was shot dead within the Liaquatabad police remits. The deceased belonged to the Shia community and was identified as 42-year-old Agha Mohsin, son of Rehmat Ali. Police officials said that the deceased was shot multiple times in the head by armed motorcyclists and died on the spot. His body was taken to the Abbasi Shaheed Hospital for an autopsy.

Separately, an owner of two marble factories was shot dead in an act of targeted killing in Raees Mianwali Colony on the Main Manghopir Road within the limits of Manghopir police station. The deceased was identified as 44-year-old Fareed Afzal, a resident of Federal B Area. SHO Aslam Shah said that the deceased owned two marble factories in Manghopir and the incident took place when at least four armed men riding on two motorcycles intercepted him as he was on his way from one factory the other. The officer said that the initial investigation suggests that the deceased was killed over a refusal to pay extortion money to the culprits. However, further investigations are underway.

Meanwhile, a married woman was shot dead inside her house in Docks Colony within the limits of the Jackson police station. The deceased was identified as Sadaqat Bibi, wife of Zohaib. Police officials said that unidentified culprits shot and killed the victim as she resisted their robbery attempt.

A policeman, 35-year-old Arshad Arain, was shot dead in Yousuf Goth. Separately, a worker of the Muttahida Qaumi Movement, Aqeel Qadri, was shot dead in North Karachi.

Published in The Express Tribune, May 20th, 2014.

Your comments may appear in The Express Tribune paper. For this reason we encourage you to provide your city. The Express Tribune does not bear any responsibility for user comments.

Comments are moderated and generally will be posted if they are on-topic and not abusive. For more information, please see our Comments FAQ .

Notify me of new posts by email.

Unless otherwise stated, all content is copyrighted © 2014 The Express Tribune News Network.
