
Christie M. Farriella for New York Daily News Daniel Corbett (pictured), 39, says he and Aurelio Mandala, 42, were coerced into becoming snitches for the NYPD after being placed in a cell with a suspected killer.

Two Queens men say they were falsely arrested by cops in order to plant them in a jail cell with a maniac charged in a gruesome murder and get a confession from the killer.

Aurelio Mandala, 42, and Daniel Corbett, 39, claim in separate lawsuits filed in Brooklyn Federal Court that they were coerced into becoming snitches for the NYPD.

Both men were arrested April 30, 2013, in Ridgewood, Queens, near the sealed-off crime scene where murder victim Frank Soucie’s corpse had been buried in the backyard of his home.

Mandala was taken into custody for arguing with a cop and not carrying identification; Corbett was accused of drug possession although no contraband was found on him, the suits state. They were tossed in a cell with murder suspect Derek Tudor, whom they both knew from the block.

While caged with Tudor at the 104th Precinct stationhouse for more than 10 hours, Tudor confessed the “grisly details” of how he had suffocated Soucie, 60 — a retired postal worker who was his mother’s live-in boyfriend — then wrapped the body in a sheet and buried Soucie in a grave dug a week earlier behind the house where they lived on Putnam Ave.

Christie M. Farriella for New York Daily News Corbett alleges he was accused of drug possession, although no contraband was found on him.

Mandala and Corbett begged cops to get them out of the cell, but they were each ordered to write a statement first that detailed Tudor’s confession, which they did, according to the suits.

Charges against them were later dismissed and sealed. The city has already paid Mandala an $18,000 settlement in his suit, which was filed last year. Corbett, a handyman, filed his suit last Thursday.

“Mr. Corbett was an innocent victim here, falsely arrested and then confined to a cell for hours with a man suspected in the gruesome, Hannibal Lecter-style murder of Mr. Corbett’s former mailman and neighbor,” lawyer Gabriel Harvis said.

Tudor pleaded guilty in December to first-degree manslaughter and was sentenced to 20 years in prison, said a spokesman for Queens District Attorney Richard Brown.

© Copyright 2014 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.
