
A dad's lesson on the dangers of water almost turned into a lesson on mortality when he allegedly twice threw his 1-year-old daughter into a pool.

Corey McCarthy, of Phoenix, Arizona, is accused of tossing little Mia into a swimming pool after she accidentally drowned a puppy, the New York Daily News reports. An unnamed woman can be seen on security footage from April rescuing the flailing toddler.

The video appears to show 23-year-old McCarthy throw Mia in a second time, and again the unnamed woman came to her rescue. Mia was taken to a hospital and is fine, according to the Daily News.

McCarthy was charged last week with two counts of child abuse, ABC-15 reports .

Police contend that McCarthy said he threw her in because she killed a 5-week-old puppy by dropping it into the pool, according to the Daily Mail . Family members told AZ Family that Mia was scared to take a bath for several days after the incident.

McCarthy is separated from Mia's mother, Samantha, who called police when saw the abuse her daughter sustained on video.

"This is somebody who’s supposed to protect [her]," Samantha told ABC-15 through tears, adding that McCarthy was "traumatizing that little girl."

McCarthy is reportedly in a jail infirmary because he was beaten up shortly after he arrived.

Carnes reportedly left her 1-year-old son standing next to a mailbox outside the home where she though the boy's father lived in Palmetto, Fla. Police say Carnes not only left her baby and his belongings at the wrong house, but that the 27-year-old mom hadn't told the father she was giving him their child. She was jailed and charged with child abandonment in Manatee County, near Tampa Bay.

Angelo Fabiani Arroyo, 40, is accused of leaving his 4-year-old child at a car crash site and fleeing the scene.

Carron Washington allegedly fed his 2-month-old daughter bleach because a friend from school told him it was a great cure for breathing trouble.  The kid is OK, but Washington still called the incident, "probably be the dumbest decision I ever made in my life."  Read the whole story here.

Michelle Windgassen, 27, and John Lewis, 32, were arrested on charges of endangering a minor while they were under the influence of drugs at a Louisville restaurant. Officers found Windgassen in the bathroom snorting heroin, and Lewis admitted snorting heroin a couple hours earlier.

Collier is accused of walking into her son's middle school in March, 2013 and hitting a sick child she mistook for her son. She then allegedly apologized to the child and then started slapping her own son, according to a Spartanburg County, South Carolina sheriff's office arrest report.

Having been banned from the Family Dollar Store after employees say she was stealing, this mother allegedly returned to the establishment and began pepper spraying the workers there.   She then allegedly handed the can to her 7-year-old daughter, saying, "You know what to do, baby. Spray it!"   The 7-year-old apparently realized this was one of those times mother does not know best.  Read the whole story here.

Robert Forbes and Christina Forbes have been arrested by sheriffs in Citrus County, Fla. after their 9-year-old son was found with a cockroach in his ear.

Officials in Penn Yan, NY, say Kimberly Margeson, 54, passed two Oxycodone painkiller pills to her 30-year-old, William Partridge by french kissing him during a jailhouse visit.

Austin Davis is accused of beating his three children with a belt because one of his kids had passed gas in the car.

William Lewallen was arrested after Tulsa police found his 18-month-old daughter locked in a metal dog cage, his naked 4-year old daughter outside on a cold afternoon and him asleep in a drug or alcohol induced stupor.

Authorities in Virginia arrested 30-year-old Billie Jolene Warburton, of Norfolk, on Oct. 15, 2012, in the parking lot of a courthouse.   Police allegedly found Warburton slumped over the steering wheel of her vehicle. Warburton's window was open, the motor was running and a young child was sobbing in a car seat in the back, police said.  The officer allegedly observed blood on the center console and fresh injection marks on Warburton's arms.   Warburton allegedly told police her child was crying because he had not been fed since the previous evening.  The baby was placed in the custody of Child Protective Services and Warburton was transported to Western Tidewater Regional Jail under a no bond status for possession of heroin, driving under the influence of drugs, and felony child neglect.

Langley is accused of leaving his 1-year-old daughter home alone so he could go rob houses in October, 2012 in Brookhaven, Pa.

This 26-year-old was charged with threatening to discharge a destructive device after allegedly saying she was going to blow up her daughter's elementary school.   Witnesses say that Schauer warned, "Don't bring your kid to school that day," and when asked what day she meant, she said, "The day I blow it up."

Cops found a 2-year-old girl under this couple's care sleeping outside a Florida mall at 2:45 a.m. on Oct. 1, 2012. The two were arrested and charged with child neglect when it was found that Montalvo was allegedly on drugs, and Rogers let him leave with her daughter knowing that he was intoxicated.

Barron allegedly prostituted herself while her infant child was at home. She told police that her addiction to money led to a life of crime.

Howard's addiction to morphine drove her son to commit suicide, because he lived in fear that she would overdose, according to police in Indiana.

James D. Blanchard, 21, has been sentenced to 15 years in prison for abusing his newborn son. A medical doctor said that the child has lost his vision and will likely never walk or talk. The doctor also said the injury was common with shaken babies.

Cops say that not only did Diana and Samuel Franklin keep their 15-year-old daughter in a chicken coop, they made her wear a shock collar and used it several times.

Dario Napolitano is accused of kicking his 3-year-old son at Disney World in late June, 2012.

Brittany Hill allegedly tried to sell her 4-month-old boy in a classified ad in June, 2012. Someone was going to try and buy the baby, but decided to call Dallas police instead.

Baumgardner is accused of injecting her daughter with heroin roughly 200 times when the girl was 14-years-old.

Thar Kyi, 42 of upstate New York, accidentally hit his 8-year-old son in the head with a samurai sword while fighting another man. Kyi attacked the boy's mother's boyfriend while his three children were getting ready for school in the morning. The boy was treated at a hospital for non-life-threatening injuries.

In May 2012, New Jersey mom Patricia Krentcil was arrested after taking her 5-year-old daughter to a tanning parlor. The daughter reportedly received severe burns from exposure to harmful ultraviolet radiation. In the aftermath of the arrest, Krentcil was banned from several local tanning salons. Krentcil's habit has also received wide criticism in mass media, including a spoof by Kristen Wiig on "Saturday Night Live."  Read more.

Employees at a Maryland Chuck E. Cheese were worried when they found a 3-year-old named Harmony apparently alone in the establishment at around 8 p.m one night in March 2012. They took the girl to a police station and shared a photo of her with local TV stations in hopes of tracking down a parent or guardian. It wasn't until Harmony's photo aired on the 11 p.m news that her parents even realized she was missing. The two had split custody of Harmony, and each had assumed that she was with other family members.  Read more.

Mistie Atkinson, 32, allegedly performed oral sex on her 16-year-old son and had sexual intercourse with him in a hotel room in Northern California. The two reconnected on Facebook after the boy's father had assumed primary custody when the child was 2. Atkinson, whom the boy's father claims had a "boyfriend-girlfriend relationship" with her son, also reportedly sent the child nude photos of herself. She pleaded no contest in a Napa County Superior Court on May 21 to charges of incest, oral copulation with a minor, contact with a minor for sexual offense, and sending harmful material to a teen.  Read more.

Floridian Elton Jerome Davis Jr. allegedly left his 18-month-old toddler at home with a bowl of Cheerios while he went to work. An unidentified witness found the child playing with a dog on a public road. Davis was charged with child neglect on May 21 in Okaloosa County.  Read more.

On May 17, police found Shana Bishop's 2-year-old son naked in a pile of trash on the floor of her car in South Carolina. The child was found when an unidentified resident called the police, alleging that Bishop was dancing naked in her driveway. Bishop was arrested in Spartanburg and charged with child neglect.  Read more.

Marsia Emanuel allegedly flagged a school bus in Winter Haven, Fla., boarded and beat the bus driver in front of her daughter, a student riding it already. Cops found Emanuel later at home where she dropped her underpants in front of them, they said. It's unclear what was her motive.   Read more.

Misty Lawson, 30, a self-described "professional baby maker" on her Facebook page, allegedly punched her son in the face and body several times during an in-home, state-mandated anger management course. Read more here.

Salem police say surveillance video shows Christina Lopez watched her 17-year-old daughter dance at Presley's Playhouse Cabaret, a strip club in Oregon.   Read more.

Barry O'Connell, a Spokane, Wash., police officer, was suspended for three weeks after his daughter used his service weapon to accidentally shoot herself in the leg.

This undated handout photo from the Dallas County Sheriff's Department shows Elizabeth Escalona. The mother was facing child abuse charges, Friday, Sept. 9, 2011, after police said she glued her toddler daughter's hands to a wall, kicked her in the stomach and beat her over a potty training issue.

Hill was accused in October 2012 of using heroin with her 12-year-old daughter over the course of several weeks. She also allegedly told police that she often took her daughter along on shoplifting trips that financed their heroin addictions.

Hysaw is accused of using a stun gun on her child after he didn't ask for permission to play basketball.

Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day..

Use this form to alert a HuffPost editor about a factual or typographical error in this story.

Thank you!
