
IN the days after the Gleision tragedy “disaster tourists” went to the mine, asking to “see the place the miners died”, a witness has said.

Her Majesty’s Chief Inspector of Mines, Steven Denton, is the latest witness at the Gleision manslaughter trial.

He said work to close the mine up after the disaster where four men died on September 15, 2011, began on October 7 and was completed by October 10.

The cost of keeping the mine open in the days after the tragedy was £3,000 a day, the court has already been told.

Mr Denton, who at the time was acting chief inspector, said concerns were raised by the mine’s owners, MNS Mining Ltd, about the cost of diesel to run the pumps, which were bringing water out of the flooded mine.

He was also asked about concerns raised by the Mine Rescue Service and unions.

He replied: “There were issues with cost around the place,” he said but said cost was “not a dominant factor” in the decision to seal up the mine, but safety was.

He said “every day” people had gone to the police cordon at the mine in Cilybebyll asking to go into the mine.

The decision to close the mine was a joint one between him and South Wales Police.

The jury have already been told no expert for the defence examined the mine before it was sealed up.

In an email, a lawyer for the Crown Prosecution Service raised a concern there was a “small risk” that in any future prosecution, this could be brought up by the defence.

But they said “there’s very little other option”.

A comparison was made to a road accident, where police take the photographs and collect evidence before a road is reopened. Both sides then use those documents in any criminal proceedings.

Miss Evans said her client was only told the mine was going to be sealed up on October 8, when the first parts of work had been done.

Mr Denton, who appointed Tony Forster as the lead investigator, was also forced to defend that decision.

A HSE policy for dealing with disasters said Mr Forster should not have taken that role, because he had been in charge of it for the years before.

He said he felt the decision to appoint Mr Forster was “justified” and although the policy said he shouldn’t be appointed, that was “only a guideline”.

Fyfield, aged 58, from Caerhenllys, denies four counts of manslaughter, as do MNS Mining Ltd.

The trial, now in its ninth week, continues.
