
Law enforcement hopes to avoid future uncertainty.

Independent oversight is necessary for accountability in police departments.

MANCHESTER • The De Soto softball team picked up right where it left off while finishing third in Class 3 last season.

A St. Louis woman was stabbed to death and her estranged husband has been charged with murdering her at a home near the Lake of the Ozarks over the weekend.

Danielle Bell, 28, died early Sunday. Authorities charged Calvin E. Kyles, 50, with her murder.

Kyles and Bell had been married about eight years, Kyles told police. She lived in St. Louis, and he moved to Camdenton, Mo., about a year ago to take a job as an outdoor laborer. He used to live in the 3500 block of Miami Street.

The couple were drinking at a bar Saturday night and began arguing over family matters, he told police. When they returned to the Camdenton home on Lakeview Drive, he hid a knife behind his back. She was fearful and hit him with a clothes iron and he stabbed her several times with a knife, Camden County Prosecutor Brian Keedy says.

An autopsy was planned for Monday.

Police heard about the attack when the couple living upstairs heard yelling and screaming and some crashing noises. Police went to the home on Lakeview Drive at 2:41 a.m. Sunday and found her downstairs, conscious but suffering from stab wounds. She was taken by ambulance to meet up with a medical helicopter, but she died on the way, Camdenton Police Chief Laura Wright said.

When police found Bell bleeding, Kyles was gone. Police issued a statewide bulletin in their search for Kyles.

At about 5:30 a.m., Kyles' car ran out of gas about 50 miles from Camdenton, along Highway 54 near a town called Weaubleau, Mo. A Missouri Highway Patrol trooper — unaware that Kyles was wanted for the crime — helped Kyles get gas for his car. Kyles told the trooper that he had a fight with his wife and was going to go home.

Later, when the trooper heard about the bulletin and realized the man he helped was wanted, he told police which direction he was heading. A St. Clair County deputy sheriff stopped Kyles' car without incident. He was arrested at about 8:45 a.m. Sunday.

Keedy, the prosecutor, charged Kyles with first-degree murder and armed criminal action as a prior and persistent offender.

Kyles has previous convictions in Missouri for rape and sodomy from St. Louis in 1991 and burglary in St. Louis from 1986. He also had a stealing conviction in St. Louis County from 1984.

A Missouri Department of Corrections spokesman said Kyles served a two-year sentence for burglary. Kyles was sentenced to 10 years for sodomy and rape and was released on March 4, 2001.

The prosecutor said investigators are still trying to learn more about the couple's relationship. He said he didn't know if Bell drove to Camdenton to spend the weekend with Kyles or if he picked her up and they were planning to reconcile.

"Sounds like it was an on-again, off-again relationship," he said.

Bell last lived on Miami Street with Kyles in St. Louis.

Bell's father, Kevin Bell of St. Louis, told the Post-Dispatch on Tuesday that his daughter trusted and loved Kyles and moved to Camdenton with him about a year ago. She worked at McDonald's. But, Kevin Bell said, Danielle was getting tired of Kyles calling her names and wrongly accusing her of being unfaithful.

Kevin Bell said Danielle, the oldest of his seven children, called him in tears the first week of May from Camdenton.

"She said, 'Daddy, come pick me up.' She was crying when she called me," he said. "He was calling her names. He was accusing her of seeing someone else. She was tired of him bringing that up ... his insecurities."

Kevin Bell drove from St. Louis the next day to pick up his daughter. He brought her back to St. Louis, and she lived with her sister and her mom for a bit. But then she returned to Camdenton on Friday.

"Danielle was pretty much looking for independence," he said. "She wasn't looking for handouts. She trusted him. She was really quiet, wasn't judgmental. She loved him and thought she could change him."

She returned to him despite warnings from one of her siblings. "Her sister told her, 'Danielle, he's miserable and he wants you the same way. Don't go back to him.'" Kevin Bell said.

Kevin Bell said he had no idea Kyles had a violent past.

Copyright 2014 stltoday.com. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site consitutes agreement to it's user agreement & privacy policy.

Username & Password Required!
