
The Vietnamese Association in  Angola  held a meeting in  Luanda  on May 18 to protest against  China’s provocative actions in the   East Sea.

The event drew the participation of 200 Vietnamese people and Angolan people who are working for Vietnamese businesses here.

In his speech, Pham Van Duc, Acting President of the association, strongly condemned  China ’s illegal act, considering it a serious violation of   Vietnam’s sovereign right and jurisdiction over its exclusive economic zone and continental shelf.

This act ran counter to the 1982 UN Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) and the Declaration on the Conduct of Parties in the East Sea (DOC) signed by Southeast Asian countries and   China   in 2002, he said.

It also violated agreements reached by the two countries’ high-ranking leaders and negatively impacted on the time-honoured friendship between the two peoples.

Duc stated that the Vietnamese community in  Angola  strongly opposes and requests the Chinese side to immediately stop its provocative and illegal activities and withdraw the Haiyang Shiyou-981 oil rig and escort ships from  Vietnam ’s waters, not letting similar actions reoccur in   Vietnam  ’s exclusive economic zone and continental shelf in the future.

It also calls on   China   to seriously abide by international law, especially the 1982 UNCLOS and the DOC, he added.

Speaking at the meeting, representatives of the Vietnamese community denounced  China’s schemes in the  East   Sea  and requested the country to respect   Vietnam’s sovereignty.

In response to the association’s appeal, participants raised over 27,000 USD to buy gifts for Vietnamese coast guard soldiers.

The same day, Vietnamese people living in the  Republic  of  Cyprus flooded streets in the capital city of  Nicosia  to protest   China  ’s violation of Vietnamese sovereignty.

© Copyright, VietnamPlus, Vietnam News Agency (VNA).

Editor-in-chief, Mr. Le Quoc Minh. Licence No. 1374/GP-BTTTT dated September 11,         2008 by the Ministry of Information and Communications.
