
LAHORE: The provincial police chief on Monday removed the Lahore city superintendent of police (SP) from his post and suspended the Shafeeqabad circle deputy SP from service in connection with the string-related death of a young man.

According to a handout, City SP of operations wing Imtiaz Sarwar was transferred and directed to report to the Central Police Office while Shafeeqbaad circle DSP Atif Hayat was suspended from service for showing negligence and unsatisfactory performance.

The handout does not mention the reason for the action.

A police source close to the development told Dawn that both officers were shown the door after failing to control kite-flying in their jurisdictions.

Hafiz Rashid, of Sheikhupura, died when a string, most probably of a stray kite, slit his throat on Sunday.

Police authorities immediately suspended station house officers of Badami Bagh and Ravi Road. The chief minister also took notice of the incident and ordered action against the officials.

The SP of security wing was directed to complete an inquiry into the incident in a day. The inquiry was still going on.

A senior police investigator told Dawn the string could not be seized as it flew away from the crime scene. He said such murder cases against unidentified kite-flyers could not be traced.

The Ravi Road investigation police handed over the body of Rashid to his family who took it to Gulfishan Town, Sheikhupura, for burial.

In other administrative moves, the inspector general transferred Lahore SP Mobiles Muhammad Masoom and posted him Faisalabad chief traffic officer.

Do you have information you wish to share with Dawn.com? You can email our News Desk to share news tips, reports and general feedback.

You can also email the Blog Desk if you have an opinion or narrative to share, or reach out to the Special Projects Desk to send us your Photos , or Videos .

The DAWN MEDIA GROUP is not responsible for the content of external sites.

Tupernic Private Limited. ( www.tupernic.com ).Designed for Dawn .
