
YAKIMA, Wash. — The city of Yakima is likely to expand its anti-panhandling ordinance to more of the city’s intersections Tuesday.

The proposed ordinance comes before the Yakima City Council less than a month after three panhandlers were arrested on suspicion of loitering to purchase drugs at the intersection of North 40th Avenue and Powerhouse Road.

That intersection and others are on a new list where city officials hope to effectively ban panhandling.

City Manager Tony O’Rourke said the April 28 arrests underscore the need to remind people not to give to panhandlers and to strengthen ordinances that would impede their ability to interact with drivers.

Last year the council made it illegal for a pedestrian to take something offered by anyone in a vehicle within 250 feet of one of the city’s 15 “high traffic accident” intersections. Now city staff want to extend the ban to six of the city’s top “high traffic volume” intersections that don’t necessarily have high accident rates and five additional intersections with high accident rates.

That would effectively expand the ban on panhandling from 15 to 26 intersections in the city. The ordinance does not restrict a person on a street corner from holding a sign or distributing items, such as political campaign literature, to someone in a car.

Breaking the ordinance comes with a $95 fine for first-time violators.

The city also outlaws panhandlers from intimidating, touching or pursuing people, as well as begging in parking lots. Last year the city also upgraded penalties for aggressive language or touching from citations to misdemeanors.

Councilwoman Kathy Coffey said she will vote for the proposal but has her doubts that it will eliminate panhandling near many of the intersections. Coffey said she wants the city to continue to look at more ways to limit panhandling.

Coffey said sympathetic residents should give their donations to local organizations that have a documented history of providing for area residents in need.

The three men arrested in April were accused of having purchased heroin on a daily basis at the intersection according to information given to police by their alleged dealer. It wasn’t the first time Yakima police have linked drugs to panhandling.

On Jan. 1, 2013, 56-year-old Douglas D. Budd, a well-known panhandler who was under investigation by police at the time, was found dead in his car at a parking lot of the Taco Bell on East Yakima Avenue. Police found $1,750 in cash and a half-pound of heroin in the car.

An autopsy determined that Budd had died of a heroin overdose.

Councilman Thomas Dittmar, a former Seattle police officer, said unabated panhandling can become a bigger issue for law enforcement, especially if it’s being used as an avenue for drug dealing.

The city prosecutor will review high accident and high traffic volume studies every three years. Staff will then report back to the City Council’s Public Safety Committee about any statistical changes in traffic or accidents in the areas under the ordinance.

The proposal submitted to City Council members includes rankings and statistics of the city’s intersections with the most traffic volume and accidents. It doesn’t include statistics on traffic incidents involving panhandlers.

The city’s busiest intersection is at North 40th and Summitview avenues. The worst for accidents is at South First Street and Washington Avenue, which had 46 reported incidents from January 2012 through June 2013.

Despite murky details on how many traffic incidents panhandlers have had a role in causing, O’Rourke said the nature of panhandling greatly increases the odds of something happening.

We are using Facebook Comments on our stories and blog posts to provide an enhanced user experience. To post a comment, log into Facebook and then "Add" your comment. To report spam or abuse, click the "X" in the upper right corner of the comment box.
