
BULAWAYO - The inquest into the shooting of Tafadzwa Mapako’s late ex-husband and serial robber Shepherd Mhizha has been told how police shot him dead while they had gone to a bush to recover a pistol used in one of his robberies.

Prior to the shooting, the inquest was told that Mhizha endured three days with an untreated gunshot wound.

The inquest comes as Tafadzwa, who had married sungura legend Alick Macheso, is divorcing the musician in a case that spilled into the courts, earning her a $1 030 monthly maintenance on Thursday from the popular musician.

Bulawayo regional magistrate Chrispen James Mberewere, who acted as coroner in Mapako’s ex-husband’s inquest, heard on Thursday that Mhizha was arrested on July 24, 2011.

Mhizha had earlier been sentenced to 20 years in prison and was serving time at Chikurubi Maximum Security Prison for a string of armed robberies in Harare.

A bogus lawyer, however, secured his release after which he committed more armed robberies.

He was later arrested in Bulawayo after a source tipped off the police, who shot him in the leg before arresting him.

Mhizha then led detectives to a bushy area to recover a pistol used in the robberies.

While at the scene, police claim the robber, who was in leg irons, seized a pistol and raised it, prompting the detectives to shoot him.

He was taken to United Bulawayo Hospitals where he was pronounced dead upon arrival.

three days up to July 27 when they shot him dead.

Recounting facts on the medical report, a State doctor told the inquest that the gunshot wound on the deceased’s left leg should have been attended to quickly because the infection would spread to the whole body. There was no doubt the deceased was in pain, the State doctor testified.

The doctor said the deceased was prone to face hardships in walking, making it easy to be caught if he attempted to run away.

The police however said they shot Mhizha because he was sprinting away.

The doctor said he was in pain and infection had probably started to set in, and the wound was bleeding.

According to State witnesses, Mhizha was struggling to walk, weak and looked like somebody who was definitely going to die any time.

The court heard that there were many bruises on his back and on his shoulder.

The inquest was told that Mhizha was assaulted by the police using batons, a chair and fists on his back.

The doctor said he was not able to establish when the bruises were inflicted.

The next mark of violence was a gunshot wound which was angled at the back, meaning the police shot him from behind.

The State said some witnesses testified that the deceased had not been fed since the day he was arrested and the doctor also confirmed that Mhizha’s stomach was empty.

There was also no urine in his bladder, probably indicating that he was dehydrated.

Police CID and detectives are shooting people dead and lying that they are escaping. A lot of these CID folks shoot the suspect dead and take the loot. Most of these CIDs live a very posh life that cannot be matched to their salaries. It is a ring that kills suspects and get away with the loot. All armed robbers are shot dead so that they will not tell that the loot was taken by these CID guys. If investigations were to happen to all cases where criminals were shot dead, it will be discovered that majority of those shot had cash. If there is a survivor who is arrested, the CID guys will take the guy from his cells pretending to visit the scene. It is at that stage the survivor will be shot from the back insinuating he was running away. Truth is the killing is a way to silence the survivor once and for all. All  cases of robbers shot dead must be investigated. Its a criminal ring going on in the CID circles. You will be shocked at how rich these folks are.

Thats not the case. When a suspect is taken by CID from his cells they chain him. How then can a chained suspect be a threat to detectives? The whole issue is a scam. Yes i agree the armed robber would have committed armed robberies but its not for CID guys to kill. They are there to bring culprits to justice, not do their own. After all its all about the reasons behind CID shootings. Its robbing the robber under the guise of law enforcement. In the end the CID are committing armed robberies themselves and these cases must be investigated.

you are quite correct Fox the thing is there is no more rule of law in our country. There is so much that goes on unchecked to the extend that people are getting away with such acts. When a criminal has been apprehended the next thing is the rule of law.

When you become an armed robber, you sign a contract to kill and to be killed, more so, to be killed. Your issue of justice does not apply in Zim…..strike fear in the heart of a ruthless armed robber. Those who live by the gun should be prepared too to die by the gun. Imagine an innocent person with five children meeting an armed robber….and he/she just get killed because she own a few properties…..the entire family is left with no one because someone could not restrain him/herself. Kill to be killed too. I salute ZRP on this. Keep the spirit.

thats bush justice yawakutaura iyo. I like Fox’s analysis. Its right on point and spot on. If the robber committed a crime let the courts of law deal with him and rather than a trigger happy cop who is eying the booty cash in on it. saka if they are wiping out witnesses vasiyanei nemusungwa wacho. I think they must thoroughly investigate these deaths. Otherwise u have a state with a police force that takes the law into its own hands. No police officer should be allowed to exceed his duties. Mabwe gaya iri hama yako yapfurwa even though akaba but asina kuuraya munhu. There is a big difference between and armed robber and a murderer.

Which court of law r u gu6s talking about? Which justice are u guys talking about? U c guys I dont suppor5 the killing of human beings by other humqn beings. We have these robbers who have been in this “business” for a long time they rob get arrested the next thing u c them walking in the street(police and judges involved) rob again sometimes ending up killing innocent pple even raping our sisters, wives and daughters. If u guys have had any of the unfortunate eventsvhappening to u I dont think u would quirry these killings. My worry is it seems criminal have so many rights than the innocent.

we are not there to kill Suspects, but to enforce the law. If i book a Suspect to crime scene, and i discover him or her to be a threat to my life, i will definitely blow his head up.

Tired of this news of Macheso & his wives…they don’t offer bread & butter on our tables..

Go for the kill…the moment one get himself into armed robbery he/she should know that he/she has signed to be killed too. Forget about the issue of laws….imagine many orphaned children left behind because somebody decided to be an armed robber who kills ruthlessly. You kill be prepared to be killed too….fullstop.

You are missing the point. Its all about detectives killing suspects for personal gain.
