
A 20-year-old Centreville man has died from stab wounds he sustained during an altercation on Saturday that also left a second man with non-life threatening injuries, Fairfax County police said.

Domingo Eduardo Santiago Cuchil was found lying on a sidewalk in the 14400 block of Golden Oak Road in Centerville around 11 p.m. Saturday after police were called to the scene for a report of an assault with a weapon.

Police were then notified about another injured man in a nearby home in the 14400 block of Cool Oak Lane.

Cuchil was taken to a local hospital and pronounced dead on Sunday. The unidentified 31-year-old Centreville man who was injured was treated and released from the hospital.

Detectives determined that Cuchil and the injured man were neighborhood acquaintances. Police said the two were assaulted by people familiar to them, but the suspects’ identities are still not known, nor is the number of assailants. The reason for the attack is also still under investigation, but police do not believe there is a broader threat to public safety.

Caldwell said police are not characterizing the assault as gang-related.

Anyone with information is asked to call Crime Solvers by phone at 1-866-411-IPS/8477.

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
