
The Charles James: Beyond Fashion exhibition might have only just recently opened at the Metropolitan Museum of Art's Anna Wintour Costume Center , but organizers are already beginning to plan next year's exhibit.

According to WWD, spring 2015's exhibition will be focused on China. Because this forthcoming exhibit is in such early stages, specific designers and a sponsor have not yet committed.

As for the current exhibit , it examines the career of the late couturier Charles James and explores his design process, focusing on his use of sculptural, scientific and mathematical approaches to construct revolutionary ball gowns and innovative tailoring that he became famous for.

Harold Koda, the curator in charge of the newly renamed Costume Institute, said that with this exhibit, he hopes to bring attention to the little-known British couturier, who dressed society ladies in the 1940s and 1950s, including Coco Chanel, Elsa Schiaparelli and Gloria van der Bilt.

"Even if you look through the history of French haute couture and all the English couture designers, James stands out as a very idiosyncratic personality and artist and one of the few designers who, in his own lifetime, felt that his work transcended the medium," Koda told WWD.

Fashion and Hollywood's elite celebrated the opening of the James-focused exhibit at the Met Gala earlier this month. The dress code was White Tie and Decorations, and while some event attendees completely missed the mark, there were a few who nailed it in gorgeous gowns that would make James proud if he were alive today. Liu Wen looked flawless in a green Vivienne Westwood gown, while Sarah Jessica Parker , who seems to always take the gala's theme seriously, donned an Oscar de la Renta number with white opera gloves. Arizona Muse, Sarah Silverman, Karolina Kurkova, Katie Holmes, Sandra Lee, Hailee Steinfeld, Tabitha Simmons, Suki Waterhouse , Lena Hall and Hayden Panettiere also broke out their ball gowns for the star-studded event.

© 2014 FashionTimes.com All rights reserved. Do not reproduce without permission.

The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Fashion Times.
