
PARIS — In hopes of gaining a sizable share in the growing automotive chip market, Spansion Inc. is rolling out a new family of automotive MCUs, called Traveo, based on ARM Cortex 5 cores.

The move leverages the MCU and analog businesses Spansion acquired from Fujitsu last summer, combining them with the company’s own flash memory technology. Spansion is adding the new Traveo family MCUs to its existing microcontroller product lines that include Fujitsu’s proprietary MCUs and ARM Cortex-R4-based MCUs.

Saied Tehrani, Spansion’s senior vice president and chief technology officer, said in an interview with EE Times, “I believe we’re the first company to use ARM’s Cortex-R5 in automotive MCUs.” The higher performance of the Cortex-R5 core, its speed in particular, will be a real advantage for the company’s new automotive MCUs, said Tehrani. Further, the Cortex-R5 processor’s dual core configurations, which allow lock-step redundant core for safety critical applications, are also effective for the two cores “to monitor each other,” Tehrani added.

According to IHS, a market research company, Spansion entered the top 20 rankings for automotive MCUs in 2013 in seventh place.

Spansion, throughout this year, plans to launch different members of the Traveo family -- each dedicated to a specific segment of the automotive applications. The MCUs include twin motors, body electronics, and cluster.

Spansion today  rolls out its first Traveo MCU, called MB9D560, designed as a twin-motor controller for hybrid vehicles (HEV) and electrical vehicles (EV).

It will be first deployed in a 2015 model car by a Japanese automaker. Tehrani, who declined to name names, said the Japanese company will launch within the next few months a car with Spansion’s twin-motor controller.

If you found this interesting or useful, please use the links to the services below to share it with other readers.  You will need a free account with each service to share an item via that service.
