
Prince Harry is currently wrapping up a three-day tour of Estonia and Italy, which has seen him make all sorts of official appearances, dressed in variations of military garb. On Saturday, Harry visited troops participating in “Spring Storm” NATO military exercises in Kanepi, Estonia, the day after meeting locals in Freedom Square in Tallinn on Friday. On Sunday, he made his way to Italy, where he—as his brother and sister-in-law did in New Zealand just weeks ago—participated in a traditional Maori nose touch with a member of the New Zealand Air Force during what is being referred to as a “Polish Commemoration service ceremony.” (Yes, he touched noses with a dude from New Zealand at a ceremony somehow related to Poland, which was held in Italy! We don’t know what to tell ya—we just report the facts.) Afterward, he ventured to Rome, where he commemorated the battle of Monte Cassino and gave a speech at the British pavilion for the Universal Expo, which will be held next year. The prince, at most of these stops, was swarmed by fans, equipped with mini-Union Jacks and selfie machines (also known as iPhones); per the Daily Mail , Harry “looked happy and relaxed” as he “smiled for the cameras, signed autographs and chatted” with those congregated.

We’ve somehow written a long paragraph about Prince Harry without mentioning his recent breakup with Cressida Bonas! But, yes, there is a Bonas-related update to report, as well. The Mail on Sunday says that, before Harry bounced for continental Europe, he met up with Bonas at his Kensington Palace apartment to “talk about their future.” Harry, apparently, wants to “give their relationship another try,” proving that Bonas’s strategy— Make Like Kate —would seem to be working quite swimmingly.

Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement (Effectve January 2, 2014) and Privacy Policy (Effectve January 2, 2014).

Vanity Fair © Condé Nast Digital. Your California Privacy Rights . The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used,

except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast Digital.
