
"Jauja."

Films do not exist in a vacuum, thus comparisons are unavoidable.  Alonso is not a stunningly original artist who bears no comparison to those before him.  It is important to 'engage the work on its own terms', but if those terms are vague and/or uninteresting, than the comparison is going to hold more sway in the final analysis.

Alonso is good but he is no Sokurov. His imagery isn't strong enough to sustain a 2 hour film.

Also, we need less elitism and more dialogue. it is up to lovers of ultra slow image based cinema to explain without being patronising.

We aren't really sure what we think of this film, on account of our not having seen it because the Cannes Festival didn't invite us. But nevertheless, we think the rhetorical voice adopted to be very off-putting to our sensibilities.

How can you not like Los Muertos? That's one of the best Joseph Conrad-like voyage movies I've seen. Oh well, perhaps the running time on this one makes the difference (compared to the 80-minute average of his last previous films).

Very disappointed of Indiewire, you guys are narrow minded! insisting  on movies being only in the cinematic language you feel at home  with. you cant appreciate something that is not your americanized   MacDonald POV . I havent seen this one yet but truly love Alonsos previous films. i dont know why you keep saying that nothing happens in his films! a lot does! just in different subtleties , but obviously you taste buds are too crass to taste these. something you are not used too! very disappointing!

"you cant appreciate something that is not your americanized MacDonald POV . "

That ... in one sentence ... is why I will never not believe that intellectual dick-measuring / contempt for one's "lessers" is at least some of the appeal of difficult art films to some people.

At tonight's screening the room was silent except for the wooden delivery on lines read in both Spanish and Danish and occasional tinny sound effects. The characters seemed boxed into that square aspect ratio which had a vintage look (with rounded corners) but minimized the natural beauty which often looked flat because of too much lighting.

It was a deadly bore, many lines were laughable but I was the only one laughing---hoping to set an example for others.

Finally, after an hour I couldn't understand why more people were not walking out of the packed Bazin but I decided to depart. As I looked over the faces lit by the image coming off the screen I understood why few were leaving---practically everyone I saw was asleep.  In Cannes you have to get it when you can.

So silly. For those who connect to films like this, it's cinema at its most profound. Alonso was clearly joking when he said that it doesn't matter if people liked it, but it's well played in the review here.

It's how the cookie crumbles, but this is an amazing film that doesn't need plot or dialogue to pull you in and keep you invested through-out.
