
According to the survey conducted by happycurious on behalf of Sanofi, only 20 percent of Europeans associate counterfeiting with drugs. The survey interviewed more than 5,000 people across Italy, France, Spain, Germany, and the UK.

The survey reveals that most respondents in Europe associate counterfeiting with luxury items and popular clothing brands more than with medicine. Yet counterfeit drugs are prevalent in Europe, with fake medicines being the leading items seized by European customs in recent years. About 1 in 10 drugs worldwide are estimated to be counterfeit. This number can go up to 7 fake drugs out of 10 in some countries.

Sixty-six percent of respondents say they have heard of counterfeiting medicine, but the majority (77 percent) say they are inadequately informed or ignorant about the issue. French and German respondents were shown to be the most informed about counterfeit drugs. On the other hand, Spanish respondents seem to be less concerned about the subject.

Eighty-four percent of survey respondents say that they have never seen or recognized a fake drug, though almost all of the respondents (96 percent) believe that counterfeit medicines can be and are possibly harmful.

The Internet was identified as the main potential source of fake drugs. Sixty percent said they have never made an online purchase of medicines because it was not safe. Fifty-five percent preferred physical over digital points of sale. Germany and the UK appear to be more prone to online medicine purchasing. Three Latin countries France, Spain, and Italy were reported to be very reticent of online pharmaceutical transactions.

The pharmaceutical industry continues to recognize drug counterfeiting as a major threat. Last year, 99 countries signed onto Operation Pangea IV for the eradication of illegal online pharmacies. The collaboration resulted in the closure of more than 13,000 websites and seizure of over 10 million drugs, worth $36 million.

The full Sanofi survey is available here .
