
Nigel Farage has gone on the defensive to deflect claims of racism after a    poll suggested his attempts to cause a political "earthquake” at    Thursday’s European Parliament elections might be blown off course.

The leader of the UK Independence Party leader has taken out a newspaper    advert insisting his stance against Romanians is not racist and is planning    to lead a “carnival” for black and ethnic minority voters.

Mr Farage was on Sunday night due to address voters in Thanet to plead with    them to “join the People’s Army” and vote Ukip on Thursday, in what could be    the first national election win by a ‘minor’ party for nearly a century.

The news emerged as the other main party leaders - Ed Miliband, Nick Clegg and    David Cameron – criticised the Ukip leader over his divisive policies, with    one saying that his mask of bonhomie had slipped.

A mixed set of polls published over the weekend made clear that the European    Parliament elections are there for the taking for Ukip.

One poll for ComRes gave Ukip an outright 11 per cent lead over second-placed    Labour, but another for ICM had Ukip in third place, four points behind    Labour.

Mr Farage has gone on the defensive after seeing his reputation dive following    a bruising radio interview when he was accused of being a “divisive racist”.

He had said that he stood by previous comments that he would be “concerned” if    he had Romanian neighbours.

Ukip’s advert in The Telegraph publishes crime figures that show more ATM bank    robberies in London are carried out by Romanian gangs.

Mr Farage initially stood by his comments on Romania, describing it as “a post    communist country that has not made the smooth transition to western-style    democracy”.

He said that if Britain reinstated border controls the UK could prevent gangs    travelling from Romania for the “easy pickings” in Britain.

However later he said he regretted his comments in the radio interview, saying    that “sometimes I get things thing”.

He told ITV News: “I was completely tired out and I did not use the form of    words in response that I would have liked to have used.

“I should have hit back and said ‘look, understand, there is a real problem    here, you can’t deny it, too much criminality from those gangs from Romania    has come to London.

Ukip officials are now working to arrange a mini-carnival in London on Tuesday    to allow Mr Farage to show off support from black and Asian groups.

Mr Farage will attempt to rally his supporters to win Thursday’s European    Parliament election in what he said was “a historic moment” in British    politics, the biggest political breakthrough since the Labour party emerged    after the First World War.

He was due to deliver a speech to a 1,400-strong crowd last night and will    speak to more supporters in Eastleigh tomorrow, telling them to help the    party cause a political "earthquake".

Mr Farage said that he was ready “what ever the establishment and their    friends want to throw at us”.

Mr Farage’s comments come as the leaders of the three main political parties    fan out across the country for three days of busy campaigning.

Mr Clegg will be campaigning in Edinburgh, Oxford and Manchester, while    Labour’s Ed Miliband is meeting voters in Birmingham and Nottingham. Mr    Cameron is campaigning in the east of England.

Mr Miliband said that – while he did not think “Nigel Farage was a racist    himself” – his comments in the radio interview were “inappropriate and wrong    and offensive”.

Mr Cameron steered clear of criticism of Ukip. Earlier he said: "I think    what Ukip offer is the politcs of anger, rather than the politics of the    answer."

In a speech later, Yvette Cooper, the shadow Home Secretary, will call for the    political establishment to challenge Ukip’s “hostility and extremism”.

Elin Twigge, deputy managing director of PLMR, a leading PR and Political    Lobbying agency, added: "Taking full page paid for adverts out in a    leadingnewspaper days before polling reacting to a disastrous interview on    LBC is confirmation that Ukip and Farage are worried.

"The interview on LBC was the culmination of a number of recent    challenges for Farage. Ukip’s polling has traditionally weathered stories    that would done for the leaders of other mainstream parties.
