
The widow of a man who died from asbestos-related cancer may miss out on up to £100,000 from a government compensation scheme ... because he was diagnosed too soon.

Sid Pointon, 73, was diagnosed with cancer just 15 DAYS before the Diffuse Mesothelioma Payment Scheme was launched to help families who have lost loved ones because of the killer dust.

The scheme was launched for families of workers who fell victim while working at defunct companies and whose employers’ insurance companies cannot be traced.

Mr Pointon worked in a ‘snow storm’ of toxic dust at Morgan & Crossley, a Manchester firm which manufactured asbestos brake linings, aged just 21 in the early 1960s.

But his widow Irene, 69, and her solicitor have been unable to find the firm’s insurers to launch a legal claim.

She has now been left devastated that she will not be entitled to government compensation.

Irene, from Chorlton , said: “To watch my husband die from this terrible disease was heart-breaking for me, my son and daughter, and for our three grandchildren.

Mr Pointon was diagnosed with cancer on July 16, 2012, just 15 days before the government scheme came into operation. He died in February last year.

Irene is now seeking the support of solicitors at Manchester law firm, Pannone, which is part of Slater & Gordon.

Irene’s solicitor Alicia Rendell, an industrial disease specialist, said the government scheme is ‘inflexible’ and should be altered to help people like Mrs Pointon.

She is also urging anyone who worked at Morgan & Crossley and who may know the name of the company’s insurer to contact her.

She said: “This new scheme is tailor-made for cases like this but because Mr Pointon attended hospital and was diagnosed with this incurable cancer before the scheme was announced, Mrs Pointon cannot claim for payment.

What do you think about this story? Have your say by leaving your comments below.

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

The Manchester Evening News and www.manchestereveningnews.co.uk conform to the newspaper industry's voluntary Code of Practice, administered by the Press Complaints Commission.

If you feel we have made an error in a report, or have fallen below our usual high standards, please write in the first instance to: Rob Irvine, editor, Manchester Evening News, Mitchell Henry House, Hollinwood Avenue, Chadderton, Oldham OL9 8EP.

M.E.N. Media is one of the north west’s largest media providers and reaches 7 out of 10 people in Greater Manchester every week.

Online, manchestereveningnews.co.uk welcomes 2.4million unique users who experience12.4million page views every month.

Our newspapers include the flagship Manchester Evening News - Britain's largest circulating regional daily with up to 130,485 copies - as well as 20 local weekly titles across Greater Manchester, Cheshire and Lancashire.

Free morning newspaper, The Metro, published every weekday, is also part of our portfolio, delivering more than 200,000 readers in Greater Manchester.

Greater Manchester Business Week is the region’s number one provider of business news andfeatures, targeting a bespoke business audience with 12,687 copies every Thursday.

Every month, M.E.N. Media’s print products reach 2.2 million adults, spanning from Accrington in the north to Macclesfield in the south.

Rob Irvine was appointed editor-in-chief of MEN Media and Trinity Mirror Huddersfield in April 2012.

Rob joined Trinity Mirror in 2001 and was editor of the Daily Post North Wales for seven years. He was also publishing director for Trinity Mirror North Wales and Cheshire.

He grew up in Stockport, Greater Manchester and has worked in the local newspaper industry for 27 years.
