
LEEDS, UNITED KINGDOM -- (Marketwired) -- 05/19/14 --  Callcredit Information Group is pleased to announce today (19th May) the re-launch of its new powerful and highly discriminative consumer segmentation tool, CAMEO UK.

CAMEO UK classifies every individual, household and postcode in the UK for use in customer profiling, prospect targeting, market analysis, retail planning and risk for pricing assessment. It forms part of a suite of over 40 worldwide consumer classifications.

The launch of the new CAMEO UK has seen the latest modelling techniques being used to layer intelligence from multiple levels, including data at individual levels, household, postcode and neighbourhood to provide the best targeting discrimination in the market. The tool has been built using data from the latest UK Census and Government Open Data sources, alongside data from YouGov and TGI. But what makes it unique to other consumer classification systems is that it is built dynamically with real-time links to Callcredit's flagship consumer database, Define and Callcredit's UK population map of over 50 million UK residents.

The Define database pools transactional and lifestyle data from over 100 sources across 8 different vertical sectors and provides more accurate and recent data than any other consumer database. By linking directly with the database CAMEO UK can precisely reflect changing consumer characteristics in real-time enabling businesses to recognise quickly when their customers move between segments due to experiencing a dramatic change in affluence or a key life event such as setting up home, getting married, having children, or entering retirement.

CAMEO UK is overlaid onto each of YouGov's panels, including its daily public opinion polls, meaning that users can get up-to-the-minute insights on how different CAMEO groups feel about the latest current affairs, consumer brands, politics and other topical issues.

Zoe Palethorpe, Head of Products and Propositions commented "We're really excited about the re-launch of CAMEO UK. We have purposely built the product in a way which will allow it to be updated to reflect key changes in life change or circumstances as it happens. Therefore unlike other classification systems on the market, CAMEO is highly responsive to the changing consumer population."

"By building the tool in this way, new datasets or new sources can be integrated as they become available, without the need to keep rebuilding it from scratch, ensuring that the classifications are continually up to date and relevant."

Zoe concluded "The depth of detail CAMEO UK can now provide is unrivalled anywhere else in the marketplace and will widen the dimensions to consumer targeting, giving businesses across a diverse range of sectors the most granular and up-to-date view of consumers."

To further support the launch an online CAMEO Microsite: www.cameodynamic.com/uk has been introduced to provide interactive and engaging insights into each CAMEO type using detailed sector specific descriptors and engaging visualisations.

Callcredit Information Group's leading approach to deploying consumer information brings together experts across the fields of credit referencing, marketing services, interactive solutions and consultative analytics to provide clients with a range of innovative and effective products to discover new customers and to engage with current customers to optimise and increase profitability.

In a first for UK consumers, Callcredit launched Noddle ( www.noddle.co.uk ), a service that offers people free access to their personal monthly credit reports for life.

Other products include award-winning fraud verification tools and database solutions to positively verify consumers, global operations to help expand businesses into new markets, digital solutions to improve the overall journey consumers make during interaction with a brand and consumer marketing data and segmentation to improve understanding and targeting of customers and prospects.

Callcredit also offers products for their clients to assess a customer's credit risk and affordability and their experts in collections and recoveries provide tailored debt recovery and tracing tools. Their market analysis and network planning function helps organisations develop profitable retail networks, and their tools in multi bureau, analytics and metrics work to provide fully assessed bureau data.
