
Finland already has some success stories of creative people and startup firms gathering launch capital directly from the public -- yet there is still little general awareness or clarity around the concept, say organisers of Crwdpuisto.

Crowdfunding, the collection of funds for a business idea from members of the public, is a relatively new phenomenon in Finland, only popping up in the past couple of years.

As many people are unclear on the rules and regulations and how raising money for projects works, Helsinki-based businesswoman YC Felin decided to organize Crwdpuisto, billed as Finland's first crowdfunding event.

The gathering was held on Thursday at Yle, which is one of the main sponsors. The event featured more than a dozen speakers from Finland as well as Oliver Gajda, chair of the Brussels-based European Crowdfunding Network.

"This is the first time decision makers, business makers, active citizens are invited to come together and discuss this phenomenon,” Felin told Yle News. “We’ve had some really interesting success stories, people just need to know more about them."

One of the most successful stories is that of Linda Liukas, a Finn living in the US. She raised 100,000 dollars on the Kickstarter website within 24 hours for Hello Ruby, a children's book on computer coding. That 100,000 was her original goal, but she when on to raise a total of 380,000 dollars. Others include Finnish company Beddit, whose sleep monitoring app raised half a million dollars through the crowdfunding platform Indiegogo, and the sci-fi movies Iron Sky and Star Wreck.

According to Timo Lindholm, Director, Practices for sustainable well-being and employment at the Finnish Innovation Fund Sitra, crowdfunding is like voting with your wallet, because you know where your money is going.

“With crowdfunding, your money and the company become closer and that promotes ownership and entrepreneurship and jobs," says Lindholm.

Organisers hope the event will become a permanent channel for bright new Finnish ideas to gather funding to get off the ground.

25.8.

24.8.

23.8.

22.8.

21.8.
