
The European Union had been "stupidly waging Cold War on Russia" against its own interests, Marine Le Pen, an advocate of France’s withdrawal from the European Union, said in an interview with Austria’s Kurier newspaper. Maintaining good relations with such a country as Russia is the required minimum for the world, she said.

Leader of France’s rightwing National Front party has explained why she respects Russian President Vladimir Putin. "Mr. Putin is a patriot. His cares for his people’s sovereignty. He realizes that we are defending common values, the values of European civilization," Maribe Le Pen said.

In Le Pen’s opinion, Putin probably doesn’t find enough courage, frankness and respect for ethnic identity and civilization in other political movements in France, except for National Front.

The way the Russian leader runs the country demonstrates his commitment to the values ​​of society and the need to recognize these values, the French politician notes.

Earlier, Russia’s ruling United Russia party wished Marine Le Pen’s National Front success in the upcoming election to the European Parliament.

In March, National Front made its strongest showing yet in the municipal elections in France, winning the majority of seats in more than two dozen municipalities.

Federalization of Ukraine is the wisest and most balanced solution to the crisis in this country. Leader of the French National Front party, MEP, Marine Le Pen expressed this opinion on April 12 at a meeting with Chairman of the State Duma, Sergey Naryshkin.

"In the current situation, a decision on carrying out referenda and on federalism is the wisest and most balanced one," she said. "It is crucial that all the parties concerned and historically important in this region gather at the negotiating table," Le Pen added.

In her opinion, "the idea of federalism would enable different regions to get a broad autonomy and to determine their own future." However, "in order for this to happen, the parties concerned must contribute to it and prevent the influence of extremists who might try to ruin the outcome of these negotiations," TASS reports.

In his turn, speaker of the State Duma, Sergey Naryshkin, thanked his French colleague for a "balanced position on Ukraine, based on a careful analysis of the facts."

"We agree that Ukraine should carry out a system of referenda, and the country can regain its composure, if the state is organized on the principles of federalism," he said.

Naryshkin emphasized that Russia "always considers France as one of the leading foreign partners." At the same time, he noted that "now the Russian - French relations are experiencing a difficult period in connection with the Russophobic and anti-Russian company that gained momentum in some countries of Western Europe."

All rights reserved.
