
He's used to being the focus of attention but Channing Tatum saw the Cannes Film Festival from a different perspective as snapped his co-stars arriving at the photocall of new movie Foxcatcher.

The actor clicked away on a smart hand-held camera before diving into the press pen as his co stars Steve Carell, Mark Ruffalo worked the red carpet on Monday.

But while snap-happy Channing, 34, captured the cast at the photocall during the 67th annual Cannes Film Festival - he missed out on a cheeky rear shot.

Meanwhile, the powerfully disturbing true-crime saga debuted to rave reviews as critics predict a clutch of Oscars for the 134-minute movie.

Channing showcased a super trim physique in a dapper navy suit, having shaped up for the role as he amused photographers and onlookers alike.

In their upcoming film  Mark Ruffalo and Channing Tatum play a pair of wrestling champ brothers with the 21 Jump Street actor literally towering over his co-star.

Ruffalo,  whose character is 1984 gold medallist David Schultz, is comically  dressed in a white T-shirt and black Eighties wrestling gear which  exposed his pale hairy legs in the movie.

Foxcatcher is the real-life story of a chemical fortune heir who went to prison for killing an Olympic wrestler.

Directed by Oscar nominee Bennett  Miller, who is also behind Capote and Moneyball, the movie centers on  John du Pont, great-great-grandson of E.I. du Pont, the industrialist  who founded the chemical giant DuPont.

The film also stars Steve Carell as du Pont and Sienna Miller as his wife.

He was later ruled to be mentally ill and sent to prison where he died in 2010.

Tatum recently spoke to the LA Times  about making Foxcatcher.

The heart throb said: 'It was the hardest acting challenge I've had to date.

'It’s a bit of a weird science  experiment to put these guys up on the screen because no one really  understands what happened or why it happened.

He added: 'What I love about a film  like this is that it doesn’t try to prove anyone wrong or right but just  to understand the people inside them.

'Du Pont didn’t start off a murderer  and Mark Schultz didn’t start out as an Olympic champion. There are  things in life that took them down that path.'

The comments below have not been moderated.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
