
[T]he plaintiff’s speech activity [was] a substantial or motivating factor in the defendants’ decision to not promote the plaintiff, [and] the defendants [would not] have reached the same decision not to promote the plaintiff in the absence of the plaintiff’s speech activity.

The total number of hours expended in this case through the close of business on April 22, 2014 is 4,394.0, worth $1,348,214.70 in attorneys’ fees.1 In this Motion, Dr. Adams seeks attorneys’ fees for 3,341.2 hours, worth $1,025,484.20 (a reduction of almost 24%). These attorneys’ fees relate exclusively to the attorney, paralegal, and legal assistant time incurred in connection with Dr. Adams’ prosecution of claims against Defendants before this Court and before the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit.

The fees and expenses are now being considered by the judge. In the meantime, defendants have filed a notice of appeal to the Fourth Circuit. For a National Review article about the case from David French, one of Adams’ lawyers, see here . Thanks to my colleague Steve Yeazell for the pointer.

Eugene Volokh teaches free speech law, religious freedom law, church-state relations law, a First Amendment Amicus Brief Clinic, and tort law, at UCLA School of Law, where he has also often taught copyright law, criminal law, and a seminar on firearms regulation policy.

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
