
Blue badge fraud prosecutions have doubled in three years, with professional people such as lawyers and architects among the offenders, and Plymouth one of the cities to secure it s first conviction.

Unscrupulous fraudsters have been caught using a dead relative's pass or leaving a disabled parent stuck at home in order to park for free to go shopping or travel to work, said the Local Government Association (LGA).

There were 686 successful council prosecutions in 2013 - up from 330 in 2010 as councils cracked down on offenders.

More than two million disabled people use blue badges for free parking in pay-and-display bays and parking for up to three hours on yellow lines through the nationwide scheme. In London, badge-holders are exempt from the congestion charge.

The LGA said Stoke-on-Trent City Council, Plymouth City Council and Hull City Council recently secured their first prosecutions against fraudsters while Manchester City Council has a 100% conviction rate with more than 500 prosecutions in the past five years.

In Plymouth, the city council launched Operation Dashboard to crack down on Blue Badge fraud.

Operation Dashboard began in February 2013, with 16 fraudulently used disabled badges seized in a two-day crackdown.

A two-hour operation in March saw police seize four more blue badges and hand out 35 penalty notices.

Plymouth City Council issues around 5,000 badges each year, but using them illegally has become a national problem.

Johanne Seymor-Trottnam, aged 44, from Kit Hill Crescent was the first conviction when she pleaded guilty to misusing a blue badge on one occasion in January 2013.

During her appearance at Plymouth Magistrates Court it was heard how she had been travelling into Plymouth City Centre with a friend on January 30 this year.

The court heard how she had been on her way to give evidence in a court case and her friend had given her a lift.

When the pair arrived to park they struggled to find change to pay for parking and were worried they would be late for the trial, so used a blue badge belonging to her father, who has died.

A police officer saw the badge in the dashboard of the car.

Mrs Seymor-Trottman was interviewed under caution and admitted the badge belonged to her deceased father.

The court heard how Mrs Seymor-Trottman said she had only used the badge on one other occasion and police confirmed they had no information to suggest otherwise.

Mrs Seymor-Trottman has never been in trouble with the law before and the court heard how she regretted using the badge and knows it was a stupid thing to do, but she was panicking about getting to court on time.

The blue badge in question has been seized by police.

Mrs Seymor-Trottman was ordered to pay a £35 fine, a victim surcharge of £20 and a £50 contribution towards costs, making a total of £105.

Cabinet Member for Transport, Councillor Mark Coker said: "We take the fraudulent use of a blue badge very seriously and have been working with the Police to tackle this.

"Misuse of the badges deprives people with a genuine need of access to parking and limits their independence."

In january this year a Plymouth court heard that disabled parking badge fraud is "commonplace" in the city as a defendant was sentenced for his long-running con act.

James Holmes, 65, was handed a suspended jail sentence after he admitted receiving two stolen disabled badges and using them fraudulently.

Councils are also using new powers to seize and confiscate badges suspected of being used illegally and some have set up specific enforcement teams to tackle blue badge fraud.

Peter Box, chairman of the LGA's economy and transport board, said: "It is shocking how low some people are stooping in order to con a few hours of free parking, including using a dead relative's blue badge or leaving a disabled parent trapped in their home.

"Councils are determined to do everything in their power to protect the quality of life for our disabled and vulnerable residents."

This story was reported in a national paper , the percentage of Blue cheats in Plymouth in relation to genuine  disabled people of restricted mobility is very very low . The PCC  Blue Badge team are first rate , and act within a new National Code  , every holder is registered centrally , and you do not get one unless you meet strict new criteria .   It is a lifeline and in many cases a stepping stone that just may lead to a more normal life , perhaps after a sudden life changing illness . This emotive story causes distress to the non cheats , and a distorted perspective for those able in body , but for the grace of God could be a recipient sometime in the future . many of the posts of a negative nature  are based on a form of envy , every disabled  person would change his Badge  for your able body in a flash  .

I think in todays society disabled people do need some beneficial assistance in the form of better parking facilities..........however I don't agree with it being free and being allowed to park "anywhere".  Rules should apply across the board wherever possible.   Positive discrimination is rife enough as it is, would be nice if things were a little more equal than they are. Where is the national database which holds a list of all registered disability passes and their cars ? Why do traffic wardens not have access to determine on the spot if it is legal or not.  The police have computer systems that can tell if a vehicle has no road tax or insurance immediately so why not have something similar for this  ? Once set up it costs virtually nothing thereafter.  As always lots of hot air about doing the right thing but nothing ever happens to resolve it.  I look forwards to seeing similar new posts over the next 10 years where nothing will have changed.

Wow look at the badge address..They travelled all the way from London to park in Plymouth. Herald story again. Tony Tony, glad to see you back on line, Thought something sinister happend to you.. Im an undecided at the moment, So instead of spouting out your ****, List all the failings from  the other parties.. And the election is for LOCAL council not NATIONAL. plus the euro which dosn't affect Plymouth citizens one jot from any of the Parties. If your going to spread sleeze back it up with fact not fiction or political fabrications.  Time for LAB CON to go for sure, so that leaves UKIP GREEN Or TUSC. mmmmmm good choices ?.

"I dont see why dissabled people should get free parking" Disabled people should get free parking because they suffer from an unfortunate disability that affects their mobility, how is that too complicated for you to understand? Jeez. Nigel Farage wants tax cuts for his millionaire mates and wants to destroy the NHS. Don't vote for the millionaire establishment city-boy and his cronies.

I dont see why dissabled people should get free parking. Why not give them an extra hour free ontop the normal parking charges to allow them extra time for getting around.

Only one conviction,not trying very hard are they,could probably get one conviction a day from the car park adjacent to there own offices,The side streets around the city centre and the Hoe.At any major events on the Hoe you will always find Blue Badge abuse,come on PCC get your act together and sort it once and for all.

My wife has a Blue Badge. Once she had it, it became a life changer. The main advantage from her point of view is the space in the parking bay to allow her to get in and out of the car.  Before, she could drive into town, not find a slot she could use and drive home again. Not all parking bays are free but they all have that extra space. Great to see the council clamping down on unthinking and  illegal use.
