
Deputy headteacher Gareth Williams, who pleaded guilty to charges of voyeurism and spying on children, will be sentenced today.

Williams arrived at Cardiff Crown Court on Monday to be sentenced.

The deputy headteacher of a Cardiff school pleaded guilty to 31 charges relating to voyeurism and the making and possession of indecent images of children, including some that involve spying on children as they went to the toilet.

In February the city’s Magistrates Court heard Williams, 47, of Rhiwbina in Cardiff, had admitted secretly filming children going to the toilet in a house for his own sexual gratification.

The 31 charges to which he has now pleaded guilty include nine of voyeurism, and a further 20 charges relate to the making of indecent images of children and two relate to the possession of 16,237 indecent photographs of children.

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

Join us on social media.

For the latest local news straight to your Twitter, Facebook feed, e-mail inbox or tablet .

WalesOnline.co.uk conforms to the newspaper industry's voluntary Code of Practice, administered by the Press Complaints Commission.

If you feel we have made an error in a report, or have fallen below our usual high standards, please write in the first instance to: Ceri Gould, Online Editor, WalesOnline.co.uk, Media Wales, Six Park Street, Cardiff CF10 1XR. Tel: 029 2024 3672.

We reach over 1,384,563* unique users a month with dedicated coverage of all things Welsh.

WalesOnline is part of Media Wales, publisher of the Western Mail, South Wales Echo, Wales on Sunday and the seven Celtic weekly titles, offering you unique access to our audience across Wales online and in print.

Ceri has been editor of WalesOnline since April 2012. She was previously executive editor of Media Wales and deputy editor of the Western Mail. She started her career on the Glamorgan Gazette.
