
YEREVAN, MAY 16, ARMENPRESS. As a result of the correct evaluation of the processes and events, in Europe, it was realized that there are things that are impossible to ignore and to get results by means of drastic pressures. The Chairman of the NGO "European Integration", politologist Karen Bekaryan describes that in Yerevan it has been repeatedly pointed out that for Armenia and the European Union the signing of the agreement on strategic partnership is very important and is based on mutual interests. "In this sense, there is no news, the only news is that the issue is ripe for Europe. It is associated with many conditions. They realized that a very strong force and pressure gives the opposite result", in the conversation with "Armenpress" said Karen Bekaryan, adding that it was understood in Europe, primarily in connection with Ukraine's political crisis.

"They realized that the rules must be changed. In Europe now they know that there are realities for Armenia, which is impossible to ignore. In this aspect, is very important and at the same time natural that these perceptions have to be delivered and spoken out by the European Union's closest partner for Armenia. The fact that it sounds right from the French president's lips, is positive and comprehensive" – stressed Bekaryan, adding that it is a natural process that  Armenia should have a wide range of relationship with the European Union .

The copyright for information published on this web site is owned exclusively by Armenpress news agency.  All information materials published on this website are intended solely for personal use.

For full or partial reproduction of any material in other media it is required to acquire written permission from Armenpress news agency. Those, who have committed copyright violations, will be prosecuted accordingly.

Website administration is not responsible neither for opinions expressed on the website, nor for the content of the advertisements and of the external links.
