
HBAN, Ireland’s all-island umbrella group responsible for stimulating angel investment, announces that The European Business Angel Congress opens in Dublin Castle this morning.  The event brings 350 elite business angels from across Europe and the US to Dublin to hear from world renowned investors, business angels and entrepreneurs.

The event will feature the launch of a major new investor-driven initiative to double European early stage investment funds.  The objective is to create 1.5 million new jobs in European startups by doubling the early stage investment funds from €7.5 billion today to €15 billion in 2017.

The two day conference is the largest business angel event in Europe and the second largest in the world.  It is being opened by Minister for Jobs, Enterprise and Innovation, Richard Bruton TD this morning at 9am.

A group of Irish and other European high potential startups will have the opportunity to pitch their businesses to the high powered attendance.

David S. Rose, one of the most active angel investors in the US who has been described by Forbes magazine as “New York’s Archangel”.

Loretta McCarthy of Golden Seeds, the most active angel investment organisation in the US whose network of 300 investors invest in female led organisations.

Ciaran Connell, CEO of DecaWave. Ciaran has led the fund-raising of over €24 million investment in DecaWave from individual and institutional  investors. The angel investment in DecaWave is unique as €20M of the €24M raised came from more than 150 different angel investors from Ireland, UK, the US and France.

Darren Westlake, founder and CEO of crowdfunding company, Crowdcube, which has helped fund 103 companies, 71% of which were technology companies. Investments can range from £10 to £250,000. The year over year growth of Crowdcube has been over 560%.

HBAN is an all-island umbrella group for business angel networks, dedicated to the promotion of angel investment and supporting the early stage entrepreneurial community in Ireland. HBAN works regionally in partnership with the Dublin, Cork, Waterford, and Galway Business Innovation Centres (BICs) and Halo Northern Ireland, who each run local angel networks. Collectively HBAN actively works to increase the number of angel investors involved in investing in early stage companies and supports the formation of new and existing angel networks, both regionally and internationally, and within industry sectors. HBAN, which is a joint initiative of InterTradeIreland and Enterprise Ireland, also acts as a voice to Government, stakeholders, business and the media to promote the interests and needs of the angel investment community. Further information is available at: www.hban.org .

This information is for guidance purposes only and should not be regarded as a substitute for taking legal advice. Please refer to the full terms and conditions on our website.
