
It's a pretty safe bet that beauty queens everywhere fantasize about being crowned the winner. Standing there on stage, dawning a glamorous dress, ready for the host to place a sparkly new crown on their perfectly blown out hair. There's no doubt it's a special moment for those who work towards that goal, and we can appreciate the hard work put into pageant preparation.

But nothing shatters that dream quite like being asked to give the crown back two days later. And that's exactly what happened to 19-year-old Synthia Nath.

Nath who is originally from Fiji, was declared the winner of the Miss Globe New Zealand contest. But soon after celebrating her victory, organizers told her that the crown was meant for " another Indian girl ."

Nath had been confused with fellow contestant, Loriza Latife.

Nath is now suing the organizers of the Miss Globe New Zealand contest and is seeking an apology.

The saga started when the contest-winner phoned to see what her prize was for winning the event. But in place of a prize, Nath was asked if she had the $3,000 it costs to complete in the Miss Globe International pageant, held in Turkey, following her success in New Zealand.

In an interview with the New Zealand Herald, Nath stated "I was shocked, I was like 'aren't you supposed to give him the money? They were like 'no' and asked if I had the three grand or not."

Nath claims to have spent upwards of $1,000 on the Miss Globe New Zealand contest, on both the entry fee and her dress.

She placed a to call Milagros Manuel, the chief executive of Face of Beauty International Ltd., and updated her on the situation. According to Nath, Manuel responded with "Good, you don't have the money. Give the crown and sash back, I have other girls lined up."

The next day Nath was told that her victory was a mistake.

Nath claims the organizer told her "I mixed up the name somehow and it was another Indian girl that should have won."

© 2014 Design & Trend All rights reserved. Do not reproduce without permission.
