
“It is the year of the financiers”.

That’s how Sunday Times Rich List compiler Philip Beresford describes this year’s list of the truly excruciatingly wealthy who live in the UK.

So while the summit of the list is dominated by the usual natural resources plutocrats – who measure their worth in the tens of billions – the world of finance isn’t being left behind.

But patterns of wealth in finance in the UK have shifted. If you want to be super wealthy these days then forget about the peanuts on offer in the City and go west to search out fame and fortune in one of Mayfair’s hedge funds.

That’s where the real money is – where they “talk hundreds of millions rather than just tens”, as Beresford puts it.

Examples include Alan Howard, of Brevan Howard Asset Management (£1.6 billion); Michael Platt, BlueCrest Capital (£1.5 billion); Alexander Knaster, Pamplona Capital Management (£1.26 billion); and Sir Michael Hintze, CQS Management (£1.05 billion).

Also making the cut are some perhaps slightly less familiar names, including Ukrainian tycoon Henadiy Boholyubov, who controls banking and industrial conglomerate Privat group, and Iraqi Nadhmi Auchi, who turned Luxembourg-based General Mediterranean Holding into a global conglomerate.

The list is of course also reflective of London’s position as a global city and multinational financial hub, and gone are the days when old money Brits in their pinstripe suits sat in the very wealthiest positions.

Beresford says this is a sign that “wealth has become more meritocratic”, as financial entrepreneurs reap the rewards of risk taking.

Beresford has been compiling the Rich List since 1989, so has got to know the world of the super-rich pretty well, and he gave Financial News some advice on how to make it into next year’s list.

If you want to be able to invest in a yacht and maybe a couple of Old Masters paintings then the first thing to realise is that you will need to strike out on your own, preferably starting an eponymous, highly-successful hedge fund.

But once you have done your decade or so learning the ropes, then it is time to move on. “If you have the nerve to go out and prove yourself the sky is the limit,” says Beresford.
