
David Cameron would need to secure sweeping concessions from Europe, including regaining UK control of immigration,   for the DUP to support British membership of the EU, Diane Dodds has said.

The free movement of people is a fundamental building block of the EU, but the DUP MEP said that if the Prime Minister does not regain control of border controls  then the DUP would recommend that voters should vote to leave the EU.

Speaking to the News Letter at Balmoral Show last week, Mrs Dodds said: “If you were to say to me that we were to have an EU referendum  in the morning, what would the DUP be asking people to do? They’d be asking them to vote to come out. because the European Union of 2014 does not suit the United Kingdom.

Mrs Dodds has produced four funding directories for community groups, businesses and faith groups and claims that an estimated 10,000 people have attended her numerous public meetings about the funding booklets.

She said they had been “phenomenally successful because they actually target need; because they [show] this party, Diane Dodds MEP, just working with local communities and doing that”.

When asked if she thought unionism is broadly happy with where Northern Ireland is under the DUP’s leadership, Mrs Dodds said: “We have had an excellent canvass right across Northern Ireland; we’ve had an excellent two days at this Balmoral Show; I’ve been meeting people from right across Northern Ireland.

© 2014 Johnston Publishing Ltd.

This website and its associated newspaper adheres to the Press Complaints Commission’s Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion, then contact the Editor by clicking  here .

If you remain dissatisfied with the response provided then you can contact the PCC by clicking here .

Belfast Newsletter provides news, events and sport features from the Belfast area. For the best up to date information relating to Belfast and the surrounding areas visit us at Belfast Newsletter regularly or bookmark this page.

For you to enjoy all the features of this website Belfast Newsletter requires permission to use cookies.

Cookies are small data files which are sent to your browser (Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome etc) from a website you visit. They are stored on your electronic device.

This is a type of cookie which is collected by Adobe Flash media player (it is also called a Local Shared Object) - a piece of software you may already have on your electronic device to help you watch online videos and listen to podcasts.

Yes there are a number of options available, you can set your browser either to reject all cookies, to allow only "trusted" sites to set them, or to only accept them from the site you are currently on.

However, please note - if you block/delete all cookies, some features of our websites, such as remembering your login details, or the site branding for your local newspaper may not function as a result.

A tool used by some of our advertisers to target adverts to you based on pages you have visited in the past. To opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

Our sites contain advertising from Google; these use cookies to ensure you get adverts relevant to you. You can tailor the type of ads you receive by visiting here or to opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

This is used to help us identify unique visitors to our websites. This data is anonymous and we cannot use this to uniquely identify individuals and their usage of the sites.

This comes from our ad serving technology and is used to track how many times you have seen a particular ad on our sites, so that you don't just see one advert but an even spread. This information is not used by us for any other type of audience recording or monitoring.

ComScore monitor and externally verify our site traffic data for use within the advertising industry. Any data collected is anonymous statistical data and cannot be traced back to an individual.

Our Classified websites (Photos, Motors, Jobs and Property Today) use cookies to ensure you get the correct local newspaper branding and content when you visit them. These cookies store no personally identifiable information.

We use Grapeshot as a contextual targeting technology, allowing us to create custom groups of stories outside out of our usual site navigation. Grapeshot stores the categories of story you have been exposed to. Their privacy policy and opt out option can be accessed here.

Our partner for Newspaper subscriptions online stores data from the forms you complete in these to increase the usability of the site and enhance user experience.

Add This provides the social networking widget found in many of our pages. This widget gives you the tools to bookmark our websites, blog, share, tweet and email our content to a friend.
