
Protecting privacy while maintaining the public record is a tricky balancing act.

A European court has determined that people have the “right to be forgotten,” meaning that their pasts should not haunt them for the rest of their days on Google searches. There is a lot of validity to this, and it’s about time someone or something put the brakes on the outrageous invasion of privacy the Internet has enabled. Transparency is (often, not always) good, but the Web has given a powerful tool to the voyeurs and cowardly bullies of the world who have posted nasty comments, nude pictures of ex-lovers and all sorts of smearing posts, all in the name of free speech.

A politician wanting negative news articles about past behavior removed from the search engine (he wants to run again).

A man seeking removal of pages reporting his conviction for possession of child sexual abuse imagery.

A convicted cyberstalker seeking removal of links to articles about his crime.

It has, tragically, become acceptable – even advised – for someone headed out of a first date to check the person out on the Internet first. Whatever happened to exercising individual judgment, and responding to a person based on the way he or she interacts with you? Perhaps the pre-date investigators feel they are protecting themselves. Or maybe it’s just the mark of a controlling and overly suspicious person.

We’ve seen many cases of the Internet being abused to hurt and defame people. The most recent example was that of the wife of Sen. Thad Cochran, a Mississippi Republican up for re-election. A conservative blogger (who apparently doesn’t like Cochran) sneaked into the nursing home where the senator’s wife is living with dementia. He took photos and video of her and posted them on the Internet. There’s no justification for the disgusting behavior (and he’s been arrested). And the material has been taken down. That doesn’t mean someone didn’t catch a quick screenshot of it.

That material is exactly the sort of thing that needs to be “forgotten” on the Internet. Meanwhile, we need a national – perhaps global – conversation on how to protect individual privacy.

Susan Milligan is a political and foreign affairs writer and contributed to a biography of the late Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, "Last Lion: The Fall and Rise of Ted Kennedy."

Follow her on Twitter @MilliganSusan .

Copyright 2014 © U.S. News & World Report LP.
