
Personalize your weather by entering a location.

Sorry, but the location you entered was not found. Please try again.

LTC. Lexy, 4-legged 82nd Airborne member who treats soldiers with PTSD, joins troops on All American Week run Monday morning.

With a howitzer's blast and an array of chants to keep them moving, 12,000 82nd Airborne Division troops pounded the pavement Monday morning, kicking off the annual All-American Week.

Running close to the front of the 5-pack was LTC. Lexy, a four-legged soldier with an important mission.

"She's Bragg's first therapy dog," said Maj. Christine Rumayor, the 82nd Division psychiatrist.

While the Army began using therapy dogs in 2007 to help soldiers cope with PTSD and anxiety issues, the canines were usually based at large facilities like Walter Reed National Military Medical Center.

Last year, LTC. Lexy was assigned to Fort Bragg, and assists Maj. Rumayor in treatments.

"She's a great morale booster to everyone who is around here," said Rumayor. "She brings other people into the clinic who might otherwise not seek help."

LTC. Lexy was just one signature sighting on Monday morning, as the Division kicked off All-American Week.

This year's theme is "Celebrating the 70th Anniversary of D-Day and the Paratrooper."

"We've actually got veterans all the way back to the Second World War," said the 82nd's commander, Major General John Nicholson. "At the Division Review this week, we'll actually have a couple of veterans who jumped into France in 1944."

Later this week, Fort Bragg will host allied military leaders and paratroopers during an International Ball. During Thursday's Memorial Service, a guest of honor includes someone who witnessed D-Day, Maurice Renaud. Renaud's father was mayor of the small, French village, Sainte Mere Eglise, a drop point for 82nd Airborne paratroopers during the war. His mother, Madame Renaud  is famously known as the "Mother of Normandy," for tending to American soldiers' graves.
