
No Cannes premiere is complete without A-list celebrities, red carpet receptions, and banks of paparazzi.

But the eagerly awaited Welcome To New York starring Gerard Depardieu managed to do without all that, attracting attention of its own thanks to its controversial sexual content.

Loosely based on the rise and fall of former French presidential hopeful Dominique Strauss-Khan, it was screened in the local Star Cinema, previously known for its pornographic offerings.

Depardieu plays sex-addict Mr Deveraux, a character said to be based on former head of the IMF Mr Khan.

The French statesman was arrested in 2011 just as he was preparing a bid to become the next French president, accused by Nafissatou Diallo, a New York chamber maid, of trying to rape her.

Lawyers for Mr Strauss-Kahn proved that a sex act which took place was consensual, but he was forced to step down from his $500,000 a-year job at the International Monetary Fund.

In the film, Mr Deveraux is seen taking part in several alcohol-fulled orgies involving prostitutes in a New York hotel room while on a business trip, before raping a hotel chambermaid as she comes to clean the room the next day.

The two-hour film, which also stars Nip/Tuck actress Jacqueline Bisset as the character Mr Deveraux’s wife, premiered at the festival on Saturday with a private showing.

The film will not be shown in French cinemas but will be released on video-on-demand websites. It will appear in cinemas in other countries however, including the UK, at a later date.

Before the screening Depardieu , director Abel Ferrara and Jacqueline Bisset, took to the stage of The Star cinema to introduce the film.

Depardieu said he 'disliked politicians' and was 'happy' to participate in the film, while Mr Ferrara said Depardieu had not only agreed to act in the film but also put up 'half the money'.

Since the premiere the film has received mixed reviews, with US actor Mickey Rourke saying it was Ferrara's best film in years.

Rourke also praised Depardieu as having 'more courage than any other living actor today', according to Yahoo, while French director Claude Lelouch also hailed his performance.

However, The Telegraph called the film 'superficial and pretentious', giving it just two stars out of five.

Before the screening Vincent Maraval, producer of the film, said the French elite tried to block the  there is an ‘incestuous relationship between the media and political elite’ in France.

He told the Independent: ‘No French TV station wanted to finance us.

The comments below have been moderated in advance.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
