
Benders Paper Cups, Europe's only dedicated paper cup manufacturing business, has chosen IFS Applications 8 as its new ERP system to "reinvent its technology capabilities" and aid growth.

Based in Wrexham, North Wales, and employing 125, Benders manufactures paper cups for hot drinks. Now under new ownership, the company says it will rip out its current "archaic" IT system and replace it with IFS Applications.

The decision will enable Benders to improve efficiency throughout the business and upgrade important manufacturing machinery.

The deployment is due to go live this December with IFS Applications for manufacturing, supply chain and finance. It will enable Benders Paper Cups to "revitalise" operations across the business - from having the proper IT infrastructure in place for equipment upgrades to allowing the finance team to process direct debit transactions.

Benders is also implementing IFS mobility for touch app authorisation and mobile warehouse transactions. Benders said IFS was selected ahead of SAP and Infor following a competitive tender.

Mark de Meza, financial director at Benders Paper Cups, said: “The hot drinks market in the UK has exploded over the past few years, not just with a Starbucks on every corner but with hundreds of independent coffee shops too. As the only dedicated paper cup manufacturing business in Europe, and making all our cups in the UK, we supply a huge number of these outlets."

He said: “There is a big opportunity for us to sell more cups both in the UK and on the continent, but we had little hope of doing that with an archaic IT system that hadn’t been updated for over a decade. We want to double the size of the business and the IFS Applications implementation is the foundation from which we will build."

PLEASE NOTE: Your name is used only to let the recipient know who sent the story, and in case of transmission error. Both your name and the recipient's name and address will not be used for any other purpose.

Register for a Computerworld UK Account and enjoy unlimited access to our extensive white paper library and exclusive Enterprise multi-user software trials. Account members can also comment on articles and access best practices guides.
