
In an unprecedented manner, the government of China is going to extend a 500 million dollar loan to Ethiopian Airlines to finance Boeing jetliner purchases.

During Chinese Premier Li Keqiang’s state visit to Ethiopia last week, a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was signed between Ethiopian Airlines and ICBC Financial Leasing Co., Ltd.

A senior official at Ethiopian told The Reporter that the MoU relates only to Boeing aircrafts but in the future it can be extended to other fleet types. “The understanding is for 500 million dollars in financial facility. The loan negotiation will be the next stage,” the official said.

The senior official said that it was the first time that a Chinese bank had taken the lead in providing aircraft financing to Ethiopian. However, ICBC was already a junior loan partner in the B777-200LR freighter deal.

According to the MoU, ICBC Leasing will provide Ethiopian Airlines with financial support for its fleet expansion plan, including but not limited to B737 and B787 aircrafts in the form of finance lease, sale and lease back, commercial loans or operating lease from ICBC Leasing’s Boeing order.

Ethiopian said the MOU was one of the largest financial cooperation in the aviation industry between the two countries, which is an important step for China's financial industry to go international.

Borrow to you bleed. The weyannes DeDeb economies are now heading to the same tragedy that most American airlines went through.

Not sure the aim of this loan. You getting a Chinese loan to get an American product…what is Chinese benefit on this loan? Don’t tell me the Chinese are doing this out of their good heart. With excellent credit the airlines have..Ethiopian have no problem securing credit with US ex-Im bank or any financial  institutions. What is behind this unless China want to put the airlines under its remote control as part of long term strategy.

Have no trust on the current management any way. So we all better watch out!

I knew China can distinguish b/n keen & worthless partner. Go ETH.

Having relation with USA is a must. Having relationship with Russia a natural thing knowing there are lots historical and cultural similarities between the two.

Having relation with Europe with exception the English establishment is the right thing to do.

Avoiding the monster and evil Arabs and their associates that are the biggest fret to humanity in human history is a must and Always has to be that way.

But having at all level relation with the great and ancient people of china is like having anything and everything within ourselves. China is a great and generous nation doing lots of things for Ethiopia that make the country become the way she is now.  No matter what, china and Ethiopia relation will continue growing and flourishing at all levels for many generations to come.

We Ethiopians will never forget when someone is there for us during bad times genuinely not acting like the English are doing; using weaknesses to affect the nation badly in many ways including intentionally damaging the images and undermining the people as they are doing since 1984.

China was the only nation at UN fiercely objected and never accepted the great and ancient Ethiopia was land locked by the Evil English leadership there working for the Arabs agenda to control the red sea and to hurt Ethiopia. Russia during the time was almost lost because of the west and as a result Russian was abstained when England persuaded USA and used France as a mistress to vote in order to block Ethiopia from her historical right and an Egyptian UN secretary was there just for this reason to sign.

Egypt was the first country to recognize Eritrea even before the vote was finalized.

The point is that China is a great nation always doing the right things. She is not like the English that are selling their being with oil and gas money serving the Arabs despite they are raping their children and women, taking over England in a way soon will be the first sharia nation in Europe.

Just avoid the English together with the monster and evil Arabs where the two are working together to affect the region and world.

China is a great nation. There is no doubt she will rule the world responsibly using Electricity power generated from clean sources and producing engines and machines including cars working with electricity. This way the earth and humanity will be saved from the Arab oil and gas pollution and the crimes they are using the money coming the share with the Anglo-American criminal oil companies and traders.

We Ethiopians need China not the west.Chines are doing the job they have been assigned for. But the west give us the weapon to fight for.We absolutely do not need the wests aid.

Adunya,

You are right, but that holds true to any side.

Suppose Ethiopia does not cater to the Chinese, they will arm guerillas like they have done before. Likewise America.

Nobody does any thing because they love us.

Anyway ‘Hulum seitanoch silehonu, keteshalow seitan metegat yishalal’.

HOW SWEET IT ITS!…LOL!

What makes you think oromia state belongs to oromo people the first place? I believe people freedom & independence, but you guys are claming the land or state that does not belong to you. Oromo people are emigrated to Ethiopia in 18th century from North east Africa. We gave you a place to live. Now, you want to clame somebody else country like yours? My suggestion to you & oromo people is to go back to where you come from & clame your independence. Otherwise, you may not even allow to stay in oromia region & get kicked out from the country by the future generation of Ethiopia.

Those who are angry every step took forward are against themselves , while those fools are thinking that they are against government.

this is not way to be partriotic opposition.

not a gift but a Debt within the next yeasr have to be paid  $ 1 Billion  cash  with the interests .

DEDEB SHABIA TEDDY…YOU WON’T UNDERSTAND SINCE SHABIA HAS NO AIRLINES!

ETHIOPIAN AIRLINES GROSSED OVER $1 BILLION LAST YEAR!

Watch out ! TPLF. It is EAL . Not Woyane Air Lines.

Mr. Ordofaa,

Your story is very nice. You see things, huh? What are you smoking? Please let us know. We shall smoke it and see the things you see.

First, I would like to commend NAZRET for the good work. Nazret is the best news aggregating site bar non. I am a regular visitor of the site and read majority of the news articles. At times, I like to scroll down to read intelligent, informed and thoughtful commentaries.

HOWEVER: One lunatic Megalomaniac is THE FIRST TO POST.

C’est moi senait [Visitor]  I noticed this particular person is posting comments virtually on every news article. The funny thing is the postings are mostly the same; more like a cut and paste sentences. She/He has an aversion to positive news coming from Ethiopia,relishes on difficult or negative news. In fact, the response to any news negative or positive is the same. The same mind numbing tirade only expected from unstable person.

Based on the postings he/she made overtime, I have concluded this individual is deranged, demented, mean spirited nut case! One can only surmise that you must be incredibly miserable,toxic, loveless person. You are full of hate.

You need Psychological help on a University level. Your mental condition requires a group of psychiatrists, psychologist and neurosurgeons running tests around the clock. Calling you ignorant would be a misdiagnosis. Ignorance can be fixed. It is called education.

Until then, Next time you have a thought? Let it go. It is not good for you.

nazret.com is the #1 rated Ethiopian website. Be part of the largest Ethiopian News website, join in to become a contributor.

© nazret.com The Most Popular Ethiopian Website. nazret is Ranked #1 by Alexa and Qantcast .
