
A four-year-old boy from Shropshire has become the first person in the world recruited to trial a new treatment for people suffering from a rare genetic condition.

Bridgnorth youngster Joe Hiller suffers from Hunter Syndrome and is to undergo the experimental treatment for the condition at Royal Manchester Children's Hospital.

Doctors are now looking for five other people to join Joe in the taking part in the trial, which it is hoped will transform the lives of fellow sufferers.

Hunter Syndrome, also called mucopolysaccharidosis Type II or MPS II, affects around 80 people in the UK and is a progressive and life-threatening disease that primarily affects males.

The syndrome is usually diagnosed in childhood, with sufferers having difficulties growing normally and with hearing, skin changes, frequent ear, nose and throat infections, joint problems, and breathing.

In some cases there is also a delay in a child’s development, for which there is currently no effective treatment.

Joe's parents, James and Emma Hiller, first sought medical advice because they were concerned about the development of Joe’s speech and that he always seemed to have a runny nose.

He was diagnosed with the condition when he was three years old and he and five other people will undergo the trial at the NIHR/Wellcome Trust Manchester Children’s Clinical Research Facility.

The study aims to test a new treatment that researchers hope will reduce the developmental delay and improve the learning ability of patients with Hunter Syndrome.

Joe's father James said taking part in research was a good opportunity and added: “Joe received the first few months of clinical treatment, enzyme replacement therapy, at Birmingham Children’s Hospital.

"Joe has more recently been able to have this therapy at home and this seems to have helped with his general movement and stiffness," he said.

“Joe is happy and content, but his speech is behind that of other children his age. When the consultant at Birmingham explained that there was a research study in Manchester that might address Joe’s developmental symptoms, we felt that it was really important for us to get involved.

The study is being led by Dr Simon Jones, Consultant in Paediatric Inherited Metabolic Disease at Saint Mary’s Hospital, Manchester.

Dr Jones, who is also Honorary Senior Lecturer at The University of Manchester, said: “We are very keen to have a treatment that can change the learning ability of our patients, as this is clearly an area that needs a treatment and we are excited to be part of this trial."
