
Scottish retail footfall in April rose by 5.2 per cent on last year, according to new figures from the Scottish Retail Consortium (SRC).

The SRC said the timing of Easter this year, along with special promotions, had helped to lift footfall numbers, with Scotland recording the highest footfall figures since December, 2012.

In contrast, April footfall rates for the UK as a whole were down slightly on last year - by 0.1 per cent – and was also down on the 1.8 per cent rise recorded in March.

Northern Ireland recorded the sharpest increase in footfall of any UK region in April, up 12.8 per cent year-on-year.

The store vacancy rate in Scotland also fell in April to 10.7 per cent, down from 11.1 per cent the previous quarter.

The SRC said nationally, the town centre vacancy rate was 10.6 per cent in April, down from 11 per cent recorded in January.

Commenting on the latest figures, SRC director David Lonsdale said: “This is an upbeat and promising set of results, buoyed by the timing of this year’s Easter break and by the efforts of retailers in Scotland through pricing and promotions to attract shoppers into our towns and shopping centres.

“It follows several months in which the declining trend in footfall had become much less pronounced.

“However, we will need to wait until April’s Scottish retail sales data is published later this month to see whether the spike in shoppers has translated into an actual increase in sales and for indications as to whether it is sustainable.

Diane Wehrle, retail insights director at analysts Springboard, added: ‘’For the first time in 10 months footfall to retail destinations in Scotland was both positive at 5.2 per cent and outperformed the UK, which recorded an annual drop in footfall of 0.1 per cent.

“The turnaround has been in high streets and shopping centres, where footfall has increased for the first time in nearly a year, while footfall in retail parks in Scotland footfall has kept pace with the average for the UK during 2014.

“The disparity in performance between urban and out of town locations is at least in part due to rising house prices which tends to make consumers more enthusiastic about investing in home products, the greatest choice of which is found in retail parks.

“Indeed, this reflects sales across the UK in April which rose by 5.7 per cent with furniture and floorcoverings being the best performing category and reporting the highest growth since April 2006.

“The drop in footfall of 0.1 per cent across the UK this April compared with an increase of 1.0 per cent in April 2013 is disappointing against a backdrop of an improved economic situation, which strongly suggests a new cautiousness amongst consumers.

“Scotland, however, appears to have bucked this trend with a sudden but strong recovery.

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).
