
Hospital has now banned him for two weeks for 'intimidating staff'

A man has been banned from visiting his elderly mother in hospital after repeatedly complaining about the care she is receiving.

George Simpson, 62, has been embroiled in an escalating row with staff over the treatment of his frail mother Morag, 85.

He says he has repeatedly complained about the standard of care and conditions at Edinburgh's Ferryfield House hospital.

Hospital chiefs have now imposed a two-week ban claiming he was upsetting staff who are 'unable to carry out their jobs without fear or intimidation'.

Mr Simpson said: 'I am frantic with worry about my mother. She’s not much longer for this planet and I’m having to put up with this garbage.

'I go up and feed her and she doesn’t eat when I’m not there as the staff don’t have the time to sit with her.

'She’s down to six stone and doesn’t have weight to lose. I have no axe to grind with them.

'They are not telling the truth, and making these accusations because they are not doing their jobs properly.'

'What they’re trying to do is discredit me so they can cover up their own shortcomings. It’s absolutely disgusting.'

Hospital bosses said the visiting rights 'suspension' was a consequence of strained relations which stopped staff from doing their job properly.

The drastic action follows six recorded incidents since May 2013 when staff perceived Mr Simpson's behaviour as aggressive.

In a letter to Mr Simpson, Tim  Montgomery, Interim General Manager of the Edinburgh Community Health  Partnership, said the hospital was prepared to withdraw visiting rights  from any relative who is not acting appropriately towards staff.

He said: 'While I do understand that you want to ensure that your mother is cared for safely and appropriately and following the assault on her last year, are very anxious about her wellbeing, I believe that our staff are compromised in their care for your mother whilst you exhibit these aggressive behaviours - and these need to stop.'

Mr Simpson has been banned from the premises until May 29 and will only be allowed to see his mother following a meeting with the clinical nurse manager.

In the meantime, staff have promised to keep him updated on his her condition and he will be allowed supervised visits if there is any deterioration.

In a statement, Mr Montgomery added: 'We cannot tolerate any form of aggression or intimidation towards any of our staff and it is regrettable that after all other attempts have failed, we have had to take this very unusual step.

'Our workforce rightly expects to be able to deliver healthcare in an environment free from fear. Some members of staff on the premises have become frightened for their safety following a number of recent incidents and that is unacceptable.

'We discussed with Police Scotland how best to handle this situation, but unfortunately we have been left with no other option. The system will be in place for two weeks and will then be subject to review.

'We will provide regular telephone updates and other relatives who continue to visit will do the same.'

Mr Simpson says he is now taking legal advice.

The comments below have been moderated in advance.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
