
A proposed free trade agreement between the European Union and the United States could increase Minnesota’s exports to the region by 40 percent and bring 15,000 new jobs to the state, a Swedish trade representative said Monday in Minneapolis.

Uexküll’s numbers echo a joint report promoting the treaty from the Atlantic Council, the Bertelsmann Foundation and the British Embassy.

Minnesota’s annual exports to Sweden are worth $113.7 million, and Sweden estimates that those exports support about 1,054 jobs. A comprehensive trade agreement would make those numbers much bigger, Lyrvall said.

Minnesota’s medical device industry received particular attention because of the treaty’s focus on streamlining the two markets’ regulatory procedures. Tariffs on both sides of the Atlantic Ocean are already low, so the treaty focuses much of its attention on aligning non-tariff regulations, standards, testing requirements and other “behind-the-border measures that needlessly increase the cost of trade,” said Paulsen, a Republican member of the bipartisan Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership Caucus in Congress.

Von Uexküll estimated that 80 percent of the treaty’s benefits arise from such non-tariff measures. The challenge negotiators face is that non-tariff measures are the main points of contention between the two sides.

U.S. Treasury Secretary Jack Lew and other officials object to the Europeans’ insistence that the agreement cover financial services. They argue that could water down reforms under the 2010 Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act . Financial regulation is not a trade issue and should not be included in the trade agreement, they say.

Similarly, Europeans want to exclude their mass media and culture sectors because they say it is necessary to protect cultural and linguistic diversity. Certain French treaties, for example, allow for subsidized mass media and quotas for local shows and music on TV and radio.

Paulsen said he has sent a letter to U.S. Trade Representative Michael Froman asking for financial services to be included in the treaty. Yet he doesn’t see the treaty moving forward until after this November’s midterm elections.

The Minnesota Trade Office is not officially promoting or lobbying for the treaty, said Kathleen Motzenbecker, the office’s executive director. Still, the state views measures that ease trade, such as TTIP and the comparable Trans-Pacific Partnership “in a very positive light,” she said.

The Trade Office has sponsored a handful of forums about the proposal, most recently a speech in March by European Union Ambassador João Vale de Almeida.

“We want to see trade fostered on both sides of the Atlantic,” she said.

Subscribe to F&C's free email alert and receive business news updates every weekday.

Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
