
Josh Sanns, 17, of St. James, Minn., left, and Craig France of Bethel shot turkeys near Ironwood Springs Christian Ranch on Saturday, May 10.

Craig France loves to hunt turkeys.

He fell in love with the sport once again at Ironwood Springs Christian Ranch a few days ago.

France, of Bethel, Minn., retired from the military after serving in the United States Army for 28 years. In that time, he was stationed at Fort Benning and Fort Bragg and served in Iraq, Afghanistan and the Balkans.

France is one of many veterans who took part in Ironwood's annual Wounded Warrior Turkey Hunt on Saturday, May 10. He and his hunting partner, Jeremy Winch of Stewartville, reached their hunting spot near the Root River just outside High Forest very early that morning. Then they waited for a bird to show up.

"We got to the watch and then they all flew down," Winch said. "At least 12 birds came down all at once."

"We no sooner got there, and they started gobbling," France said.

France shot his turkey from about 22 yards away.

"They offered a clean shot," he said. "I made up my mind that any legal bird was going to get tapped."

France, who has hunted pheasants, deer and elk for about 40 years, said that he very much enjoyed his second Wounded Warrior Turkey Hunt.

"It's one of the best experiences I've had," he said. "My season begins with turkeys."

France said he was injured while he was moving a public address system for a civil affairs event in Kosovo. He made a wrong move and injured both of his knees and shoulders.

Events such as the Wounded Warrior Turkey Hunt help veterans suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder, France said.

""It helps me build that cohesion lost when I retired (from the military)," he said. "I'm very thankful to be able to do this."

Josh Sanns, 17, of St. James, started his hunting expedition on Saturday, May 11 at about 4 in the morning. He found his hunting spot near LeRoy at a little after 5 a.m.

"I saw (a turkey) in about an hour," Josh said. "It started beating on the decoy."

Josh shot the turkey from about 20 yards away. The bird weighed about 20 pounds and had a 10-inch beard.

Josh, who has heart disease, is one of 10 young people who hunted turkeys at Ironwood this year thanks to the United Special Sportsman Alliance (USSA), an all-volunteer national charity that provides cost-free wish trips for children and veterans with disabilities or life-threatening illnesses.

Dean O'Brien, the Minnesota state representative for the USSA, said that the organization changes kids' lives.

"We're creating memories and giving (the participants) the chance to do what the other kids do," he said. "We help them overcome the challenges they're facing. The volunteers are the ones who make it happen."

O'Brien works with a couple hundred kids in Minnesota who are eligible to take part in USSA-sponsored events such as hunting turkeys, fishing and horseback riding.

"My job is to coordinate the kids," he said.

Linden Anderson of Waltham, Minn., the chair of the Dream Hunt at Ironwood, makes the event happen for the USSA-sponsored kids. He works with landowners who allow the hunters to hunt on their property, finds hunting guides, raises funds to pay the bills, partners with the USSA to find the kids, arranges for lodging and provides the participants with a backpack full of goodies.

"You only have to see the smiles on the faces to know that every second is well paid for," Anderson said. "I love what I do. I just love working with kids."

The USSA has now sponsored four hunts at Ironwood Springs, Anderson said.

"I'm lucky, because I get to see all the good, and how many people are willing to be out and sacrificing for others," he said.

Anderson praised Bob Bardwell, the director of Ironwood Springs.

"Bob's wonderful," he said. "He's a go-getter. He's pushing all the time, and he's pushing for the right things. I think he inspires the kids."

Michelle Sanns, Josh's mother, said that her son loves to hunt turkeys.

"If it weren't for (the USSA), he never would have done it," she said.

The annual hunt at Ironwood Springs is one of the largest such events in the state, and the only hunt that includes wounded warriors and people with disabilities and life-threatening illnesses. Sponsors include the National Wild Turkey Federation and the United Special Sportsman Alliance.

Please feel free to submit your comments. You may remain anonymous. Article comments are not posted immediately to the Web site. Each submission must be approved by the Web site editor, who may edit content for appropriateness. There may be a delay of 24-48 hours for any submission while the web site editor reviews and approves it.

Note: All information on this form is required. Your telephone number is for our use only, and will not be attached to your comment.
