
Khloe Kardashian looked rather tired and disheveled as she jet back into LAX on Friday.

And it's no wonder as the 29-year-old reality star had just returned from a weekend getaway to Florida with her rumoured boyfriend French Montana.

The Keeping Up With The Kardashians star and the 29-year-old rapper spent Saturday at Universal Studios, and partied it up that night with their friend Spiff TV at his birthday bash in Orlando.

She  was dressed down as she headed through the terminal, wrapped up in a  beige knit cardigan, teamed with tight pale blue skinny jeans.

Khloe strode along in black sneakers and carried a black purse with funky fringe detailing.

She maintained a poker face and shielded her eyes in dark aviator shades, looking like she didn’t want to be bothered.

Nevertheless, Khloe signed autographs for fans before hopping into a vehicle and heading off.

She had quite an action-packed Saturday, having spent it with rumoured beau French at Universal Studios in Orlando, Florida.

According to HollywoodLife , the duo posed with nearly every superhero in the amusement park.

Khloe sported all black, including a tank top, ripped skinny jeans, and sneakers.

That night, Khloe and French celebrated their friend Spiff TV’s birthday bash at Vain Orlando nightclub.

The  two were caught on video, with French rapping into a microphone and  Khloe dancing next to him, shaking her head and waving her arm in the  air.

Letting loose: Birthday boy Spiff TV Instagrammed this photo, writing, 'We in here! #vainorlando #khloe #french #dela #nice'

Happy birthday! Spiff TV (centre) shared this image, writing, 'Black Bottle Boys! #2Tone #Orlando @blackbottleboys'

Keeping Up With The Kardashians: Spiff TV Instagrammed this image on Wednesday, writing, 'Pre Bday Turn Up Last Night In L.A Get Ready For This Sat In Orlando Club Vain... #spifftv #kuwtk'

The comments below have not been moderated.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
