
Register below to start posting comments, receive SMS news alerts and subscribe to our newsletter.

Exclusion and hatred impoverish humanity, President Marie Louise Coleiro Preca said today, calling for an immediate end to the detention of unaccompanied child migrants.

Insisting that the country “should never lose focus on humanity” Coleiro Preca said that Malta and Europe should look beyond the mere survival of child migrants who should be given the space to live their childhood in full and the opportunity to shape their lives.

This, she said could be achieved by firstly ending detention of unaccompanied child migrants and “allow them to be children.” The President added that the services provided should be more sensitive to children’s traumas, individual needs and differences.

Hostility and marginalisation would not only have a negative effect on the children but on society too, Coleiro Preca said, adding that civil society has an important role to play in helping  child migrants integrate in society.

“When children and youth arrive in Malta they feel disorientated and confused and we must be more cultural sensitive,” the President said, underlining the need to promote intercultural dialogue.

Noting that she had initiated a consultation process on the detention of child migrants before becoming President, Coleiro Preca said that she was “delighted” by the efforts undertaken by the University of Malta which was giving space to migrants themselves to determine and shape policy.

In March, Prime Minister Joseph Muscat said that the detention of children asylum seekers in Malta should come to an end. Coleiro Preca, who has long championed the cause, added that “giving visibility to children” would guide government in formulating its policy.

Around 27% of migrants who reached Malta in 2013 were minors and a 2009 study by the Maltese National Contact Point of the European Migration Network found an average detention time of 1.6 months for the 10 unaccompanied minors in their focus group.

Currently, Malta detains all age-disputed cases pending an age determination process, and as a result children below the age of 18 may be detained for weeks or months, despite alternative available facilities.

During detention, children are detained with adults, without any accommodation for their young age, and with no access to school.

Under international and European standards, unaccompanied children should never be detained for reasons related to irregular entry, and pending age determination the person claiming to be a child should be treated as such until the determination is complete.

The UN Committee on the Rights of the Child said in 2013 that states should “expeditiously and completely cease the detention of children on the basis of their immigration status”.
