
Thursday’s morning papers serve up a varied breakfast menu covering everything from what makes the ideal Member of the European Parliament, a struggle by Finland’s leading food chains to host Europarliament voters (and hopefully shoppers), reports of a failed roofing section in downtown Helsinki to new evidence of hidden cash allegedly stashed away by former Helsinki drug squad chief Jari Aarnio.

Hailing from Tampere, the daily Aamulehti leads off Thursday’s reporting with a look at the kind of Europarliament candidate profile most likely to attract voters. The paper'ss print edition polled around 1,000 voters earlier this month to find out what kinds of characteristics resonated most with them.

Among the key findings of the poll was the fact that the vast majority of respondents - 77 percent -- felt that candidates must be able to identify with regular low income voters. Just 32 percent of those interviewed wanted their ideal candidate to represent areas outside the capital, similarly only 36 percent believed candidates should be well educated --- a Master’s degree was considered the minimum level of education required for the MEP job by that group.

The poll also showed that voters weren't necessarily drawn to family figures – just about 31 percent felt candidates should have children of their own -- 67 percent were indifferent on the issue. Meanwhile a narrow majority -- 53 percent -- valued extensive life experience for the MEP post, while there was a close split on the question of Finnish MEPs feeling comfortable moving in the rarified circles of EU decision makers and elite -- with 41 percent supporting this view while 47 percent did not see this capability as essential.

With the start of advance voting in European Parliament elections across the country Wednesday, the Turku-based daily Turun Sanomat approaches the ballot from an unexpected perspective. According to TS, the jostling for premier position between Finnish food retail duopolists the S Group and Kesko Group is even being played out on the election turf.

The paper reports that Kesko, which narrowly trails the S Group in its command of the retail food market, managed to trump its adversary to take the lion’s share of polling stations for the Europarliament election -- by a handsome 58 to 47 places.

Polling stations are located in supermarkets as well as postal outlets in shopping centres, in public spaces, service stations and special mobile voting buses stationed in K and S-Market parking lots.

The number and location of polling stations are decided by local government authorities.

The largest circulation daily Helsingin Sanomat devotes much real estate to coverage of the tragic mining accident in Turkey Wednesday, in which nearly 280 miners died following a subterranean explosion. More than 350 mine workers were rescued, but others remain missing. The Turkish government has declared three days of mourning while Turkish labour unions have declared a one-day strike to protest unsafe working conditions in the sector. The number of Turkish nationals resident in Finland has been estimated at around 10,000, roughly half of whom hold dual citizenship.

On the domestic front HS takes up a report of a collapsed roof section at a Sokos department store outlet in downtown Helsinki. The incident occurred late Wednesday night when workers were changing the escalator in the building. The roof section was described as a light structure and not a major load-bearing element. It was apparently weakened by water damage caused by a leaking sprinkler pipe. No one was injured in the incident.

In the tabloid press the daily Iltalehti leads with a new twist in the ongoing investigation of former Helsinki drug squad chief Jari Aarnio, who is in custody on charges of official misconduct, including aggravated drug and bribery charges.

The paper reports that last week investigators uncovered a stash of cash at the site of Aarnio’s new home in Porvoo, about 50 kilometres east of Helsinki. The cache amounted to tens of thousands of euros, the tabloid reports.

According to the paper Aarnio is suspected of running a drug ring involving the import of illegal substances into Finland from the Netherlands. The Helsinki district court has ordered the seizure of 1.9 million euros of Aarnio’s property should he be convicted of the charges, while the former officer himself remains in custody awaiting trial. Aarnio has denied all of the charges.

25.8.

24.8.

23.8.

22.8.

21.8.
