
Automatic Renewal Program: Your subscription will continue without interruption for as long as you wish, unless          you instruct us otherwise. Your subscription will automatically renew at the end of the term unless you authorize          cancellation. Each year, you'll receive a notice and you authorize that your credit/debit card will be charged the          annual subscription rate(s). You may cancel at any time during your subscription and receive a full refund on all          unsent issues. If your credit/debit card or other billing method can not be charged, we will bill you directly instead.

Investigators walked away with computers, laptops, mobile telephones, routers, external hard drives, and USB memory sticks, not to mention cash, illegal firearms, and drugs.

At issue is malware known as BlackShades that was sold and distributed to thousands of people all over the world. One particular product, known as BlackShades RAT, let users secretly control a person's computer remotely. Europol pointed to an 18-year-old man who infected at least 2,000 computers, and took control of webcams to take photos of women and girls.

BlackShades RAT, however, could also access and view documents, photographs and other files, and record keystrokes without the PC owner's knowledge. The computer could also be commandeered to carry out large-scale distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) cyber-attacks, as well as encrypt and deny access to files.

"This case is yet another example of the critical need for coordinated law enforcement operations against the growing number of cyber criminals operating on an EU and global level," Troels Oerting, head of EC3 at Europol, said in a statement. "EC3 will continue - together with Eurojust and other partners - to work tirelessly to support our partners in the fight against fraudsters and other cyber criminals who take advantage of the Internet to commit crime. The work is far from over, but our cooperation to work together across borders has increased and we are dealing with cases on an ongoing basis."

The news comes as the Justice Department today announced that a Pennsylvania grand jury had indicted five Chinese military hackers for computer hacking, economic espionage, and more for targeting six Americans in the U.S. nuclear power, metals, and solar products industries.

THANKS FOR SIGNING UP!

ONLY $1.67 an issue!

ONLY $1.25 an issue!

Lock in Your Savings!

THANKS FOR SIGNING UP!

THANKS FOR SIGNING UP!
