
May 18, 2014 (PARIS) – The secretary-general of the rebel SPLM-N, Yasir Arman, has warned against Islamist militant groups and the growing threat they pose for peaceful coexistence and political stability on the African continent.

Arman who was in Paris where African leaders held a summit for security in Nigeria to discuss a joint action against Boko Haram terrorist group told Sudan Tribune that “Khartoum remains one of the important centers for spawning Islamist and Jihadist elements in Africa”.

He said that the recent arrest of Aminu Sadiq, a member of Bako Haram involved in a deadly bomb explosion in the Nigerian capital Abuja last April, was not a coincidence because the International University of Africa is a main center to form the Islamists and extremists in the continent.

The British-born Nigerian who was arrested last Tuesday by the Sudanese police is studying Arabic at the International African University in Khartoum from where he travelled to Nigeria several times since last year.

The SPLM-N secretary-general and chief negotiator further mentioned the death sentence for apostasy against a Sudanese woman, saying there is no difference between this case and the kidnapping of over 200 schoolgirls by the Nigerian group.

The SPLM-N which fights the government army since nearly 3 years in South Kordofan and Blue Nile states is calling to not involve religion in politics.

In a peace process brokered by the African Union, the rebel group calls to hold comprehensive talks ensure democratic transition in the country and refuses to negotiate a separate peace deal for the Two Areas.

The Sudanese government and the SPLM-N are expected to meet before the end of this month to resume discussions over a framework agreement before to engage in negotiations.

Arman said the current political situation in the country and the lack of a conducive environment do not encourage them to participate in a political dialogue the government proposes to hold inside the country.

“We will not participate in the national dialogue under the current political climate particularly because of the atrocities and war crimes committed by the Rapid Support Forces (RSF) militia in Darfur and the Two Areas, bloody repression against university students, death sentence against Dr Miriam and the arrest of Sadiq Al-Mahdi,” he said.

Comments on the Sudan Tribune website must abide by the following rules. Contravention of these rules will lead to the user losing their Sudan Tribune account with immediate effect.

Due to the unprecedented amount of racist and offensive language on the site, Sudan Tribune tries to vet all comments on the site.

Kind regards,

The Sudan Tribune editorial team.

Arman Ya Sajman,stop fishing in the dirty water, trying to scare Africans by using the card of Islam and linking that with Sudanese government is a cheap business and won’t find any buyers!

Arman is a "Sajman" person, big devil is living inside him, he will not hesitate to destroy his country and kill his people for no reason because the devil that lives inside him is guiding him blindly!

Arman Ya Sajman,I have no single doubt that if you attended the Najashy who was the king of Abyssinia (Ethiopia now),if you attended his time then you would immediately advised him not to accept Islam,Najashy was the first king and ruler in the world at that time to embrace Islam peacefully and opened the door for it in Africa!

Sorry Arman you missed that time!

Jalaby ya haraamy, at least Arman is a man of principles and he stands by them irrespective of what idiots like you think of him. Islam has been miss-used by your kezaan elites to continue brainwashing your likes while looting the country. Get a life you indoctrinated imbecile.

Jalaby ’’Ya Burjuwas’’Sudan still in black list of terrorist,if you were not terrorist and criminals why did n,t Abashir and Abdurahim travel to Europe, American and some countries in Africa like S.Africa,Malawi etc. stupid ya burjuwasin.

Jalaby al haraamy, if you truly valued Islam, then you should not fear it being separated from politics as it should find its way into peoples hearts because of its ideals not because of imposition by gang of murderers, rapists, oppressors & misguided elites like your beloved Kezaan.

Mr. No Logic,

we call for a civil state, democratic state where all people have equal rights and are free to choose whoever right for them and the freedom of worship and belief is guaranteed for all.

I know Mr. No Logic you’re mindset that way and you’ll soon come back and say "secular state"!

You know what, why don’t you go and live in S Sudan because they’ve secular state,

The following ads are provided by Google. SudanTribune has no authority on it.
