
Osage Beach Mayor Penny Lyons has issued a special request that the Citizens Advisory Committee meet to consider the economic plight of the west end of Osage Beach Parkway.

Osage Beach Mayor Penny Lyons has issued a special request that the Citizens Advisory Committee meet to consider the economic plight of the west end of Osage Beach Parkway.

Mayor Lyons announced her decision at the outset of the regular board of aldermen meeting Thursday night. In a memo, she challenged the committee to consider several issues relating to the economic future of the city, especially the area west of the Grand Glaize Bridge.

“Since the opening of the Expressway and with concerns about safety at the Key Largo intersection, the board of aldermen and I have become concerned about the level of activity and economic conditions in this year,” she said in her statement.

The section of the Parkway west of the Grand Glaize Bridge — especially west of Rt. KK — has been the subject of many discussions among board members and the concern of business and property owners along the Parkway. The consensus has been that economic activity declined precipitously once the Expressway opened and the Parkway was closed off with a large pile of dirt. Problems with the Key Largo intersection also have been cited in the loss of business and decline in property values.

Early in a business-driven campaign to draw attention to the economic plight, several board of aldermen meetings were packed with concerned business and property owners.

Lyons told the Advisory Committee in her memo that input from the committee and the public on what the city can do to increase activity in this area should be considered. The committee’s report will need to be completed by Sept. 1 in order to be included in the 2015 budget.

Assistant City Administrator Jeana Woods will facilitate the committee with city information and available resources. She has been instrumental organizing the city’s Fall Festival as well as other events hosted by and held in the city. Woods also has unique insight into the city’s budgeting process.

The mayor called a special meeting of the Advisory Committee for 6 p.m. Tuesday, May 27, in the Lower Level Conference Room at the city hall. She said the scope and complexity of the issue might require several meetings. A well-advertised public forum could be a resource in providing important information, she said.

Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.

Your privacy is important, read our privacy policy.

Original content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted.
