
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

Sixth grade boys from St. Louis King of France, Daniel Bascle, Evan Taffaro, Ben Melito-Krohn, Bryce Allemand, Nicholas Palermo, Jacob Lopez, Campbell Owens, and Nicholas Bonura,  show off the manuscripts they copied using a technique from the Middle Ages known as manuscript illumination.  The students took a vow of silence as they copied their chosen pages with quill-like pens.

As the librarian at St. Louis King of France School in Metairie, it is Katie Windham's job to encourage students to read books. But when the sixth graders began studying medieval times in Stephen Holzenthal's world history class, Windham used that opportunity to teach the students about how books were made in the Middle Ages.

Over several class periods Windham taught the students about a special process of medieval bookmaking, known as manuscript illumination, where beautiful and elaborate illustrations are used to decorate the text, often with silver and or gold. In addition to learning about this process, the sixth-graders learned about various tools used in making these types of manuscripts, different types of medieval books, who would have made them, and even who would have read them.

Of course, Windham taught the children what a medieval library would have been like as well and she discussed one of the more famous illuminated manuscripts, "The Book of Kells." Believed to have been created around 800 A.D., "The Book of Kells" contains the four Gospels of the New Testament.

To help the sixth graders have a better appreciation of the art of manuscript illumination, the dedicated librarian turned St. Louis' library into a scriptorium, by covering the windows with colored paper to simulate stained glass. The students, pretending to be scribes, chose a manuscript page to copy. Then, because most scribes of this era were monks, the students also took a "vow of silence" before copying their page onto paper that looked like vellum with a quill-like pen. To create an even more authentic experience, the children wrote using only natural light, and for safety reasons, battery-operated "candles."

            "Each year I do a little more," Windham said, proudly. She was already making plans for next year's sixth grade scribes.

            The volunteers sold baked goods and candies to the students and faculty. The funds raised are used to purchase communion books and for the school's music room. "Most of the sweets are homemade by the grandparents," Roussel said.

            Roussel's grandchildren, Kate Roussel, 11, and Colin Roussel, 10, attend St. Clement of Rome School in Metairie, along with Garcier's grandchildren, Allison Brooks, 10, and Matthew Brooks, 7.

            Congratulations to St. Angela Merici School's Senior Boys Cabbage Ball Team. The team went undefeated this year to become Conference Champions, defeating St. Edward the Confessor for the title.

The AARP Smart Driver Course was developed to help the ever increasing number of older drivers adapt to the constantly changing rules of the road, as well as the many new distractions all drivers now contend with.

            Open to drivers age 50 years old and older, the next Smart Driver Course will be held on June 7 at East Jefferson General Hospital, 4200 Houma Blvd. The cost of the class, which will be held from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m., is $15 for AARP members and $20 for non-members.

            Those completing the class will receive a certificate that may qualify them for a discount from their automobile insurer. It is good for up to three years.

            To register for the class or for more information, call Carl Drichta at 504-302-1712.

Check here if you do not want to receive additional email offers and information.

Thank you for signing up!

Please check your inbox, and approve the verification email. If you don't see it, check your spam folder.  To view and subscribe to any of our other newsletters, please click here .

© 2014 NOLA Media Group. All rights reserved ( About Us ).

The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of NOLA Media Group.

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
