
 Theoretically over a year and a half to go, possibly just a year, but the signs are that the electoral clock has started ticking and the electorate are in for a long ride of fast and furious exchanges in the media between Chief Minister Fabian Picardo and his arch rival Opposition Leader Daniel Feetham.

 In an opinion piece published in today’s edition (see page 4) Mr Feetham essentially accuses the Government of squandering money whilst tension with Spain rises. And he reiterates his view that all the ingredients are in place for a “perfect storm”.

The Chief Minister, Fabian (Picardo, said in a statement that it is clear that Mr Feetham, “as the GSD’s current ‘nightwatchman’,” and his party need to be honest with the public.

“He and his party must tell citizens clearly that they would not have refurbished Laguna, Glacis and Moorish Castle estates, they would not be developing the small boats marina, they would not have built the affordable homes we are building and would cancel the Mega-Concert and the National Week celebrations. That must be the natural consequence of his complaint that - in his flawed judgement - we cannot afford those things; although we could afford to spend a similar amount of money on the projects his party preferred; but which would not have delivered for ordinary people as our projects do. What the public will not be fooled by is seeing Mr Feetham criticise every penny we spend, and then have him suggest he would nonetheless also embark on them,” said Mr Picardo.

“It is worth examining the Opposition’s criticism of projects recently announced by the Government. Mr Feetham was openly disparaging of the cost of the refurbishment of Laguna, Glacis and Moorish Castle estates. To be fair to the GSD and to Mr Feetham, this is entirely consistent with their policy of ignoring these estates when they were in Government. They have also been critical of spending on the Small Boats Marina and of the Government’s decision to build Affordable Housing estates such as those at Mons Calpe Mews and Beach View terraces,” said No 6.

With the Budget session due by around the end of June into early July all eyes are on how far the Government will balance essentially funding with any “goodies”.

The Government in turn accuses the GSD past and present of not really being interested in projects that help ordinary people.

“The recent criticism of Government projects by the Leader of the Opposition Daniel Feetham suggests therefore that the GSD would not have proceeded with them if they were elected into office. However, the GSLP/Lib Government is committed to these projects being completed on time and on budget,” said  No 6.

The Government says it will ensure that the residents of Laguna, Glacis and Moorish Castle estates live in an improved environment resulting from the on-going refurbishment works. The Government intends to see these works through and considers it is about time that these estates, all of which are highly visible on the entrance to Gibraltar, should see real investment in refurbishment, said No 6.

The Opposition, says No 6, fail to understand that the present Government inherited a situation where there were hundreds of people waiting for berths for their boats.

The Chief Minister also attacks Mr Feetham’s stance on Spain.
