
AMSTERDAM (AP) — Acting on an FBI tipoff, police worldwide have arrested 97 people in 16 countries suspected of developing, distributing or using malicious software called BlackShades that allows criminals to gain surreptitious control of personal computers, European law enforcement officials announced Monday.

The malware allows hackers to steal personal information, intercept keystrokes and hijack webcams to make secret recordings of their users. BlackShades also can be used to encrypt and lock a computer's data files, blocking the rightful owners from regaining access unless they pay a ransom.

French officials said last week's raids happened after the FBI arrested two BlackShades developers and distributed a list of their international customers who purchased the malware.

Coordination agencies Europol and Eurojust, based in The Hague, Netherlands, said Monday that police in 13 European countries — Austria, Belgium, Britain, Croatia, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Italy, Moldova, the Netherlands and Switzerland — as well as in the United States, Canada and Chile raided 359 properties and seized cash, firearms, drugs and more than 1,000 data storage devices.

"This case is a strong reminder that no one is safe while using the Internet," said Koen Hermans, a Eurojust official representing the Netherlands. "It should serve as a warning and deterrent to those involved in the manufacture and use of this software."

The two European agencies declined to provide country-by-country breakdowns of arrests, details of items seized, or the specific days when last week's raids occurred.

In Paris, the state prosecutor's office said French detectives arrested more than two dozen people during May 13 raids and described the global nature of the arrests and searches as an unprecedented "new form of judicial action." It said those arrested were identified by the FBI as French "citizens who had acquired or used this software."

Associated Press reporter Jamey Keaten in Paris contributed to this report.

Copyright 2014 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
