
The man tipped to win the Greater Accra National Democratic Congress (NDC) Regional Chairmanship race, Mr. Henry Ekow Manly-Spain has advocated for a state burial to be held for the late Paul Victor Obeng for serving his country diligently and selflessly from 1979 till his sudden demise on last Saturday, 17th May, 2014.

Mr. Manly-Spain indicated that the President, John Dramani Mahama has averred that the late P. V. Obeng has been a passionate nationalist and patriot, full of practical ideas, solutions and optimism for the good of Ghana and Ghanaians and was always there to bring his vast experience, institutional knowledge and great connections across many sections of Ghanaian society to bear on any challenge faced by the country.

According to Mr. Manly-Spain, it will enable present and generations yet unborn to die hard for this country and pursue the vision and mission of the nation rather than thinking about themselves.

‘When we do this, people will be committed and dedicated to duty since they know their sacrifices will be rewarded one day’, Manly-Spain added.

Mr. Henry Ekow Manly-Spain advocated for the state burial for the late P. V. Obeng in a statement issued to the press over the dead of Mr. Paul Victor Obeng to express his condolences to his wife, children and family.

He stated that the late P.V. Obeng as a politician, professional and technocrat has contributed his quota to national development in diverse ways adding that his death is a big blow to the country.

Mr. Manly-Spain further advised all and sundry to emulate the lifestyle of the late P.V. Obeng thereby describing him as an honest, peace-maker, fine politician and a team-player ready to take up new a challenge.

Mr. Manly-Spain stressed that he was not surprise to hear the President, John Dramani Mahama described the late P.V. Obeng has a tireless public servant, an admirable unifier and giant of our political landscape over the past 30-plus years.

Spyghana.com is a premier news source that covers daily news of Ghana, Africa and the World over. Today, the site is updated 24 hours a day, seven days a week with follow-ups and breaking news, as well as original reporting, entertainment and sports. And our traffic has grown accordingly.
