
There has been 0 new or updated articles since your last visit Tue, 26 Aug 2014 08:06 .

Former Prime Minister Alfred Sant that if elected to the European Parliament, the only way he can feel comfortable is by representing and defending the interests of Maltese and Gozitans while telling the truth and nothing but the truth. “And I will feel most comfortable doing that from the socialist benches. If elected, I will have no problem at all in sitting in the European Parliament with the European socialists. Yes, I was against Malta joining the EU when it did, for the timing at least was certainly not ripe,” said EP candidate Alfred Sant.

Alfred Sant said that the socialists were proposing an economic strategy that would limit the effects of austerity and protect the European social model. Through their candidate for the Presidency of the European Commission Martin Schulz, the socialists were presenting an action plan covering irregular immigration that was in line with Malta’s interests and those of Europe.

The same can hardly be said for the European Popular Party, where Busuttil had spent his years in the EP. Their candidate for the EC Presidency Jean Claude Juncker was a leading actor in the process by which austerity had been forced down the throats of European citizens while bankers held responsible for the crises of the past few years in the euro zone were allowed off the hook. Juncker also clearly had failed to come up with satisfactory proposals on immigration to Europe.

We'll get to know how Alfred Sant thinks only when he faces the test. Up to now we only know how Alfred Sant looks at the EU. But most of all his only aim is to garnish a lucrative salary and the many perks each member reaps from the EU.

It is very much doubtful that Martin Schulz and his band of socialists will do anything else but offer `lip service` to the question of illegal immigration, much like Jean Claude Juncker and his EPP party, simply because the Northern European countries refuse flatly to accept illegal immigrants either coming directly from Libya, or the intake of these people to their countries who are residing in parts of Southern Europe such as Lampedusa, Malta, Greece and Cyprus.

Malta`s interest in this issue is certainly not on their agenda, as they wait for a figure that marks the saturation point, and only then will the flow of illegal immigration into Malta stop, which upon doing so, the EU bosses will turn around and say ``Look we`ve cracked up to our promise and stopped illegal immigration into your country``. Too little too late, perhaps? Not at all, because the real truth of the matter is that whoever is elected in the EU parliament it will be nothing else but a `Hobson`s Choice` for Malta and other southern  European border countries as far as they are are concerned, as both parties have similar agendas and are hell bent in changing this country by forcing unwanted bi-culturalism, that in a few years time will see a radical change in it`s demographic profile of it`s people. In as far as the illegal immigration issue being addressed, Juncker and Schulz had all the time in the world to address the situation, for many tears in fact so why didn't they? Therefore the promises for `action ` and a ``plan`` to address the illegal immigration problem comes only at election time,  promises which they have little or no intention of keeping until it`s too late, and when it is it, could only be termed as succeeding in a cynical exercise of conning this nation state.

Alfred Sant`s efforts can only be regarded with a pinch of salt, unless, he truly has Malta`s welfare in mind,and fights to reverse the ongoing tragedy that is plaguing this country, and he is probably the one person that can make a difference and stand up to the European Parliament not only against this escalation of illegal immigration to stop, but to seek methods of offloading the illegal immigrants off our shores either through repatriation back to their respective homelands or to ensure the absorption of these people to other European countries thus making voluntary burden sharing a reality.

Alfred, jien kont mieghek fl-2003 meta hassejna li ma kienx ghadu z-zmien li nissiehbu ma' l-Unjoni Ewropea. Naf li kiem impossibbli tibdil il-fehma ta' bniedem it-tip tieghek, ghaliex Alla zejjnek bl-intellettwalita', imma  ghall-gid tal-Partit Laburista u l-pajjiz kont nifhem li l-Partit Laburista se jkun iktar umli u jifhem li l-poplu Malti u Ghawdxi fl-2003 riedr issieheb l-Unjoni Ewropea u nahseb li d-decizjoni li hadna bhala partit dwar ir-referendum,  nastjienu jew nivvutaw le, kienet farsa. Dak inhar messna kellna l-kuragg tal-U turn, halli l-Gvern konna nirbhuh ahna l-Laburisti u fl-Unjoni Ewropea konna nuru l-istoffa taghha mill-ewwel. Kemm hallejna Laburisti dispjacuti  li dak inhar biex jidhlu fl-Unjoni Ewropea ivvutaw lil Gvern Nazzjonalista.  Hux qed tidhak f'wicci waqt li qed taqra dan kollu ma nafx. Minkejja li min'inhiex intellettwali xorta dejjem kont militant Laburist u nghid dak li nhoss. Ma  bezghunix is-sanzjonijiet morali ta@ l-Arcisqof Mikiel Gonzi, kont se tbezzaghni int, avolja kont kundizzjonat li ridt nitma lill-familja mis-sehem li kont naghti fil-gurnal tal-partit, sehem li f'jum minnho tipiku li titlef il-boxxla, kont ghajjartni li tfajt lura l-gurnal u mhux 'il quddiem. Biss xorta nahlef li vvutaw li ma nidhlux dak iz-zmien -Unjoni Ewropea,,waqt li llum zgur ma naghtikx ragun, li hadna dik it-tirq.   Jien mhux xi religjuz ferventi u meta naqra l-istorja tal-Knisja Kattolika Rumana u nara li din ghazlet bhala l-appostlu tal-Gnus lil missierna San Pawl, li min jaf kemm ippersegwixxa lis-segwaci ta' Kristu, verament nemmen Alfred li inti tkun deputat validu hafna fil-Parlament Ewropew u iva nemmen li b'wiccek minn quddiem ghandek thossok komdu fil-Parlament tal-Brussell ghaliex qabel tikkommetti ruhhek, intelligenti bizzejjed biex tqies x'ikun l-ahjar interess ta' Malta. Bhala uman, zbalji ghamilt, imma llum nifhem li tghallimt hafna minnhom ghall-gid tal-Partit Laburista u Malta u nawguralek li nhar is-Sibt tkun fost it-tliet MEPS Laburista li jiehdu sehemhom fil-legislatura gdida Ewropea. Xewqa ghandi li ngibu l-maggoranza tal-voti, anki jekk mhux se jkunu bizzejjed biex intellghu erba' deputati.

Alfred Sant still thinks of Europe as "the enemy".

This is what's wrong with all PL candidates: not only are they unable to understand that we are part of the EU, they also think of Europe as an enemy from whom we need protection.

immigration issues and ends off with a great opt out clause: "not all immigrants will be allowed to proceed!"

Please clarify your position once and Dr. Sant.

He should have been politically dead and buried after he resigned from prime minister and lost the election, let alone after loosing the EU referendum and the election which followed.

But this is Malta Labour Party we're talking about!
