
It promises to be one of the most fascinating weeks British politics has seen, writes Daniel Wainwright.

The British electorate appear to be in the mood to make a statement in the Euro elections, traditionally seen as an opportunity for a protest vote.

To discover how the political tide is turning in the UK, just look at the list of candidates facing people in Shropshire, which comes under the voting umbrella of the West Midlands.

Eight out of 10 parties standing in the European elections in the West Midlands either want Britain to have a referendum on its membership of the EU or leave altogether.

Across the border in Wales, it is set to be a battle between Labour, the Conservatives, UKIP and Plaid Cymru, who all currently have one seat each.

But for Shropshire voters the situation is far more fractured, with a bewildering array of candidates bolted on to the main players.

The UK Independence Party is on course to win the largest number of seats in the vote on May 22 – but is facing competition on its core policy.

Two current MEPs who were elected as Ukip candidates in the West Midlands in 2009 have since broken away from Nigel Farage’s party and have formed their own.

And there are also candidates standing for No2EU, which is a national alliance of left-wing groups, as well as the English Democrats and the far-right British National Party, both of which would leave the European Union if they had the power to.

The Conservative party has promised to hold a referendum by the end of 2017 if David Cameron wins the next General Election but is first trying to re-negotiate the arrangements of Britain’s membership.

The Prime Minister has even staked his job on it, promising to resign if he cannot honour the pledge.

The Green party also supports a referendum but is not opposed to being in the EU.

But Labour says it would only have a referendum if there were a transfer of powers to Brussels while the Liberal Democrats proudly call themselves “the party of in”.

One of Ukip’s rivals, An Independence From Europe, will appear at the top of the ballot paper because it is the first alphabetically. Its leader, MEP Mike Nattrass, said he had no qualms about gaining votes by accident that might otherwise go to Ukip, and has a slogan on the ballot paper saying “UK Independence Now”.

Mr Nattrass, 68, took Ukip to court last year to try to overturn the party’s decision not to re-select him as a candidate. He then set up his own group. His son Mark, 48, is also a candidate.

Meanwhile Nikki Sinclaire, who was also elected as a Ukip MEP in 2009, left the party in early 2010.

Miss Sinclaire, 45, sat as an independent before setting up her own party in 2012 called We Demand a Referendum . . . Now.

In her manifesto Miss Sinclaire says: “No-one under the age of 57 has been given an opportunity to have their say on the EU, this we contend is undemocratic.

Siôn Simon, one of Labour’s candidates in the West Midlands and a former MP for Erdington in Birmingham, said: “You can’t trust Ukip. In 2009 in the West Midlands they had two MEPs elected, and both of them are now in other parties. It’s a shambles and the West Midlands deserves better.

“Nikki Sinclaire even went on to attack Nigel Farage for misuse of his expenses. The election on May 22 isn’t a referendum on Europe – it’s about who will make sure that sensible reforms are made to open up the EU and cut waste. And most importantly about who will bang the drum for investment in our region.

And Dan Dalton, Conservative European parliamentary candidate for the West Midlands, said: “Other parties might make promises about a UK withdrawal from the European Union, but they simply have no power to deliver.

Lib Dem MEP Phil Bennion said a referendum needed to be offered only once people knew all the consequences.

Everybody gets what hardly anybody wants – at least that is how it could be when Members of the European Parliament are elected this month.

The complicated system of allocating votes means that even if one party wins by a landslide, the smaller parties can still get a share of the seats.

The intention is to more fairly reflect the proportion of the population voting for other parties.

On May 22, everyone will go to their polling station and get a card bearing the name of each of the parties and a list of the seven candidates each one has. There are seven seats in the West Midlands so, in theory, if a party gets almost all the votes, they can take all the seats. That, however, is almost impossible.

The European Parliament requires that votes be given to parties using a system called d’Hondt.

Now, pay attention, this is the complicated bit.

Using d’Hondt, seats get awarded one at a time. And each time a seat is taken, the number of votes the winning party has gets divided by the number of seats they have so far, plus one.

The ‘losing’ parties do not have their votes divided so have a better chance of winning the next seat. Think of it almost as the price paid for winning.

Let’s say, for example, there are three parties standing for seven seats. Party A is the most popular and gets 660  votes while Party B gets 470 and Party C gets 290.

Under the First Past The Post system, used for electing MPs and councillors in the UK, Party A would just win.

But in Europe it’s different. Party A would get four seats, Party B would get two and Party C would pick up one.
