
THE Geelong community should seize every opportunity to positively lift Geelong’s profile helping the region to transform, just as the Committee for Geelong did recently when it attended the 2014 Magna Carta Lecture.

The Committee was invited by the British High Commissioner to attend the lecture series, which began in 2002. The lectures aim to celebrate British and Australian values and interests, and explore issues relevant to both countries. This year’s lecture was delivered by Julie Bishop MP, Minister for Foreign Affairs.

The Minister focused on a new paradigm in foreign aid, overseas development, prosperity and also mentioned Australia’s Presidency of the G20. Some argue that the G20 is the most significant international event that Australia has ever managed, and yet there is still very little discussion about it. There is potential here that Victoria appears too humble to tap into.

The Committee publicly raised with the Minister opportunities for Geelong to be involved with the G20 during 2014, highlighting Geelong to the G20 delegates and the 3000 international media visiting Australia. The G20 could provide the chance to emphasise that, while our City has its challenges, Geelong is still a great place to invest.

Minister Bishop acknowledged that Geelong could be a fantastic case study for G20 delegates and the media, and that second-tier cities continue to be a vibrant part of the Australian economy. The Committee, working with others, will continue to advocate for Geelong to be highlighted through the G20.

During her response, the Minister also mentioned that the new US Ambassador, His Excellency John Berry, had recently advised that mayors of USA cities are invited to discuss economic growth at White House level. Having high-profile input ensures that these cities continue to benefit the nation’s prosperity and seems like a good plan, and one that has potential for replicating in Australia.

Recent Committee research has shown that those nations investing in their second-tier cities have fared better in the global financial crisis than any other. The Committee hopes that all levels of Government focus future funding on the second largest cities of Australia, and especially Geelong.

The Committee will continue to cultivate its international links and advocate for transforming Geelong to be highlighted to the world. At the end of the Lecture the British High Commissioner rallied “Go Cats!” – so it appears Geelong’s reputation already reaches a long way.

Rebecca Casson is the Committee for Geelong chief executive officer.

Watch this 86 find its fate in an Armco fence.
