
A Twitter "troll" bombarded a Labour MP with abusive messages after she supported a feminist campaign, a court has heard.

Peter Nunn, 33, retweeted "menacing" messages threatening to rape Walthamstow MP Stella Creasy, Westminster Magistrates' Court heard.

The court heard he sent the posts after the Bank of England said Jane Austen would feature on the new £10 note.

Mr Nunn of Emersons Green, Bristol, denies the charge.

Alison Morgan, prosecuting, told the court that Mr Nunn "embarked on a campaign of hatred in various different forms" against Ms Creasy and feminist Caroline Criado-Perez, who had launched the campaign to keep a woman on a British bank note.

He is alleged to have sent a barrage of messages branding the MP an "evil witch" and talking about the "best way to rape a witch" over a number of days and from several Twitter accounts.

Ms Morgan said: "It is not alleged that he created the text and the threat but, for whatever reason, he chose to retweet it and it is a message that is menacing in character."

'Hatred towards the women'

The court heard that Mr Nunn, a self-styled blogger, also left offensive blog posts in which he branded the campaigners "witches" and mocked them, although the blog entries do not form part of the criminal charge.

Ms Morgan said: "The background is that he appears to have formed a hatred towards the women expressing themselves on Twitter."

Mr Nunn was arrested at his home on 7 August after Ms Creasy and Ms Criado-Perez reported the abuse.

When questioned by police, he denied using Twitter to advocate violence or rape but admitted he had retweeted messages that were violent "to further debate".

Mr Nunn denies sending a message that was grossly offensive or of an indecent, obscene or menacing character by a public electronic network.

The case was adjourned until 2 September when it will resume for a day's hearing at City of London Magistrates' Court.

The defence team is planning to obtain medical evidence to ascertain whether Mr Nunn is suffering from an autistic disorder.

Mr Nunn was released on conditional bail.

Like much of the day today, it will remain cloudy with rain throughout the evening and night, heavy at times.

It may be raining, but that's not stopped the crowds turning out for the Notting Hill Carnival to indulge in some dancing and Caribbean food.

On this day in 1900, writer Sir Arthur Conan Doyle (pictured), playing for MCC in his first first-class match, bowled out the great WG Grace who was batting for London County.

On our programme just before 17:50 , we'll be finding out more on the 13 suspected illegal immigrants discovered in the back of a lorry at the Dartford Crossing.

A Metropolitan Police helicopter crew witnessed a marriage proposal after seeing the words "will you marry me?" spelt out in a north-west London park.

The Metropolitan Police says officers have made 11 arrests during the final day of the Notting Hill Carnival . including two for possession of offensive weapons, five for drugs and two over public order issues.

On a four-day visit to India, the deputy prime minister said: "I sometimes wish it was as simple as Boris Johnson implies: All we need to do is pass a law and everything will be well.

The 28-year-old driver of the car in Romford has been arrested on suspicion of assault and drinking and driving.

A police community support officer (PCSO) suffered a fractured skull after officers stopped a vehicle in Brentwood Road,  Romford, east London, yesterday night, the Met Police said.

Two PCs in an unmarked car blocked the vehicle, containing a driver and a passenger, after it drove into the car park of the Oak pub.

We have received mixed response on Facebook to London Mayor Boris Johnson's support for taking passports away from jihadists returning to the capital.

Lizzy Soraya said : "His notion that we should undermine one of the main tenets of the English legal system makes him equally as dangerous as any "jihadist" and a far greater threat to the British way of life".

Britain has one of the best records in the world for road casualties. However, hundreds still die on the roads every year. In 2010, the police recorded 1,850 deaths, 22,660 people seriously injured and 184,138 who received light injuries.

Join me at 13:20 on BBC London news to hear what Lewisham Islamic Centre is saying about a Twitter comment believed to have come from a former member of the congregation, who has vowed to become the first woman fighter to kill a western prisoner in Syria.

There is no Tube service on the Bakerloo line between Stonebridge Park and Harrow and Wealdstone as engineers try to fix a signal failure at Harrow and Wealdstone.

It's definitely quieter but the performers at Notting Hill Carnival are still giving it their all despite the rain.

Jah Zipper and Althea have come down from Derby to sample the food at Notting Hill Carnival . On the rainy day the pair said if they decided where they were going by the rain "we'd never go anywhere".

He said: "I do catering in York, it's mainly Jamaican street food and I wanted to see how they do it down south.

Mayor of London Boris Johnson has called for tougher powers to deal with British extremists who leave the UK to fight in Iraq and Syria.

A cyclist has died after falling from his bike in Richmond Park on Sunday morning.

Nikki Bedi is in for Vanessa Feltz's show today and we're discussing Boris Johnson's comments that returning jihadists to the capital should be stripped of their citizenship.

It will be a cloudy day with outbreaks of rain for much of the time.

Good morning, I'll be bringing you all the latest news, sport, travel and weather from London today for BBC Local Live.
