
Data from the Welsh Retail Consortium (WRC) reveals that footfall in Wales fell by 1.2% in April, an improvement on the 2.7% fall the previous month.

Fewer shoppers in Wales are hitting the high streets compared to this time last this time year, despite growth in the economy, a new report has said.

Data from the Welsh Retail Consortium (WRC) reveals that footfall in Wales fell by 1.2% in April, an improvement on the 2.7% fall the previous month.

In the same period the number of empty high street shops has fallen considerably to 14.6% in April, compared with 16.4% in the previous quarter.

Welsh Retail Consortium director, John Munro, said, seeing more shops back in use across Wales was the first sign of recovery.

He said: “It’s great to see more shops back in use across Wales. It’s sad that this positive news didn’t continue into this month’s footfall figures, which saw fewer shoppers on high streets than this time last year.

Despite good news in the wider economy, Mr Munro said the figures reveal the picture remains mixed for retailing in Wales.

He said: “Shop numbers are increasing, but not quickly enough. Consumers are becoming more confident, but they’ve yet to translate that increased confidence into shopping trips and purchases.

“Things are going in the right direction but for many, all too slowly. Any boost the Welsh Government can give to retailers that allows them to increase investment could kick-start a Welsh retail led recovery.

But despite that optimism, Wales is still underperforming compared to the UK averages, according to the WRC’s figures.

Diane Wehrle, retail insights director at analysts Springboard, said: “With a drop in footfall of 1.2% in April, Wales continues to underperform in the UK, which recorded a drop of just 0.1%.

“The pattern of activity across retail destinations in Wales broadly reflects the UK, with retail parks outperforming high streets and shopping centres, however, the gap between the urban and out of town locations was much narrower in Wales with an increase of just 0.3% in retail parks compared with 0.1% in high streets and a drop of 5% in shopping centres.

“The strong performance of retail parks reflects UK sales in April which rose by 5.7%, with furniture and floor coverings being the best performing category and reporting the highest growth since April 2006.

“The drop in footfall this April across the UK compared with an increase of 1% in April 2013, against a backdrop of an improved economic situation, strongly suggests a new cautiousness amongst consumers.

John Nash, centre manager at the St Catherine’s Walk shopping centre in Carmarthen, said the Welsh figures were generally representative of the situation locally.

He said: “Footfall might have dropped slightly but there has been a great deal of effort on the part of the local authority and retailers to attract shoppers from beyond the county.

What do you think about this story? Have your say by leaving your comments below.

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

Join us on social media.

For the latest local news straight to your Twitter, Facebook feed, e-mail inbox or tablet .

WalesOnline.co.uk conforms to the newspaper industry's voluntary Code of Practice, administered by the Press Complaints Commission.

If you feel we have made an error in a report, or have fallen below our usual high standards, please write in the first instance to: Ceri Gould, Online Editor, WalesOnline.co.uk, Media Wales, Six Park Street, Cardiff CF10 1XR. Tel: 029 2024 3672.

We reach over 1,384,563* unique users a month with dedicated coverage of all things Welsh.

WalesOnline is part of Media Wales, publisher of the Western Mail, South Wales Echo, Wales on Sunday and the seven Celtic weekly titles, offering you unique access to our audience across Wales online and in print.

Ceri has been editor of WalesOnline since April 2012. She was previously executive editor of Media Wales and deputy editor of the Western Mail. She started her career on the Glamorgan Gazette.
