
More than 1,000 children across Shropshire are a carer for a parent or relative, a new study reveals today.

A leading charity has discovered that children as young as five in the West Midlands are acting as unpaid young carers, balancing school work with taking care of an unwell family member.

In Telford & Wrekin there are currently 504 carers under 16, while in Shropshire, the number is 642.

Telford & Wrekin Council says it has a service that is devoted to ensuring that young carers in the borough are supported.

Council spokesman Russell Griffin said: "Our dedicated young carers service provides targeted support to young carers aged between five and 18 in the borough.

"The services provided to young carers range from keyworking with children, befriending, work with schools and also group activities."

The Children’s Society and the Carers Trust are now working alongside other charities to try and stop the tens of thousands of young carers across the UK from slipping under the radar of teachers in the classrooms.

A new programme called The Young Carers in Schools is set to give education staff resources and training to make sure young carers get the vital support they need.

The organisations involved - Carers Trust, The Children’s Society and Young Carers in Focus - have also revealed more alarming data about the struggle young carers are facing.

Recent data shows that young carers are lagging behind in school and missing out on their childhoods because of the demands placed on them.

Around one in 20 young carers miss school because of the amount of support they have to provide at home.

Young carers also have significantly lower educational attainment at GCSE level, the equivalent to nine grades lower overall than their peers.

More than a quarter of young carers were also bullied because of their caring role.

The Children’s Society chief executive Matthew Reed said: “An alarming amount of young carers in the area are having their lives turned upside down, juggling school work and looking after their loved ones.

Thea Stein, chief executive of Carers Trust, said: “This programme will help schools to stop and think about how taking on the responsibilities of caring impacts on every aspect of a young carer’s life.

Schools can apply for a bronze, silver and gold Young Carers in Schools Award, as part of the programme.

More recognition of and respect for the invaluable work done by carers of all ages is long overdue.
