
Well, she does call herself the clumsiest person in the world.

Lindsay Lohan may want to stay away from superyachts, especially ones named Oasis, because for her they are anything but a peaceful escape.

The 27-year-old narrowly missed taking a painful tumble on Sunday night as she left a boat party in Cannes, France.

The star had arrived in the south of France after hailing a private jet using Uber from London.

Of course, The Parent Trap star was straight out to the parties and in her old stomping - or perhaps we should say tumbling - grounds.

First stop for the star was Participant Media's tenth anniversary bash aboard the stunning multimillion dollar superyacht Oasis.

While only her first party of the evening, it almost became Lindsay's last as she struggled down the gangplank in gold heels.

Slipping, the red headed star managed to regain her balance before anything too dramatic happened - and even did so without dropping her phone or her striking gold handbag.

Luckily, a friend was also at the ready to catch the actress reaching back his arm to try to give her something to lean on.

For her first party of the film festival the 27-year-old donned an unusual yellow almost green sequined dress with silver stripes which featured voluminous sleeves that had cut outs under her arms.

The Mean Girls star accessorised the look with piles of gold bangles and her not fit for gangplank gold heels and matching doctor's bag.

After all these years of attending the coveted Cannes boat parties you would think Lindsay had getting on and off down pat but this is definitely not the case - especially the 59m floating mansion, Oasis.

The Canyons actress has had a run in with the superyacht before - but last time did not fare as well.

In 2010, the star stumbled and fell heavily onto her rear end while partying with socialite Lady Victoria Hervey.

Lindsay, at the time, insisted drinking wasn't to blame: 'I'm the most clumsy person in the world. I do trip a lot. I fall. I walk into walls sometimes.'

The fall could not have come at a worse time for the star whose sobriety was coming into question ahead of a progress report following her 2007 arrests on drug and alcohol charges.

The actress was meant to appear in court just a few days later as part of her probation, but an arrest warrant was issued when she failed to appear in Beverly Hills, California, claiming her passport had been stolen in France so she had to stay in Cannes.

While the superyacht has not been good to Lindsay, no one could blame her for wanting to party aboard it again.

The Oasis is one of the premiere superyachts and is able to cater for 12 guests at sea - obviously a lot more when berthed.

The vessel is three levels and has a hot tub and also provides guests with Honda wave runners, kayaks and a sail boat.

The yacht and its 15 crew are available for hire for trips around the Mediterranean for a weekly starting price of $399,000.

Lindsay, who had been staying at the Four Seasons hotel in London's exclusive Mayfair, ordered a an UberJET on her smartphone to fly out to the Cannes film festival.

She got a 20 per cent discount after ordering the luxury Cessna Citation 2, provided by private jet and yacht firm Goodwill, which costs 6490 euros.

And she had so much luggage she needed two of Uber's high end Lux cars (a BMW 7 Series and Mercedes S Class) to take her to Luton airport where her plane took off at 11am flying to Cannes Mandelieu airport with fashion blogger Vas Morgan and her stylist Manny.

The plane she was in had cream leather seats and mahogany tables. There was an open bar filled with champagne - although it's not known whether Lindsay, who is meant to be sober and in AA, sipped the bubbly.

The comments below have not been moderated.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
