
Tuesday 20 May 2014 1:09 p.m.

New Zealanders and Australians were among half-a-million global victims of computer hackers who used the malicious software Blackshades to hijack personal computers, control webcams and, in some cases, demand ransom money.

For just $46, hackers could buy Blackshades then take control of victims' computers, steal personal information, or snap naked photos or videos without the victims knowing.

The FBI, in announcing the arrest of nearly 100 alleged hackers and the creators and marketers of the software, released a map of the world where potential victims were located.

The map indicated victims in the main urban centres of New Zealand and Australia.

In the past week, hackers in Australia, the US, Canada, Asia and Europe complained in chatrooms about their homes being raided and computers seized by authorities.

"As today's case makes clear, we now live in a world where, for just US$40, a cybercriminal halfway across the globe can - with just a click of a mouse - unleash a RAT (remote administration tool) that can spread a computer plague not only on someone's property, but also on their privacy and most personal spaces," Manhattan US Attorney Preet Bharara said.

The FBI's investigation has shown that Blackshades was purchased by at least several thousand users in more than 100 countries and used to infect more than half a million computers worldwide.

One of the most high-profile victims was Miss Teen USA Cassidy Wolf, who received an email from an unidentified blackmailer who hijacked her computer and, while her laptop was open in her bedroom, was able to take nude photos and videos of her.

The blackmailer was later determined to be Jared Abrahams, a 20-year-old former classmate who was jailed for 18 months after pleading guilty to extortion and unauthorised access of a computer.

Abrahams had threatened to distribute the photos to end Wolf's "dream of being a model" unless she sent him better quality photos and video and performed a five-minute sex show via Skype.

Among the alleged perpetrators charged in the global takedown was Alex Ycel, the 24-year-old Moldova-based owner of Blackshades and Brendan Johnston, 23, of Los Angeles, who was accused of being paid by Blackshades to help market and sell the malware.

Blackshades allegedly generated sales of US$350,000 between September 2010 and April 2014 with more than 6000 customer accounts in more than 100 countries.
