
The French Air Force is to showcase its newly received Airbus Defence and Space (DS) A400M Atlas transport aircraft at this year's ILA Berlin Airshow, taking place from 20 to 25 May.

One of the two French Air Force A400Ms received to date will be displayed at ILA, and may be joined for some of the days by a company-owned test aircraft, IHS Jane's was told ahead of the event at the Berlin ExpoCenter Airport.

With the first test aircraft MSN001 having already been retired and many of the remaining five test platforms heavily involved in advanced military flight trials, Airbus DS is in the enviable position that it no longer has spare capacity to release aircraft to such trade events. This, says the company, is compounded by increased export interest in the A400M, which means that aircraft are involved in global campaigns and again cannot be freed up.

Despite the lack of availability of company-owned aircraft, Airbus DS will not be too concerned at leaving the lion's share of promotional work for its aircraft at ILA to the French Air Force.

The aircraft's brief introduction into theatre on 29 December 2013, so soon after being accepted into service, will have done the A400M's export chances no harm.

Billed as a competitor for the Lockheed Martin C-130J Hercules, the A400M can carry strategic payloads over strategic distances, while being able to deliver them in a tactical fashion to where they are needed. Figures released by Airbus DS show that with a 20-tonne payload, the A400M can fly an unrefuelled 3,400 n miles at 37,000 ft and at near-airliner speeds of Mach 0.72.

Upon reaching its destination, it can then deliver its cargo into an unprepared airstrip (rated 6 on the California Bearing Ratio scale).

With 174 aircraft on order with eight nations, Airbus DS has been scouring the globe to sign up its first export customer for the type since Malaysia ordered its four aircraft in 2005.

Airbus DS officials have previously told IHS Jane's that the company is looking to capture half the value of the estimated global medium/heavy-lift market of USD30 billion over the next 10 years. Over the next 30 years, it is aiming to sell 400 aircraft, and while this goal is challenging, it is certainly achievable in the long term.
