
Axing a fund that provides emergency support to people in a short-term crisis in Horsham would be ‘almost unconceivable’ according to one charity.

The Government announced earlier this year it would not be continuing funding to local authorities which helps charity Horsham Matters assist people in an emergency after 2015.

The service offers things such as food parcels, beds, sofas, cookers or washing machines to those on benefits or low income suffering a crisis or emergency.

Speaking to the County Times last week Guy Sherlock, services director at Horsham Matters, described his disbelief at the Government’s decision, how many people helped by the service walked out ‘in tears’, and said he dreaded to think what would happen without it.

He said: “My first reaction was utter disbelief. It’s almost unconceivable that money could not be made available for these people because it’s such an effective use of money.

“We are preventing a great deal of downstream issues arising further.

The Government’s Local Welfare Assistance Fund (LWAF) helps fund West Sussex County Council’s Local Assistance Network.

The LAN’s £1.24m budget helps the network of charities in West Sussex, including Horsham Matters, implement the services on the ground.

It is one of several projects run by Horsham Matters, which has charity shops in East Street and Guildford Road, Horsham.

Typical examples of people coming into the Horsham charity’s headquarters in Blatchford Road are those who have had their benefits stopped and are desperate for food, or others who may have moved house and cannot afford to buy furniture.

One woman came in having survived without a cooker for six months, living off cold or microwaved food.

After sitting down with the person and providing basic information Guy goes through what is needed, and if they can provide it they will.

He added: “The vast majority can’t believe we will give them all this stuff and a good percentage will walk out of here in tears.

“The great majority are in desperate need and are phenomenally grateful.

“Some times it can be very painful and quite distressing. You hear stories that are almost beyond belief.

Guy has posted several thank you letters from people who have been helped by the service on Horsham Matters’ website.

As well as providing goods the network flags up other services that may benefit people who use their service.

For example if they were providing furniture for a woman on her own and saw she was pregnant they might refer her to a pregnancy crisis centre, or if a person is in debt, they can be given the details for the Horsham Debt Advice Service.

He praised the work of the county council in overseeing the network of charities, and believes the LAN as a whole is getting better and better at delivering services.

The charities involved meet on a quarterly basis to discuss issues they come across and the best way to deliver a unified response.

Since the Government’s announcement both West Sussex County Council and Horsham District Council, as well as Horsham Matters, have called on the Government to reverse its decision on the fund.

But responding to a letter by David Sheldon, chief executive of Horsham Matters Iain Duncan Smith, Secretary of State for Work and Pensions, suggested it would be up to local authorities in the future to fund the LAN through their reduced Revenue Support Grant (RSG).

He wrote: “The Government believes that it makes most sense for local authorities in England to choose how much funding to allocate these services in their areas in future and how to provide such support.

But Louise Goldsmith, leader at the county council, has written to Horsham MP Francis Maude inviting him to visit Horsham Matters and talk about the future of the emergency welfare fund.

She has also written to Eric Pickles, Secretary of State for the Department of Communities and Local Government.

In her letter to Mr Maude Mrs Goldsmith expressed her disappointment that the decision to scrap the fund had been made before the promised review was undertaken.

Get your favourite newspaper at a great low price.

Call us on 0844 292 0216 or click here to start your subscription today!

© 2014 Johnston Publishing Ltd.

This website and its associated newspaper adheres to the Press Complaints Commission’s Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion, then contact the Editor by clicking  here .

If you remain dissatisfied with the response provided then you can contact the PCC by clicking here .

West Sussex Gazette provides news, events and sport features from the West Sussex area. For the best up to date information relating to West Sussex and the surrounding areas visit us at West Sussex Gazette regularly or bookmark this page.

For you to enjoy all the features of this website West Sussex Gazette requires permission to use cookies.

Cookies are small data files which are sent to your browser (Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome etc) from a website you visit. They are stored on your electronic device.

This is a type of cookie which is collected by Adobe Flash media player (it is also called a Local Shared Object) - a piece of software you may already have on your electronic device to help you watch online videos and listen to podcasts.

Yes there are a number of options available, you can set your browser either to reject all cookies, to allow only "trusted" sites to set them, or to only accept them from the site you are currently on.

However, please note - if you block/delete all cookies, some features of our websites, such as remembering your login details, or the site branding for your local newspaper may not function as a result.

A tool used by some of our advertisers to target adverts to you based on pages you have visited in the past. To opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

Our sites contain advertising from Google; these use cookies to ensure you get adverts relevant to you. You can tailor the type of ads you receive by visiting here or to opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

This is used to help us identify unique visitors to our websites. This data is anonymous and we cannot use this to uniquely identify individuals and their usage of the sites.

This comes from our ad serving technology and is used to track how many times you have seen a particular ad on our sites, so that you don't just see one advert but an even spread. This information is not used by us for any other type of audience recording or monitoring.

ComScore monitor and externally verify our site traffic data for use within the advertising industry. Any data collected is anonymous statistical data and cannot be traced back to an individual.

Our Classified websites (Photos, Motors, Jobs and Property Today) use cookies to ensure you get the correct local newspaper branding and content when you visit them. These cookies store no personally identifiable information.

We use Grapeshot as a contextual targeting technology, allowing us to create custom groups of stories outside out of our usual site navigation. Grapeshot stores the categories of story you have been exposed to. Their privacy policy and opt out option can be accessed here.

Our partner for Newspaper subscriptions online stores data from the forms you complete in these to increase the usability of the site and enhance user experience.

Add This provides the social networking widget found in many of our pages. This widget gives you the tools to bookmark our websites, blog, share, tweet and email our content to a friend.
