
Let me be clear, any time you feel the need to write “Let me be clear – UKIP is not a racist party” you are in a pickle. Parties shunned by actual, honest-to-goodness, copper-bottomed, ocean-going racists don’t usually need to make these things clear. There is a protesting-too-much vibe here, too, in which the more strenuously the Kippers reject the accusation so they only succeed in substantiating it. This might not be fair but it’s also life.

The precise point at which a party for racists or a party in which racists feel at home becomes a racist party is a metaphysical question the pondering of which need not detain us. Suffice it to say that Mr Farage’s admission there are plenty of “idiots” within UKIP speaks for itself.

I suppose Gordon Ferguson, the UKIP candidate in Southport who thinks his opponents should be hanged for treason is one of those idiots. But Mr Ferguson, poor fish, is merely following his leader’s example. After all, it is Mr Farage’s advertisement in today’s Daily Telegraph that bears the slogan: ALL WE WANT IS OUR COUNTRY BACK.

He may be. Who told the  Sunday Times  at the weekend that “We face the prospect where millions of British families, unless we take a grip on our borders, will effectively not be living in a first world country any more”? It wasn’t some previously unknown loony running for the council in Barmy-on-Sea, it was the dear leader himself. Perhaps he was ‘tired’ then too.

Alas poor Britannia; so pure once but now so, so swarthy.

And what to make of this? You see,“The vast majority of Romanians who have come to the UK wish to better their lives and would make good neighbours”.

In other words, even though the ‘vast majority’ of Romanians are fine, hard-working types I still think you should be worried if they move into your street. Why? Because, come on, we all know there’s a difference. There just is.

Does it matter if this is racist or even simply idiotic? Not really because it’s certainly very stupid.

I dare say UKIP will still do extremely well in this week’s elections. But the mask has slipped and only the credulous can still suspend their disbelief. This may one day be seen as the moment of Peak UKIP and though the party will doubtless have an impact upon next year’s general election its long-term prospects have been damaged severely in recent days.

The establishment prostitutes have been at the trough for too long.

They are so detached from the concerns of the actual electorate, the dirty bottom-feeders and depth-grovelers as they see them, that they can no longer be trusted to make the appropriate decisions necessary for self-rule.

The ruling class are all pretty much entrenched in power by blood and ancestry, they all attend the same private schools and universities. They are a parasitic influence, robbing the people of the UK and selling off their futures to corporate interests, banks and supranational dictatorial entities like the EU.

Look, I know the truth hurts, but Mr Farage did in point of fact invite a comparison between people’s reaction to a group of ROMANIAN MEN moving in next door as opposed to a group of GERMAN CHILDREN.

In what way is that a racist observation? Answers on a postcard please.

The liblabcon bias in media is astounding, the Guardian are the biggest culprits to this, just Google Nigel Farage and click on news and you will see from the past 2 weeks 20-30 articles on something racist Nigel Farage has done said, or that UKIP has endorsed.

Stupidity is not lacking in the anti-racist camp.

“Teachers are being forced to report children as young as three to the authorities for using alleged ‘racist’ language, it was claimed last night.

Munira Mirza, a senior advisor to London Mayor Boris Johnson, said schools were being made to spy on nursery age youngsters by the Race Relations Act 2000.

More than a quarter of a million children have been accused of racism since it became law, she said”.

A little “reality therapy” from Lord Ashcroft’s polling website,

Conservatives (25%) and UKIP (21%), with the Lib Dems languishing on 13%.

Plus this from Reuters.

Right let’s hear the really convincing reasons why this must be wrong.

It seems that some of those who want to remain in the EU are under the illusion that it is possible that the EU may return to being an economic union without political links.

“Public opinion is divided on the detail of Britain’s role in Europe, however. Around three in ten each would prefer to see ‘Britain’s relationship with Europe remaining broadly the same as at present’ (32%) and ‘Britain returning to being part of an economic community, without political links’ (30%). One in five would like to see ‘Britain leaving the European Union altogether’ (20%), with ‘closer political and economic integration’ with other EU member states the least favoured option (13%)”.

Yes but there is still a majority who would vote to remain in a straight in/out referendum.

At the moment, but one day the penny may drop.
