
Buy photos » The candidates and organisers outside the hotel. Picture by Sarah Thompson.

ON THURSDAY (May 22), residents across Worcestershire and the rest of the UK will be off to  the polls for the European elections.

Ahead of the big vote, there was some feisty debate at Droitwich's St Andrews Town Hotel where a hustings featuring five West Midlands candidates was held.

Among them were Alex Avern (Conservative), Phil Bennion (Liberal Democrat), James Carver (UKIP), Nikki Sinclaire (We Demand a Referendum) and Lynda Waltho (Labour).

► The first question from the floor was what the candidates thought of having an EU referendum.

Ms Avern said a referendum could only be given by a national government, but added these elections were important so David Cameron could have a good team of Conservative MEPs behind him.

She added between now and 2017 - when Mr Cameron has said there would be a referendum - the Tories would battle to get the best deal – she said Conservatives had already helped cut the EU budget by £8million and taken Britain out of the EU bailout zone.

Ms Waltho said only the general election could give the people a referendum.

“These elections are for a living, breathing parliament that's happening now that is taking decisions, making investment choices and giving grants – all the things the EU is doing,” she added.

Mr Bennion said the Lib Dems would support a referendum at the next treaty change if there were plans to move any further powers to the EU. He claimed the UK could not renegotiate a deal before 2017.

Ms Sinclaire said the Conservatives did not want to give a referendum and it was her national campaign and a 220,000 strong petition being taken to Downing Street which got Mr Cameron to the dispatch box.

► One audience member pointed out no one had been given the chance to vote on European political union. He said what people originally voted on was the Common Market - a free trade agreement. He questioned why a political element was even needed in Europe.

He added what the UK was in was a free trade agreement which led to less barriers and paperwork.

A business owner questioned that and said delivery of items his company had sent to Europe had been held up by EU bureaucracy.

Mr Bennion replied by saying that should not have happened and what the businessman had said had been contradicted by what the EEF(European Economic Fund) had said.

► Reflecting on comments made, host Mr Foster questioned the candidates on whether the general public were getting enough information on the European Union.

Ms Sinclaire said that was the reason she advocated a complete debate on the EU.

“We have been deceived by the main parties.

“It's for the people of this country to go beyond the usual parties and demand a referendum.

She called for an independent panel to be set up to scrutinise the EU and the facts surrounding it – how much it costs a day, the laws it makes and how many jobs depended on it.

Mr Bennion rounded on the British press, saying proceedings at Brussels were not reported. He said when he was at the EU, reporters were there from other countries, but not the UK.

He added the press needed to engage more and report both the positive and the negative.

And he added the British Government needed to do the same.

Mr Carver claimed the journey towards a federal Europe had been allowed to carry on. And he claimed, because the UK only had eight per cent of the vote on the Council of Ministers, of the 55 times Britain had tried to veto European legislation, it had been over-ruled 55 times.

► A question was asked about whether too much emphasis was placed on trading within the European Union and not the rest of the world.

Ms Sinclaire said wherever she had gone at the EU HQ in Brussels, she had never seen a map of the world.

Mr Carver said the world was a smaller place today, adding: “Countries do not trade with countries, companies trade with companies.

“If we left the European Union, it would show how much we can succeed against it.

Trainee chartered accontant Ms Avern said she agreed with Mr Carver that it was politicians talking about the European Union and companies she worked with were trading all over the world. She added the Single Market, although not perfect, was a good thing,

► Other questions featured issues, including social housing and cross-border crime.

Candidates were also asked about what Europe did best. Here's what they had to say.

Mr Carver: “The best thing Europe does is food, but we are talking about the European Union.

“The beauty of Europe is its diversity – the 28 member states. When you go out, you don't say I went out for a European, because it does not exist.

"You say you went out for a Spanish, or a French.” He added maybe one day we would realise that.

Buy photos » Candidates James Carver, Lynda Waltho, Alex Avern, Nikki Sinclaire and Phil Bennion with host Tony Fisher. Picture by Tristan Harris.
