
The French government is coming under fire from World War II vets - nearly all of them in their 90s and 100s - who say the European nation is breaking its promise to fly them to Normandy to celebrate the 70th anniversary of D-Day.

On June 6, 1944, 73,000 American troops landed in northern France and eventually helped liberate the nation from four years of Nazi occupation.

Now, at least one US Congressman says France is reneging on its obligation to the few remaining veterans who stormed the beachheads on Normandy.

Representative Michael Grimm told the New York Post that France should keep its promise and foot the bill for combat veterans who fought in Normandy to fly to France.

'Our chief-of-staff heard it from the French Embassy in DC - that they would be flown out to France,' spokesman Nick Iacono told the newspaper.

'France was supposed to pay for our airfare, hotel and transportation,' Theresa Tarangelo told the Post.

'Now they’re telling us they have nothing to do with it . . . It’s really frustrating.'

Ms Tarangelo's father,  Felice John Tulli, landed on Normandy on D-Day Plus One. His unit didn't face the intense firefight of those who breached the Nazi beachheads, but he still saw heavy action as the Allies drove the Nazis out of France. He is now 90 years old.

US Army Master Sergeant Manuel Perez, whose job is to coordinate between D-Day families and the French government, said it was 'common knowledge' that the French government would pay travel expenses for veterans and their spouses to fly to France for the D-Day commemorations this year - up to $7,000 in travel expenses.

After all, he says, the government did it for the 60th anniversary of D-Day in 2004.

Now Mr Tulli and his family are pooling their finances so that he can be in Normandy to honor the men he served with one last time.

The comments below have not been moderated.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
