
The Royals may have gone but British Airways is giving Australians one more reason to wave their flags in celebration. The only European airline to service Australia has launched a sale for those looking at spring and summer getaways. The British flag carrier’s ‘World On Sale’ promotion sees fares descend across its economy, premium economy and business class offerings to the UK, Europe and Asia.

Passengers can access more than 65 of Europe’s most exciting destinations, including the Royal residence of London, the meandering canals of romantic Venice, the artistic hub of Berlin, or the culinary capital of Paris.

For those who like a little more legroom or the option to go horizontal, premium economy fares to the UK and Europe are available. Fans of South-East Asia can also reap the benefits with fares to Singapore, Thailand and Malaysia.

To take advantage of the special fares, which exclude taxes and surcharges, customers should book before June 1, with travel permitted between September 1 – November 30, 2014, or January 16 – March 24, 2015.

With British Airways flying directly from Sydney airport, the airline has ensured all Australians can utilise its ‘World On Sale’ fares by making them applicable with its code-share partners Qantas, Cathay Pacific and Japan Airlines, who fly from every major port in Australia.

For those who like to break their trips up or explore along the way, there are eight stopover destinations available with the fares (normal stopover taxes apply), including Singapore, Bangkok, Hong Kong, Shanghai, Beijing, Chengdu, Tokyo and London, providing more flexibility than ever for passengers.

Airfares are quoted in Australian dollars and include all government taxes, fees and surcharges.

Offer starts from 14 May 2014 until 23:59 AEST 1 June 2014 unless sold old prior.

The advertised return fare offers are valid for departures from Sydney from 10 October 20 November 2014 and 16 January to 24 March 2015. Higher fares apply for travel outside these travel dates.

First and business class fares are valid for departures from 9 June to 24 March 2015. Higher fares apply for travel outside these travel dates.

The advertised fare in World Traveller Plus premium economy has a seven day and 14 day advance purchase restriction for travel to Singapore and UK/Europe respective.

The advertised fare in Club World Business Class has a seven day and 28 day advance purchase restriction for travel to Singapore and UK/Europe respective.

The advertised fare in year round FIRST Class has a three day advance purchase restriction for travel.

Fares are correct as of 7 May 2014, but may fluctuate due to changes in exchange rates, surcharges and taxes.

Offer in subject to availability and seats are limited.

Other terms and conditions apply.

The attention to detail and high level of service offered, have made this Emirates flight experience excellent all round.

You may have noticed e-Travel Blackboard has had a make-over? We're under new management and everything’s had a scrub & polish.

To start we've given our name a lift. Introducing ETB News - Global Travel News and Tourism News.

We’ve merged our five international sites into one www.etbnews.com .

We’ve listened to your feedback and now offer tailored newsletter subscriptions. Don’t forget to change your newsletter preferences or subscribe it’s FREE!
