
Black-taxi drivers are planning a mass protest in the London against Uber, a mobile application which is changing the way people hail cabs.

The Uber app allows people to use an application on their smart phone to find and book the nearest vehicle to their location for a set fare, using their credit card to make payment.

In London, black cabs are allowed to use bus lanes, pick up passengers who hail them in the street and charge via a meter. In contrast, private hire cars have fewer privileges but are still regulated and licensed.

However, according to the Licensed Taxi Drivers' Association (LTDA), although classified as a private hire service, Uber vehicles can use a charging system more like metering, even though there isn't a meter inside the car.

Transport for London who are looking into the technology said: "We've seen no evidence to suggest that Uber London Ltd are not fit and proper to hold a London private hire operators' licence."

London’s black cab drivers aren’t alone in their protest against technology that they say undermines their business. Uber has run into opposition in 15 of the 100 cities worldwide in which it operates – in the UK that includes Manchester.

However, Jo Bertram, general manager of Uber in the UK and Ireland, said the service was so popular that the average wait for a cab was around five minutes.

Bertram said: "The private hire industry hasn't been shaken up in a decade or more. The laws governing it were written in 1988, before smart phones were even invented. All our drivers are independent operators, but clients can rate their driver at the end of a journey, so we make sure the right people are out there and the right price is charged at the end of each journey."

The idea is very simple. If you need to order a taxi, you look at the app on your phone, see where the nearest car is and order it. You can then watch the little icon on screen as it approaches. The payment is then taken from the registered credit card.

Nicko Williamson who runs Bounce, another app-driven taxi firm said: "A lot of people don't realise how big this market is. There are 65,000 mini cabs in London. But it has been very inefficient. A driver who picks someone up in central London and drops them off out in the sticks is driving back empty. That's wasted mileage, higher pollution, higher congestion and no money earned. The app system allows that cab to be booked immediately by someone in the area."
