
An RAF fighter pilot who took part in the first dog fight of the Second World War and was the last survivor of the Battle of France has died at the age of 93.

Wing Commander Peter Ayerst DFC survived combat operations in the Battle of France, Battle of Britain, El Alamein and D-Day.

In October 1939 he became the first RAF pilot to come into combat with a German fighter plane - and that was by accident.

While on a patrol over France, at the age of 19, he momentarily flew off in the wrong direction.

After a while he found what he thought was the rest of his French squadron and flew in behind the nine planes.

He gave a short burst of fire before diving out of the way.

Another 18 Messerschmits arrived as did the rest of Wg Cdr Ayerst's patrol and the first combat of the war broke out.

Wg Cdr Ayerst went on to rack up more hours in a Spitfire than any other flyer bar one and that was the chief test pilot for manufacturers Vickers Armstrong.

In 1944 he was awarded the prestigious Distinguished Flying Cross for his gallantry and devotion to duty.

Wg Cdr Ayerst, who shot down nine enemy aircraft during the Second World War, was the last surviving British fighter pilot to take part in the Battle of France.

He died on Thursday, May 15, in a care home in Beckenham, Kent.

Family and friends have paid tribute to the RAF veteran who is said to have defied the odds to survive the war due to his great skill at flying.

His granddaughter Gemma Baggot said: 'Peter enjoyed spending time with all the family, and enjoyed a lovely glass of red wine, or a good gin and tonic whilst talking over good times.

'Peter was also a fervent rugby fan all his life, having played as a centre in his younger years.

'I certainly will remember him as a man with a zest for life, and who always had a cheeky glint in his eye, and who was quietly proud of all he achieved.'

In an interview before his death, Wg Cdr Ayerst recalled the day he came face to face with the enemy.

He said: 'I was the first RAF fighter pilot ever to come into combat with a Messerschmit 109.

'On that day our squadron were the  first offensive fighter patrol of the war. As I was turning around to come  back to France, underneath me I saw nine aircraft in line.

'I thought "here come our boys on this patrol".

'I joined in formation, tagged on the end and saw bloody great black crosses. So I pulled up and gave a quick squirt at the enemy and went down.

'Unbeknown to me there were another 18 of them making 27 altogether.'

Of surviving the entire war, he said: 'One stayed with it, got through it and, if you were lucky, came out the other side.'

Wg Cdr Ayerst underwent advanced flying training in Lincolnshire in 1939 and achieved a short service commission to the RAF.

He flew Hawker Hurricanes in 73 Squadron which was based in Rouves, northern France, from October 1939 through to the fall of France in May 1940.

After returning to Britain he was based in Cheshire, teaching young fighter pilots aerial warfare.

During one lesson in August 1940 - the height of the Battle of Britain - his services were called upon when a German Heinkel bomber appeared in the skies.

He and two other pilots took off and shot the plane down. Years later Wg Cdr Ayerst met two members of the German crew who thanked him for helping them survive the war by being captured.

In 1942 he was posted to North Africa and flew Spitfires and Hurricanes, intercepting enemy aircraft.

On his 22nd birthday on November 4, 1942, his plane was cut down by German flak and he crash landed on a road.

It was too risky to walk across the desert by day to find his squadron, so he waited until dark.

Just as he set off an Australian army  truck pulled up and an officer told him to get in immediately as he was  about to walk through a darkened minefield.

He took to the skies again in the aftermath of D-Day.

Wg Cdr Ayerst's biographer, Hugh Thomas, said: 'For Peter to survive through four major air theatres of the war, he must have been a very special pilot.

'Many pilots could fly a Spitfire but very few could make them dance and that is what Peter could do.

'I can't think of any other pilots who spent more time in Spitfires other than Peter and Alex Henshaw, who was the chief test pilot for Vickers.

'Peter flew in and tested all the Spitfires, from Mark I to Mark 22.

'I am very sad to hear that he has died not least because Peter has been a close friend of mine. There are few people you meet who make a difference to your life but Peter was one of them.'

Andy Saunders, a military aviation historian, said: 'Peter Ayerst was one of the first RAF fighter pilots to see action in World War Two but was remarkable in seeing action in the Battle of France, Battle of Britain, El Alamein, Normandy landings, Arnhem and offensive sweeps into the Ruhr.

'The odds were stacked against surviving just one of those campaigns - let alone seeing action, on and off, for most of the war.

'In his career as a fighter pilot he destroyed nine enemy aircraft, probably destroyed two more and damaged four.

'He was an amazing man, and immensely modest - as well as being a true gentleman. His passing is a great loss to the aviation community.'

The comments below have been moderated in advance.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
