
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .

If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page .

Zoom in on this story. Explore all there is to know.

If you've always wanted to try legendary Australian wines such as Henschke Hill of Grace or Penfolds Grange but baulk at paying $800 for a bottle, there's a cheaper alternative for tasting greatness.

In response to a growing demand for good wines, and with help from technology that keeps opened wines fresh, some of Australia's top restaurants are offering so-called “super-premium” wines by the glass.

The Henschke family has collaborated with a number of restaurants to create special matches and deals for a limited time to celebrate the release of the 2009 Hill of Grace. Many of the restaurants are offering the wine for no more than the pro rata cost of buying a bottle retail.

Can't afford the bottle? All is not lost.

First created by Cyril Henschke in 1958, from 150-year-old vines on a single 4-hectare vineyard, the 2009 is the 52nd vintage. Winemaker Stephen Henschke describes the 2009 as “an exceptional showcase of old vine complexity, character and resilience”.

“It has all the benchmark characters of five spice, berry fruit and layers of fine French oak, a deep, rich and textural palate finishing with long, fine velvety tannins,” Stephen Henschke says.

Peter McAtamney from Wine Business Solutions says the trend towards wines by the glass is growing, up 4 per cent on last year to nearly one-third of listings at 32 per cent.

“When we first undertook this research in November 2008, by-the-glass listings were 26 per cent and there has been a steady build ever since,” he says.

His research is published in Wine On-Premise Australia 2014 which uses nearly 20,000 listings taken from 600 lists, representing every type of on-premise outlet from across Australia.

The data reveals a small drop in the average price for wines by the glass, to $9.83 from $9.99, and there a big variations in average glass and bottle prices between states.

However, McAtamney says that anecdotally there's a big trend of listing super-premium wines by the glass as a novelty, aided by wine preservation systems such as the Enomatic.

Surprisingly, fine dining restaurants tend to have smaller by-the-glass options in contrast to their extensive bottle lists.

“We are seeing a rise in the number of venues that want to list almost everything by the glass. This is not a good idea, of course, in the absence of an Enomatic or similar gas preservation system,” McAtamney says.

Among those dabbling in top-end drops is The Winery in Sydney's Surry Hills, where 1997 Penfolds Grange is $99 a glass, or $49 for half a glass and $500 a bottle.

Tetsuya's general manager and sommelier Stuart Halliday says the restaurant offers a range of premium wines by the glass, starting with 2004 Dom Perignon champagne for $60, as well as 2009 Castagna Genesis shiraz from Beechworth, Victoria for $42 and 2005 Moss Wood Cabernet Sauvignon for $55.

“It gives people the option of not spending $250 on a bottle, but still savouring a flagship wine, be it from France, Germany or Australia,” Halliday says.

At ARIA in Sydney, sommelier Matthew Dunne has Moss Wood's 1995 cabernet sauvignon for $47 for 75ml (half a glass). A bottle is $495.

At Melbourne's Attica, one of the world's 50 best restaurants, sommelier Banjo Harris Plane serves an '09 Barolo (regarded as Italy's Grange) by Giovanni Canonica Paiagallo for $42.

Sydney's est. restaurant, which currently offers the Hill of Grace, has 1999 Château d'Yquem, the legendary Sauternes dessert wine from France, for $89.

Chris Morrison, group sommelier at Guillaume Brahimi's restaurants, is currently compiling premium wine by-the-glass options for the new Guillaume restaurant in Sydney's Paddington, which opens next month.

“It makes great wines accessible without spending too much money and means you don't have to put all your eggs in one bottle,” he says.

Neil Perry's Rockpool group, which has one of the nation's finest wine cellars, offers top wines from around the world by the glass, including the 2009 Hill of Grace for $110 at Rockpool and the 100-year-old 1914 Seppeltsfield Para vintage fortified for $98, as well as a Grand Cru Burgundy, '07 Camille Giroud, Latricières-Chambertin, for $48, at Rockpool Bar & Grill, Sydney.

Rockpool group head sommelier Michael Engelmann says it has just invested in new Coravin wine technology to up the ante on its premium by-the-glass options.

But if you really want to sample great wines, fly Qantas business class. The Epicure program has eight Penfolds wines in an Enomatic system in business lounges. You can try four vintages of Grange – '02, '03, '04, '05 – as well as three vintages of the “white Grange”, Yattarna chardonnay, 2000, '07 & '08, as well as the $350 2010 Bin 169 cabernet.

No wonder the business passengers don't mind if the plane is delayed.

Felix, Sydney: $250 for 2 glasses (125ml), with a Cote de Boeuf.

est. Sydney: $115 for 1 glass of Hill of Grace 2009 with a cheese plate.

Chianti Classico, Adelaide: $125 for 125ml with 'Deer Farm' venison, truffled chocolate and chilli sauce and white polenta.
