
In an online presentation for health professionals on May 27, 2014, Dr. Swingle will discuss the behaviours of adults and children with IA and the changes in the brain that are associated with the disorder. He will compare internet addiction with other types of addictive behavior and demonstrate the role of neurotherapy with this population.

There are parallels that can be drawn between internet addiction (and by extension tablets and smartphones) and other addictive behaviors.

On Tuesday, May 27th, Dr. Paul G. Swingle will discuss the hot topic of " Internet Addiction " in a webinar hosted by the Biofeedback Federation of Europe.

Technology has changed the way we live - we literally have the world at our fingertips. Our devices give us access to an endless stream of diversions, but at what potential cost? And, at what point does internet use become problematic? According to Dr. Paul Swingle, "There are parallels that can be drawn between internet addiction (and by extension tablets and smartphones) and other addictive behaviors. For instance, if you try to take a device away from a child, they react the same way as when you try to take a needle from an addict. There are similarities in the brain's architecture with all types of addictions. The brain tells us everything."

After the initial assessment, the BFE ClinicalQ and BrainDryvr  software (available through the BFE), generates a report that interprets the (EEG) data and flags values that are outside of the norms based on Dr. Swingle's clinical database. The report also provides guidance on how to use Dr. Swingle's braindriving method to optimize EEG features based on the report. Stimuli used in the braindriving protocols include specific combinations of vetted tones, harmonics and images. According to Dr. Swingle, one of the best things about neurotherapy is, "It marries well with other kinds of therapy whether it's experiential, EMDR, cognitive behaviour and so forth. Once the brain is functioning more efficiently, then it just markedly enhances the efficacy of these other procedures."

This is the second webinar in a four-part series. The remaining topics are, "Is it Really ADHD?" and "Keeping Mentally Sharp While You Age".

Dr. Swingle is a Fellow of the Canadian Psychological Association and a former Lecturer in Psychiatry at Harvard Medical School. Professor Swingle formerly held the posts of Chairman of the Faculty of Child Psychology, Full Professor and Clinical Supervisor at the University of Ottawa. He has taught at McGill University, Dalhousie University and McMaster University. He is a Registered Psychologist in British Columbia and is (BCIA) Certified in Biofeedback and Neurotherapy. Since 1997 he has been in private practice in Vancouver, British Columbia. He is the author of Biofeedback for the Brain (2008) published by Rutgers University Press.

The Biofeedback Federation of Europe (BFE) is community interest company in the UK leading the way to share knowledge in the field of biofeedback. Through its “Learn From the Best” program, it offers a variety of webinars, online classes, courses, software and workshops with applications in healthcare, mental health, optimal performance and sport. Content is developed independently by International Research & Education Project teams. For more information, visit the BFE Online Shop.
