
THE Australian dollar is slightly lower in cautious trade ahead of the release of the minutes of the Reserve Bank's May board meeting.

At 0705 AEST on Tuesday, the local unit was trading at 93.29 US cents, down from 93.50 cents on Monday.

And the Australian share market is set to rise after a boost to tech stocks lifted Wall Street.

At 0700 AEST on Tuesday, the March share price index futures contract was up 20 points at 5,437.

WASHINGTON — The Justice Department has charged Credit Suisse AG with helping wealthy Americans avoid paying taxes through offshore accounts, and a person familiar with the matter says the European bank has agreed to pay about $US2.6 billion in penalties.

LONDON — British drugmaker AstraZeneca has rejected a “final” $US117 billion ($A126.5 billion) takeover bid from US rival Pfizer, appearing to put an end to a deal that would have created a sector giant.

LOS ANGELES — Priming itself for the age of internet-delivered video, AT&T Inc says it will buy DirecTV for $US48.5 billion ($A52.4 billion) in cash and stock, or $US95 per share.

WASHINGTON — US and European negotiators have opened a new round of talks on creating a transatlantic free trade zone amid rising political and public resistance to the deal on both sides.

FRANKFURT — The European Central Bank has issued another signal that it's preparing further moves to avert the risk of deflation in the 18 countries that share the euro.

MADRID — The level of bad loans held by Spanish banks, which peaked at the end of 2013, edged down in March to 13.39 per cent from 13.4 per cent, new Bank of Spain data shows.

FRANKFURT — A group of 21 European central banks say they have no plans to sell “significant” amounts of gold over the next five years.

MANILA — The Philippine economy will more than double in the next decade as earnings from overseas workers and business outsourcing surge, a US-based think-tank says.

REYKJAVIK — Iceland says it's successfully launched a debt cancellation project for mortgage holders which should benefit around half of the country's households.
