
The previous week was quite eventful largely for all the wrong reasons. The sudden change of mind by President Jonathan to visit Chibok on his way to France to attend a ‘kindergarten’ class on security alongside his equally in-dire-need-of-a-baby-sitter West African colleagues was one of them. The purpose of the France trip was to find a solution to the seemingly intractable Boko Haram imbroglio. Talk about mutual trust between the fox and the hen.

Just as the president was about to score a cheap point that might have slowed, if not stopped his continuous decline on the scale of leadership, his strong circle of associates chose to waste the chance. Perhaps, out of fear for his own personal safety, he saw wisdom and canceled his visit to Chibok, an action many Nigerians saw as an immoral neglect of constitutional mandate and responsibility, as well, a fair view of how not a president should behave.

To worsen matters, the president’s performance in Paris only succeeded in showcasing his nationally acknowledged incompetence on a wider global scale. With ongoing Cannes Film festival in full blast a stone throw away, the timing couldn’t be better. President Jonathan’s Paris speech, which have since gone viral on the internet was a source of embarrassment for Nigeria especially when juxtaposed with the apparent excessive display of inferiority complex by President Jonathan which could easily pass for a call to the return of the colonial days.

The president succinctly captured the pathetic situation with the declaration: “This is the second time within a year that we have come to Paris to discuss what are essentially African security issues”. This is bizarre. Why should our leaders always neglect or misplace their priorities only for them to embark on a wild goose chase. How in God’s name should somebody expect a solution from France on the Boko Haram menace while refusing to work in harmony with most governors in northern Nigeria, particularly those of the N’East.

Perhaps the president is not even aware about the numerous conspiracy theories concerning France in relation to Boko Haram, most of which were loaded with logical, even if not proven hypothesis. Beside, this is the same France that stood firmly by Biafra that most people believed the most important single reason for battered Biafra’s continuing survival against the attacks of the Nigerian Federal Army was a steady infusion of French military aid.

Nobody should pretend France is no longer interested in realising its ambitious dream of economic dominance of West Africa hence, it’s easy to see that what France couldn’t get through Biafra may well be there for its taking through President Jonathan and the Boko Haram mess his regime created. Juxtapose France’s sudden interest in Nigeria, the APF/Boko Haram mutual connection, the stylish way France drafted itself into the war through cases of its ‘kidnapped’ citizens by ‘Boko Haram’ in different parts of Nigeria – with most, if not all victims freed under unclear circumstances usually without firing a single shot, a clear deviation from the Boko Haram modus operandi.

Its like the africans have forgotten that at the height of anti-Gadafi war fully sponsored by the west, France used helicopters dropping caches of arms in communities across Libya.  This arms now in various hands with evil motives will make most of Africa  bath in blood for a while to come. Not forgetting that Libya has been in civil war of multiple proportion since the demise of Gadafi.

Mr. Kaita or whosoever you call yourself. You will be fooling yourself in chasing a wild goose you are accusing Jonathan of chasing. What are your reasons for this nonsensical piece that France is behind BH. Was France the creator of the acute poverty and inequality in the North. Was France the creator of total impoverishment of the talakawas even as you guys ruled the country? Was France the reason why injustice, poverty, and impunity is the other of the day particularly in the North. Common man; be sensible and stop all these fancy write up. Which society has ever survived these kinds of vices prevalent in Nigeria. Your shifting internal dysfunctional realities to external causative factors is the most cowardly senseless thing to do. This kind of mindset you tend to propagate can never solve this problem. President Jonathan and his ineptitude apart. You guys are the creators of BH, by your class aberration created in Northern Nigeria. No you did. I put it squarely on your table. When you created the almajiris, what were you thinking? That human beings which you turned into modernn day slaves and animals to serve your whelms and caprices will remain like that?. Your supposition at best is nonsensical and should be left to those who deal in the boundaries of mysticism and magic at best.

How can we ever move forward with this kind of diatribe. Same kind of thinking leads us to think we live in different reference climes under different rules, when in fact we’re all here and groaning under the same wahala. Let’s speak to each other, making relevant, fact-based references and illustrations rather trading insults. No one will sort our issues except we do it ourselves. We all have no other country than this one that we’ve found ourselves in, and making it stronger and more comfortable should be our common goal.

Dear Waziri, are we now ready to build a nation? An egalitarian society, where no man will be judged by his regional root or ethnic cleavage or his religion but only by the content of his character and quality of his mind? Are we ready? In a multi religeous and pluralistic ethnic coloration,, how can one religious group or ethnic group arrogate to themselves divine inheritance to rule? That cant stand in our today’s world. Untill we all face the reality that all men are created equal and have certain inherent rights, we cant move forward in Nigeria, No, not possible. Some people believe they are divinly more Nigerians than others. Such arrogance at best can lead us back to 19th century not this century my friend.

On a more realistic note I believe like you said we must all honestly talk to ourselves without these entrenched traditional biases.

Maybe you live in the moon not Nigeria. CDS North, Minister of defence North, NSA North. IG North, CGS North. How can you claim France is behind BH on one hand and then claim on the other hand they are the leading enemy of Muslims.I dont get this kind of incongruent argument. As concerning 2015, Mr. Umar, I am not a supporter of GEJ, whosoever presents a better alternative I will support. But will vote against all religious bigots who want power as if it is there divine right.
