
Personalize your weather by entering a location.

Sorry, but the location you entered was not found. Please try again.

This penthouse at the Symphony House at 440 S. Broad Street in Philadelphia is on the market for $5,025,000.

Offered for the first time, this is one of the finest penthouses available in Center City. It's glamorous, glorious, light-filled living space, approximately 4500 square feet that extends to north- and west-facing terraces off the dining room, kitchen and family room. Enjoy unparalleled panoramic views of the city and entertain on a grand scale inside and out.

The main living spaces are open with architectural elements dividing the formal living spaces. Floor-to-ceiling windows extend along the entire outer perimeter of the living/dining area and den/study. The dining area, with a double-height ceiling and direct access to the terrace, is simply phenomenal.

A well-designed, European-style kitchen includes a sizable island with breakfast bar, Viking Professional appliances and stainless steel apron-front sink with professional grade pullout faucet. Counter surfaces are topped by 2.5" quartz, and there is more than ample cabinetry. Double doors from the kitchen open to another terrace.

Adjacent to the kitchen is a family/media room, again with access to the terrace. The private quarters are reached by a gracious curved stairwell, and each of the four en suite bedrooms enjoys memorable city views. The main bedroom suite features a sitting area with a two-part walk-in closet completely outfitted with built-ins.

A spa-like marble bath includes a soaking tub, oversized walk-in steam shower and double vanity.

Designer finishes have been used throughout, adding delightful aesthetic touches befitting this sensational city residence.

Beyond the luxury elements, this home features some very practical amenities, among them a doggy "penthouse run" on the terrace and a full laundry room with pet bath/double stainless soaking tubs; Crestron lighting; remote-controlled window blinds, two garage parking spaces and the 24/7 doorman and concierge services, fitness center, indoor pool, offered by Symphony House.
