
AN INDEPENDENT Scotland would be accepted into the European Union (EU), according to anti-independence members of the European Parliament.

Veteran Scottish Labour MEP David Martin and Scots-born Liberal Democrat MEP Sir Graham Watson have distanced themselves from Better Together claims that Scotland could find itself outside of the EU if it votes for independence.

Mr Martin, the second longest-serving MEP in Europe, said Scotland would “of course” get into the EU and keep the UK’s opt-outs of the euro and Schengen free travel area in an interview with the Sunday Herald.

Talks would begin before the SNP’s proposed independence day in March 2016, he added.

Sir Graham, president of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe Party, said Europe “cannot throw outside the EU a territory that is already part of the EU” in an interview with Spanish radio published in the Sunday Post.

Mr Martin said: “My view is that Scotland, of course, would get into the EU eventually.

He added: “There would be negotiations and I think the commission would recommend Scotland qualifies for membership.

“Formally, the commission say they can only talk to the government, and until a government is elected we can’t negotiate.

Sir Graham, who was born in Rothesay and now represents South West England, said: “Some say that Scotland will not become a member of the EU, some others say that Scotland will become a new member and some others say that Scotland will have to reapply for membership.

Yes Scotland chief executive Blair Jenkins said: “What David Martin and Sir Graham Watson are saying demolishes core elements of the No campaign’s claims about Scotland’s EU membership and confirms what a host of experts and most sensible people have been saying since the independence campaign began.

An independent Scotland’s place in Europe has returned to the fore this week with the European Parliament elections beginning on Thursday.

© 2014 Johnston Publishing Ltd.

This website and its associated newspaper adheres to the Press Complaints Commission’s Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion, then contact the Editor by clicking here .

If you remain dissatisfied with the response provided then you can contact the PCC by clicking here .

The Scotsman provides news, events and sport features from the Edinburgh area. For the best up to date information relating to Edinburgh and the surrounding areas visit us at The Scotsman regularly or bookmark this page.

For you to enjoy all the features of this website The Scotsman requires permission to use cookies.

Cookies are small data files which are sent to your browser (Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome etc) from a website you visit. They are stored on your electronic device.

This is a type of cookie which is collected by Adobe Flash media player (it is also called a Local Shared Object) - a piece of software you may already have on your electronic device to help you watch online videos and listen to podcasts.

Yes there are a number of options available, you can set your browser either to reject all cookies, to allow only "trusted" sites to set them, or to only accept them from the site you are currently on.

However, please note - if you block/delete all cookies, some features of our websites, such as remembering your login details, or the site branding for your local newspaper may not function as a result.

A tool used by some of our advertisers to target adverts to you based on pages you have visited in the past. To opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

Our sites contain advertising from Google; these use cookies to ensure you get adverts relevant to you. You can tailor the type of ads you receive by visiting here or to opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

This is used to help us identify unique visitors to our websites. This data is anonymous and we cannot use this to uniquely identify individuals and their usage of the sites.

This comes from our ad serving technology and is used to track how many times you have seen a particular ad on our sites, so that you don't just see one advert but an even spread. This information is not used by us for any other type of audience recording or monitoring.

ComScore monitor and externally verify our site traffic data for use within the advertising industry. Any data collected is anonymous statistical data and cannot be traced back to an individual.

Our Classified websites (Photos, Motors, Jobs and Property Today) use cookies to ensure you get the correct local newspaper branding and content when you visit them. These cookies store no personally identifiable information.

We use Grapeshot as a contextual targeting technology, allowing us to create custom groups of stories outside out of our usual site navigation. Grapeshot stores the categories of story you have been exposed to. Their privacy policy and opt out option can be accessed here.

Our partner for Newspaper subscriptions online stores data from the forms you complete in these to increase the usability of the site and enhance user experience.

Add This provides the social networking widget found in many of our pages. This widget gives you the tools to bookmark our websites, blog, share, tweet and email our content to a friend.

We use Advertising agencies to provide us with some of the advertising on our websites. These include (but are not limited to) Specific Media, The Rubicon Project, AdJug, AdConion, Context Web. Please click on the provider name to visit their opt-out page.
