
Kim Kardashian has put so much effort into her pre-wedding fitness regime that she was able to allow herself a treat in Paris. The queen of reality TV stopped off for an ice cream with fiancé Kanye West ahead of their nuptials this weekend.

In tight light blue jeans and a white top with a plunging neckline and cut out back, Kim, 33, showed off her incredible curves as the couple took an outing in the French capital. She had finished off her look with a slicked back ponytail and gold stilettos.

The mother-of-one gave fans an even closer look at her figure when she posted a post-workout shot last week, featuring her washboard flat abs .

Kim and Kanye are keeping well-wishers and even their guests guessing about the exact details of the celebrations. The nearlyweds have rented the Chateau D'Usse in France - as well as another grand venue in Florence, the Forte Belvedere.

A spokeswoman for the Mayor of Florence has confirmed to the Associated Press that couple would tie the knot in the Italian city next Saturday and said they had rented the fort for 300,000 euros ($410,000).  She added that a protestant minister would preside over the ceremony.

It's thought that the French venue will be the setting for a rehearsal dinner on May 23 before the bride and groom transport their friends and family to neighbouring Italy.

The bride, who is marrying for a third time, isn't letting the media frenzy get to her. On Monday morning she posted an image of the skyline in the City of Light, with the caption: "Beautiful day in Paris".

While Kim hasn't confirmed that Florence is the location for the main ceremony, Kanye has been extolling the virtues of the city. He told Florence's La Nazione newspaper that he and his fiancée came to the city incognito and that their daughter North, born June 2013, was conceived among "Renaissance masterpieces".

"It was our first honeymoon," he said of that visit. "It's one of the most beautiful cities of the world, for me the most beautiful in Europe."

Asked about the wedding on May 24, he said he was "very happy, very excited".
