
It was terrifying. The kids were screaming and the other dogs were barking. They were going ballistic.

The tragedy comes just a fortnight after a British couple fought off a python attacking their pooch in another part of the same park.

Mrs Heyring, of Windsor, in Berkshire, reportedly said: "It was massive. It had to easily be about 16ft because Charlie was a big dog of about four-and-a-half stone and he was almost the size of my labrador.

"The scary thing is that it happened so quickly, from hearing Charlie’s awful squeal and coming round the corner to being confronted by the horrific sight of the huge snake coiled around Charlie.

"It was terrifying. The kids were screaming and the other dogs were barking. They were going ballistic.

"After about a minute of me hitting it, Charlie stopped squealing and I knew that was it.

"There was nothing I could do and I just had to get the kids and the other dogs away."

She said: "We are all very upset. Charlie was a rescue puppy. He was about 18 months old and a lovely dog.

"It was a horrific thing to witness and to feel so helpless. I had my husband’s diving knife in the back pack because I had read about the snake attack the other week, but the snake was colossal and I was so scared it would turn on the kids.

"My youngest is about the same size as Charlie. I keep thinking: 'What if my son Kaspar had been in front?. What would the snake have done to him?' It’s just too horrible to contemplate."

Two weeks ago, British expats Courtney Link and her husband Pete managed had to rescue their dog Dexter from a python about five miles from the scene of Saturday’s attack.

"Many times people ask me what they should they do if a python attacks their dog," he reportedly said. "You have to really go for it. Grab it by the tail and start yanking it and walking backwards.

"Pythons don’t like the idea of not being anchored down. It might tighten up at first but keeping pulling it by the tail and it will let go."

See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper,    order back issues and use the historic Daily Express    newspaper archive.
