
CANNES, France -- Ivory-skinned, red-head beauty Jessica Chastain looked like an ethereal Roman goddess for the "Foxcatcher" premiere at Cannes in a gown by Elie Saab.

The asymmetrical, one-shoulder, silk couture gown -- in on-trend purple -- fluttered and turned elemental as the French Riviera wind picked up, showing off the beauty of the delicate ruffles.

Taken from the haute couture spring-summer 2014, Lebanese designer Saab shows he's lost none of his talent with the va-va-voom traffic stoppers. And Chastain worked the carpet -- and the wind -- with grace.

Robert Pattinson is making quite a surprising reputation for himself -- as the actor who has sex with older women in cars on film.

The 28-year-old star plays Jerome, a chauffeur and would-be actor, in David Cronenberg's latest film "Maps to the Stars," which premiered Monday at Cannes. In it, he has a romp with the desperate Julianne Moore character in a car.

And it comes just two years after he filmed a sex scene with the 50-year-old Juliette Binoche in a limousine in Cronenberg's last film "Cosmopolis."

Quizzed by journalists on the dubious habit, he rated the respective performance of his co-stars.

"Both(are) like 7s. I'm joking. Obviously Julianne. It was a wonderful experience.  It was extremely sweaty," he said.

"It's sublime," retorted Moore, 53.

As for Cronenberg, he said the reason why he's included automotive sex scenes in his films is simple -- it happens.

"There's an entire generation of Americans who have been spawned in the backseat of 1974 Fords.

Copyright © The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

ATTENTION COMMENTERS: We've changed our comments, but want to keep you in the conversation.

Please login below with your Facebook, Twitter, Google+ or Disqus account.  Existing MyNorthwest account holders will need to create a new Disqus account or use one of the social logins provided below. Thank you.
