
A confluence of economic fortune is building the Dallas-Fort Worth area into a massive trade gateway.

California and its Pacific ports have held sway since the 1980s with goods from Asia. But shippers now see a shift underway. The North American Free Trade Agreement partners are reclaiming competitive advantage from China, South Korea and Japan.

Four new automobile plants are expected to open in Mexico this year. Their production will push Mexico past Japan this year as a source of autos sold in the United States. Next year, Mexico is poised to surpass Canada and become the top supplier of the U.S. market.

Trucks loaded with parts and products move back and forth across the border with Mexico in a huge river of commerce. They are making Interstate 35 a Mississippi River among highways.

The Dallas area benefits because of trucking’s importance to the economy. In 2012, there were 1,676 trucking companies in the Dallas-Fort Worth-Arlington region. Trucking employed about 30,000 people in Dallas and Tarrant counties.

Last month, there were nearly that many (28,200) employed in trucking just in the Dallas-Plano-Irving area — up 5.2 percent from 2013.

“Dallas is obviously in a great position,” said Tom Sanderson, chief executive of Dallas-based Transplace, a logistics management firm. “Unlike a lot of areas, the highway infrastructure investment being made in Dallas is fantastic.

Transplace hosted a shippers conference last week at the Grand Hyatt Hotel at Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport.

Speakers included former Mexican President Vicente Fox, who urged his audience to lobby the U.S. government for more access for Mexican truckers — and more access to the U.S. market for Mexican potatoes.

A panel of NAFTA experts agreed that there are plenty of opportunities ahead to grow investment, trade and employment among the United States, Canada and Mexico.

Mexico is surpassing Japan as a supplier of cars to the U.S. market because of new Japanese plants in Mexico. Nissan, Honda and Mazda have opened factories in the last several months. They plan to export cars to Europe and Latin America as well.

“There’s a very real manufacturing renaissance that is taking place, with an opportunity for improving the jobs picture in all three [NAFTA] countries,” said Leslie Blakey, president and executive director of the Coalition for America’s Gateways & Trade, a Washington trade group.

D/FW airport is coaxing Mexican manufacturers in Monterrey to send goods by truck to Dallas, where they can be air-freighted to Asia. Transplace brought Dal-Tile and Whirlpool together so they could ship Mexico-made appliances and tile together in containers to North Texas.

Christopher Wilson, senior associate of the Mexico Institute at the Woodrow Wilson Center in Washington, said air freight and container trains are going to take a bigger share of the load in the future. But for now and the foreseeable future, trucks dominate.

Sanderson agreed with Fox that trucking from Mexico still needs to be liberalized. U.S. truckers have opposed this since NAFTA became law in 1994. A pilot program allowing some Mexican truckers to cross the border without stopping to take goods from one U.S. city to another expires this year.

Most Mexican truck trailers are transferred to U.S. rigs or goods are offloaded along the border area onto U.S. trailers.

Blakey said customs and immigration procedures on the U.S. side of the border constitute a bottleneck that has persisted since the 9/11 terrorist attacks.

“We need a digitized, online system rather than actual paper filings which, surprisingly, are still rule for a lot of the customs brokerage with Mexico,” he said.

Follow Jim Landers on Twitter at @landersjim.

To post a comment, log into your chosen social network and then add your comment below. Your comments are subject to our Terms of Service and the privacy policy and terms of service of your social network. If you do not want to comment with a social network, please consider writing a letter to the editor .

MOST UNFORGETTABLE EXPERIENCE ON THE JOB: Traveling by steam locomotive through the night in China in 1985.

SOMETHING PEOPLE DON'T KNOW ABOUT ME: I'm bashful.

IF I HAD TWO SPARE HOURS, I WOULD: Write.

Education: Graduated in English, with honors, Virginia Tech '74. Joined The Dallas Morning News in 1981 after two years in Saudi Arabia, one in Montana, two in New Jersey, one in Richmond, one in Northern Ireland and a couple more in the Washington, D.C., suburbs.
