
Barring a political earthquake on Thursday, young Emily Benn – granddaughter of Tony – will be elected a Labour councillor.

Her anticipated victory in the London Borough of Croydon, on a platform promising cleaner streets, will be the next significant step for one of Britain’s most enduring political dynasties.

Emily, 24, will be the fifth generation of the Benn family to hold public office.

Westminster would then surely beckon – although she’s coy when pressed if she’d like to be an MP.

Told how that sounds like a classic politician’s evasion, she’s outraged.

“If you had had the past two months I have had trying to be elected a councillor, you’d think exactly the same,” she bristles.

In work by 7am for a 12-hour day, then pounding the pavements evenings and weekends is punishing.

But the graft she’s been putting in has earned plaudits within the local Labour Party.

Emily was born in Croydon’s safe Labour ward of West Thornton, where she is standing. She lives in the area and is viewed as a team player by local activists.

She is praised for working closely with the two other Labour candidates in West Thornton – Bernadette Khan and Stuart King.

She has campaigned throughout the borough as Labour plots to seize Croydon by overturning a small Tory majority.

“She has the most famous family name in Labour politics but Emily is no Red Princess,” laughs a political admirer.

“And she’s right thinking at this stage only about a council seat.

Yet Emily could be forgiven if she yearned for a place in the family pantheon at ­Westminster.

Great-great grandfathers Daniel Holmes, and Sir John Benn were Liberal MPs.

Great-grandfather William Wedgwood Benn was elected a Liberal before defecting to Labour, becoming a minister and then a hereditary peer.

Uncle Hilary was Environment Minister in the last Labour Government and is now a member of Ed Miliband’s Shadow Cabinet.

Emily is sad that her late grandfather won’t witness Thursday’s election.

“I find it very strange he’s not here and it’s a huge regret that he did not live a few months longer,” she says.

“He would have loved to see me elected,” swiftly adding, “if I’m elected”.

Politics is undoubtedly in her blood.

Dad Stephen, on the death of his father, inherited the Labour hereditary peerage that Tony renounced in 1963 and is now the 3rd Viscount Stansgate.

Her mother, Nita Clarke, was a union fixer in Downing Street for Tony Blair.

Emily was taken to Labour conferences in her pushchair, and joined the party at the tender age of 14.

She earned Labour points by standing in true blue East Worthing and Shoreham in the 2010 General Election.

Selected a few weeks before her 18th birthday, she was Labour’s youngest Parliamentary candidate in that contest.

But she never stood a chance in the Conservative heartland – Labour slipping from second to third.

“Sadly I could not persuade the electorate of East Worthing and Shoreham to break their habit of a lifetime,” she says ruefully.

Emily’s brand of politics is very different to that of her grandfather’s.

She works in a City bank, and is unashamedly New Labour – “apparently that term isn’t in use any more”.

Taking her lead from Uncle Hilary, she describes herself as “a Benn, not a Bennite”.

She fondly recalls arguments with Tony about politics and economics but insists they were part of her education – Emily went to a state school and Oxford University – and the pair never fell out.

“My politics are of a slightly different type,” she explains.

The Benns aren’t Britain’s only political family and Emily will tread a well-worn path should she run for Parliament.

David Cameron, a distant relative of the Queen, is a great-grandson of Sir William Mount, Conservative MP for Newbury in the early 1900s.

Winston Churchill’s grandson Nicholas Soames is a Tory MP.

Tory Boris Johnson – scheming to break a promise as London Mayor to return to Westminster and unseat David Cameron – is the son of former MEP Stanley J.

His brother Jo is on the green benches.

Cabinet Office Minister Francis Maude is the son of Maggie Thatcher minister Angus Maude, while Tory MP Ben Gummer is the scion of another Thatcher era minister, John Selwyn Gummer.

On the Labour side, Stephen Kinnock, son of former Labour leader Neil and minister Glenys, is heading for Westminster after selection in the safe Labour Welsh seat of Aberavon.

He will be joined by Will Straw, son of ex-Foreign Secretary Jack Straw, if he overcomes a 4,493 Tory majority in Rossendale and Darwen.

But with Emily, it’s not only the surname that marks her out. In an era when the challenge is persuading the young to vote, she is already a veteran of the political struggle at 24.

She searches for the precise description, as her grandfather would have done.

“Mad?” I suggest, unhelpfully.

No, no. They will put on a red rosette for me,” she explains.

“But they say they aren’t that interested in ­politics, then we’ll talk about it for hours.

“Parties have to talk about the issues that are central to people’s lives, about things like the challenge of finding of a job.

All I have to do is talk about how much it costs to live in London, and suddenly you get a wave of stuff and they are interested in politics.

I want to buy a house one day and that’s not going to happen.

“There’s no point saying this is the Labour Party and this is what we think. We must ask people what they think and take up their issues.

A Labour admirer of the youngest Benn describes her as a wise head on young shoulders.

Few voters know who she is when Emily knocks on doors or hands out leaflets.

She shares a desire to win with her uncle, granddad, great-grandad and great-great grandfather and would be crestfallen on Thursday if she was elected but Labour failed to wrest Croydon Council from the Conservatives.

“No one goes into politics because they want to be in opposition,” she says.

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).
