
Furious Dominique Strauss-Kahn suing makers of new film inspired by his sex-shame saying 'I'm no rapist'

Welcome To New York 'based on the downfall of Mr Strauss-Khan'

Former IMF chief Dominique Strauss-Kahn is suing the makers of a film allegedly loosely based on events in his life.

Welcome To New York, which premiered in Cannes this weekend, stars Gerard Depardieu as sex-addict Mr Deveraux, whom, including other exploits, rapes a hotel maid.

Strauss-Kahn's lawyer said today this makes the film defamatory, as the storyline is similar to the accusations the French statesman faced in a sexual assault case in 2011.

The French  statesman was arrested in 2011 just as he was preparing a bid to become  the next French president, accused by Nafissatou Diallo, a New York  chamber maid, of trying to rape her.

Diallo  then sued Mr Strauss-Kahn, but the two sides reached a financial  settlement late last year, the details of which have never been  disclosed.

‘This happened three years ago and he was cleared,’ lawyer Jean Veil told Europe 1 radio on Monday.

In the film, Mr Deveraux is seen taking part in several alcohol-fulled orgies involving prostitutes in a New York hotel room while on a business trip, before raping a hotel chambermaid as she comes to clean the room the next day.

The  two-hour film, which also stars Nip/Tuck actress Jacqueline Bisset as  the character Mr Deveraux’s wife, premiered at the festival on Saturday  with a private showing.

The  film will not be shown in French cinemas but will be released on  video-on-demand websites. It will appear in cinemas in other countries  however, including the UK, at a later date.

Before  the screening Depardieu , director Abel Ferrara and Jacqueline Bisset,  took to the stage of The Star cinema to introduce the film.

Depardieu  said he 'disliked politicians' and was 'happy' to participate in the  film, while Mr Ferrara said Depardieu had not only agreed to act in the  film but also put up 'half the money'.

Mr  Ferrara has defended himself against the accusations from Strauss-Khan,  saying he has artistic freedom and can choose his fictitious storylines  as he pleases.

'I’m not on trial,' Ferrara told Reuters TV in Cannes this weekend.

'I’m an artist, I have freedom of speech. I’m from America I’m from the country of the free, land of the free and home of the brave.'

Since the premiere the film has received mixed reviews, with US actor Mickey Rourke saying it was Ferrara's best film in years.

Rourke also praised Depardieu as having 'more courage than any other living actor today', according to Yahoo, while French director Claude Lelouch also hailed his performance.

However, The Telegraph called the film 'superficial and pretentious', giving it just two stars out of five.

Before the screening Vincent Maraval, producer of the film, said the French elite tried to block the  there is an ‘incestuous relationship between the media and political elite’ in France.

He told the Independent: ‘No French TV station wanted to finance us.

The comments below have been moderated in advance.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
