
Once upon a time, white missionaries travelled from Europe and America to sub-Saharan Africa to evangelise, convert the natives and lead them to salvation.

Today, the trend has reversed. Evangelists from the global south are targeting Americans and Europeans, whom they say are ripe for Christian renewal.

There is no greater example than the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG). This ambitious Nigerian denomination has established its North American headquarters in Texas, and its goal is nothing less than becoming the next major global religion.

On a Sunday morning, inside a storefront church in Austin called Salvation Center, the worship service exudes the unmistakable spirit of West Africa.

The congregation is mostly from Nigeria, where this church originated. The message from Doyin Oke, the bald, heavy-lidded pastor, is one of prosperity through faith.

This church, located in an office park in north Austin, is one of 758 congregations of the RCCG in North America. The style of worship is energetic, musical and emotional.

This Pentecostal movement began 22 years ago in a Lagos shantytown, and is currently led by a Nigerian mathematics professor-turned-preacher named Enoch Adeboye.

The RCCG, as it is known, claims to have a presence in more than half of the world’s countries. Its lofty goal is to have a member of the church in every household in the world.

The monthly Holy Ghost service in Lagos routinely draws half a million people, and it is said there is a church within five-minutes walking distance from most Nigerians.

In America, the RCCG’s goal is to have churches in every city, no more than a 15-minute drive from each other. The church is currently adding about 100 new churches a year, according to James Fadele, a former auto engineer who is the chairman of RCCG’s North American operations, located in farmland northeast of Dallas.

RCCG has learned it’s a lot easier to start churches in Nigeria than it is in America. First, there are not enough trained, qualified ministers. Then there’s the expense of getting an American congregation to tithe enough to pay church expenses.

Finally, Nigerians at home seem closer to God. Life is harder there; people pray over everything from a hospital stay to a traffic jam. Fadele says Africans in America are more comfortable.

Though the number of non-African worshippers is growing, the RCCG in America has largely depended on African immigrants to fill its seats on Sunday mornings, worshippers like Polycarp Ahigbe, 36, a Nigerian-born mortgage banker in Houston. For him, an African-style service makes him feel at home.

“If I ask you to pray right now, for example, you’re going to pray like this: ‘Oh Father, Lord, we want to give you praise. Thank you, Jesus, thank you,’ stuff like that,” Ahigbe says.

The long-term challenge is how to convert an immigrant church into an American church. But RCCG elders do not seem particularly worried.

History and experience favour the RCCG. There was a time, after all, when Lutherans and Episcopalians were immigrant churches in America. Phillip Jenkins, professor at the Institute for the Studies of Religion at Baylor University, has followed the meteoric growth of the RCCG.

“If you went to an Italian-Catholic parish or Polish-Catholic parish in 1900, you’d think, well, these people are never, ever going to assimilate,” Jenkins says.

Cene Abrams, an African-American university administrator in Austin, grew up in the Methodist church and now attends RCCG.

It’s anyone’s guess if the RCCG will reach its goal of having churches 15 minutes away from each other. But there is no question this Nigerian denomination has arrived. Next summer, the RCCG is planning to hold a Holy Ghost service in Yankee Stadium.

Please leave your comment below. Your name will appear next to your comment. We'll also keep you updated by email whenever someone else comments on this page. Your comment will appear on this page once it has been approved by a moderator.

Please enter some keywords that you'd like to search for. Your results will be displayed below.

THISDAYLIVE cares about you, help us to report better!
