
At first glance, Nobutaka Kitajima, Chief Investment Officer - Equity at LIC Nomura Mutual Fund, looks far younger than 48.

A Chartered Financial Analyst and a Chartered Member of Analyst Association of Japan with 24 years in Nomura, managing equities and fixed income across Asia, Europe and the US, Kitajima talks on what it takes to be in India.

I read a lot about Indian history and was given a set of dos and don’ts. I had heard about stomach flu, food poisoning and hygiene.

The attraction was that India is an emerging market and I built the business almost from scratch. I was involved in business development for emerging markets in Tokyo for a year before coming to India. About 90 per cent of my salary is in Japanese yen and the remaining in rupee. Nomura is an old-school Japanese company, which believes in lifetime employment. My compensation depends on performance.

It depends from person to person and the environment in which one has been trained.

Whatever you hear or study may or may not apply here. Come with an open mind.

It could be lack of experience in the case of Suzuki. It may also be that it grabs eyeballs because it is a Japanese company. I am not aware of the exact situation, but the Toyotas and Hondas are more experienced in managing labour relations as they are already doing it in several countries. These are small incidents and do not change the fundamental view of the company. I also do not see any common thread when I look at these cases.

As far as Japanese concepts of Kaizen/JIT and the like are concerned, they are global concepts and should work anywhere in the world. They are about empowering modest people with modest ideas and making them scalable. It is somewhat similar to Jugaad (small process innovations).

My wife is in Tokyo. , It is tough, but tough situations can sometimes strengthen the bond between two people. However, Skype and technology have made it easier. I can now ‘see’ my father who stays alone.

I cook myself. Since I go to Japan three times a year, I get a lot of stuff back from Japan. With several Japanese companies operating from Delhi, there are quite a few Japanese restaurants in the city. In Mumbai, Wasabi is fairly expensive while another one at Andheri is far away. I like Indian cuisine and I enjoy exploring preparations that use a range of spices.
