
Three prominent members of the local civil rights movement in Derry have backed People Before Profit candidate, Sha Gillespie, in the up and coming Derry City Council election.

Eamon McCann, Dermie McClenghan and Bernadette McAliskey issued a joint statement saying that Ms Gillespie had “no equal” locally and that only way to avoid sectarianism was to vote for her on May 22.

“Sha Gillespie has no equal in Derry as a fighter for everyone in the bottom half of society.

“Sha wants rid of politics of Orange versus Green - so we can pursue a radical agenda without checking we aren’t alienating anybody on “our own” side.

“Sha says straight that she isn’t Nationalist or Unionist. The way to vote against sectarianism is to vote for Sha,” the statement read.

The statement went on to describe Ms. Gillepsie as “as an honest, courageous working-class woman”.

“People Before Profit is  fighting on the same basis in Belfast, Dublin, Kerry, Donegal, Dun Laoghaire, Meath, etc. This is our “all-Ireland dimension”.

“There are few grass-roots campaigns in Derry that People Before Profit isn’t involved in. We don’t focus on promoting our “brand”.

“But everybody struggling for a better life knows that our contribution has been out of proportion to our size.

“Sha is adamant in support for the Housing Executive – a creation of the civil rights movement, now under threat of privatisation  which would mean transfer of 88,000 homes to the private sector, loss of jobs, higher rents, no accountability.

“We know Sha as an honest, courageous working-class woman with a brilliant record of standing up for the oppressed. Sha is a leading campaigner for LGBT rights. She would shake up council politics like no other candidate.

Keep up to date with all the latest local news on your iPhone or Android phone with our mobile site.

Create your own advertisement or send someone a special message.

© 2014 Johnston Publishing Ltd.

This website and its associated newspaper adheres to the Press Complaints Commission’s Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion, then contact the Editor by clicking here .

If you remain dissatisfied with the response provided then you can contact the PCC by clicking here .

Derry Journal provides news, events and sport features from the Derry area. For the best up to date information relating to Derry and the surrounding areas visit us at Derry Journal regularly or bookmark this page.

For you to enjoy all the features of this website Derry Journal requires permission to use cookies.

Cookies are small data files which are sent to your browser (Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome etc) from a website you visit. They are stored on your electronic device.

This is a type of cookie which is collected by Adobe Flash media player (it is also called a Local Shared Object) - a piece of software you may already have on your electronic device to help you watch online videos and listen to podcasts.

Yes there are a number of options available, you can set your browser either to reject all cookies, to allow only "trusted" sites to set them, or to only accept them from the site you are currently on.

However, please note - if you block/delete all cookies, some features of our websites, such as remembering your login details, or the site branding for your local newspaper may not function as a result.

A tool used by some of our advertisers to target adverts to you based on pages you have visited in the past. To opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

Our sites contain advertising from Google; these use cookies to ensure you get adverts relevant to you. You can tailor the type of ads you receive by visiting here or to opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

This is used to help us identify unique visitors to our websites. This data is anonymous and we cannot use this to uniquely identify individuals and their usage of the sites.

This comes from our ad serving technology and is used to track how many times you have seen a particular ad on our sites, so that you don't just see one advert but an even spread. This information is not used by us for any other type of audience recording or monitoring.

ComScore monitor and externally verify our site traffic data for use within the advertising industry. Any data collected is anonymous statistical data and cannot be traced back to an individual.

Our Classified websites (Photos, Motors, Jobs and Property Today) use cookies to ensure you get the correct local newspaper branding and content when you visit them. These cookies store no personally identifiable information.

We use Grapeshot as a contextual targeting technology, allowing us to create custom groups of stories outside out of our usual site navigation. Grapeshot stores the categories of story you have been exposed to. Their privacy policy and opt out option can be accessed here.

Our partner for Newspaper subscriptions online stores data from the forms you complete in these to increase the usability of the site and enhance user experience.

Add This provides the social networking widget found in many of our pages. This widget gives you the tools to bookmark our websites, blog, share, tweet and email our content to a friend.
