
The cast of How to Train Your Dragon 2 in Cannes.

CANNES, France — Cannes may be focused on the films vying for the Palme d’Or, but it’s just as intent on celebrating the movies that aren’t even playing here. Lionsgate dropped some serious coin on a huge party for The Hunger Games: Mockingjay Part 1 on Saturday night at a €250 million mansion nestled in the hills of Cap d’Antibes—the home of recently departed Russian oligarch Boris Berezovsky. Thousands of guests were greeted at the door by flanking rows of models dressed in black-feathered formal wear, sporting raccoon-eye mascara and emo pouts on their faces. Behind the main house, on the expansive grounds that plunged down to the seaside, stood an enormous tented party space filled with a half-dozen chandeliers and throbbing techno music, where revelers gobbled down asparagus-and-shrimp risotto out of little beggar bowls.

The night before, back on the Croisette, Jeffrey Katzenberg and Dreamworks were busy tub-thumping their latest animated family franchise—and feeding guests classic kiddie grub like penne in truffled cream sauce, washed down with a tall glass of Moet. How to Train Your Dragon 2 had its world premiere here, bringing stars like Cate Blanchett to the red carpet proceedings, inspiring formalwear revelers to don plastic Viking helmets, and occasioning a big beach bash afterwards where artwork from the movie decorated the walls of a makeshift discotheque. Katzenberg, who over the weekend also became an Officer of the Order of Arts and Letters thanks to the French government, has been a master at using the Riviera bacchanal for self-promotion—in the past 20 years since co-founding Dreamworks, he has made this film festival his official launching pad for everything from previews of Shark Tale and Bee Movie to the global debut of Shrek 2.

Opening weekend is always a luxe clusterfuck here, with Ferraris clogging the streets and throngs of Euro-hotties precariously balanced on stiletto heels. Midnight at the J.W. Marriott’s main lobby exemplified the festival’s typical culture clash of austere art and crass hedonism: casino patrons and nubile partygoers with honey-brown tans in tight cocktail dresses blithely sashayed past the seated and quietly chatty 84-year-old filmmaking legend Frederick Wiseman (in town with his 3-hour dissection of London’s National Gallery).

Inside the Palais des Festivals, films kept unspooling. Friday afternoon was rough for the cinerati: Turkish director Nuri Bilge Ceylan unleashed his 196-minute domestic drama Winter Sleep, an austere look at human foibles set at a resort hotel nestled in the Anatolian mountains, which turned out to be an emotionally brutal endurance contest both for the characters and the audience. Thankfully, festival programmers deigned to throw the press the perfect amuse-bouche afterwards, with the delirious screening of Damian Szifron’s Wild Tales. A hilarious collection of six shorts all centered around revenge, this wickedly funny omnibus features humanity at its worst, including a road-rage incident that turns into a fiery face-off; a roadside diner bloodbath; and a wedding where a jilted newlywed transforms into a fantastically terrifying bridezilla.

Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
