
A couple have been asked to move their wedding venue because President Barack Obama is due to have dinner there on the same date.

Christie Connolly, 25, and her fiancé Sam Holland, 28, were planning on tying the knot in the grand City Hall in Cardiff, South Wales, this September.

Obama and other world leaders are due to banquet in the building as part of the NATO summit in Newport this September.

Staff at City Hall have now rearranged for the pair to wed at Lord Mayor's Mansion House in Cardiff.

Miss Connolly said the couple have invited the President, his wife Michelle and their secret service team to their new venue for a piece of cake.

She said: 'I got a letter through saying that because of the NATO summit, City Hall and the surrounding areas would be inaccessible.

'When I read the first paragraph of the letter I nearly fainted.

'I thought: "Oh God, we haven't got the money to make new plans and it's a little bit late as we've already booked stuff!" but then I read the rest and was OK.

'They've decided to move all marriage bookings from City Hall to the Lord Mayor's Mansion House.

'We're going to have to reprint invitations and things like that. It was a little bit hectic at first but the registrar has been great and really helpful.

'We were amazed when she told us that there was a dinner for the NATO leaders in which Barack Obama would be attending and they've got a shut down for the two days to accommodate it.'

Both venues have been contacted by MailOnline this evening for comment.

NATO has also been approached to confirm that the banquet is to take place.

The couple, who have been together for seven years, are now sending out all their invitations again to friends and family following the change in venue.

And the pair have also sent an invite to President Obama to drop in on their happy day for a piece of wedding cake.

Miss Connolly said: 'I sent an email through The White House website and said: "I understand this is just what happens when the leader of the free world comes to town and everything gets put on hold, but it's okay because you, your wife and your secret service guys are welcome to come down for a bit of cake!"'

She added: "I'm not expecting him to turn up but just to get an email back would be quite cool.

'And if he wants to pay for the wedding off the back of it, well I'm more than happy!'
