
WHEN THE council seats up for grabs in Thursday’s elections were last contested in 2010, the Liberal Democrats ran cities across the North of England.

The party went into the polls, which coincided with the General Election, with majorities on the councils in Hull and Sheffield and shared power with the Conservatives in Leeds. Further afield, the party had usurped Labour’s longtime urban domination in Newcastle and Liverpool.

The Lib Dems had broken out of their South-West stronghold and leading party figures regularly pointed to its record running northern cities as they looked to convince voters it had the credibility to hold power in Westminster and Whitehall.

In May 2010, the party made that breakthrough as they reached the coalition deal with the Conservatives. But within 12 months of their leader becoming Deputy Prime Minister, the Lib Dems had lost their grip on the cities they had invested years in winning. Leeds and Liverpool were lost in 2010 and were followed by Newcastle, Sheffield and Hull in 2011.

With polls putting their support at about 10 per cent and some pundits forecasting the party could lose all its MEPs in the European elections also being held on Thursday, this could be another unhappy week for the Lib Dems. But Carl Minns, Hull City Council’s former Lib Dem leader, believes that, locally at least, the party’s fortunes are improving.

Mr Minns, now training to be a teacher, said in 2010 the Lib Dems were getting support in areas they were not actively contesting which did not win them seats but boosted their poll numbers. Those votes have ebbed away, hitting poll numbers, but it is the seats where the party is working hard that matter.

The theme is taken up by Yorkshire MEP Edward McMillan-Scott, fighting his first European election as a Lib Dem after defecting from the Conservatives in 2010.

Of the major parties, the Lib Dems are the only one to have run a campaign unequivocally pro-Europe with leader Nick Clegg coining the slogan “the party of IN”.  Mr McMillan-Scott is convinced it has been the right approach.

© 2014 Johnston Publishing Ltd.

This website and its associated newspaper adheres to the Press Complaints Commission’s Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion, then contact the Editor by clicking here .

If you remain dissatisfied with the response provided then you can contact the PCC by clicking here .

Yorkshire Post provides news, events and sport features from the Yorkshire area. For the best up to date information relating to Yorkshire and the surrounding areas visit us at Yorkshire Post regularly or bookmark this page.

For you to enjoy all the features of this website Yorkshire Post requires permission to use cookies.

Cookies are small data files which are sent to your browser (Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome etc) from a website you visit. They are stored on your electronic device.

This is a type of cookie which is collected by Adobe Flash media player (it is also called a Local Shared Object) - a piece of software you may already have on your electronic device to help you watch online videos and listen to podcasts.

Yes there are a number of options available, you can set your browser either to reject all cookies, to allow only "trusted" sites to set them, or to only accept them from the site you are currently on.

However, please note - if you block/delete all cookies, some features of our websites, such as remembering your login details, or the site branding for your local newspaper may not function as a result.

A tool used by some of our advertisers to target adverts to you based on pages you have visited in the past. To opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

Our sites contain advertising from Google; these use cookies to ensure you get adverts relevant to you. You can tailor the type of ads you receive by visiting here or to opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

This is used to help us identify unique visitors to our websites. This data is anonymous and we cannot use this to uniquely identify individuals and their usage of the sites.

This comes from our ad serving technology and is used to track how many times you have seen a particular ad on our sites, so that you don't just see one advert but an even spread. This information is not used by us for any other type of audience recording or monitoring.

ComScore monitor and externally verify our site traffic data for use within the advertising industry. Any data collected is anonymous statistical data and cannot be traced back to an individual.

Our Classified websites (Photos, Motors, Jobs and Property Today) use cookies to ensure you get the correct local newspaper branding and content when you visit them. These cookies store no personally identifiable information.

We use Grapeshot as a contextual targeting technology, allowing us to create custom groups of stories outside out of our usual site navigation. Grapeshot stores the categories of story you have been exposed to. Their privacy policy and opt out option can be accessed here.

Our partner for Newspaper subscriptions online stores data from the forms you complete in these to increase the usability of the site and enhance user experience.

Add This provides the social networking widget found in many of our pages. This widget gives you the tools to bookmark our websites, blog, share, tweet and email our content to a friend.
