
Rolf Harris trial: entertainer 'asked girl to dance then pushed his hand up her skirt'

Rolf Harris showed his “evil, dark side” when he pushed his hand between a teenage girl’s legs as they danced at a cocktail evening, a court heard today.

The alleged victim was working in a restaurant in New Zealand at the time of the alleged assault in 1970, Southwark crown court was told.

She had been “16 or 17” and kept his autograph and photographs taken of them together that night as a “lifetime reminder” of how the “disgusting, vile, repulsive man” had betrayed her.

The witness, known as MC, said she did not report the incident to the police for 43 years because “it’s a man’s world” and even if she had been raped she thought she would not be believed.

'Rolf Harris victim wrote of great time in her diary on day of alleged assault'

She had been working at a wine promotion function when she met Harris and was immediately charmed.

He signed an autograph “with my love Rolf Harris” and they posed for photographs before he invited her to dance. “I felt relaxed and comfortable and then in a flash ...” she said, before halting in distress in the witness box.

She went on: “In my wildest dreams I didn’t expect this behaviour from one moment being charming and what you see on the TV and the next him putting his hand up my skirt and trying to get into my most private area of my body.” She added: “He has an evil, dark side.” MC’s allegation is not on the indictment faced by Harris. She was called as a “bad character” witness to support the prosecution case.

The witness, known as CM, said the incident happened in Darwin, Australia when she was staying with friends of her parents in 1969.  “He put his tongue in my mouth, I was quite repulsed by him,” she told the court.

Harris, 84, of Bray, denies 12 charges of indecent assault against four women victims between 1968 and 1986.

The trial continues.

By clicking 'search' you are agreeing to our Terms of Use .

Extra pepperoni!
