
PLANS to open Leeds’ first university technical college (UTC) specialising in advanced manufacturing and engineering are being submitted to the Government.

UTCs are a new type of school for 14 to 18-year-olds which deliver a technical education focused on a particular career area.

The plan for the Leeds UTC is being backed by the city’s council and firms including Siemens, Kodak and Grant Thornton. The proposed new school, which could open in 2016, is also supported by Leeds University and Leeds City College.

A steering group has been working on the plans for the last six months and is now submitting a bid for Government funding.

It should find out if it is successful later this year. It is hoped the plan would meet skills shortages in Leeds and help employers to play a role in training a new generation of skilled engineers.

There are now 50 approved UTCs in the UK but there have not been many applications from Yorkshire.

If the Leeds UTC does go ahead it would be the first to open in West Yorkshire.

Yorkshire’s first UTC opened in Sheffield last year.

UTCs have two points of entry for pupils starting at 14 or at 16 after their GCSEs. For those starting at 14 it involves pupils and their parents making the decision to leave their existing secondary school to pursue a more focused and technical education.

However they would still study a core programme of GCSEs and then A-levels.

The proposal for a Leeds UTC focussing on advanced manufacturing and engineering is being led by  a team including Kodak, Siemens, Unilever and Agfa, and supported by the Chamber of Commerce and the manufacturers organisation EEF, as well as Leeds University, Leeds City Council and Leeds City College, supported by business adviser Grant Thornton.

© 2014 Johnston Publishing Ltd.

This website and its associated newspaper adheres to the Press Complaints Commission’s Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion, then contact the Editor by clicking here .

If you remain dissatisfied with the response provided then you can contact the PCC by clicking here .

Yorkshire Evening Post provides news, events and sport features from the Leeds area. For the best up to date information relating to Leeds and the surrounding areas visit us at Yorkshire Evening Post regularly or bookmark this page.

For you to enjoy all the features of this website Yorkshire Evening Post requires permission to use cookies.

Cookies are small data files which are sent to your browser (Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome etc) from a website you visit. They are stored on your electronic device.

This is a type of cookie which is collected by Adobe Flash media player (it is also called a Local Shared Object) - a piece of software you may already have on your electronic device to help you watch online videos and listen to podcasts.

Yes there are a number of options available, you can set your browser either to reject all cookies, to allow only "trusted" sites to set them, or to only accept them from the site you are currently on.

However, please note - if you block/delete all cookies, some features of our websites, such as remembering your login details, or the site branding for your local newspaper may not function as a result.

A tool used by some of our advertisers to target adverts to you based on pages you have visited in the past. To opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

Our sites contain advertising from Google; these use cookies to ensure you get adverts relevant to you. You can tailor the type of ads you receive by visiting here or to opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

This is used to help us identify unique visitors to our websites. This data is anonymous and we cannot use this to uniquely identify individuals and their usage of the sites.

This comes from our ad serving technology and is used to track how many times you have seen a particular ad on our sites, so that you don't just see one advert but an even spread. This information is not used by us for any other type of audience recording or monitoring.

ComScore monitor and externally verify our site traffic data for use within the advertising industry. Any data collected is anonymous statistical data and cannot be traced back to an individual.

Our Classified websites (Photos, Motors, Jobs and Property Today) use cookies to ensure you get the correct local newspaper branding and content when you visit them. These cookies store no personally identifiable information.

We use Grapeshot as a contextual targeting technology, allowing us to create custom groups of stories outside out of our usual site navigation. Grapeshot stores the categories of story you have been exposed to. Their privacy policy and opt out option can be accessed here.

Our partner for Newspaper subscriptions online stores data from the forms you complete in these to increase the usability of the site and enhance user experience.

Add This provides the social networking widget found in many of our pages. This widget gives you the tools to bookmark our websites, blog, share, tweet and email our content to a friend.
