
ISTANBUL -- As European leaders cast a wary eye toward Russia, which could choke the flow of energy heading their way as a tactic in its conflict with Ukraine, they are increasingly viewing Turkey as a vital alternative source.

A simple look at a globe makes the point. Turkey sits directly between the vast oil fields of the Middle East and the voracious industrial energy markets of Germany, France and Italy, forming a southern land bridge that connects Europe and Asia.

Erdogan is cognizant that his energy assets are more strategically valuable than ever -- a realization he has parlayed into lucrative deal-making with Russia.

Though Turkey imports some 90 percent of the oil and gas it uses, it could be a potential energy exporter if Russia disrupts natural gas deliveries to several European Union members, which could happen as early as next month. Moscow has threatened to tighten deliveries to Ukraine beginning in June if Kiev doesn’t start paying its $3.5 billion gas bill.

Like Europe, Turkey would be directly affected by such a crisis, because it imports some of its gas through Ukraine, though it is in a far better position than its European neighbors as it's developed alternate energy routes from Russia and alternate sources, including Azerbaijan, Iran and Iraqi Kurdistan. As a result, Turkey could increase its exports to the EU despite the fact that it imports the majority of its own oil and gas.

Turkey and Russia have recently signed several important energy deals, including one for expanding the capacity of the Blue Stream gas pipeline under the Black Sea, and Turkey has suggested that it would allow Russia to build the proposed South Stream, a controversial pipeline designed to bypass Ukraine, on its own territory if the European Union blocks the project.

Still, Russia is sanguine about Turkey’s potential for influencing its energy leverage over Europe.

Experts say the Kremlin is particularly concerned about the so-called Trans-Anatolian gas pipeline (TANAP), which is scheduled to begin carrying gas from Azerbaijan to Turkey in 2018 -- and, soon afterward, via extensions, to Europe.

As currently planned, TANAP is a fairly modest venture, designed to carry about a quarter of the gas that South Stream would, and much of that would stay in Turkey. But the rivalry could intensify if abundant sources of gas and oil, such as Iran's, join the project, said William Hale, professor emeritus of Turkish and Middle Eastern politics at the School of Oriental and African Studies in London, who now lives in Istanbul.

That scenario would require Iran to resolve its nuclear issue with the UN, which would then lift its sanctions on the country and allow renewed international investments in Iran's underdeveloped gas fields, which is where Russia could easily interfere. “The Russians have got every interest in supporting the hardliners in Iran to prevent the deal over the nuclear program,” Hale said.

Ruseckas predicted that the nuclear deal “more likely than not” will happen, but he said the distances involved would make Iranian gas expensive and unattractive to Europe.

Sign up to get the latest headlines delivered to your inbox every morning.
