
For understandable reasons, Americans have rushed to condemn the ruling , comparing the deletion of links to an Orwellian memory hole . Undoubtedly, the decision risks depriving Europeans of important information; a potential business partner, for instance, might well want to read the articles about Mario Costeja’s financial troubles in the 1990s that he sought to suppress.

But viewing the case strictly through a free-speech prism oversimplifies a knotty problem. In fact, the memory hole is alive and well in the United States, too: American credit bureaus, for instance, are required to delete even accurate information from credit reports after seven or 10 years , an important consumer protection that ensures a single bad decision won’t haunt someone forever. In essence, Costeja was asking for the same thing from Google, which has become a de facto background-check service.

The deeper question is how, exactly, to fit search results and other Internet products into pre-Internet legal categories. Are Google results, which are generated by a proprietary algorithm, akin to a newspaper article and therefore entitled to the same free-speech protections? Or are they a commercial product more like a credit report, and thus subject to far more stringent limitations? Or are they something different entirely, something with no offline analog? The European court may have gone too far with its broad ruling Tuesday — we’ll find out, as European nations implement it — but the court got one fundamental distinction right: If aggregators such as Google and Facebook aren’t precisely news sources in the traditional sense, they shouldn’t, in every instance, be treated like they are.

Notably, the European court did not order the embarrassing articles about Costeja removed from the Internet. The newspaper that published the articles in 1998, La Vanguardia, has been allowed to keep them online. Rather, the court ruled that the same protection did not extend to Google, and that its search results for Costeja constituted a personal profile of him distinct from La Vanguardia’s articles. The difference may seem arbitrary — the same logic might be extended to the newspaper’s archive — but applying different sets of rules can work in practice; in the United States, for instance, a newspaper archive can contain information that would be illegal to put in a credit report.

The deeper question is how to fit search results and other Internet products into pre-Internet legal categories.

The ruling has no impact in the United States, but Europe is a big market, and the court has raised a concern that Silicon Valley must take seriously. Privacy still matters. Internet firms already make subjective judgment calls about which material their algorithms should emphasize. Unless the companies seek to answer public concerns about how they present the information they gather, the European court likely won’t be the last to seek new limits on them.

You can now read 10 free articles.

Read it all, now.

Don't miss any of your favorite stories again. Read the stories that matter to you as much as you want, whenever you want when you subscribe to BostonGlobe.com.

The login information you entered does not match an account in our records.

To activate FREE access as a home delivery subscriber start here.

If you don't have a subscription, you can view our digital offers here.

Please check your e-mail for a message from BostonGlobe.com with the subject line "BostonGlobe.com password request." Click the link in the e-mail to choose a new password for BostonGlobe.com, and note that your new password will also be used for your Boston.com membership.

Enter your e-mail address below. We’ll send you an e-mail with a link to reset your password.

Continue reading by subscribing to BostonGlobe.com for just 99¢ .

Continue reading by subscribing to BostonGlobe.com for just 99¢ .

Stay informed with unlimited access to Boston’s trusted news source.
