
Google is readying a tool that would allow folks in Europe to request the company to remove search results about them. It's the first time Google has made moves to create such a tool, and we have the feeling other countries around the world will take similar actions as well.

Google is forced to create this tool following the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU), ruling on Tuesday. Based on the ruling, search engines such as Google and Bing must delete personal search information that is considered outdated by users.

Well, it's not a two click process, but it's not hard either. Through the tool, European citizens can file a complaint directly with Google to have out-dated information about them removed from the search engine. Google would then have to determine whether or not the information available is about the person, and if it's out-dated or not. If the information is not relevant, then the court requires Google to delete it from its search engine for good.

"The ruling has significant implications for how we handle takedown requests,"  says a Google spokesman in an email.

"This is logistically complicated -- not least because of the many languages involved and the need for careful review. As soon as we have thought through exactly how this will work, which may take several weeks, we will let our users know," he said.

Google already has ways for users to request the removal of content from the search engine. However, it is limited in scope compared to this new tool that could allow a person to request the removal of content that is relevant to the public.

Basically, this ruling is walking a thin line between protecting the privacy of individuals, and taking away the public's right to know. At the end of the day, however, it will come down what is more important. The privacy of citizen, or the public's right to know everything, even the color of underwear you wore 15 years ago.

The big problem for Google is whether or not every European country will want to be part of this. An even bigger problem is what if the rest of the world chooses to travel this route? It's easy to see why the company is against the ruling.

We are glad this is happening though, because as the years goes by, it has become very apparent that these mega corporations care less about user privacy. They are always willing to give away free content for user's personal information. The majority of us are so in-line for free content that we continue to sell ourselves for a few GBs of cloud storage, and more.
