
Just four kilometres from the centre of Perth, the Maylands Amateur Boatbuilding Yard is a tranquil relic of an earlier time.

When the Swan River colony was founded in 1829, the river was the only freeway and boatbuilding was a pressing concern for the new settlers.

185 years later, the Maylands amateur boatbuilding yard continues to house dozens of hand-built boats, in various stages of completion.

"Boatbuilding is carried on with much success in two establishments and some of the native woods are found to be well suited to those purposes."

"At that time it was the only means of transport between the various settlements," said Richard Offen from Heritage Perth.

"The boatbuilders discovered that local jarrah was even better than the oak back in Britain for making planking.

"The boatbuilders loved it here, and they had to build a lot of boats because they couldn't bring many out on board the ships that were bringing people, so it was an important business."

The first record of boatbuilding on the Maylands peninsula comes from the diary of Joseph Hardy, one of the earliest settlers in the colony.

"He was from Yorkshire and he his family and a group of other settlers came here in February 1830 to found a religious colony," Mr Offen said.

"Having been granted lands here on the Maylands peninsula they started to develop the Tranby farm."

"The first three or four months were taken up by house and boat building, getting up the goods from Fremantle to the peninsula, etc."

"After the Second World War leisure boating became much more popular and there was a need for a place to store and moor boats," Mr Offen said.

"Most of the yards were for professional boatbuilding so just after the Second World War the state government created the Maylands Amateur Boatbuilding Yard around the two existing cray slipways.

"Initially the state ran the yard and it was very popular, much to the annoyance of the local residents, due to the noise and activity in the yard.

"Eventually, during the late 1970s, a large boatshed was constructed as a 'Work for the Dole' project, which provided much better facilities for the boatbuilders and a bit of peace and quiet for the neighbours.

"The yard is said to be the only one of its kind in Australia and it still as popular as ever with amateur boatbuilders."

"I rescued a Jarrah 32 foot cutter here in the 80s. I re-ribbed and re-caulked her.

"I was a young fellow for that sort of work but found the old timers I needed at this yard, and my love for wooden boats eventually became my profession as a tall ship skipper over east.

"To this day I take my son and my dog for a Sunday trip sometimes and walk around the grounds. There are many dying or dead projects at 'the land of broken dreams', but there is also a sense of history and peacefulness that I find calming."

On 'What's all that about?' Kimberly Howie explores a hidden part of Perth's past, every Monday at 7.15am on 720 Breakfast.

If you have inside knowledge of a topic in the news, contact the ABC .

An aid worker becomes a little girl's sole guardian after Ebola wipes out a family in Sierra Leone.

This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.
