
European Parliament Election: Ukip candidate calls for death penalty for rivals and 'traitors'

Just days before the European elections, Ukip has been embroiled in yet another scandal after one of its candidates suggested the three main political parties and those who support them should be hung for treason.

In a letter to voters dated 15 May, Gordon Ferguson stated: “The Lib-Lab-Cons have conspired with a foreign power, the EU, and are all thereby guilty of treason. They have sold Britain, which is the 5th largest economy, illegally into increasing slavery outside the EU dictatorship.

Mr Ferguson, who is running for Cambridge ward in Southport, Lancashire, suggested that the three main political parties are “collaborating with large corporations such as the banks, utility companies and local councils, all in order to defraud and again impoverish the people”.

“That is the old English law, is it not?” he said.

Nigel Farage's anti-EU party has come under increasing scrutiny in the lead-up to the elections on Thursday, following a series of embarrassing gaffes.

Mr Farage has complained that the media focuses too much on the “idiots” in the party.

Earlier this month he said: “I am not saying we haven't had our problems, we have.

And on Saturday the Ukip leader issued a statement denying that he expressed racist sentiments in an interview with LBC presenter James O’Brien on Friday.

Mr Farage replied: "I think you know the difference. We want an immigration policy that is not just based on controlling not just quantity but quality."

In the statement he appeared to reinforce these comments. He said: "Police figures are quite clear that there is a high level of criminality within the Romanian community in Britain. This is not to say for a moment that all or even most Romanian people living in the UK are criminals.

However, despite the controversies, Ukip is set for landmark win at the EU elections, according to a poll by The Independent on Sunday.

The ComRes poll gives Ukip its highest lead in a European elections survey. Among those who are certain to vote, Ukip is on 35 per cent, 11 points ahead of Labour, on 24 per cent, with the Conservatives down two points from the last ComRes poll earlier this month, at 20 per cent.

The Green Party has pushed the Liberal Democrats into fifth place and is up two points to 7 per cent, while Nick Clegg's party is down two to 6 per cent.

The Independent was unable to reach Mr Ferguson.

The Ukip press office said they would not pass on Mr Ferguson’s contact details and declined to comment further on the issue.
