
Scottish patients with a chronic condition which puts them at risk of life-threatening infections need better access to NHS services to support them, experts have warned.

Lymphoedema, which causes tissue to swell when the body cannot drain excess fluid, is rising as the population ages and obesity increases.

But while cancer patients affected by the condition are often well supported, others struggle to get access to services to help them manage the problem, which can cause dangerous complications such as cellulitis, according to the head of Glasgow’s nursing school.

A major international conference on lymphoedema is being held in the city next month, with the hope of raising awareness and increasing research to help the thousands affected.

Lymphoedema is caused by damage or disruption to the body’s lymphatic system, meaning it is unable to drain fluid from tissue, causing painful swelling usually affecting the arms or legs. People with lymphoedema are more vulnerable to infection, including a serious bacterial infection of the skin called cellulitis which can be life-threatening.

While there is no cure, patients can be helped to cope with the symptoms.

But last year a report by the Scottish Medical and Scientific Advisory Committee (SMASAC) acknowledged lack of awareness of the condition among health staff and poorly resourced services, making a series of recommendations for improvements across the NHS.

Margaret Sneddon, head of nursing and healthcare at Glasgow University, said she now hoped action would be taken to respond to the concerns about lymphoedema care.

Mrs Sneddon said access to lymphoedema services varied widely around Scotland.

“At the moment, the bigger services in Glasgow are the best resourced. But that’s not the case across Scotland,” she said.

Margaret O’Grady has suffered with lymphoedema for many years, but only started getting help from the NHS around three years ago.

The 56-year-old from Uddingston, South Lanarkshire, was able to manage the condition to start with, but it gradually got worse but she only started to get access to NHS services when she was diagnosed with cancer.

Mrs O’Grady said many health workers were “ignorant” about the consequences of lymphoedema. “They don’t realise how painful it is. It is like the worst toothache and it never goes away,” she said.

“You’re not going to a GP to be made better because there is no cure, but you go there to get the information you need to self-manage your condition.

© 2014 Johnston Publishing Ltd.

This website and its associated newspaper adheres to the Press Complaints Commission’s Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion, then contact the Editor by clicking here .

If you remain dissatisfied with the response provided then you can contact the PCC by clicking here .

The Scotsman provides news, events and sport features from the Edinburgh area. For the best up to date information relating to Edinburgh and the surrounding areas visit us at The Scotsman regularly or bookmark this page.

For you to enjoy all the features of this website The Scotsman requires permission to use cookies.

Cookies are small data files which are sent to your browser (Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome etc) from a website you visit. They are stored on your electronic device.

This is a type of cookie which is collected by Adobe Flash media player (it is also called a Local Shared Object) - a piece of software you may already have on your electronic device to help you watch online videos and listen to podcasts.

Yes there are a number of options available, you can set your browser either to reject all cookies, to allow only "trusted" sites to set them, or to only accept them from the site you are currently on.

However, please note - if you block/delete all cookies, some features of our websites, such as remembering your login details, or the site branding for your local newspaper may not function as a result.

A tool used by some of our advertisers to target adverts to you based on pages you have visited in the past. To opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

Our sites contain advertising from Google; these use cookies to ensure you get adverts relevant to you. You can tailor the type of ads you receive by visiting here or to opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.

This is used to help us identify unique visitors to our websites. This data is anonymous and we cannot use this to uniquely identify individuals and their usage of the sites.

This comes from our ad serving technology and is used to track how many times you have seen a particular ad on our sites, so that you don't just see one advert but an even spread. This information is not used by us for any other type of audience recording or monitoring.

ComScore monitor and externally verify our site traffic data for use within the advertising industry. Any data collected is anonymous statistical data and cannot be traced back to an individual.

Our Classified websites (Photos, Motors, Jobs and Property Today) use cookies to ensure you get the correct local newspaper branding and content when you visit them. These cookies store no personally identifiable information.

We use Grapeshot as a contextual targeting technology, allowing us to create custom groups of stories outside out of our usual site navigation. Grapeshot stores the categories of story you have been exposed to. Their privacy policy and opt out option can be accessed here.

Our partner for Newspaper subscriptions online stores data from the forms you complete in these to increase the usability of the site and enhance user experience.

Add This provides the social networking widget found in many of our pages. This widget gives you the tools to bookmark our websites, blog, share, tweet and email our content to a friend.

We use Advertising agencies to provide us with some of the advertising on our websites. These include (but are not limited to) Specific Media, The Rubicon Project, AdJug, AdConion, Context Web. Please click on the provider name to visit their opt-out page.
