
Nick Clegg said on Monday it was "flamingly obvious" that being part of the coalition government had damaged Liberal Democrats ' chances in this week's European elections .

As Lib Dem strategists said the party should be judged on its performance in the 57 Westminster seats it won in 2010, the deputy prime minister told reporters that it was "a complete waste of time" to discuss polls showing the party could lose its only Scottish MEP.

There are fears that the Lib Dems, on 7% in a ComRes/ITV News poll, could lose two thirds of their 12 MEPs. The latest Scottish polls, which put the Lib Dems at just 6% and 7%, suggest the Lib Dems will lose their sole Scottish MEP, George Lyon.

Speaking on  a campaigning visit to Edinburgh, Clegg told reporters it was "a complete waste of your time" to discuss the polls. He said he was neither a pollster nor a soothsayer but a campaigning political leader.

But he added: "It's a statement of the flamingly obvious, which is the election when George got elected last time clearly took place when the Liberal Democrats were not in government nationally, when the last general election hadn't even happened and clearly the circumstances are different.

"But I just think the prediction business is for pollsters and soothsayers. Don't ask campaigning politicians. We're out there making the case for what we believe in. I don't think anyone can fault us for making that case, strongly and forcefully and optimistically."

Lib Dem strategists have acknowledged that the party is heading for a battering on Thursday. But they said that they would judge their success on a breakdown – taken from the European and local elections – of how the party has fared in the 57 Westminster seats it won in 2010.

One party source said: "It is going to be a difficult night for the Liberal Democrats on Thursday. We are fighting this election as a party of government … By definition we have not fought a euro election like that before. When the results come in there will be areas where we don't have a particularly strong presence where we will do badly. But the key thing for us to look at, particularly with the focus on 2015, is how we are doing in the areas where we are able to get out on the doorstep."

Clegg will return to his central theme of his European election campaign – that he leads the most pro-European party – when he accuses anti-EU Tories and Ukip supporters of acting as "false patriots".

In the annual lecture to the European Studies Centre at St Antony's College, Oxford, the deputy prime minister will say that a British withdrawal from the EU would allow France and Germany to dominate the European continent.

Clegg will say: "Ukip. Conservative backbenchers. Isolationists. They are not thinking about Britain's interests. They shroud their narrow nationalism in the language of patriotism. They mask their hostility towards Europe as British bulldog spirit. But these are false patriots. The isolation they offer is a breach of our history, of our great British tradition of engagement, and of our enlightened national self-interest. If the forces of insularity and chauvinism get their way they will ensure that Britain no longer benefits from the political and economic advances in Europe that we have shaped. And they will hand the keys to running our European continent to the Germans, the French and others, while we retreat back across the English Channel."

Our editors' picks for the day's top news and commentary delivered to your inbox each morning.
