
A device that stimulates tears could transform the treatment of dry eyes. The tiny device, injected close to the tear gland above the eye, is being tested in a clinical trial.

Initial animal studies suggest it can increase the production of tears fivefold.

As many as one in 15 people over the age of 50 suffers from dry eyes, typically caused by dry eye syndrome or dry eye disease, where the eyes do not make enough tears or the tears that are produced evaporate too quickly.

Tears contain oils, mucus, salts and proteins - but the bulk is made up of a watery liquid produced by the lacrimal glands.

Tears provide lubrication to keep the eye surface smooth and clear. They also reduce the risk of eye infection and wash away foreign matter.

Without enough tears the eyes feel gritty and can become red or swollen, and sometimes painful. The eyelids may stick together and the vision blur from time to time.

It can be caused by changes in hormone levels - hormones help drive the production of tears, which is why post-menopausal women are more prone to the condition.

Dry eyes can also occur as a result of autoimmune conditions such as rheumatoid arthritis, where tear glands become inflamed.

There is no cure. Lubricating drops can help, but don't provide the full benefits of tears, which have antibacterial properties.

Now researchers at Stanford University in the U.S. are testing whether stimulating the lacrimal glands with a tiny electrical current can help trigger the production of tears.

The device is injected (under local anaesthetic) close to the lacrimal gland, which is just above the outer corner of the eye.

The device is only 1 mm wide but contains an electrode that fires mild pulses of electricity at the gland to stimulate the release of tears.

The pulse of electricity can be altered by an external controller (used by a doctor) that communicates to the device using wi-fi. The device itself can remain in place permanently, if required.

Animal studies have suggested that electrical stimulation of the gland increased tear production fivefold. It's thought that the electrical signals activate the nerves controlling the tiny muscles that operate the gland. In a new trial, 20 people with dry eye will have the device - called the Lacrimal Gland Stimulator -implanted for 12 months.

Commenting on the technology, Sheraz Daya, a consultant eye surgeon at the Centre for Sight, London, said: 'The fluid secreted by the lacrimal glands contains between 50 and 60 proteins, which are very important for the well being of the eye surface.

HE ADDS: 'The application of this technology could be revolutionary in those with severe dry conditions and chemical injuries where patients have to put drops in their eyes every few minutes.

'There is nothing like having your own tears!'

Meanwhile, a new study suggests fish oil might help improve the symptoms of dry eye syndrome.

In the trial, patients who'd previously used lubricating eye drops took three capsules containing 500 mg of omega-3 fish oils three times a day for 12 weeks.

All reported a reduction in feelings of grittiness, pain and redness, according to the study published in the medical journal Clinical Ophthalmology.

However, some complained of a fishy after-taste and nausea.

The researchers - from the Spanish Dry Eye Clinical Study Group - suggest that fish oil has an anti-inflammatory effect on the lacrimal or tear gland.

The oils may also help improve the quality of tears.

The comments below have not been moderated.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
