
After his anti-Islam and anti-immigration comments, Wilders struggles to incite people to vote for the PVV in the upcoming elections.

"Go and vote!" shouts Dutch populist Geert Wilders, battling against European election apathy by getting voters to give his party a mandate to destroy the EU from within.

"Next week's elections are going to be historic: eurosceptic parties will take many countries and we can work together to give citizens a real voice," the platinum-haired Wilders tells citizens on the main square of this typically Dutch town, surrounded by cheeses and tulips.

From Rotterdam to Scheveningen, the anti-Islam and anti-immigration Wilders is on a bus tour of the Netherlands trying to incite people to vote for his Party of Freedom (PVV) in European parliamentary elections on May 22.

But he still has some way to go to mobilise support.

According to a TNS-NIPO opinion poll published on Thursday, only a third of Dutch who are 'against' the European Union say they will vote, while 65 percent of self-professed europhiles will head to the polls, notably for the centrist D66, campaigning under the slogan: "A strong Netherlands, a strong Europe."

Along with his campaign team, Wilders, who wants "less Europe", is handing out fake banknotes featuring his own face on the pre-euro Dutch currency, the guilder.

"I want the Netherlands to be like Switzerland, a country at the heart of Europe but outside the European Union, with control over our currency and our borders," says Wilders, who is under 24-hour police protection because of his anti-Islam statements.

A young blonde woman pushing a pram shouts: "Geert! Geert! A photo!", one of many who want a selfie with the charismatic populist.

Just as the Dutch are more concerned about immigration than EU issues, so also are voters more interested in Wilders than in his leading MEP candidate, Marcel de Graaf.

"He's right, there are too many foreigners," says Aly, a 71-year-old grandmother packing her shopping into her bicycle bags.

"There's not enough work for the Dutch."

Another pensioner, Cees, 64, says: "Foreigners are the majority in poorer neighbourhoods, and the Dutch are being chased away."

Aly and Cees say they will vote next week, but many here say they will not, even if they posed for photos with Wilders.

"I don't have any opinion," says one passer-by. "I'm not going to vote", "I couldn't care less", say others.

Veiled Muslim women carry on doing their shopping regardless of Wilders, who faced an unprecedented storm after calling in March for "fewer Moroccans".

"I might go and vote," but not for the PVV, said Jonni, 53. "I agree with a few of his ideas, but less then before," he said, mentioning in particular Wilders "fewer Moroccans" vow.

According to the latest opinion poll, Wilders' PVV is set to win three or four MEP seats, compared to four to six for D66, out of the 26 European parliament seats up for grabs in the Netherlands.

The representation in the 751-seat parliament may seem small, but the PVV has sealed an alliance with French far-right leader Marine Le Pen's National Front and other European populist parties, which they hope will give them added clout in Brussels.
