
BRITAIN sweltered in a heatwave today as temperatures topped 26 degrees.

Heathrow saw the mercury reach 26.3 degrees (79F) today, around 10 degrees more than the average for this time of year.

The high temperatures saw Brits basking in the sun across the country - and a Guardsman succumb to the heat as he passed out at a rehearsal for trooping the colour this morning.

The weather is expected to stay fine until Thursday - when temperatures will plummet, according to Met Office spokeswoman Laura Young.

She said: "The highest temperature reached in the country today was 26.3 degrees at Heathrow, at 2.14pm today.

"The monthly average for that area is around 16 degrees, so that's almost 10 degrees higher."

However, Ms Young said that while most of the country would enjoy sunny spells and mild weather, there was a risk of flooding in parts of the west country and Scotland, where it was predicted there would be localised rainfall.

She said: "The weather will stay dry and warm in most parts until tomorrow, apart from parts of Scotland and the west which may see heavy rain and even flash floods.

"But everywhere else, temperatures look set to stay in the early 20s until Wednesday, when they will fall slightly to the late teens.

"Thursday looks likely to mark the end of the good weather, with the probability of lots of showers across the country, and temperatures falling back to normal for the time of year, into the mid-teens."

However, this May could still be on track to become the hottest ever, with Ladbrokes slashing odds to 5/1 that the record set 60 years ago when temperatures got to 32.8C will be beaten.

Bookmaker Coral have also seen a flood of bets, and slashed the odds on a hosepipe ban into 5-1 from 20-1 over the weekend.

This weekend, forecasters said that the country could be in for a warm spell which might last into September.

Surely one of the best views in England, his picture is taken from the top of Pavey Ark, near Ambleside. Stickle Tarn can be seen in the centre with Windermere in the distance.

See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper,    order back issues and use the historic Daily Express    newspaper archive.
