
The Spanish real-estate market has recently picked up pace due to the interest shown by overseas investors. However, the market is far from making a complete recovery until banks decide to relax lending norms in Spain, report sources.

The ratio of maximum loans to values for Spanish non-residents currently stands at 60 percent. Along with this, property buyers pay additional fees and taxes that make up about 12-15 percent of the net purchase price. Purchasing residential properties in Spain requires prior planning by investors to cater to the overhead costs.

The latest findings reveal that mortgage numbers have taken a beating in the Spanish property market. The Spanish mortgage numbers have steadily declined for nearly 46 months up to to this February. Real-estate analysts predict that the market is no where near the much-awaited property boom, or even a complete recovery.

Statistics back their prediction as the average residential property prices have declined by nearly 30 percent from 2008, while mortgage lending has shot down from its 2007 peak value of about €173 billion to a meager €26 billion last year. The price drops in a few other areas are even higher, standing at about 50 percent. The high unemployment numbers in Spain have made the market rely on potential buyers from overseas to drive the property market forward.

Director of real-estate agency Mercers, Chris Mercer, estimates that buyers should have an access to at least half of the property's price amount to make a purchase, unless they have assistance from bank repossessions that guarantee a lending of 100 percent or upwards. The criteria filters out the majority of buyers who look for large-sized loans, and can only be helped by relaxation of lending norms by the government.

The foreign sales transaction hit a nine-year peak during 2013, as non-Spanish investors accounted for property purchases worth nearly €6.45 billion. Other reports show that foreign investor purchases made up about 21.4 percent of the house sales during 2013, of nearly 55,187 residential properties.

The foreign investor residential sales figures showed a year-on-year improvement of 9.8 percent from 2012. Mercer says that the numbers of properties sold to overseas investors can shoot up even further by relaxing the lending criteria, in wake of the falling prices and euro-pound currency dynamics. The property prices will invariably stabilize and rise, he explains.

Mercer claims that sales of properties in Murcia have climbed up from their monthly average of 7.6 to 12.6 during the January-March period this year. The 60 percent rise in sales could be higher if potential property buyers are able to raise the money to purchase properties, in turn marking an increase in the foreign transactions in the Spanish Market.

He adds that a majority of Mercer's clients either obtain the financing from their home nations or are cash investors, due to which the restrictive lending norms are proving to be a deal-breaker for Spain.
