
Google Inc's logo.

Paris - France’s privacy watchdog said more citizens are asking for help getting their personal information removed from search engines such as those run by Google and Microsoft, less than a week after the European Union’s top court ruled on a “right to be forgotten” online.

France’s CNIL and Europe’s other privacy watchdogs will discuss in a June meeting how they can enforce the ruling, President Isabelle Falque-Pierrotin said today in a conference.

The EU’s top court last week said citizens may ask search-engine owners to remove information and request that a court or data- protection authority step in if a company doesn’t comply.

“We’ve already received complaints citing the court decision,” Falque-Pierrotin said.

While it’s too early to say how the court ruling will be enforced, more users may ask CNIL to intervene, Falque-Pierrotin said.

Complaints relating to the “right to be forgotten” made up about a third of the requests received last year, she said.

CNIL dealt with 5,640 complaints and 92,351 broader requests last year, according to its annual report.

CNIL has asked the French government to increase the maximum amount it can fine for privacy violations, which currently run from 150,000 euros ($206,000) to 300,000 euros for repeated offenses, Falque-Pierrotin said.

The French watchdog took the lead role for EU authorities debating measures directed at companies that violate privacy laws.

It fined Google 150,000 euros in January for failing to give people enough details about how and why it uses their personal data.

Privacy regulators want to play a bigger role beyond punitive intervention, she said.

Login and register, if you haven’ t already.

© Copyright 1999 - 2014 Independent Online, a division of Independent Newspapers (Pty) Limited. The copyright in the literary and artistic works contained in this online news publication and its other related and connected websites, as well as in the published editions of group newspapers, their supplements and any other content or material, belongs exclusively to Independent Newspapers (Pty) Limited unless otherwise stated.
