
William Engdahl is an award-winning geopolitical analyst and strategic risk consultant whose internationally best-selling books have been translated into thirteen foreign languages.

Russia has some of the most precious uncontaminated top soil on the planet and if it is rigorously controlled to stay GMO-free and free from chemicals its productivity would increase as Europe declines, geopolitical analyst William Engdahl told RT.

Russian PMs have pondered a draft bill outlawing GMOs. A draft bill submitted to   the Russian parliament likens GMO production and distribution to   terrorism. After entering the World Trade Organization, Russia   was expected to allow GM food production and distribution within   its market. However, in March Russia’s President Putin said the   country would stay GM-free without violating its obligations to   the WTO.

William Engdahl: The language on Russian media   blogs is [that] punishment for knowingly introducing GMO crops   into Russia illegally should have a punishment comparable to that   given to terrorists for knowingly hurting people. The direction   of this is anything that stops, and puts the genie back in the   bottle called genetic manipulation of plants and organisms is to   the good for the future of the mankind. The comment about 20   percent of harvest increase in some GMOs is absolute rubbish.   There is no long-term harvest gain that has been proven for GMO   crops anywhere in the world because they are not modified to get   harvest increases. So this is just soap bubbles that Monsanto,   Syngenta and GMO giants are putting out to loll the public into   thinking it is something good.

WE: I hope it does. I haven’t got access to the   paragraphs of legislation but I think the direction that Prime   Minister Medvedev indicated two-three months ago in terms of   making this U-turn against GMO that seemed to have a green light   after WTO. A year ago it was looking like GMO was a common thing   in Russia which would be a catastrophe. I think the point is   Russia has some of the most precious non-destroyed top soil on   this planet and the richness of this top soil, if it is   rigorously controlled to be GMO-free, to be free from chemicals,   from Roundup or Atrazyne which is Syngenta's favorite poison, and   is marketed on the world markets as certified organic. Russia has   a huge export market in Germany, in Western Europe, the European   Union and elsewhere because there is a tremendous lack of it. So   anything that Russia does to block GMO, keep in mind, the EU has   not certified for commercial planting any GMO for years. There is   such a great popular opposition in the EU that Monsanto, despite   all the proclivities of the corrupt European Commission in   Brussels to go with it, or even some people in the German   government. The population is absolutely adamant here, they do   not want this in their food.

WE: They can quite easily. First of all, they   can do what the State of California tried, and Monsanto spent   millions of dollars to block it and will try again. The State of   Washington tried it and the same thing with Monsanto spending   millions of dollars to create false lobbying campaigns [ensued].   The State of Vermont tried and succeeded in getting labeling on   products that contain above 0.9 percent of GMO, which is similar   to the EU. That is labeled on the shelves, when you buy this box   of Kellogg’s Cornflakes you make sure to look and see if this is   not GMO corn in my Cornflakes that my child is going to eat or is   it this GMO garbage that Kellogg’s would so lovingly like to get   rid of. That is one step. The other thing is for people to become   informed about what we eat. Support local farmers, it is not   against technology. I have seen it directly in Germany and   elsewhere in Europe that properly done organic farming creates   greater harvest yields than industrialized agriculture. The   productivity is better, the quality is finer. The animals that   are range fed, grass fed cows, chickens, they are real cows and   chickens, they are not these synthetic pseudo-meat that we buy on   the supermarket shelves in the big chains in Europe and in the   US. So that is something that Russia has a great positive   contribution to make.

The statements, views and opinions expressed in this column are solely those of the author and do not necessarily represent those of RT.

A large factor in the lower life expectancy in Russia is alcoholism.  Those who binge drink in Russia have a 35% bigger chance of dying by age 55.  The large number of alcoholism deaths lowers the average life expectancy.

This time, Putin has gone too far! It's one thing to thumb his nose at our attempts to isolate him, but to insult Monsanto is grounds for war!

email before you can log in.

successfully!
