
People everywhere are living longer, the United Nations health agency today reported, mostly because fewer children are dying, certain diseases are in check, and tobacco use is down, but conditions in low-income countries continue to plague life quality there.

According to the UN World Health Organization’s (WHO) World Health Statistics 2014, a girl born in 2012 can expect to live around 73 years and a boy to the age of 68. That is six years longer than the average life span for a child in 1990.

With one year to go until the 2015 target date for achieving the anti-poverty targets known as the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), substantial progress has been made on many health-related goals, the report authors wrote.

“The global target of halving the proportion of people without access to improved sources of drinking water was met in 2010, with remarkable progress also having been made in reducing child mortality, improving nutrition, and combating HIV, tuberculosis and malaria,” the report states.

WHO’s statistics show that low-income countries have made the greatest progress, with an average increase in life expectancy by 9 years from 1990 to 2012. The top six countries where life expectancy increased the most were Liberia which saw a 20-year increase (from 42 years in 1990 to 62 years in 2012) followed by Ethiopia (from 45 to 64 years), Maldives (58 to 77 years), Cambodia (54 to 72 years), Timor-Leste (50 to 66 years) and Rwanda (48 to 65 years).

Nevertheless, nearly 18,000 children worldwide died every day in 2012, according to the findings, with large inequities remaining in child mortality between high-income and low-income countries.

“There is still a major rich-poor divide: people in high-income countries continue to have a much better chance of living longer than people in low-income countries,” said Director-General of the UN World Health Organization (WHO) Margaret Chan.

Women live longer than men in general, but in high-income countries the difference is around six years, while in low-income countries, the average falls to three years.

The findings among children are even more glaring. A girl born in 2012 in a high-income country can expect to live to the age of around 82, which is 19 years longer than a girl born in a low-income country. The difference for boys is 16 years.

Geographically, women in Japan live the longest, with an average life expectancy of 87 years, followed by Spain, Switzerland and Singapore at 85 years. The average lifespan of men is highest in Iceland at 81 years.

“In high-income countries, much of the gain in life expectancy is due to success in tackling noncommunicable diseases,” said Ties Boerma, Director of the Department of Health Statistics and Information Systems at WHO.

“Fewer men and women are dying before they get to their 60th birthday from heart disease and stroke. Richer countries have become better at monitoring and managing high blood pressure for example,” he added.

Declining tobacco use is also a key factor in helping people live longer in several countries.

At the other end of the scale, life expectancy for both men and women is still less than 55 years in nine sub-Saharan African countries, including Angola, Central African Republic, Chad, Côte d’Ivoire, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Lesotho, Mozambique, Nigeria and Sierra Leone.

If you want to live longer and healthier, do not consume too much meat.  Eat fish twice a week and fast during big  holidays, like Ginbot,

To starve your self once in month is good for health. Most Muslims fast during ramadan and but they eat at night which does not help you to be health or prolong life. Japans do not consume too much meat rather they prefer fish and vegetables.   Ethiopia is blessed with TEFF and vegetables , Injera can keep you healthy if eat it with vegetables but no meat.  Most butchers   in Ethiopia serve yo infected meat and raw meat is a major factor to tapeworm and other diseases.  Bad hygiene is common in every restaurant in Addis and elsewhere, specially the person who serve you did not wash properly after OPEN TOILET visit.  There you have a big weakness in HYGIN in Ethiopia today. If you are going to eat avoid GUURSHHA AND handshake as you are about to eat or wash your hands with soup properly, one never know where the others hand have been.

thnx.

They fought for 17 years to overthrow the military DERG.Now they give us 17 more years to live(62-45).

Who cares to live longer, on this cruel world? I don’t.

this damn woyanes. they make us live longer and healthier so we can suffer  . i missed derg at least we die soon so we dont suffer long.

Bad news for diaspora anti development and anti Ethiopians.

Ethiopia is on the right truck to become self sufficent country in few years. I call up on vocal diaspora to join this historical movement in our country. Let me ask Dr. Berhanu, Abebe Gelaw, Tamange etc what did you achive  from your critiscism and anti government demonstrations you did for the last 20 years?. May be a little bite richer from humble and confussed diaspora contributions. Change your thinking and do something substantial for your country. There is no way back now only forward.

Well done the government of Ethiopia! It is good to hear that people are living in our country,  Ethiopia! Also thank you for keeping our Ethiopian dream alive.

Senait you are full of vemon and bad news for Africa and black people. You try to hols back Ethiopia for your own twisted ideology.  I hope you drink the cyanide and keep your evil thoughts with yourself, hope you disappear before then!

God bless, Ethiopia!

Questions are sent from UW students.It says like this the philosophers are made the discourse in philosophy ex. What is that? What was that and What would it be in the next coming years(space and time ?) Also the mathematicians and men of physics tried to know the exact out come of their work in nature(space and time) in metaphysics to understand 2/3 of its right confirmations applying the real numbers and integers.

There are five classic periods(geology) and mode of productions in the history of mankind.

people used fruits from trees and other means at least2/3 of it was to eat and survive the life.

5. Common Universal -socioeconomic of mode of productions (Communism and socialism had failed in 1991 , References: Ethiopia and Russia Universities). So the mode of productions are five in history of mankind.  For a better world still carrying our research and study to have better productive world for human(mama mia, Hakuna matata) beings(sacrament goh siked the raise kaso- kaare).

WOW, LONGER LIFE EXPENTANCY FOR ALL ETHIOPIAS/TOBIAS,SO WE CAN ENJOY THE BIG LAKE OF REINNANSSANCE DAM TO SAIL ,TO USE ITS POWER ENERGY,ITS FISHERIES MUCH BETTER ! ! !

What a hell this people think they are ??? Only because Ethiopia Is Involve In development and are under the control of western Master Plan, they feel like they can do what ever they want, even they add 20 years of age to our life, like we where Robots, or some kind of machine, Fuck the UN !

canibal sibat nega is saying he is expecting 100 years of age.

nazret.com is the #1 rated Ethiopian website. Be part of the largest Ethiopian News website, join in to become a contributor.

© nazret.com The Most Popular Ethiopian Website. nazret is Ranked #1 by Alexa and Qantcast .
