
Tel Aviv University was recently under fire from the academic staff for closing  the Department for French Studies. Despite the small numbers of students who  have registered for the department, the faculty argue that the decision should  have been based on academic considerations, rather than economic  ones.

Universities, not just in Israel, are caught between the hammer and  the anvil. In an era of decreasing public funding and the transfer of university  management from the academic staff to the hands of the administrators and  accountants, there is increasing threat to small departments who are not  perceived as being sufficiently viable, profitable or relevant.

Scholars  and lecturers who do not contribute financially to the university by obtaining  large research grants are seen as a liability. The ability to raise research  funds, from which the university not only benefits in terms of academic prestige  but also in the 20-30 percent overhead it takes for its own administrative  costs, has become as important a consideration in the promotion process as the  quality of the research itself.

However, there is also a tendency for  many of my colleagues, the academic faculty members themselves, to brush aside  the fiscal realities of universities and the way that public funding has changed  during the past 20 years. No university is able to encompass every single field  of enquiry, and difficult decisions have to be made concerning those areas which  are to be strengthened, at the expense of other areas which will cease to be  supported.

Just because a field of enquiry has been present at a  university for 30 or 40 years does not give it a divine right to continue to  exist if there are no students or if the resources can be redirected to new  areas of research and scientific challenge.

And just as the faculty need  to be more mindful of the constraints imposed by the real world outside the  ivory tower, so too university managements, who have become increasingly  managerial and technocratic in recent years, must be mindful of the fact that  they are not running business concerns. They have to recognize the fact that  there will always be important areas of study, especially within the humanities,  such as history, philosophy, literature and the like, which will never fall  within the “profitability” category, but without which a university is simply  not a university.

It is not easy to find the right balance. As dean of  one of Israel’s largest faculties (the joint Humanities and Social Sciences  Faculty at Ben-Gurion University encompasses 21 departments, 250 full-time  academic staff, hundreds of part-time teachers and 5,000 students – a  mini-university in its own right) it is often frustrating to see the lack of  mutual understanding between university managements and academic staff, with  their differing and often contrasting priorities.

If, on the other hand, you stand up for those areas of study  without which a university lacks its intellectual foundations, such as  philosophy, history, Jewish studies or literature, you are accused by the  university managers of perpetuating the unsustainable and being irresponsible  for the way in which the scarce resources are inefficiently  managed.

Israel’s universities have been restructured in such a way that  power has effectively been transferred from a system in which decision making  was shared between a president and rector, the former being responsible for  managerial and fiscal issues, the latter for academic matters, to a system in  which the president is all-powerful and the rector has become subordinate. This  has resulted from the implementation of the Grossman and the Maltz reports,  which were adopted by the government and imposed upon the universities, despite  the opposition of the academic faculty.

Academic faculty have all but  been sidelined in the decision making process at Israel’s universities in recent  years, leaving the key decisions to the technocrats and the purse holders. One  is often left with the feeling that, in the eyes of many of the university  management, the academic staff are little more than a nuisance, and if they  don’t bring in enough money through their research funds, then they don’t really  have a place within this corporate structure.

But let’s be honest about  it. Had the academic faculty taken responsibility and addressed the many  weaknesses and inefficiencies which had developed during the previous 20-30  years, then perhaps this situation would never have happened. There was too much  dead wood in the system, with too many academics not pulling their weight as  teachers or researchers. The asymmetry between the “doers” and the “lazy,” all  receiving the same wage and protected by a universal system of tenure, was too  great, and no one was doing anything about it.

All too often, the  academic faculty fail to understand that universities have to change in line  with the new economic realities, that they must compete with universities and  scholars throughout the world in an increasingly global environment, and that it  is no longer possible simply to shut oneself up in the library, to limit one’s  presence on campus to no more than two or three days each week, emerging to meet  students for a few hours a week, without any system of accountability in terms  of research impact and output.

The universities are, in turn, dependent  on meeting the demands of the VATAT (the Planning and Budget Committee of the  Council of Higher Education) model which determines the ways in which  universities are funded from the public purse. But this model, introduced and  rigidly implemented by Prof. Manuel Trachtenberg, has introduced competition and  efficiency for the sake of competition rather than for the sake of academic and  scientific excellence. The use of the term “excellence” has become transformed  into a slogan which is increasingly understood in terms of profit and  efficiency.

The VATAT model also has an inbuilt contradiction in that it  demands that the universities become the elite research institutions of the  Israeli higher education system, while at the same time continuing to determine  the university budgets according to the numbers of undergraduate students. With  the rapid growth in the number of regional colleges (there are now over 60  institutes in Israel recognized for undergraduate degree courses), the  competition for students has grown, at a time when overall student numbers have  been falling.

And it hasn’t stopped there. Education Minister Shai Piron  has indicated that he supports the idea of government becoming even more  directly involved in the administration and accountability of the universities,  and that the central funding authorities should have more public figures and  politicians and less senior academic faculty involved in the decision making  process.

What may have been too imbalanced on one side of the  academic-management continuum a few years ago, has now moved far too strongly to  the other side.

We require a totally fresh look at the ways in which  universities are managed and how they define their priorities. Instead of seeing  it as a zero-sum game, accountability and efficiency issues have to be balanced  against those which look at the broader role of universities and intellectuals  in society as a whole. An institute of higher education without a strong  humanities and liberal arts component is not a university, whatever else it may  excel at. And while the humanities and liberal arts cannot be measured in terms  of economic profitability, they must become more efficient (however that is  determined) than they are at present, if they are to make a strong argument for  their continued funding by government and international donors.

The  writer is dean of the Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences at Ben-Gurion  University. The views expressed are his alone.

Your comment must be approved by a moderator before being published on JPost.com. Disqus users can post comments automatically.

Comments must adhere to our Talkback policy . If you believe that a comment has breached the Talkback policy, please press the flag icon to bring it to the attention of our moderation team.
