
The Heads of State of Benin, Cameroon, Chad, France, Niger and Nigeria, as well as representatives of the European Union, the United Kingdom and the United States, participated on 17 May 2014 in a Summit in Paris dedicated to security in Nigeria.

This Summit has helped intensify regional and international mobilization to combat the terrorism of the Boko Haram group.

The Summit concluded with several decisions that will strengthen cooperation between regional States, both to enable the liberation of the abducted school girls and more generally to combat Boko Haram.

The partners present (the European Union, France, the United States and the United Kingdom) are committed to supporting this regional cooperation and strengthening the international means to combat Boko Haram and protect victims.

Nigeria and its neighbours will build analysis and response capabilities that will contribute to enhancing the security of all populations and the rule of law in the areas affected by Boko Haram’s terrorist acts.

-Establish mechanisms for border surveillance;

-Create a dedicated team to identify means of implementation and draw up, during a second phase, a regional counter-terrorism strategy in the framework of the Lake Chad Basin Commission.

This approach is consistent with the 2012 Summit of the Lake Chad Basin Commission.

The United States, the United Kingdom, France and the European Union will coordinate their support for this regional cooperation through technical expertise, training programmes and support for border-area management programmes.

The participants commit to accelerating the implementation of international sanctions against Boko Haram, Ansaru and their main leaders, within the United Nations framework as a priority.

The P3 and the EU pledge to mobilize donors in support of programmes fostering the socio-economic development of the regions concerned, with particular emphasis on gender equality, the rights of women and girls and in particular their right to education, increasing women's participation in all decision-making processes, and supporting victims of sexual violence, including through legal assistance, medical care and psychosocial support.

The EU will dedicate a certain number of its programmes to these aspects and will strengthen its efforts to combat radicalization.

Website optimized for FireFox 3.0 with Flash Player 9 plug-in.

Some contents of our website may require Adobe Acrobat Reader 9. Design: Pensódromo .
