
Chris Lee, Louisa County Sheriff’s Office communications deputy director and volunteer medic, shows one of the outdated monitors currently being used in the county.

The monitors in Louisa County ambulances are approximately a decade old, and three different models are being used. Emergency services personnel want to upgrade to a more advanced model that can directly send the hospital a patient’s EKG, resulting in a more positive outcome.

Living in a rural community like Louisa County, every second counts if you are having a massive heart attack or STEMI  (myocardial infarction with ST – segment elevation).

The new monitors have the ability to send an image of a 12-lead electrocardiogram (EKG) directly to emergency room doctors. Doctors can analyze the EKG and assemble a medical team in advance of the patient’s arrival, speeding up the care process.

The national average from the time a patient comes through the emergency door until they are in the catheterization laboratory is 90 minutes.

“The past year the training group has been trying to identify areas where we felt that the department needed extra education and training for the providers to be able to provide very excellent care to the people who need help in Louisa,” Dana Racette, firefighter and medic with Louisa County Department of Fire and EMS, said.

One area the training group zeroed in on was cardiac care.

“The standard out there is that medics be able to get what is called a 12-lead EKG,” Racette said.

Some heart attacks are easy to distinguish from other heart elements, but having the information helps medics know which facility to take a patient so they can receive the proper treatment.

In January and February, Louisa County Fire and EMS  personnel attended two eight-hour classes on 12-lead EKG’s.

Lee said while Renalds was running he began to experience chest pains, which he attributed to the cold air, but he pushed through it.

Once Renalds finished his run, other participants noticed he was not looking well.

Renalds thought he had overworked himself and decided he would rest awhile before going to the shooting range for the second part of the testing.

Renalds planned to stop at the Louisa Fire Station to be checked out before heading to the range. Unable to make it to the station, Renalds stopped his car at the former Virginia Department of Transportation headquarters on Davis Highway and called an ambulance for himself.

According to Lee, they were about 20 minutes away from the hospital when they were able to take a picture of Renalds’ EKG with a personal Smartphone. In contacting Martha Jefferson Hospital after sending the picture, the emergency room doctor was able to review it.

To read the entire story, see the May 15 edition of The Central Virginian.
