
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

Police have cited two men in an illegal crab fishing operation off the coast of Garibaldi.

The charges against Aron Steinback, 34 from Bay City, and Thomas White, 30 of Nehalem, follows an investigation by Oregon State Police Fish & Wildlife Division and the seizure of more than 150 illegal crab pots earlier this month.

Last December, troopers inspected Steinback's vessel, the "Valkyrie" to ensure there were no crabs in the hold as part of standard procedures before the start of the Dungeness crabbing season.

The vessel deployed commercial crab pots but in the weeks and months afterward did not come to land with crabs for sale. Oregon fishermen are required to land crabs every 14 days to protect the resource. Only male crabs and those that are at least 6 ¼ inches long are legal.

OSP received a number of complaints about the "Valkyrie" deploying pots and letting them sit, said Sgt. Todd Hoodenpyl.

In February, troopers cited Steinback for failing to perform landings and cited White, who operated the vessel, for not having a commercial fishing license.

Then earlier this month, police started seizing the pots, plucking up more than 150 in all.

"It was a pretty big seizure," Hoodenpyl said. "Potentially, they could have done a tremendous amount of damage to the resource."

Hoodenpyl said some of the pots were stuffed with stinky crab carcasses. Normally, crab pots are fastened with cotton that dissolves within 14 days, allowing the creatures to escape. But these pots were shut tight.

Steinback faces misdemeanor charges of wasting commercial fish food, not having buoy tags, no pot tags, leaving gear for 14 days without a landing and not having a release mechanism on the pots.

Troopers concerned that some of the gear might be stolen will show it to the public June 9. It will be shown from 1 to 3 p.m. at the OSP Tillamook office at at 5995 Long Prairie Road .

Police advised anyone with questions about the viewing or investigation to contact  Hoodenpyl at 503-815-3373.

© 2014 Oregon Live LLC. All rights reserved ( About Us ).

The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Oregon Live LLC.

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
