
Wakanda Elementary School's fifth grade team has been selected to receive a Wright Spirit Award for 2014 in the Special Honors category -- created to honor outstanding individuals or organizations whose work represents a unique contribution to the preservation of Frank Lloyd Wright.

Better understanding of his  works has been fostered by a curriculum called Breaking the Box: The Architecture of Frank Lloyd Wright,  designed and implemented by a pair of veteran instructors -- Art Specialist Sally Johnson and fifth grade teacher Anne Hasse -- along with new teachers Brianna Berhow and Jacob Schutte. The teacher team will be recognized on Nov. 1 at a gala dinner at the Arizona Biltmore Hotel in Phoenix.

As a result of their efforts, more than 600 students, along with parents, teachers, community members and museum curators now better understand the importance of Wright's work. This year's "Breaking the Box" presentation will be held at 4:30 p.m. Thursday, May 22, at the Mabel Tainter Center for the Arts in downtown Menomonie.

MASON CITY, Iowa (AP) — Dozens of fifth-graders from Wisconsin traveled to Mason City to immerse themselves in Prairie School architecture.

The 55 students from Wakanda Elementary School in Menomonie, Wisconsin, have been studying Prairie School buildings, which were most common in the Midwest in the late 1800s and early 1900s. Frank Lloyd Wright, who was born in Wisconsin, is the best-known architect identified with such work.

There are numerous examples of buildings fitting the Prairie School style in Mason City, including a hotel designed by Wright.

Art specialist Sally Johnson, three teachers — Anne Hasse, Brianna Berhow and Jacob Schutte — and the school’s principal, Greg Corning, made the three-hour drive to Mason City and led the students on a tour Thursday that included a city neighborhood, an architectural interpretive center and the Historic Park Inn Hotel. The building, built in 1910, is the last remaining hotel designed by Wright.

The students spent about an hour in the hotel, which reopened in 2011 after a two-year restoration.

Christian Bilse, 11, said he liked the “clerestory banded windows,” noting the narrow windows atop a high wall.

“There’s no normal windows. It’s all art glass,” he said.

Before making the trip, the students compiled portfolios that included their architectural research and renderings, floor plan creations and three-dimensional architectural models. The school raised more than $9,000 to pay for the trip.

The Dunn County News contributed to this report.

Copyright 2014 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Make your appointment today!

A new do makes everyone feel better.

Click Here to view more info on our Bridal services!

Username & Password Required!
