
Last Modified: Sunday, May 18, 2014 at 8:24 p.m.

LAKELAND | At the end of the day, when Jaquae Smith gets in her car to leave Lakeland Volunteers In Medicine, she feels like she's made a difference.

For the past 10 years, Smith has been volunteering her time in the Prescription Assistance Program at LVIM and said she loves it. But it took a while to find the right place and the right job to feel that way.

Growing up in Lawrenceville, Ill., Smith knew that giving back was a part of life. So, without question, she has volunteered her entire adult life.

"I have always known that we must give back," Smith said. "And, personally, I think that volunteerism is one of the best things in the world."

So, once she settled into her new home in Lakeland, she set about looking for a place to give her time.

"In the past, I've been on a lot of boards and I didn't want to do that anymore," she said. "I wanted to really help people. I looked for a year and nothing really interested me."

Nothing, until she saw an article in The Ledger during Volunteer Week with a listing of places to volunteer.

"I called (LVIM) and went down there, and I've been there ever since," she said.

Since she started, she has accumulated 5,454 hours, working two full days a week.

"Jaquae is the best thing that ever happened to me. She will work whenever she is needed and is so caring with the patients," said Charlotte Harrell, Smith's supervisor at LVIM in the Prescription Assistance Program. "She not only gives of her time but her treasures as well. When there is equipment needed, Jaquae donates it to LVIM."

LVIM is a volunteer-run medical clinic that provides free, quality medical care to the working uninsured of Polk County.

Smith said she always feels appreciated in her job. She works with pharmaceutical companies to obtain medication at no charge for those patients who meet the financial requirements.

"My job is very fulfilling. I have a lot of contact with the patients, and I really enjoy dealing with them," Smith said. "They are so grateful."

But, the old adage "It's better to give than to receive" may be in play here.

"Volunteering is a gift to yourself and to who you are helping. Everyone should think about it," she said. "Even if it's only an hour here and there, do whatever you can."

Reader comments posted to this article may be published in our print edition. All rights reserved. This copyrighted material may not be re-published without permission. Links are encouraged.
