
McDonald's  says its newest mascot is intended to inspire good eating habits in children — but its launch today on Facebook and Twitter seemed primarily to inspire dread in the restaurant chain's customers. Happy, an anthropomorphic Happy Meal with an improbably large mouth and the Golden Arches implanted into his brain, debuted on social media today to  a chorus of screams . In an age where memes are born and spread with astonishing speed, Happy appears to have been built to take over the web.

Happy, whose official title is "Happy Meal brand ambassador," has arrived in America to promote the fact that children can now get a 50-calorie side of yogurt to go with their meal. He debuted in 2009 in France, where he was apparently well received. In  a post today on Facebook , the company promised: "We guarantee you'll be smiling in 3, 2, 1 ..." But many of the franchise's fans weren't buying it. For some, McDonald's had managed the unlikely trick of discovering a mascot more disturbing than  a child-loving clown . "Nightmare food," offered one John Estey. "So creepy," said Onika Abbott. Not helping matters is the fact that Happy can apparently clone himself at will.

Over on Twitter, which is no stranger to  bizarre memes , reaction was equally harsh.

. @McDonalds @winnersusedrugs That is not right with God.

Josh Lowensohn contributed to this report.

As part of the new Verge launch, prior users will need to choose a permanent username, along with a new password.

Your username will be used to login to Verge going forward.

Please login to your Vox Media account.  This account will be linked to your previously existing Eater account.

As part of the new Verge launch, prior MT authors will need to choose a new username and password.

Your username will be used to login to Verge going forward.

We'll email you a reset link.

If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.

Almost done,

By becoming a registered user, you are also agreeing to our Terms and confirming that           you have read our Privacy Policy .

Great!

Choose an available username to complete sign up.

In order to provide our users with a better overall experience, we ask for more information from Facebook when using it to login so that we can learn more about our audience and provide you with the best possible experience. We do not store specific user data and the sharing of it is not required to login with Facebook.
