
ROCHESTER, Minn. (KTTC) -- With the passage of legislation allowing medical marijuana in Minnesota comes the overwhelming happiness for one Rochester family, who made the difficult decision of splitting apart so that their 8-year-old daughter could receive treatment in Colorado.

Sarah Rowland and daughter Lily have been living in Colorado for the past month while Lily receives medical marijuana treatment for her generalized intractable epilepsy.

"I just got a call from her today too and she said she had a seizure free day, which hasn't happened for at least six years," said Lily's father, Dave Rowland.

"They're setting the precedent of what other states will probably do in the future, but I don't know if it's needed or not," said Rowland.  "In our case it's not, we can visually see the improvement Lily has had."

Lily takes a cannabis oil treatment known as Haleigh's Hope, and Rowland said if the strain isn't available under the Minnesota law, he hopes an amendment will be added to fix that.

"An amendment that allows at the very least, federal clinical trials through the state of Minnesota which will allow them to cross state lines and come back here and yet still utilize the exact same oil, the Haleigh's Hope that we're using in Colorado," Rowland explained.

Not only has it improved Lily's health, but something else has surprised Rowland, too.

"She was very ornery and angry and moody, and lash out and now she smiles and she's laughing and she thinks everything is funny -- she's just a happy little girl," said Rowland.

It's his hope that the law could reunite the family for all to celebrate.

"It will bring us all together, we'll finally be back under one roof again, and we're really looking forward to that," said Rowland .

Gov. Mark Dayton has pledged he will sign the bill into law, but an established program in Minnesota may take up to a year to put into practice. Until then, the Rowland family will wait to see what the future holds, while Lily continues treatment in Colorado.

All content © Copyright 2001 - 2014 WorldNow and KTTC, a Quincy station.
