
Posted: Monday, May 19, 2014 12:47 pm | Updated: 12:54 pm, Mon May 19, 2014.

Some Berks County legislators say it’s time for everyone to pitch in to help fund public education – and the way to do it is get rid of property taxes.

Lawmakers are now reviewing Senate Bill 76 which would eliminate property taxes as the source of funding for public school districts and raise state personal income tax and sales tax to fund schools.

The proposed legislation would raise the state personal income tax by more than 1.25 percent from 3.07 percent to 4.34 percent and the state sales tax by 1 percent, to 7 percent, but not for items on the WIC food list.

The move would ensure that school districts receive the same amount of state funding they received this year and cost-of-living adjustments thereafter.

If the bill passes, changes could come as early as next year.

State Representative Tom Caltagirone said property tax reform is long overdue.

“Now is the time to make the distribution equal among the entire population,” Caltagirone said.

Caltagirone said the concept that property taxes should solely pay for public education is ancient.

Opponents of property tax reform said increasing earned income tax and sales tax would burden the lower and middle classes.

Property taxes generate more than $12 billion a year. While taxpayers would still be shelling out the money to pay for public schools, homeowners wouldn’t bear the burden alone.

State Senator Judy Schwank also is in strong favor of property tax reform legislation.

She said property owners are not able to sustain tax increases, especially retirees on fixed incomes.

“What we’re currently doing is increasingly impossible for a large segment of the population,” Schwank said.

While Caltagirone is in support of eliminating property taxes, he believes there must be a safety net in case income and sales tax projections fall short.

In April, revenue from income and sales tax was down $1.5 billion than what was projected.

Caltagirone suggested that if income and sales tax revenues fall short, there should be a reserve fund built into the state budget to make sure districts receive money.

“Why not something like that?” he said.

However, Schwank said in order for true reform to take place changes must take place on both ends of the financial spectrum.

While property tax reform is a good start, she said paying for public schools will continue to be a huge economic undertaking unless the entire school funding formula is reworked.

Welcome to the discussion.

It's easy to do and it's free!

Is Mitt Romney becoming the once and future GOP nominee for president? Six months ago such a question might have been met with a polite smile or an elevated eyebrow.
