
Rep. Tammy Duckworth (D-Ill.) — an Iraq war veteran, double amputee and former assistant secretary at the Department of Veterans Affairs — said Monday that allegations facing the VA mirror chronic problems she witnessed at the sprawling department where she served from 2009 to 2011.

Duckworth, a former Army helicopter pilot, lost both of her legs when an insurgent shot her helicopter out of the skies over Baghdad in 2004. She later ran the Illinois Veterans’ Department, joined the VA as an assistant secretary in May 2009 and left in 2011 to launch a congressional campaign.

"I’m not surprised because it’s such a large network that you’re going to find problems," Duckworth said.

"There is I think a lack of a sense of accountability almost to central office," or to top officials in Washington, including Veterans Affairs Secretary Eric K. Shinseki, she said.

Duckworth recalled how in several instances, officials in Washington learned of improperly sterilized equipment or delayed treatment for veterans at hospitals across the country only after reading local news reports. Officials in those hospitals "never told central office," she said. "That was frustrating to me, because they were trying to deal with it locally and it would be three, four or five months later. As soon as central office and Secretary Shinseki found out about it, we’d act on it immediately."

Despite her concerns, Duckworth expressed support for Shinseki, who has faced calls for his resignation in recent days because of the allegations.

"I think he should fix it. I’m not putting trying to put words in his mouth here, but I would think that he would want to fix it," she said.

When asked whether the allegations could affect President Obama's legacy of helping the nation's military veterans, Duckworth took a long pause before answering.

"It’s hard, because Mrs. Obama has done so much and Mrs. Biden has done so much and I see that as part of the president’s push," she said, referring to first lady Michelle Obama and Vice President Biden's wife, Jill. "I think [Obama's] relied on Secretary Shinseki, but we could use his personal attention at this point."

"I think he’s done a lot," she added later. "I don’t know what more he could have done. He appointed Eric Shinseki, it’s been one of the top things on the first lady and Dr. Biden’s agenda. That has been going gangbusters. I don’t know any other president who’s done more than that. But now that we have this crisis, we need more."

While recovering from her Iraq war wounds at Walter Reed Medical Center in 2005, Duckworth met then-Sen. Obama, who visited her several times. She became an outspoken critic of the Bush administration's Iraq policy and eventually was recruited by then-Democratic Congressional Committee Chairman Rahm Emanuel to run for a House seat in suburban Chicago. She lost that 2006 race, but this year faces a less serious GOP challenge in her first reelection campaign. In recent months Duckworth has been talked about as a potential candidate to challenge Sen. Mark Kirk (R-Ill.) in 2016.

Ed O’Keefe is a congressional reporter with The Washington Post and covered the 2008 and 2012 presidential and congressional elections.

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
