
For Wake Forest students, former New York Times executive editor Jill Abramson today delivered an inspirational speech.

For media reporters, not much there.

Ever since Abramson was dumped last week as the top editor of the New York Times, her commitment as commencement speaker at the North Carolina university loomed as a moment. Perhaps she would swing back at her former boss Arthur Sulzberger Jr., who has been saying some awfully critical things about Abramson as part of a post-firing public spat that has besmirched the paper’s reputation for decorum. Perhaps she’d at least throw an elbow or two.

Nope.

She inventoried a number of examples of resilience: A New York Times reporter in China who’d been detained, and later returned to his work with gusto; Katharine Graham, the late Washington Post publisher who faced discrimination against women in her time; a woman whose son was killed by a taxicab, and she’s now doing activism to “make the streets safer”; Jim Risen, the New York Times reporter who’s now fighting an “unfair Washington leak investigation”; and Anita Hill, who “testified about sexual harassment before an all-white, all-male Senate Judiciary committee in the 1990s” and turned her “potential humiliation” into a career teaching law at Brandeis University and writing books. Hill reached out to Abramson with a message to say “she was proud of me” after her dismissal.

“We human beings are a lot more resilient than we often realize,” said Abramson.

“What’s next for me?” said Abramson. “I don’t know, so I’m in exactly the same boat as many of you.” She joked that she’d booked a session with Andy Chan .

Erik Wemple writes the Erik Wemple blog, where he reports and opines on media organizations of all sorts.

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
