
Caregivers Susan Thompson and Doug Amussen said they received devastating news on April 30.

: The Cache Valley Adult Day Center has been a refuge for those who have disabilities and those caretaker. However, the center is currently closed due to formalities.

They said the beloved Cache Valley Adult Day Center temporarily closed its doors two weeks ago, which displaced up to a dozen elderly people, including their aging mother, Colleen Amussen.

Thompson and Amussen said they have been taking care of their mother since January after she never fully recovered from a surgery. They said they have had no intentions of putting their mother in a nursing home regardless of the 24 hour care that she has needed. Instead, the siblings personally took care of their mother until they discovered the Cache Valley Day Center.

“She didn’t want to go the first day, but since that time, she’s loved it,” Thompson said.

Bringing their mother to the day center was such a relief for them as well as their mother, until it closed, she said.

Jason Smith was the music therapist and program coordinator for the center. He said the issue arose because of a technicality with the Internal Revenue Service; the Cache Valley Adult Day Center had lost its non-profit status.

Smith said that the organization was not aware of the mishap until it was too late.

Smith said the board is working to remedy the issues with the IRS as quickly as possible.

“In the meantime, we have lost some grant funding that we could have used to keep things moving at the day center,” he said.

Regardless of the closure, Smith is volunteering his time to help the center get back on its feet again to help caregivers like Thompson and Amussen.

He dedicates his free time to the adult day center because he says he's seen the fatigue and the worry in the faces of members’ caregivers.

To Smith, day centers are very important, because they fill a need.

First and foremost, Smith said the center benefited those who attend the program.

“Today was one of the days that I would have gone, but my day looks kind of empty,” Willis said.

In addition to the personal benefits of those who participate, Smith said that the services the center provided were also valuable to caregivers.

As a caregiver, Amussen said taking care of a person always takes its toll.

Thompson and Amussen said they look forward to the re-opening of the center because they are back to 24-hour-care with their mother.

“We get a CNA to come in three times a week to bathe her,” Thompson said, because a bath is all Medicare covers for their family.

Smith said he's not sure when the center will re-open, but he can only hope that it will open sometime in May.
