
Live coverage of the upcoming sentencing retrial of Jodi Arias has been banned.On Friday the local TV stations, including FOX 10 proposed a compromise.Millions watched the Jodi Arias trial last year. But when Arias acts as her own attorney and fights to avoid the death penalty in her sentencing trial no one will be able to see it live.

Live coverage of the upcoming sentencing retrial of Jodi Arias has been banned.On Friday the local TV stations, including FOX 10 proposed a compromise.Millions watched the Jodi Arias trial last year. But when Arias acts as her own attorney and fights to avoid the death penalty in her sentencing trial no one will be able to see it live.

ASU is responding to a federal investigation into how the college handled sexual abuse complaints.The state's largest public university is one of 55 colleges around the country involved in the investigation.

ASU is responding to a federal investigation into how the college handled sexual abuse complaints.The state's largest public university is one of 55 colleges around the country involved in the investigation.

A woman is facing criminal charges for allegedly forcing her boyfriend's 3 year-old daughter to eat her own feces.

The child's father says his girlfriend has a bad temper and felt like she was mad because their relationship was about to end.

He says he felt like something was wrong but didn't know what was wrong.

Candelaria is also accused of forcefully holding the girl on the toilet inside her Tempe apartment. Investigators say bruising on the child's side was consistent with that.

Police say bruising was also found on the child's back chest and legs.

The mother of the child called police after she says the 3 year-old told her about the incident following a 6 day stay with her father and Candelaria who was his girlfriend of about a year.

The 3 year-old's twin sister and 5 year-old brother witnessed the alleged abuse.

Police say Candelaria was caring for the children while her boyfriend, the father of the children, worked.

FOX 10 asked the father if he believed the allegations, he replied "uh yes, but I don't want to talk to the news".

Off camera, the child's father told us he feels guilty, that he felt like something was wrong but says no abuse took place when he was home.

Neighbors reported hearing Candelaria scream and slap her boyfriend. He told us that only happened once but admits she has a bad temper.

FOX 10 asked the father if he could let her back in the home, he answered, "no".

Candelaria denies the allegations. She's housed in a Maricopa County Jail on a $5,400 bond. The child's father says his three children are now in CPS custody.

All content © Copyright 2000 - 2014 Fox Television Stations, Inc. and Worldnow. All Rights   Reserved.
