
Investor Stephen Messiah Coleman is courting cultured Chicagoans as clients, and not letting past run-ins with Missouri securities regulators get in the way.

Coleman, owner and chief investment officer of Daedalus Capital LLC, moved to Chicago two years ago from St. Louis. He has taken out a full-page ad in the Chicago Shakespeare Theater program, promising an investment return of 100 percent or more, in five years or less. "Like Babe Ruth, we call our shot and then we deliver," said the ad, which features a large photo of Coleman, 58.

What the ad doesn't say is that Coleman and Daedalus aren't registered as a broker or an investment adviser. In 2012, a Missouri county court ruled that no evidence was presented that investors lost money, but it fined them $50,000 after finding they sold unregistered securities and acted as an unregistered investment adviser, in violation of securities laws.

Coleman, in an interview, said he doesn't need to be registered, partly because clients give him their usernames and passwords to allow him to manage money in their accounts, a practice known as proxy trading.

"The way we do it, our assets under management are officially zero because we don't have custody and we don't have any custody agreements," Coleman said. He said he is now managing about $10 million, mostly belonging to Missourians.

Coleman said his investment strategy gets results, and he has fans among clients. But his business model — not having a license, selling unregistered securities, having access to customer accounts, promising big returns — can press many buttons among securities industry regulators.

When the Missouri Securities Division learned that Coleman was still investing for people in that state, agency spokesman Kevin Flannery said, "What Mr. Coleman is saying about his current activities is obviously troubling, and it's something that the division is looking into." The agency, Flannery said, works aggressively to protect Missourians' hard-earned savings.

Illinois' securities regulator declined to comment.

The North American Securities Administrators Association said "proxy trading accounts" are one of its top 10 threats to unwary investors. "Allowing an unlicensed individual to have access to the username and password for your brokerage account or worse, allowing an unlicensed individual to set up a brokerage account in your name, is a recipe for disaster," the trade group said in October.

The Securities and Exchange Commission is investigating individuals involved in proxy trading, said spokesman John Nester. But he declined to say how widespread the practice might be.

The commission warns consumers that if they do business with an unregistered securities broker or firm that later goes out of business, there may be no way to recover money — even if an arbitrator or a court rules in the consumers' favor.

One securities lawyer was alarmed by claims that investors' moneys will be doubled.

"Promises of large returns can be hallmarks of a fraudulent pitch," said Chicago securities lawyer Andrew Stoltmann.

Coleman said he believes he keeps getting challenged because a Missouri securities regulator once told him that "fraud is what we say it is."

"That same regulator said, 'Stating that you can double someone's money in five years or less is prima facie evidence of fraud,'" Coleman said. He also believes that his firm's "success infuriated a lot of people."

Coleman's website and investor contracts clearly disclose his past run-ins. Coleman's website also includes two 2012 letters from the SEC stating that an investigation into Daedalus has been completed, and that the federal agency doesn't plan to recommend any action against the firm.

When asked about Daedalus, named for the Greek mythological figure who made wings so he could fly, Coleman replied: "I'm an innovator, and in history, one of the great innovations was flight. Daedalus was the first man to fly." Coleman described himself as "one of the best money managers in the country."

Coleman said the key reason that he moved to Chicago was that it's a bigger market, but an added benefit is putting Missouri regulators behind him.

"It's one of the reasons I'm happier to be here than there," he said. Coleman said he still hasn't paid the $50,000 he was ordered to pay in 2012.

The Daedalus website also features 15 nearly identical "happy client letters" that were signed around February 2011 by individuals who said Coleman doubled their money in five years.

"I wrote a standard letter and asked them to sign it," Coleman said.

One of those people is Jacqueline Dyer, a retired educator, who said in a telephone interview that Coleman had more than doubled her $5,000. She called him "honorable" and a good money manager, and said that Chicagoans should consider investing with him.

"Investigate him like they'd investigate anyone else," she said.
