
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

In Leakesville, The Mississippi Department of Corrections is hiring officers for the prison. Interviews and screenings will be conducted Tuesday at 8:30 a.m. at the South Mississippi Correctional Institution.

Officials say they're looking for candidates who are at least 18 years old, possess a valid driver's license and Social Security card, have no felony or domestic violence convictions, and provide proof of a high school diploma or G.E.D.

Applicants must also complete a math quiz, a written report and a physical agility exercise and show proof of selective service registration, if a male between 18 and 25.

Starting pay is $1,833 per month.

In Biloxi, police say they arrested a 25-year-old New Orleans man and charged him with burglary and aggravated domestic assault.

Lt. Chris De Back tells WLOX TV police responded to an apartment complex Saturday where officers found a woman in need of medical treatment. Authorities said the woman claimed she had been choked by Devin Michael Thomas. De Back said Thomas had fled the scene before police arrived.

He says police were called to the same apartments on Sunday after witnesses said they saw Thomas allegedly breaking into the female victim's apartment. Officials say Thomas was arrested on scene without incident.

De Back said Thomas was held at the Harrison County Adult detention center on a $100,000 bond.

It was unclear whether he has an attorney.

In Purvis, the new police chief in Purvis says he will stop the revolving door for that job. Joey Walker is the department's fourth chief in five years.

He tells The Hattiesburg American he plans to be around a while.

He replaces Preston Burkhalter, who was named interim chief in February 2013.

Mayor Roger Harris says Burkhalter decided he wanted to go into another business.

Walker was an officer in the Purvis Police Department more than a decade ago. He went from there to the Lamar County Sheriff's Department, and then became a road boss and safety officer for the Lamar County Board of Supervisors.

In Long Beach, the Mississippi Department of Marine Resources will hold a public meeting Thursday on how the state should spend $10.9 million it received for damage to oyster and blue crab fisheries.

The hearing, from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. at Long Beach's St. Thomas the Apostle Catholic Church, is meant to let commercially licensed crabbers and oystermen comment on spending.

The money is compensation for a pulse of fresh water released into the Mississippi Sound when Louisiana's Bonnet Carre (BON'-ee CAYR'-ee) Spillway opened in 2011 to relieve Mississippi River flooding.

It could be used to restore crab and oyster habitat or assist fishermen.

In Greenwood, four priests from Denver will soon be calling Greenwood home as part of a five-year Hispanic outreach ministry.

Monsignor Elvin Sunds, vicar general of the Catholic Diocese of Jackson, tells the Greenwood Commonwealth  that the priests are members of the Redemptorist Fathers of the Denver Province.

Sunds says all the priests are fluent in Spanish. They will be ministering to Hispanics in the Delta, identified as an underserved Catholic population.

One of the priests, the Rev. Patrick Keyes, said he and three others are to arrive in Greenwood Aug. 14.

In Yazoo City, officials have recovered the body of a 47-year-old man who jumped into the Yazoo River.

Chief Investigator Tommy Irvine tells WLBT TV body was located about 100 yards down from where he was spotted Saturday night.

Major Tillman Clifton with the Yazoo City Police Department identified the man as Billy Wayne Robinson.

Clifton says Robinson went missing in the water sometime after 5 p.m. Saturday.

Irvine said Robinson's body was located around 12:25 p.m. Sunday.

Robinson's body is now at the state crime lab to determine an exact cause of death.

© 2014 Alabama Live LLC [al.com and gulflive.com]. All rights reserved ( About Us ).
