
Share This Story!

Hilltop Arms Apartments building is being told to clean up by march celebration.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

The Hilltop Arms Apartment building is considered structurally sound but has fallen into general disrepair.

The city is putting pressure on a developer to at least clean up property he owns along the Selma-to-Montgomery National Historic Trail by next year.

The Hilltop Arms Apartments building is near Five Points in the Cottage Hill neighborhood and is along the route of the Selma-to-Montgomery march, which thousands are expected to commemorate for the 50th anniversary next year.

Developer Kim Henderson said he feels the city is targeting him unfairly, and that the economy and other issues have kept him from developing the property.

The Montgomery native and current resident of Fairfax County, Va., said his plans to develop the property he bought in 2006 have been hindered by a number of obstacles, including an alleged breach of contract, legal proceedings and a national mortgage crisis.

Henderson said he has put a total of $1.6 million into the building, has not been able to sell it and cannot afford to develop it.

Mayor Todd Strange initiated a conference call with Henderson during a City Council work session recently, asking what Henderson plans to do with the property.

Strange said he just wants to be sure that the building is not an eyesore when the 50th anniversary of the march focuses national attention on Montgomery.

“What are your plans, and if you don’t have any plans, what can you do so it is not an embarrassment?” Strange said he asked Henderson when meeting with him several months ago.

During the conference call, Henderson suggested putting up a banner to commemorate the historic march.

Strange said cutting the grass and putting a banner might be enough, but he told Henderson he wanted to hear from him in 60 days with what he plans to do at the site.

“We will give you as much grief as we can, because it is an eyesore,” Strange told Henderson.

Strange also offered to pay Henderson $25,000 for the land so the city could demolish the building.

Henderson declined that offer.

Bentley said he supports demolishing the building and feels the city should go ahead and condemn it.

City attorney Jason Paulk said the city is not considering demolition because the building has not been determined to be unsafe.

“That is (the guideline that) is generally used for site demolition and repair under state law,” Paulk said, adding that the building is made of steel-reinforced concrete, and housing code inspectors have deemed it structurally sound.

Cottage Hill is one of the city’s oldest neighborhoods, and Bentley said he and other foundation members generally are interested in historic preservation.

Despite that, he said, the consensus in the foundation is that the neighborhood would be better off without the Hilltop Arms Apartments.

“Historically minded people don’t always like to see things torn down, but that building is the blight on the neighborhood,” Bentley said.

Henderson bought the old Hilltop Arms Apartments for $787,000. He said he also spent money on architects to draw up plans and for demolition crews to gut the inside of the building.

The project was called the GrandView at Cottage Hill, and the plan was to convert the building into luxury condominiums.

Henderson said he grew up in Montgomery, attending St. Jude Educational Institute and Alabama State University before moving to the Washington, D.C., area, where he said he made his money developing property.

Henderson said he would come home for Thanksgiving and see the progress Montgomery was making and decided he wanted to take part in the revitalization.

But Henderson said that dream was compromised when Wells Fargo Bank allegedly reneged on a deal to submit a loan application to the Federal Housing Authority.

Henderson sued Wells Fargo in 2011, alleging fraud, suppression, breach of contract, negligence and wantonness.

He said the costly lawsuit put a strain on his 21-year marriage and that he soon was dealing with divorce proceedings as well.

“At the same time, I was trying to fight Wells Fargo. I couldn’t fight them both,” he said.

So he said he abandoned the lawsuit against Wells Fargo and was left with the legal fees from that.

“This is kind of a catastrophic occurrence in my life,” he said.

Henderson said the current state of the economy makes it difficult to do anything with the property.

“The rent rate (in Montgomery) is too low for anyone to come in and invest,” he said.

Henderson said he has tried to sell the property and still hopes he can, but that he also relishes the idea of developing it himself.

“I would love to develop the building, personally. It is a dream of mine,” he said.

Strange said that he is giving Henderson some latitude because of the economy and that he doesn’t plan to take any action at this point besides pushing him to improve the property.

The city has been working on beautifying the area along the trail, and there remain several challenges, Strange said, acknowledging that there are eyesores along the trail that are worse than the Hilltop Arms building.

“Some are privately owned (and) some are abandoned. We are trying to get them fixed up or get them demolished,” he said.

Strange said the city has been doing things such as working on improving streetscapes and making sure grass is mowed, adding that he hopes it will inspire others to get involved.

“We are going to need help from the community as well,” he said.
