
Randy Gockley of the Lancaster County Emergency Management Agency addresses first responders Monday evening during a simulated crude oil train disaster exercise.

In this July 6, 2013 photo, smoke rises from flaming railway cars that were carrying crude oil after a train derailed in downtown Lac Megantic, Quebec, Canada. A large swath of the town was destroyed after the derailment, sparking several explosions and fires that claimed 47 lives.

Posted: Monday, May 19, 2014 2:05 pm | Updated: 11:35 am, Tue May 20, 2014.

The Lancaster Special has derailed at Marietta. The wreckage of 17 cars  is strewn between South Gay and South Pine streets, spilling hydrochloric and sulfuric acids, oil, turpentine, alcohol and plastic pellets.

Emergency first responders have been on the scene for 18 hours and are exhausted, and now the county emergency operations center has been taken off-line due to technical glitches.

What to do next was the focus of a drill held Monday at the Lancaster County Public Safety Training Center in East Hempfield Township.

About 95 people representing county, state and federal emergency organizations and agencies, including law enforcement and representatives of Norfolk Southern Railroad, took part in the computerized drill.

The participants were assigned to one of 15 Emergency Support Functions, each one focusing on a specific problem such as transportation, communication, search and rescue and Haz Mat. Together, they would use their talents and resources to deal with the emergency.

The drill was prompted by safety concerns about the one-mile long trains that pass through Lancaster County on a regular basis, carrying millions of gallons of flammable crude oil.

"It's nice to have all the players here from all these organizations," said Duane E. Hagelgans, commissioner for Blue Rock Fire & Rescue. "If one of these huge trains had a problem, I don't know that we have the resources right now to handle it. But hopefully tonight, we'll get people trained to make it as safe as possible."

Randy Gockley, Lancaster County's emergency management co-ordinator, said the drill was intended to teach people how to handle any sort of emergency.

"Hopefully they will look at it from an all-hazards approach of what could happen in any location," Gockley said.

Lancaster County commissioner Craig Lehman said that having the emergency center shut down was an "unusual circumstance," but one that still needed to be considered.

"This is to help everyone manage an emergency when the unexpected occurs, and make sure they are prepared to deal with those uncertainties," Lehman said.

Local emergency officials aren’t alone in seeking preparedness in case of an oil train accident.

The order references four crude oil train accidents since July 6, 2013, in Virginia, North Dakota, Alabama and Quebec, and instructs railroad carriers to alert state, county and local officials of high-volume crude oil trains passing through their states and communities.

“The number and type of petroleum crude oil railroad accidents that have occurred during the last year is startling, and the quantity of petroleum crude oil spilled as a result of those accidents is voluminous in comparison to past precedents,” the DOT order said.

The order gives railroad carriers 30 days to start notifying state emergency response commissions of the train schedules. Trains have to be carrying at least 1 million gallons of Bakken crude oil to be affected by the order.

Norfolk Southern has been transporting up to mile-long Bakken crude oil trains along the Susquehanna River on the Port Road, passing through river towns such as Columbia and Marietta. The trains continue through southern Lancaster County en route to the Delaware City Refinery in Delaware.

Norfolk Southern is still looking for the best mechanism to supply all the affected states with the train schedules and has not yet begun alerting states, spokesman Dave Pidgeon said Monday morning.

Norfolk Southern did not acknowledge that oil trains were passing through the county, citing security reasons, until Lancaster Newspapers ran a video of a mile-long train passing through Manor Township.

Only then did the railroad inform Gockley about the trains.

Gockley said he was told by Norfolk Southern that there are about four to eight trains a week going through the county. But, he added, “people along the railroad tell us more than that.

The DOT emergency order cited an April 30 derailment of 17 crude oil tank cars on a CSX train in Lynchburg, Va. Some 350 people were evacuated and 30,000 gallons of crude oil entered the James River.

The worst accident was on July 6, 2013, in Lac-Megantic, Quebec. Fires and tanker car explosions killed 47 and leveled 30 buildings in the town.

Not mentioned in the order were two recent crude oil accidents in Pennsylvania.

In February, a 120-car Norfolk Southern train carrying Canadian crude derailed in Westmoreland County. Between 3,000 and 4,000 gallons of oil spilled.

In January, a train hauling crude oil by  CSX Corp. railroad jumped the tracks and nearly toppled over a bridge in Philadelphia. There were no injuries or a fire in the accident.

We're always interested in hearing about news in our community. Let us know what's going on!
