
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C. — In her first public appearance since being fired from The New York Times, Jill Abramson focused on resilience during personal setbacks.

Abramson, who was dismissed Wednesday as the paper’s executive editor, opened her commencement address at Wake Forest University by recounting a conversation she had with her sister the morning after her firing. Her sister, she said, reminded her of a key piece of advice from their father that Abramson then passed on to the graduates: “You know the sting of losing or not getting something you badly want. When that happens show what you are made of,” she said.

Abramson’s remarks were watched with intense interest throughout the media world to see how she would handle the subject of her dismissal. She did not serve up any specifics regarding the circumstances of her ouster, though she spoke openly about getting fired and her uncertainty about what will come next.

But she also sought to deflect attention from her own news, focusing instead on the 1,880 Wake Forest graduates.

“I’m impressed that your achievements have attracted so much media attention,” she added, later saying that “the little media circus” that’s been following her made her question delivering the address. She decided to go through with it, she said, to honor the graduates.

“Smart, supportive, relentless, she is absolutely fearless,” he said.

Abramson’s address was the subject of heavy media intention on Monday. The speech was covered live by MSNBC and streamed online by NBC News and CBS News.

The speech elicited a standing ovation from the audience at Wake Forest and was well received by media watchers elsewhere.

MSNBC’s Chuck Todd said on his show “The Daily Rundown” that Abramson’s theme of resiliency is something that will resonate with many people.

“So kudos to Miss Abramson for what I think is a terrific theme to be talking about with the spotlight on her the way it is right now,” Todd said.

Friends E-mail(s) Separate emails with a comma. Maximum of 5 emails allowed.
