
We're in the fifth hour of testimony for GOP political consultant and lobbyist, Marc Reichelderfer, and he has admitted he not only had access to more  than two dozen secret maps drawn by the legislature’s staff weeks before they were available to the public, he also recommended modifications to maps that were pending.

But Reichelderfer, a long time consultant to former House Speaker Dean Cannon, repeatedly denied having any role in influencing the outcome of the maps produced by the Republican-controlled Legislature, which is prohibited from drawing political boundaries to benefit political parties and incumbents. When pressed by plaintiffs lawyers, Reichelderfer, couldn't recall many of the details of phone conversations and emails, and stuck to his talking points.

“I did not tell them how to draw the maps. I didn't tell them where to draw the lines on the map and I didn't tell them which maps to pick," Reichelderfer testified in nearly six hours of testimony Monday.

He was the first witness in the high stakes redistricting trial before Circuit Court Judge Terry Lewis as plaintiffs attempt to invalidate the 2012 congressional districts approved by lawmakers in a bi-partisan vote.

Lawyers for the state Legislature reject the claims and argue that the 2012 election cycle, in which incumbent Republicans -- U.S. Reps. Allen West of West Palm Beach, Sandy Adams of Orlando, Cliff Stearns of Ocala, and David Rivera of Miami lost their election bids is evidence that the maps were not biased in their favor.

Reichelderfer, who has also been a consultant to Republican Sens. John Thrasher and John Legg, said he met twice with GOP consultants Rich Heffley and Pat Bainter and House and Senate legislative staff to find a way to get "a seat at the table" when lawmakers redrew legislative and congressional maps but he said lawyers later concluded they should have no role.

Reichelderfer, whose legal bills are being paid for by the Republican Party of Florida, said he and other political consultants liked to tinker with maps for political sport, but he denied claims that he offered advice intended to influence the final product produced by lawmakers.

"We are political junkies and drawing maps was kind of like doing a Rubic’s cube, especially congressional maps because the larger the maps, the harder it is to draw,’’ he said.

He argues that the documents should be deemed trade secrets. Lewis rejected Bainter’s request to close the courtroom when any of the the 538 pages of the confidential documents are discussed. Bainter has appealed to the First District Court of Appeals asking the court to stay Lewis’ order. The Republican Party is paying Bainter’s legal bills.

When pressed by the coalition’s attorney David King, Reichelderfer acknowledged that he was given numerous congressional maps drawn by the House redistricting staff, before they became public, but he couldn't recall how he got them.

"The fact that they're on my computer doesn't tell me how they got there,'' he said.

Next up in court is on Tuesday is Kirk Pepper, Cannon’s former aide who supplied Reichelderfer with the maps before they were public, and House Speaker Will Weatherford, who was in charge of the House’s redistricting effort in 2012.

For Florida political news today, the Buzz is your can't-miss-it source. Tampa Bay Times writers offer the latest in Florida politics, the Florida Legislature and the Rick Scott administration. Keep in mind: This is a public forum sponsored and maintained by the Tampa Bay Times. When you post comments here, what you say becomes public and could appear in the newspaper. You are not engaging in private communication with candidates or Times staffers.
