
"Imagine if you're in a VA hospital in Arizona, and you've been promised you're on a special waiting list where you are going to get advanced treatment, preferential treatment. You wait, and you wait, and you wait -- and you see the owners of the horse get their request answered in two days -- and you die before getting treatment."

"You know, it's no wonder college graduates are booing if a commencement speaker tells 'em to get out there and work hard. They're looking around and saying, 'Why? Who else is?'"

"If you want to treat this VA thing seriously, this is exactly where we're all headed. This is what Obamacare's gonna be for everybody. The VA is just one small bureaucracy."

"Imagine if, say, 40 people on an Obama secret food stamp list died of starvation. That's kind of what we're talking about here with the VA."

"I offered to move to Rio Linda if they would rename it Limbaugh, California. They didn't. I tried the same thing with West Sacramento. They refused the offer. They're still paying the price, both places."

"You know, it's no wonder college graduates are booing if a commencement speaker tells 'em to get out there and work hard. They're looking around and saying, 'Why? Who else is?'"

"The president's really mad about the VA hospital, folks. He was just as mad about the IRS scandal. And he was just as mad when he found out that you couldn't keep your doctor. Mad about Benghazi, when he found out that the ambassador in Benghazi got killed. . He's gonna get to the bottom of this. This is unconscionable."

"If I did a hologram of myself, like they did in Vegas for Jacko, I could make speeches all over the place and never really go. Yeah. That's not a bad idea: Do a hologram. Well, I'm going to look into that. Yep, absolutely."

"The government is allowed to totally bollix everything it does because they're trying to help, and that's how Obama escapes accountability in many ways."

"Do you know what the minimum wage in Switzerland is? Anybody in there want to take a guess? What is the minimum wage in Switzerland? Zero. There is no minimum wage."

"You know where they got Tommy Vietor? He was a driver. He was a driver during the campaign. Vietor drove a van in the Obama campaign, and he ends up in the Situation Room on the night Benghazi's taking place with Obama nowhere to be found. Vietor's in there because of total loyalty, which, believe me, when you're running scam after scam after scam, you need people loyal to you."
