
Friends and colleagues in Massachusetts on Sunday mourned a beloved civic leader who authorities say was murdered while hiking on a trail off Highway 36 north of Red Bluff.

Flags flew at half-staff across West Tisbury, Massachusetts, to remember Francis "Pat" Gregory, 69, who spent more than two decades moderating meetings in the tiny town on Martha's Vineyard. As residents celebrated the opening of a new police station Saturday, news quickly spread about Gregory's death.

"The whole island is in a state of shock," Richard Knabel, 74, a longtime West Tisbury town official, said Sunday. "There's a lot of sadness here because of the senseless and horrible way that he died. I hope the authorities get the monster who committed this crime."

Tehama County sheriff's Sgt. Andy Houghtby said Sunday that investigators were trying to track down the gunman who shot Gregory and a 76-year-old California man after taking their money and belongings Friday on the Iron Canyon Trail north of Red Bluff.

Gregory died at the scene, and his unidentified hiking partner remains hospitalized with critical injuries.

Gregory had been on vacation with his wife, Dorothy, said Cynthia Mitchell, 64, another longtime West Tisbury town official.

The sheriff's office said sometime between 11:30 a.m. and noon, a white man with a gun confronted Gregory and his friend on the trail, demanding money and personal effects. Once the man robbed them, he shot the pair and left them in a remote area about 100 yards from the trailhead.

The shooting suspect is described as 6 feet tall with a thin build and short, black hair and a mustache or beard. He was wearing dark-colored denim pants and a dark or black T-shirt with a design on the front.

A separate hiker found the two victims about three hours after the shooting. Gregory died at the scene from his injuries while the unidentified Manton man suffered from gunshot wounds.

Tehama County sheriff's detectives are asking for the public's help. Anyone who recognizes the suspect and/or was at the trailhead or on the trail between 9 a.m. and 3 p.m. Friday is asked to call Detective Jeff Garrett at 530-529-7920. ext. 3032, or the sheriff's dispatch center at 530-529-7900.

The Gregorys moved to Martha's Vineyard from the Adirondack Mountains in upstate New York in the early 1970s, Mitchell said. Gregory taught math at the West Tisbury school while his wife, a nurse, cared for their two children. In the mid-1980s, the couple opened EduComp, a computer and office supply store in West Tisbury that remains a popular business on the island.

In 1991, Gregory became West Tisbury's meeting moderator, keeping a cool, calm demeanor even when tempers sometimes flared, Knabel and Mitchell said.

"It's an incredible loss. He was a true giant in our rather small community. We are completely reeling from this news," Mitchell said.

Ready to subscribe to the Redding Record Searchlight? Choose between a Premium or Digital subscription below.

Need Help? Call us at 1-877-710-6185.
