
Anthony M. Grant - Drug Paraphernalia (2X) and Possession of Marijuana. Dismissed. Case dismissed without prejudice due to plea negotiations and defendant’s plea to companion case in Common Pleas Court and not due to lack of probable cause to arrest. No cost to defendant.

Krystal Compton - OVI/Under the Influence. No contest. Guilty. One year standard probation. Defendant may complete three day DDIP (driver intervention program) in lieu of jail time. Must be completed within six months. Defendant shall obtain an assessment for alcohol/drug counseling.

Miriah C. Daniel - Vehicular homicide (2X). No contest. Guilty. Five years standard probation. Defendant shall serve 100 hours of community service as assigned by the probation officer.

Adrienne M. Yeager - Abuse Harmful Intoxicants and Possession of Marijuana. Dismissed. Cases dismissed without prejudice due to plea negotiations and defendant’s plea to companion case 14CRB0203 B and not due to lack of probable cause to arrest. No cost to defendant.

Adrienne M. Yeager - Drug paraphernalia. No contest. Guilty. Three years standard probation. Defendant shall obtain an assessment for drug/alcohol counseling.

Sherrie L. Beekman - Child endangerment. Dismissed. Case dismissed without prejudice due to plea negotiations and defendant’s plea to companion case TRC1401028A and not due to lack of probable cause to arrest.

Elmer J. Ison - Take 6 Trout and Take 7 Trout. Guilty. Defendant is able to pay the fine and court costs imposed in full within 60 days.

Nathan W. Reed - Domestic violence. Dismissed. Case dismissed without prejudice. To be presented to grand jury. No cost to defendant.

Nathan W. Reed - Persistent disorderly conduct. No contest. Guilty. Three years standard probation. Defendant shall obtain an assessment for drug/alcohol counseling and shall refrain from all contact with Jennifer Bayes.

Jennifer N. Bayes - Domestic violence. Dismissed. Case dismissed without prejudice. To be presented to grand jury. No cost to defendant.

Jennifer N. Bayes - Persistent disorderly conduct. Guilty. Three years standard probation. Defendant shall obtain an assessment for drug/alcohol counseling and shall undergo mental health counseling.

Jason W. Dean - Domestic violence. No contest. Guilty. Three years standard probation. Defendant shall undergo batterer’s intervention program at the Pike County Partnership Against Domestic Violence. Defendant shall refrain from all contact with Ashley Dean.

Paul E. Carter - Domestic violence. Preliminary waived. Defendant waived preliminary hearing. Case is bound over to next term of grand jury. Bond remain the same.

Donna J. Pilcher - Fail to Confine and Fail to Tag Dog. No contest. Guilty. Defendant is able to pay the fine and costs imposed in full by May 17, 2014.

Krystal Compton - D.U.I., OVI/Under the Influence, and OVI/ALS Refusal. Dismissed. Cases dismissed without prejudice due to plea negotiations and defendant’s plea to companion case 13TRCT3165 A and not due to lack of probable cause to arrest. No cost to defendant.

Sherrie L. Beekman - D.U.I. (2X). No contest. Not guilty. Defendant entered a plea of no contest and was found not guilty, and a judgment of acquittal is hereby entered.

James L. Adkins - OVI/Under the Influence. No contest. Guilty. Three year standard probation. Defendant shall obtain alcohol/drug counseling. The court further orders that the 1983 Ford F-150 (V.I.N. #:1FTEF4F3DNA65331) shall be immobilized for 90 days.

Jan M. Chaney - OVI/Under the Influence. Guilty. Three years standard probation. Defendant may complete three day DDIP (driver intervention program) in lieu of jail time. Must be completed within six months.

Posted in Community on Monday, May 19, 2014 2:04 pm. Updated: 8:23 pm.
