
The public has until June 6 to weigh in on the Tribal National Park proposed for the South Unit of Badlands National Park in South Dakota.

Affected ranchers are against it. Residents of the Pass Creek District are against it. Members of the Red Shirt Community are against it. The Great Sioux Nation Treaty Council, which is something like a group of advisors to the various tribal governments, is against it.

But on the Pine Ridge Reservation in South Dakota, 1,000 head of paper buffalo are relentless in their march to the proposed Stronghold Grazing Unit on the proposed Tribal National Park. The Tribal National Park would be created from the 133,000-acre South Unit and include some land that is currently being leased by both native and non-native ranchers in the area. It would be the nation’s first Tribal National Park, and would require Congressional action to authorize. The idea is supported by the tribal council of the Oglala Sioux Tribe, including President Bryan Brewer, and the National Park Service.

Earlier this year a group of the affected ranchers filed an injunction in tribal court against Ordinance 13-21, which would create the Stronghold Grazing Unit and strip them of their leases in 2015. At the hearing on the injunction there were no tribal government members or lawyers present, despite the fact that they were subpoenaed.

Tribal judge Mary Wynne granted the injunction and scheduled a hearing on the ranchers’ complaints. A few days later, the council voted 12-4-1 to suspend Wynne for 45 days without pay, based on accusations by Nicole Little White Man of a “deteriorating relationship between the chief judge and her judicial assistant that included retaliation, abusive behavior and a breakdown in communication,” according to an article in Lakota Country Times.

Bud May ranches with his family near Kyle, S.D. Some of the May family’s leased ground falls in the proposed Stronghold Unit, although Bud is quick to point out that other families are more affected. “But any time the Tribal Park issue comes up, I drop everything. This is more important. We have to stop this,” May said.

In a May 2 meeting of the Shannon County commissioners in Hot Springs, S.D., May asked for the commissioners’ support for the group opposing the implementation of this proposal. The county commission granted that their first obligation is to the taxpayers of Shannon County and that they need more information before reaching a conclusion, but Lyla Hutchison, a member of the commission, said, “The idea of the tribe giving land back to the federal government is just wrong,” according to an article in Lakota Country Times.

In early February the tribal council voted 10-4 to suspend the council’s ethics commission for no more than 60 days, but the council hasn’t discussed reinstating it yet, according to an article by Native Sun News.

According to May and others, the Brewer administration removed a clause in the tribal constitution prohibiting felons from tribal employment specifically for Jacobs. “Most of the time, if you’re a felon, they [the Tribe] takes you to the edge of the reservation in a cop car and says ‘don’t come back.’ If you’re Chuck Jacobs, you get a job,” May said.

Under the plan now being considered, the proposed Lakota Heritage Education Center will be built on Jacobs’ land.

In the 1990s, the Badlands National Park superintendent William Supernaugh rejected the tribe’s demands to regain ownership of the South Unit of the Badlands by threatening to shut off the yearly payment from the North Unit, which sees a great deal more revenue from tourism. In 2013 that payment was $679,283.59. Under the new proposal, the tribe would voluntarily give that up, would cease to collect grazing fees, and the land would still be property of the U.S. government. “There’s no guarantee of revenue for the foreseeable future in this deal,” says May.

Yes, I did this year for the first time.

Yes I do every year.

No I think it's a silly thing to do.
