
A popular news anchor recently accused Congress party spokesperson Jayanthi Natarajan of trying to take refuge in philosophy, when she quoted Kipling in answer to a question on how the Congress proposed to deal with its defeat. “If you can meet with Triumph and Disaster/And treat those two impostors just the same,” she had intoned, which prompted the rebuke. This was somewhat unfair, as philosophy can offer valuable insights about the understanding and assimilation of defeat. As Swiss philosopher Alain de Botton noted in his essay, ‘The Consolations of Unpopularity’: “It is by finding out what something is not that one comes closest to understanding what it is.” If the Congress truly understands the nature of its loss, it may well find that this leads to the beginnings of a comeback.

A comeback may seem unlikely at this point of time, but victories, defeats, and even phoenix-like returns from resounding routs are commonplace in politics. The Congress itself made a comeback after its rout by the Janata Party, and then again after losing out to the Atal Behari Vajpayee-led NDA. But this time around, it is not just the scale, but the nature of the defeat that is different; this poses fundamentally different challenges for the 128-year-old party. The first challenge is to win back national relevance. The BJP has displaced it as a pan-India party, both in terms of vote share and seats won across the country. The Congress’s national average per state/union territory (35 in all) is just over one. It failed to win even a single seat in as many as 19 states and union territories, while failing to make it to double digits in the states it did win in. This is reflected in the vote share, with less than one in five Indians picking the Congress, compared to the BJP’s nearly one in three. The Congress needs to understand why this happened, and deal with the fact that there will be another national-level opponent to contend with.

The second challenge is ideological. The Congress buttressed its ‘pro-poor’ stance with doles and entitlements by legislation. But the poor want to leave poverty behind, not wallow in the same situation with handouts. The party failed to read the aspirations of the new Indian. Also, its tactic of trying reverse communal polarisation on the plank of ‘secularism’ was summarily rejected, even by significant sections of Muslims. It also failed to talk the language of the youth, despite having a considerably more youthful leader to present to the electorate. Unless it truly understands the young and is able to assess the aspirations unleashed by growth, it will remain a 20th century party trying to be relevant in the 21st.

Its third, and perhaps biggest challenge, is internal. Though it is India’s oldest democratic party, it has little internal democracy to speak of. The nomination culture has prevailed and regular organisational elections haven’t been held for years. As a result, it has no system to recognise or develop talent and no credible second line of leadership after the Gandhis, whose positions, as well as their right to hold them, have been already tested. The answers it comes up with to these questions will be crucial in determining whether the party can, at some point, make a return to relevance.
