
Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own.

Essentially, the equation says that mass and energy are intimately related. Atom bombs and nuclear reactors are practical examples of the formula working in one direction, turning matter into energy.

But until now there has been no way to do the reverse, turn energy into matter. What makes it particularly hard is that c2 term, the speed of light squared. It accounts for the huge amounts of energy released in nuclear reactions, and the huge amount you’d need to inject to turn energy into matter.

Previous experiments have always required a little bit of mass, even if it was only an electron’s worth.

But scientists at Imperial College London (including a visiting physicist from Germany’s Max Planck Institute for Nuclear Physics) think they’ve figured out how to turn energy directly into matter.

Oliver Pike, Felix Mackenroth, Edward Hill and Steve Rose have suggested a way to turn a pair of photons, particles of light, into an electron and its antiparticle, a positron.

They came up with the idea in less than a day, over several cups of coffee at Imperial’s Blackett Physics Laboratory.

They started off talking about fusion, but realised their work could be applied to an earlier problem, an idea proposed by two US scientists, Gregory Breit and John Wheeler, in 1934.

Breit and Wheeler, who went on to work on America’s Manhattan Project to build the first A-bomb, thought it was theoretically possible to smash two photons together to produce an electron and a positron.

Their article in Nature Photonics proposes that a new kind of collider be built, one that smashes photons instead of protons, as at the Large Hadron Collider at CERN where the Higgs boson was discovered last year.

Their accomplishment has huge implications, not only does it yet again prove an aspect of Einstein’s theories, it recreates a “process that was important in the first 100 seconds of the universe and that is also seen in gamma ray bursts, which are the biggest explosions in the universe,” said Imperial .

The first step would be to accelerate electrons with a high-energy laser to just below the speed of light (300,000km/s) and smash them into a slab of gold, which would create a beam of light a billion times more intense than the light from the Sun.

This would be aimed into a hollow gold shell called a hohlraum (German for empty room). The shell would be excited by another laser to create a thermal radiation field that emits light akin to starlight.

When the two sources of light cross, some will collide and create electrons and their corresponding antimatter particles, positrons, which could be detected as they left the hohlraum. They calculate that the experiment should produce 100,000 pairs of particles.

Among candidate locations for the experiment are the Omega laser in Rochester, New York and the Orion laser at Aldermaston, the UK atomic weapons facility in Berkshire.

it’s just possible that this energy/matter thing is actually two ends of the same continuum. that light particles/waves are matter, and they’re simply recycling energy/matter into a different shape. like plastic.

Is this really news? In the early 1970′s, I was working my way through grad school operating a linear accelerator. We would accelerate electrons to about 100Mev. Since the rest mass of an electron is only about .511Mev, that was a large percentage of the speed of light. An electron would strike a tungsten target generating a very energetic photon. The photon would then decay into a positron electron pair. We were converting photons, which have momentum but no mass, into matter. We weren’t the first. I thought you might find this interesting.

That is interesting, Daniel. I’ll make inquiries. Thanks.
