
Hendersonville's Main Street named a 'Great Main Street'

Hendersonville's Main Street has been named a “Great Main Street” in the professionals' category of the 2014 Great Places in North Carolina awards program.

Last Modified: Monday, May 19, 2014 at 9:46 a.m.

Nominated for its community events, historic quality and vibrancy, Hendersonville's Main Street has been named a "Great Main Street" in the professionals' category of the 2014 Great Places in North Carolina awards program. The program is sponsored by the North Carolina Chapter of the American Planning Association.

"All of these 'Great Main Streets' are vibrant centers of commerce and community," said Ben Hitchings, President of APA-NC.  "Through this program, we celebrate great places in our state and the local partnerships that have made these main streets a focal point for community life."

According to a news release from the APA-NC, it was the combination of existing vitality and proactive dedication of the town and community that led the expert panel to select Hendersonville's Main Street as a 2014 Great Main Street.

The awards are designed to help celebrate the great communities throughout the state and were given in two categories: professionals' and people's choice. The professionals' category includes a detailed nomination process that requires in-depth descriptions of the work and partnerships that went into creating the main street.

Hendersonville's Main Street is joined by three other North Carolina main streets in the professionals' category. The panel named North Salem Street in Apex, and Fourth Street in Winston-Salem as "Great Main Streets." Nash, Goldsboro and Douglas streets in Wilson were named a "Great Main Street in the Making."

In the people's choice category, where the winners were chosen by popular vote in an online contest, Morganton's Union Street won "People's Choice: Great Main Street" and the Town Square in Burnsville was recognized as the "People's Choice: Great Public Place."

In addition to being featured on the greatplacesnc.org website and the NC Chapter of the American Planning Association website, winners are provided marketing materials to use in their business and economic development efforts, receive an award at a special presentation in their community, and will be recognized at the upcoming APA-NC Annual Conference in October.

To learn more about each of the selected communities, folks can visit www.greatplacesnc.org, where a photo gallery and list of the winners will be available.
