
The Research and Development team at the RUH is highlighted some of the great research projects happening at the hospital as part of tomorrow’s International Clinical Trials Day.

The department is also supporting the National Institute for Clinical Research’s ‘OK to ask’ campaign. The campaign aims to encourage patients to ask if there are clinical trials in which they may be eligible to take part and to raise public awareness of research in health settings.

Clinical trials can benefit patients by giving them access to cutting-edge treatments but also benefits the service by providing the all-important evidence base needed for using new treatments, drugs and methods.

Kelly Spencer, Research & Development Manager at the RUH said: “We undertake a wide variety of research studies and clinical trials; these range from studies in which patients simply complete a questionnaire, to those trialing cutting-edge medical treatments for diseases such as cancer, diabetes and stroke.

“All patients should feel able to ask about what research is being done for their particular condition. We conduct a wide range of research studies in lots of specialties and areas. There may not always be a suitable trial for all patients who ask, but there may be in the future.

Kelly was keen to outline some of the benefits patients may receive as a result of taking part in research.

She said: “Some patients who take part in clinical trials may get access to new treatments that would otherwise not be available to them. Other patients report feeling more informed about their condition or a feeling of taking control in a difficult personal situation.

“Not all research will directly benefit the patients that take part, but may benefit people with the same condition in the future. Research helps us to understand the most effective way to treat disease or provide healthcare efficiently and safely.

For more information on being involved in clinical trials visit the website www.nihr.ac.uk and click on the ‘OK to ask’ logo.

Subscribe to our daily 8am news update emails from the NOW Bath News Team and/or our weekly email newsletter, delivered every Monday morning.
