
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

SOUTH EUCLID, Ohio — South Euclid Law Director Michael Lograsso has no case against three taxpayers he sued for defamation , the Ohio 8th District Court of Appeals ruled Thursday (court documents below).

Lograsso filed a suit against South Euclid resident Robert Frey and Fairview Park residents David Furry and Emilie DiFranco in December 2012 after Frey publicly questioned his ability to serve as law director at an October 2012 council meeting.

Furry and DiFranco videotaped Frey's comments and published them on their blog, South Euclid Oversight (below).

Lograsso accused the defendants of defaming him and repeatedly placing him in a false light with "conscious disregard" for his "well being, rights and safety." He said he suffered "significant mental anguish, stress, humiliation and duress" and sought $25,000 in punitive damages and a public apology to correct Frey's statements.

In July, Cuyahoga County Court of Common Pleas Judge Cassandra Collier-Williams denied Lograsso's request, but he appealed. Ohio Eighth District Appellate Judges Larry Jones, Eileen Gallagher and Melody Stewart have upheld Collier-William's ruling.

Lograsso had to prove the statements made against him were both false and defamatory, that the statements were published, that he suffered injury as a result of the publication, and that the defendant knew the statements were false to some degree, according to court documents.

Because Lograsso is a public official, he also had to prove "actual malice," meaning Frey made the statements with reckless disregard for the truth.

Frey's comments at the October 2012 meeting were related to a grievance DiFranco filed with the Disciplinary Counsel of the Supreme Court of Ohio requesting review of Lograsso's ability to serve as law director.

DiFranco, who in February won a separate legal battle with the city over its failure to fulfill a December 2011 records request, stated that Lograsso was involved in fraud and failure to file taxes.

There are nine businesses listed on the Ohio secretary of state's website that were canceled due to delinquent taxes in which Lograsso was listed as the incorporator, agent or registrant in those businesses.

Those corporations were businesses Lograsso created for law clients, according to his lawsuit. At no time, the suit says, did he have any ownership interest in the companies.

In his complaint, Lograsso insinuated DiFranco revealed information about the canceled businesses when she failed to keep her grievance confidential, as required by the Disciplinary Counsel.

The judges determined Lograsso had no substantial evidence to support that claim and that because DiFranco's grievance was "inherently judicial in nature," she is entitled to absolute privilege against the defamation suit.

The court also found that DiFranco's grievance was filed in October 2011. Lograsso's complaint alleges it was filed in October 2012. Frey questioned Lograsso's financial history and the canceled businesses at an October 22, 2012, South Euclid City Council meeting.

"There are many, many companies that have been operated by Mr. Lograsso," Frey said. "On most of these businesses, Mr. Lograsso is also the incorporator, which means he's the owner of the business."

The court found that Frey's statements were an "opinion," which is protected under the Ohio Constitution and the United States Constitution. Therefore, Lograsso's allegations regarding Furry, DiFranco and the publication of the video are baseless.

Neither Lograsso nor his attorney Joe Medici could be reached for comment.

At the same October 2012 meeting where Frey questioned Lograsso, he lashed out at Frey: "I have been waiting with bated breath to see what lowdown scumbag piece of garbage would try and bring this up, who has no idea of the underlying facts and circumstances. Maybe you should go to law school. None of those companies are mine. I have no financial interest in a single one of those businesses.

"Can you even get into law school? I doubt it. I have a very good credit rating, a lot better than yours I'm sure."

Frey said he was "gratified the court made the right decision," but would not comment further since Lograsso can still appeal the ruling.

Check here if you do not want to receive additional email offers and information.

We look forward to sharing with you some of the great content found on cleveland.com.  To view and subscribe to any of our other newsletters, please click here .

cleveland.com is powered by Plain Dealer Publishing Co. and Northeast Ohio Media Group. All rights reserved ( About Us ).

The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Northeast Ohio Media Group LLC.

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
