
Share This Story!

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

BANGOR, Maine (NEWS CENTER) -- One of the alleged killers in Bangor's triple murder trial took the stand on Monday.

Nicholas Sexton told jurors about his drug dealing, relationships with the victims, and about his relationship with the co-defendant Randall Daluz. Sexton explained  how he knew the co-defendant Daluz for nearly 10 years. He said one of the victims, Daniel Borders, was a friend of his and he also bought drugs from him. Sexton told the jury he didn't know the victim Lucas Tuscano. When his attorney asked about Nicolle Lugdon, the third victim, Sexton broke down in tears. He described her as always being happy and told the jury whenever he was in Maine they spent time together.

Sexton explained his version of what happened leading up to the night in question. Sexton's attorney Jeff Toothaker questioned his client about the two alleged murder weapons, a derringer and a .380 pistol. Sexton testified the Derringer was given to him to pay a drug debt. He said he did not like guns and that "they weren't needed in Maine, everyone was so nice." Sexton claimed he gave the gun to Daluz because he liked guns. Sexton said the .380 pistol  was sold to Daluz by one of the victims, Daniel Borders. The defendant denied having any guns in a Brewer motel room, contrary to Katelyn Lugdon, one of the victim's sisters testimony. Sexton admitted he used a rental car, rented a hotel at the Ramada Inn and spent the day dealing drugs. Sexton testified Daluz was also selling drugs that day and night to other people.

The jury listened as Sexton told them Borders called him seven times that night looking for pills, but Sexton only had cocaine left. Sexton told the jury Borders became upset with him but took the cocaine anyway.

An hour into the testimony, the judge called a recess, telling the jury he needed to determine if Sexton could discuss what Daluz had said to him during August 12 - 13 as it may violate his right to a fair trial.

Sexton's testimony continued as he described how both he and Daluz went to the Schell residence after picking up more drugs. This is the first time someone has said Daluz was at the home where the victims were last seen. Prior, only cell phone records showed Daluz was in the same area.

Sexton testified Borders expected him to show up at the Bangor residence because Sexton was bringing him cocaine. The defendant told the jury Lugdon was excited to see him. He went on to tell the jury Lugdon asked where he was sleeping that night and told the jury he took it as they were spending the night together. Sexton testified the three victims went for a ride with both he and Daluz to go smoke weed.

During the car ride, Sexton testified Borders said something to Daluz that upset him. He said Daluz hit Borders in the head and Sexton realized he had a gun in his hand. Sexton claimed the gun accidentally went off, everyone panicked and Tuscano became upset. Sexton claims Daluz shot Tuscano.

Sexton told the jury his Pontiac was running low on gas, but Daluz did not want to stop at a gas station with two bodies in the car. According to Sexton, Daluz had them drive to a friend's house in Dedham where they could find fuel. Sexton told the jury he grabbed a fuel can filled with diesel and used it to fill up the car. He testified Daluz told him to save some because they had to burn the car later.

Later, according to Sexton, they drove back to the Bangor area where Daluz forced Lugdon to take a bunch of pills before shooting her.

Sexton told the jury he did not do anything because he was scared. He testified Daluz threatened his children if he said anything to anyone. Sexton told the court the only reason Daluz did not kill him too was because he wanted Sexton charged with the crime.

Sexton claimed Daluz then forced him to burn the car to get rid of any DNA or fingerprints of Daluz's. Sexton told the jury he was scared and did not know what to do. When asked why he did not go to police he said, "Would you go to police with three dead people in your car?"

Sexton claimed the next morning he went to an attorney's office, David Bate, who is now one of his two attorneys.

When the prosecution began questioning Sexton, he was asked if he knew any of this was going to happen when he picked up the victims. Sexton responded, "I did not. I would not have picked them up if I knew that would happen."

Sexton continued to tell the jury he was scared of Daluz.

The prosecution and Daluz's defense team both questioned why, if Sexton was so scared of Daluz, did he call him more than a dozen times the day after the murders. Sexton did not have an answer for this question.

Sexton could be called to the stand briefly on Tuesday. The Daluz defense team will then have the opportunity to present witnesses or Daluz himself could testify.

Closing arguments are expected Tuesday afternoon or Wednesday.

Family members and friends of the victims upset as Sexton explains his version of events. Some family members leave in tears.

Sexton painting a very different picture for the jury than the state did. His version points the finger directly at Daluz.
