
In the competitive Nevada attorney general’s race, Democrat Ross Miller has raised more than $1.25 million so far compared to $543,000 raised by Republican Adam Laxalt, their campaigns said Monday.

Miller reported having about $700,000 in cash on hand while Laxalt reported $440,000 in cash as the two stockpile money for their coming Nov. 4 general election since neither has a June 10 primary opponnet.

Laxalt, the grandson of former U.S. Sen. Paul Laxalt, had an impressive 2014 fundraising period. He raised all of his money from January through May 16, the end of the reporting period, thanks to big-name donors such as Donald Rumsfeld, the former Secretary of Defense; Ed Rollins, who ran President Ronald Reagan’s campaign; and GOP Gov. Brian Sandoval.

During the same time period this year, Miller raised $255,000, according to his latest report. Last year, however, the secretary of state and son of former Gov. Bob Miller, raised about $880,000 as he got a head-start in the contest.

Laxalt said he met his fundraising goals.

Miller, too, expressed gratitude and noted he had the support of local prosecutors and police.

More than half of the more than 600 donors to Laxalt were Nevadans, according to his campaign.

Miller’s campaign said that 93 percent of his donations came from Nevada.

Big name Nevada donors to Laxalt included Frank Fahrenkopf, former president of the American Gaming Association and the Republican National Committee; Former Clark County Commission Chair Bruce Woodbury; U.S. Rep. Mark Amodei, R-Nev.; Las Vegas City Councilmen Bob Beers and Stavros Anthony; and gaming executives including Lee Amaitis of Cantor Gaming, Mike Leven of the Las Vegas Sands, Corp., Tim Poster and Bill Weidner. Sandoval donated to Laxalt via his New Nevada Political Action Committee.

Laxalt won support from national figures as well. Besides Rumsfeld and Rollins, he got donations from Reagan biographer Craig Shirley, investor T. Boone Pickens and Jim Nicholson, former RNC chairman and U.S. Veterans Affairs secretary.

Besides Laxalt and Miller, Jonathan Hansen of the Independent American Party also is running for attorney general.
