
Jim Cole/AP - Wolfeboro Police Commissioner Robert Copeland listen in Wolfeboro, N.H. as town residents ask for his resignation at a May 15 public meeting.

WOLFEBORO, N.H. --Several of New Hampshire's most prominent politicians -- including Sens. Kelly Ayotte (R) and Jeanne Shaheen (D) and Gov. Maggie Hassan -- have echoed the local calls for the ouster of Robert Copeland , the 82-year-old police commissioner of Wolfeboro who was overheard publicly referring to President Obama with the n-word.

"It is completely inappropriate for anyone to make those types of racist comments," said Shaheen, in a statement provided to the Washington Post. "I support town officials who have called for Mr. Copeland's resignation and trust that the people of Wolfeboro will do the right thing."

Those sentiments were echoed by Ayotte, one of the Senate's top ranking Republicans.

"Senator Ayotte believes he should apologize and resign for this deeply offensive remark," Jeff Grappone, Ayotte's spokesman, said in an e-mail on Monday.

Also calling for Copeland's resignation on Monday was Rep. Carol Shea-Porter (D), whose district includes Wolfeboro.

Ayotte, Shaheen and Shea-Porter join a growing chorus of elected officials in New Hampshire who have called for Copeland to resign.

Scott Brown, the leading Republican opponent running to try to unseat Shaheen said over the weekend that Copeland should resign.

Several local lawmakers and community leaders have also called for Copeland's resignation.

"I’ve spoken with Commissioner Copeland, I’ve spoken with his wife and I’ve told them, both of them, that the remarks were offensive, there is no place for an elected official or anyone else describing the president of the United States or anybody using that term," said Jeb Bradley, a former congressman and current state senator from Wolfeboro. "I explained that to them, and I also said: you need to resign."

The firestorm erupted this month when Jane O’Toole, who moved to Wolfeboro about four months ago, overheard Copeland loudly describing Obama using the slur while sitting in a town restaurant. Upon discovering that he was an elected official, O’Toole formally complained to the town manager and other members of the police commission.

Copeland has remained defiant, sitting with crossed arms Thursday as more than 100 residents showed up for a public meeting to discuss the incident. Many angrily called for his resignation.

No one answered the door at Copeland’s home when a Washington Post reporter knocked Sunday afternoon. Copeland has not returned several calls for comment.

The three-member police commission, an elected body charged with hiring the town’s police force, plans to meet sometime this week, but it is unclear whether Copeland will be asked to step down.

Several town officials noted that, because the police commission is independently elected, the town Board of Selectmen and town manager have no power to remove Copeland from office.

Former Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney, who owns a vacation home in Wolfeboro, has also called for Copeland to resign.

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
