
On Friday, White House Chief of Staff Denis McDonough said that Petz's departure was a 'termination'

The White House chief of staff says President Barack Obama is 'madder than hell' about reports of treatment delays at veterans' hospitals across the country.

Top aide Denis McDonough tells CBS' Face the Nation that Obama is demanding that Veterans Affairs Secretary Eric Shinseki and others in the administration 'continue to fix these things until they're functioning the way that our veterans believe they should.'

Allegations of preventable deaths that may be linked to delays at the Phoenix VA hospital have triggered an election-year uproar.

On Friday, Robert Petzl, the top official for veterans' health care, resigned - a decision that was not left up to him, according to McDonough.

'There is no question that this is a termination of his job there before he was planning to go,' McDonough told CBS News Chief White House Correspondent Major Garrett.

Petzel, the undersecretary for health care at the VA, resigned abruptly on Friday, just a day after telling a U.S. Senate committee that he knew in 2010 about a memo describing 'inappropriate scheduling practices' now blamed for as many as 40 deaths at VA medical centers.

Complaints about long wait lists and falsified patient appointment reports have dogged VA hospitals and clinics nationwide.

Petzel, a 40-year veteran of the VA system and its  undersecretary for health, tendered his resignation even though he was  already scheduled to retire later in the year. The White House announced  his successor on May 1 but said Petzel would remain in his job until  Jeffrey Murawsky, director of the VA's Illinois-based Great Lakes Health  Care System, wins Senate confirmation.

Secretary  Eric Shinseki requested and received Petzel's resignation but has  steadfastly insisted upon staying put himself, despite calls from  prominent Republicans and Democrats for his ouster.

White  House Press Secretary Jay Carney released an approving statement late  in the afternoon about the resignation, which was announced just an hour  after his final daily press briefing of the week concluded.

'The president supports Secretary Shinseki’s decision,' Carney said, adding that President Obama 'has asked Secretary Shinseki to conduct a review of Veterans Health Administration practices and procedures at its facilities nationwide to ensure better access to care, and that review is ongoing.'

'The president and Secretary Shinseki take the allegations around misconduct very seriously,' he added.

Shinseki said in a statement that 'most veterans are satisfied with the quality of their VA health care, but we must do more to improve timely access to that care.'

On Thursday, both Shinseki and Petzel men testified in a Senate Veterans Committee hearing. Shinseki said then that he was 'mad as hell' about the growing scandal but wouldn't terminate any underlings until an inspector general report was completed.

That report's conclusions are expected in early June.

Petzel acknowledged to lawmakers that he had seen a 2010 memo titled 'Inappropriate Scheduling Practices,' which described failures in several of the VA's 21 service regions.

Shinseki, seated next to him, insisted that 'I was not, I am not' aware of it.

Recent revelations blame shoddy management for the deaths of dozens of former soldiers, airmen, sailors and Marines, as administrators in Phoenix – and possibly elsewhere – maintained a secret off-the-books waiting list for veterans in need of critical care.

Official lists were kept short so the agency could appear to be doing its job despite some waits being more than a year long. In one case, a Phoenix official was awarded bonuses based on fraudulent statistics as veterans died waiting for medical care.

'We have been working continuously to try and identify where those sites are and what we need to do to prevent that from happening. It's absolutely inexcusable,' Petzel told lawmakers Thursday.

'The individuals are ... held accountable,' he insisted, while admitting that  'I can't give you an example specifically.'

'But if someone were found to be manipulating inappropriately the scheduling system, they would be disciplined.'

'I don't know whether anybody was specifically disciplined around that issue,' he later conceded.

Connecticut Democratic Sen. Richard Blumenthal grilled Shinseki about the allegations of wrongdoing and demanded to know if he would ask the FBI to investigae.

'We have more than allegations at this point,' Blumenthal said Thursday. 'We have evidence, solid evidence, of wrongdoing within the VA system, and it is more than an isolated instance of wrongdoing – it’s a pattern and practice.'

Shinseki would say only that he would 'make that [option] available to the VA inspector general 'if that’s his request.'

In addition to the Phoenix scandal, VA offices have reportedly destroyed more than 1.5 million medical orders in recent years without confirming that patients received the treatment they were supposed to get.

Similar reporting has shown that backlogs of medical appointments in Los Angeles and Dallas VA facilities were wiped off the books to make appointment backlogs appear far shorter than they were.

The White House has expressed continued confidence in Shinseki, a wounded warrior who rose to the rank of four-star general before taking on the thankless job of managing the VA.

Key to the Obama administration's defense of its leading veteran advocate is the ongoing inspector general investigation.

But members of Congress are still smelling blood and want Shinseki to resign next.

House Veterans’ Affairs Chairman Jeff Miller, a Florida Republican, said in a statement Friday that 'Petzel's "resignation" is the pinnacle of disingenuous political doublespeak. Petzel was already scheduled to retire in 2014 and President Obama has already announced his intention to nominate Petzel’s replacement, so characterizing this as a "resignation" just doesn’t pass the smell test.'

“Desperate to get ahead of a delays in care crisis that is growing by the day, yet apparently unwilling to take substantive actions to hold any of its leaders accountable for negligence that harms veterans, VA has resorted to what it does best: splitting semantic hairs to create the illusion of accountability and progress,' Miller added.

Texas Republican Sen. John Cornyn said Thursday that Obama 'needs to find a new leader to lead this organization out of the wilderness, and back to providing the service our veterans deserve.'

Tom Tarantino, chief policy officer for the Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America, told The Hill that 'we don’t need the VA to find a scapegoat; we need an actual plan to restore a culture of accountability throughout the VA.'

The comments below have been moderated in advance.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
