
Share This Story!

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Two people were killed May 18, 2014,  after their car was struck by a wrong-way driver on the Santan Freeway in Gilbert, Arizona Department of Public Safety officials said.

Terrifying scenarios.  Horrific pictures.

The pain of three wrong-way crashes will ripple endlessly around the families and friends of those hurt and killed.

These tragedies were also a stark reminder of how vulnerable we are anytime we get behind the wheel.

Now that these fatal collisions have our attention, Arizona needs to channel that energy into preventing future roadway  deaths.

It began  on May 12, when off-duty Mesa police Officer Brandon Mendoza was killed in a head-on collision by Raul Silva Corona, who had a blood-alcohol content  three times the legal limit as he careened the wrong way down the highway. Both were killed in the accident, at U.S. 60 and Interstate 10.

On Friday, three members of the same family were killed on Interstate 17 north of Phoenix by a driver who had traveled  the wrong way for 25 miles before crashing. Three other members of the family suffered injuries, as did the wrong-way driver. Officers are investigating whether the driver was impaired.

On Sunday, two people were killed on  Loop 202 by a wrong-way driver who law-enforcement officers were trying to intercept. Investigators have not ruled out impairment.

These crashes are a frightening reminder that you can be doing everything right and still suffer for somebody else's vehicular stupidity.

Wrong-way driving is not on the rise, officials say. What happened last week was a statistical anomaly, says Officer Carrick Cook, a Department of Public Safety spokesperson. It is not uncommon for people to make a wrong turn and correct their mistake without incident.

But the magnitude of these three deadly crashes in less than a week brought together DPS, the Arizona Department of Transportation and the Governor's Office of Highway Safety to look for ways to mitigate the danger. Their meeting on Sunday was about the three E's: engineering, enforcement and education.

Arizonans expect ADOT to design safe roads, and these accidents have launched a discussion about ways to improve signage and configuration of  ramps so going up the exit ramp is harder.

It is also essential to look for better ways for law enforcement to handle these situations. Despite numerous 911 calls from motorists who saw the wrong-way drivers, law enforcement was not able to stop them before they crashed and killed others.

The accidents create an atmosphere for discussions about ways to make our roads safer.

But the solution is not solely up to traffic engineers and cops. The community has a role, too. That's where education comes in.

A report by the American Traffic Safety Services Association says impaired driving accounts for more than 60 percent of wrong-way crashes. Cook says impairment isn't just about alcohol. It can also result from taking prescription medicine or using illegal drugs.

Public awareness about the dangers of drunken or drugged driving has risen, but more education is needed. The message is simple: Taking away somebody's keys can save lives.

This spate of crashes is a hard reminder that Arizona needs to examine its policies and look at the most up-to-date strategies for preventing people from entering the highway going the wrong direction. That's at the policy and enforcement level.

Individual Arizonans have a role to play in sharing the message that we all have a stake in promoting safe driving habits.

There have been several wrong-way crashes in Arizona in 2014 and three in May alone. Here's a look at the accidents that are prompting officials to discuss ways to stop wrong-way drivers on Valley freeways.

John F. Maxwell, 34, drove his Jeep in the wrong direction on the freeway and crashed into a produce truck, according to the Arizona Department of Public Safety.

A woman driving the wrong way on eastbound I-10 near Warner Road crashed into a semitruck and another car. The driver and a passenger in the other vehicle were taken to the hospital with non-life threatening injuries, officials said.

Raul Silva Corona, 42, crashed into off-duty Mesa police Officer Brandon Mendoza's Volkswagen Passat on the HOV ramp. Both drivers died.

Three members of the same family -- Evan Christian Hendriadi, 50; Jenny Sudjono, 70; and Lioe Kim Tjhiuw, 78  -- were killed in a crash with a Chrysler 300 that was traveling north in the southbound lane, about 40 miles north of the Valley. Officials said the wrong-way driver is a Phoenix man in his 60s.

Mesa residents Michael Ruquet, 25, and his passenger Ashley Adea, 20, were killed in a Gilbert collision with a wrong-way driver who drove west in the eastbound lanes. Officials identified the wrong-way driver as Patricia Murphy, 68.

The two-vehicle accident on the northbound Arizona  143 resulted in serious injuries for both the suspected wrong-way driver and one person in the other vehicle, DPS officials said.

Erin May Corona, 33, was arrested on suspicion of aggravated assault after DPS investigators said she drove the wrong way for at least 5 miles on the Red Mountain Freeway portion of Loop 202 on July 25, 2014, authroties said.

A crash involving a wrong-way driver closed Interstate 17 southbound at Thomas Road in Phoenix on July 30. Four people were injured.
