
Ashland, N.H. — Raymond Francis May Jr., 80, of Ashland died at home on Friday, May 16, 2014 surrounded by his family following a courageous battle with cancer.   He was born in Ashland on Nov. 23, 1933, the son of Raymond F. and Helen (Woodward) May Sr.

Ray was a lifelong resident of Ashland.  He attended Ashland Schools and was a 1951 graduate of Ashland High School.        He served his country in the US Air Force from 1953 to 1957, having been stationed in NY, WY, CA, Okinawa and Texas.  Ray married his wife, Helen, in Texas in 1957 and shortly after received an honorable discharge as a staff sargeant before returning to Ashland.  After several years of private industry work in accounting and production planning, Ray went on to work for the US Army Corps of Engineers as a civilian at the Cold Regions Research & Engineering Laboratory in Hanover, N.H. in the Logistics Management Office.    He received the Army Meritorious Civilian Service Award for display of unusual courage and competence in the rescue of a fellow employee who was injured during an explosion in 1970.   This award is the second highest honorary award presented by the Department of the Army to a civilian.  Ray retired as Chief of Contracting and Logistics after more than 29 years of service and received the Commanders Award for Civilian Service.

Ray was a member of the Ashland Fire Department, Deputy Forest Fire Warden, and an elected Fire Ward.  He was a lifetime member of National Association of Retired Federal Employees. He enjoyed spending time with his family, fishing, hunting, traveling and puttering.

He was predeceased by his parents, his brothers Rick May and Edward Cass, a sister Evelyn Lutz and a son-in-law Kevin Crowley.  He is survived by his loving wife Helen R. (Nussman) May of Ashland; three daughters, Stephanie Crowley of Ashland, Kimberly Gammons and husband Phil of Holderness, Julie Dion and husband Glenn of Ashland; grandchildren Liam and Erin Crowley, Laura, Andra, and Garrett Dion of Ashland, and many cousins, nieces and nephews.

A Mass of Christian Burial will be celebrated on Wednesday, May 21, 2014 at 11 a.m. at St. Agnes Catholic Church, Hill Avenue in Ashland.  Burial to follow in the Green Grove Cemetery in Ashland.  Donations may be made to the Ashland Firemen’s Association, PO Box 856, Ashland 03217 or Pemi-Baker Home Health and Hospice, 101 Boulder Point Drive, Plymouth, N.H. 03264. Dupuis Funeral Home in Ashland is handling arrangements; for more info go to dupuisfuneralhome.com .

nhdoti93 : ROADWORK COMPLETE: Londonderry, I-93 SB between mile marker 15.6 and 14.2, right lane open.

nhdoti93 : ROADWORK COMPLETE: Windham, I-93 NB and SB, blasting operations over.

nhdoti93 : ROADWORK CLEARED: Concord I-93 southbound mile marker 36 all lanes are open.

nhdoti93 : ROADWORK CLEARED: Littleton I-93 southbound, all lanes are open.

nhdoti93 : CRASH ALERT:  There is an accident on I-93 NB at exit 1 in Salem.

nhdoti93 : ACCIDENT CLEAR: Bow, i-93 SB, Hooksett tolls. the accident is clear. All lanes are open.

nhdoti93 : ACCIDENT ALERT: Bow, i-93 SB, Hooksett tolls. there is a car into the barrier between the ORT and the booths. All lanes are open.

Valley News : A Life, John A. Clements: 'He Prided Himself on Making Things Better'.......Charter Change in Claremont Almost Ready for Nov. Vote.....Yoga Pioneer Remembered in Lebanon.....'If I Can Do It, You Can Do It' Sunapee Swim Is Amputee's Latest Success.....All this and more in Monday's Valley News! Pick up your copy today!
