
Patina Ripkey, a Director of Worship at a Hillsborough County church, never imagined a woman sitting in jail for killing her kids would write back to her letter of hope and the message of Jesus. But Julie Schenecker responded, telling Ripkey she had found God.

In September 2011, eight months after Schenecker was charged for murdering her two teenage children, Ripkey was wrestling with the question, "Could someone who had done something so horrible like Julie Schenecker be forgiven by God?" After reading the Bible, Ripkey decided Schenecker could be forgiven.

"We need to share God's forgiveness," Ripkey said. "I thought, 'I need to live out what I say and what I sing about.' That morning I decided I was going to write her a letter."

She wrote Schenecker, telling her God was forgiving, that is, if she wanted to be forgiven. Two months later, in November 2011, Ripkey got a letter from jail to her church, Temple Terrace United Methodist.

In the letter, Schenecker wrote she "grew up in the Baptist Church, going to Sunday school, church, Sunday evening church, Wednesday night church."

"I have received Christ into my life/rededicated my life. I am more at peace than I've been in many, many years. My heart is still broken and I've lost all that is dear to me," Schenecker wrote.

She talked about how her mom sent her a Bible in jail.

As a mother, Ripkey has a tough time rationalizing how any mom could kill her kids, she thinks Schenecker deserves to be punished, but she also believes the mom is going to Heaven.

"We will be really surprised at who we see in Heaven. Yes, I think she'll be in Heaven," Ripkey said. "But truly only God knows. I don't really know. I'm only reading a letter. I know my job is to tell people they can go to Heaven."

Nearly three years after getting the letter from Schenecker, Ripkey shared it this last Sunday, days after the Schenecker’s conviction, with the congregation. She wanted to offer a message of hope, leaving Julie Schenecker's name out until the very end of the sermon.

"When I read the letter, and said her name, at the end they literally gasped," Ripkey said. View full copy of the letter above.

Many members of the congregation were surprised and some disturbed that Schenecker could be at "peace" after committing such a terrible crime.

"As a mother I find it difficult, as a follower of Jesus, I understand," Ripkey said.

Since 2011, Ripkey has written back and forth with Schenecker but nothing like the original long letter. She hopes to visit the mom in jail.

Copyright 2014 WFLA. All rights reserved.

Monday, September 1 marks the opening of recreational harvest season for Florida's premier game fish, snook.

Monday, September 1 marks the opening of recreational harvest season for Florida's premier game fish, snook.

Ever wonder what goes on in the kitchen of your favorite restaurants? We've gathered details about the Tampa Bay restaurants that received the most violations during inspections conducted from August 11 to 16, 2014.

Ever wonder what goes on in the kitchen of your favorite restaurants? We've gathered details about the Tampa Bay restaurants that received the most violations during inspections conducted from August 11 to 16, 2014.

Sites like PetsDating.com and YouMustLoveDogsDating.com have found a new niche as singles flock to computers and smartphones to find relationships, connecting dog owners to potential mates who enjoy long walks in the dog park and slobbery canine kisses as much as they do.

Sites like PetsDating.com and YouMustLoveDogsDating.com have found a new niche as singles flock to computers and smartphones to find relationships, connecting dog owners to potential mates who enjoy long walks in the dog park and slobbery canine kisses as much as they do.

Thank you for signing up! You will receive a confirmation email shortly.
