
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

After leading the BASS Elite Series event on Arkansas' Lake Dardanelle Friday and Saturday, Greg Hackney was overtaken by two anglers on Sunday, and finished third.

The Gonzales resident put together a solid five-bass stringer weighing 15-03, but Oklahoma's Jason Christie boated 19-02 pounds to propel himself to a 72-03 total and the tournament title. Christie won $101,000 and earned a slot at the 2015 Bassmaster Classic.

Gerald Swindle of Warrior, Ala., also leapfrogged Hackney, weighing in 71-15.

Hackney's four-day total weighed 71-11, just half a pound behind Christie's total.

"I could go back and look at lost fish," Hackney said. "I lost a 3-pounder one day, but that happens to everybody. Otherwise, I fished clean this week."

Hackney was disappointed to have lost the lead, but the tournament was still a big success for him. Hackney pocketed the $20,500 third-place check, but more importantly, the high finish put him just one point behind Angler of the Year leader Mark Davis of Mount Ida, Ark., who finished 81st and failed to make the Day 3 cut to 50 anglers.

Davis had a 42-point lead entering the Dardanelle tournament.

Cliff Crochet, another of three Louisiana anglers fishing the Elite Series this year, also had a strong showing at Dardanelle. His weight of 66-14 earned him seventh place and $13,000.

Crochet, who earned a Classic berth during the 2013 Elite Series swing, is having another solid season. After the Dardanelle tournament, he sits in 18th place in the Angler of the Year standings, 93 points behind Davis.

Check here if you do not want to receive additional email offers and information.

Thank you for signing up!

Please check your inbox, and approve the verification email. If you don't see it, check your spam folder.  To view and subscribe to any of our other newsletters, please click here .

© 2014 NOLA Media Group. All rights reserved ( About Us ).

The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of NOLA Media Group.

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
