
UPDATE 5/23/14 @ 2:55 p.m.

HUNTINGTON, W.Va. (WSAZ) -- Huntington Police say preliminary results show a fatal crash may have been caused when a driver had a heart attack.

The crash happened about 7:30 a.m. Monday on Route 60 at the intersection of Washington Boulevard.

Police say Russell Franklin Wills, 42, of Hurricane, died in the crash.

They say according to the death certificate, Wills died from a heart attack.

Five vehicles were involved in the crash.

They are still working on their investigation.

UPDATE 5/19/14 @ 3:15 p.m.

HUNTINGTON, W.Va. (WSAZ) -- A man from Hurricane died in a crash Monday morning on Route 60 in Huntington.

The crash happened about 7:30 a.m. at the intersection of Route 60 and Washington Boulevard.

Huntington Police say five vehicles were involved in the crash.

They say Russell Franklin Wills, 42, of Hurricane, died in the crash. Lt. Levi Livingston with HPD says Wills was driving a silver Toyota Camry.

Police say two others were taken to the hospital with non life-threatening injuries.

The cause of the accident is still under investigation.

Route 60 was closed for several hours while crews cleared the scene. It reopened around 11:30 a.m.

UPDATE 5/19/14 @ 11:24 a.m.

HUNTINGTON, W.Va. (WSAZ) -- Route 60 has reopened in Huntington following a fatal crash Monday morning.

The road was shut down for nearly four hours in the area of Washington Boulevard.

The crash involving a moving truck and four cars happened about 7:30 a.m.

Huntington Police Capt. Hank Dial tells WSAZ.com that one person died in the crash. Two others were injured and transported to the hospital.

The cause of the crash has not been released.

No names have been released at this time.

Keep clicking on WSAZ.com for the latest on this story.

UPDATE 5/19/14 @ 10:57 a.m.

HUNTINGTON, W.Va. (WSAZ) -- Huntington Police say one person has died and three were injured after a crash on Route 60 Monday morning.

The crash happened in the westbound lanes at Washington Boulevard, just after 7:30 a.m.

Capt. Hank Dial tells WSAZ.com that one person died in the crash.

No names have been released.

The vehicles included a moving truck and four cars.

The road remains closed at this time, but is expected to reopen soon.

Drivers heading west on Route 60 are urged to use an alternate route until accident investigators complete their work, and the accident is cleared.

Keep clicking on WSAZ.com for the latest on this story.

UPDATE 5/19/14 @8:55 a.m.

HUNTINGTON, W.Va. (WSAZ) –  Three people have been taken to the hospital following a five vehicle crash on Route 60 in Huntington.

The accident happened in the westbound lanes at the Washington Boulevard intersection just after 7:30 a.m.  The vehicles include a moving truck and four cars.

The westbound lanes are closed at the Russell Creek Bridge intersection. Drivers heading west on Route 60 are urged to use an alternate route until accident investigators complete their work, and the accident is cleared. Police say this may take several more hours.

Keep clicking on WSAZ.com for the latest information.

ORIGINAL STORY 5/19/14 8:06 a.m.

HUNTINGTON, W.Va. (WSAZ) -- Several people have reportedly been hurt in a multiple vehicle crash along Route 60 in Huntington.

The accident happened near the intersection with Washington Boulevard just after 7:30 a.m.

Drivers heading west on Route 60 in that area are urged to use an alternate route until the accident is cleared.  Right now, the highway is closed at the Russell Creek Bridge.

Keep clicking on WSAZ.com for the latest information.

Tips, tricks and stories about making Moms Life Easier from local sources and across the country.
