
The Portage County Sheriff's Department tells NewsChannel 7, Deputy Tony Gischia is on paid administrative leave after a shooting earlier this month in Plover.  We're told it's standard procedure.

Officers were dispatched to Gischia's home for an intruder inside the residence and a shooting incident on May 17.  Police say a scuffle ensued; subsequently the masked intruder was shot and killed.

The Plover Police Department has released more details about an officer involved shooting over the weekend.

According to a press release,  officers from the Plover Police Department were dispatched to 2530 Easlan Dr in the Village of Plover for an intruder inside residence and a shooting incident.

The incident happened just after 1 a.m. Saturday, May 17.

Initial investigation revealed that off duty Deputy Tony Gischia with the Portage County Sheriff’s Department and another individual returned home and was confronted by a masked intruder.

Police say a scuffle ensued; subsequently the masked intruder was shot and killed.

The intruder was identified as Charles Jameson, 30, of Stevens Point.

Police say Jameson was known to both Gischia and the other individual.

A vehicle which Jameson drove was found parked north of the residence on Easlan Dr.

Few details are being released about a shooting at the home of a Sheriff's Department employee in Portage County early Saturday morning, but Plover Police are now confirming one person did die in that incident.

The Plover Police were dispatched to a home on Easlan Drive in the Village of Plover just after 1:00 AM Saturday for reports of an intruder inside the home and a shooting.

The Police Chief assured neighbors this was an isolated incident and there is no continuing threat in the area.

While that's all the information law enforcement is releasing, neighbors have been painting a picture of what's all been going on at the residence.

Multiple neighbors told NewsChannel 7 the resident of the home was living with his girlfriend and the man found dead is the girlfriend's ex-boyfriend.

"The intent that he had [was] to kill," neighbor Elaina Schuh said. "He was going to burn down the place, so they had the fire department here for safety precautions and they had all of the hoses ready to go in case there was an accident."

Again, police have not confirmed that was the case.

Schuh and other neighbors say the Sheriff's Department employee and his girlfriend came home to find the man in their home. That's when the homeowner reportedly shot the man in self-defense.

Another neighbor told NewsChannel 7 the ex-boyfriend stalked the woman. Investigators went through his car, which is still at the scene.

"They took out the contents of his car and there were binoculars in his car," Schuh said. "So I mean with any guess, as a normal person could have guessed, he probably was watching them for a while."

Schuh maintains the neighborhood is safe and, although unsettled by the situation, she still feels comfortable in her home.

The Plover Police Department is confirming one person was killed in a shooting early Saturday morning at the home of a Portage county Sheriff's Department employee.

The Plover Police Department was dispatched shortly after 1:00 AM Saturday to a home on 2530 Easlan Drive in the Village of Plover. According to a press release from Plover Police Department Chief Dwayne Wierzba, officers were asked to respond to an intruder inside the some and a shooting. As a result of the incident, one person is dead.

The Department of Justice Division of Criminal Investigation is conducting the investigation, along with the Wisconsin Crime Lab and the Technical Reconstruction Unit of the Wisconsin State Patrol.

Chief Wierzba says this was an isolated incident and poses no continuing threat to residents in the area.

The investigation is on-going.

PLOVER, Wis. (AP) -- Authorities are investigating a shooting at the home of a Portage County Sheriff's Office employee.

Wisconsin Department of Justice spokeswoman Dana Brueck says the state Division of Criminal Investigation responded to the scene of the shooting in the village of Plover. She says more information will be released later.

The incident was reported just after 1 a.m. Saturday. Units from the Plover Police Department, Wisconsin State Patrol and Portage County Coroner's Office went to the scene in central Wisconsin, and roads around the home were blocked off.

NewsChannel 7 is on the scene of an incident involving a large law enforcement presence on Hoover Avenue near Cedar Drive in Plover.

The Portage County Sheriff's Department is not releasing any information at this time, but neighbors tell us they believe there was a shooting.

Our reporter on scene says the Department of Criminal Investigation and Wisconsin State Patrol are on scene. Neighbors report having possibly seen the coroner's office earlier.

We have a crew on scene and will bring you the latest details as they become available.

Comments may be monitored for inappropriate  content, but the station is under no legal obligation to do so.

If you believe  a comment violates the above rules, please use the Flagging Tool to alert  a Moderator.

Flagging does not guarantee removal.

Multiple violations may result in account suspension.

Decisions to suspend or unsuspend accounts are made by Station Moderators.

Please provide detailed information.

Like moths to a flame, teenagers are easily drawn in to the next cool thing. Whatever is trending, you can bet your kid knows a bit about it.
