
London, United Kingdom – May 19, 2014 – Nimble Storage, a leading provider of flash-optimised hybrid storage solutions, today announced that more than 200 enterprise customers have implemented SmartStack converged infrastructure solutions to accelerate deployment and eliminate risks associated with their datacentre infrastructure. Since late 2012, Nimble Storage has rolled out a series of SmartStack reference architectures that allow enterprises to deploy an integrated solution stack for server virtualisation, desktop virtualisation (VDI), and business critical applications. Earlier this year, Nimble Storage also reached a distribution agreement with Avnet Technology Solutions, the global IT solutions distribution leader and an operating group of Avnet, Inc., to offer pre-integration and configuration services for the converged infrastructure solutions.

Enterprises are looking to meet the performance and capacity demands associated with business-critical applications, VDI, and private clouds in the most cost-effective and flexible manner possible. Nimble Storage’s SmartStack solutions, built on Cisco UCS and pre-validated through ecosystem partners including Citrix, Microsoft, Oracle, and VMware, deliver aggressive performance, shorten deployment times, and reduce project risk. Nimble’s SmartStack solutions leverage flexible scaling capabilities for compute and storage, allowing customers to non-disruptively and independently add performance or capacity to support thousands of users per configuration. SmartStack customers benefit from a simplified architecture that delivers a 30 to 75 percent reduction in their data footprint and a tremendous reduction in the physical rack space required compared to traditional solutions, with minimal end user impact.

Through Nimble’s alliance partnership with Cisco, SmartStack customers can leverage pre-tested solutions for virtual desktops and servers that reduce operational expenditures and enhance worker productivity, allowing enterprises to scale the number of end users based on their growing needs. With Nimble Storage, the Cisco UCS combines compute, networking and storage access into one cohesive system that’s easy-to-manage.

SmartStack customers further benefit from a single entry point for SmartStack support. Nimble Storage technical support coordinates support resources with SmartStack partners to ensure a timely and seamless experience for customers. Customers can also leverage Nimble Storage InfoSight, for innovative cloud-based storage analytics and proactive support.

Nimble Storage will exhibit its converged infrastructure solutions at Cisco Live in San Francisco on May 18 – 22, 2014. Visit Nimble Storage at booth #2242 to see demos of the SmartStack solutions, and a Technical Preview of integration with UCS Director, Cisco’s management solution for integrated infrastructures.
