
Graduate Lex Hetrick said she was looking forward to the future.

“I hope to find a job. I want to be a naturalist. I want to continue to do volunteer with Squam Lake Science Center too,” she said.

Other gradates were feeling the same.

“We're so excited!” A graduate from Rochester said.

“This is the best day of my life!” students screamed as the marched in.

Professor Nancy Kinner was the opener for the ceremony, and got the students worked up and cheering.

“You have made a transition from being our students to being our friends. It won't be the same here without your unique inquisitiveness. You, like each of us, will always be a Wildcat,” she said. She also sang her own reworked version of “Let it Go”, the hit from “Frozen”.

Thomas Appleton/Democrat photoDave Kempton dons an interesting helmet-cam as he and others brave the wet Saturday morning rain  for the University of New Hampshire 2014 Commencement exercises held in front of the Whittemore Center.

University of New Hampshire commencement speaker Jennifer Lee, who graduated from the University in 1992, addressed 2,268 undergraduate degree candidates and 488 graduate degree candidates on a soggy, Saturday morning.

Lee started jokingly pointed out all the places on campus where she'd partied during her time at UNH. She fondly remembered living in Stoke Hall and taking the class “Foods and Dudes”, which she claimed was a favorite. Lee also mentioned that many of her family members had also enjoyed time at the college over the years.

“My family has deep roots at UNH and even deeper debt,” she joked.

Lee recalled her childhood, which she said was riddled with bullying, and led her to crippling self-doubt. She praised a fellow UNH student, who unfortunately passed away her junior year, to helping her realize she could believe in herself before it was too late.

“You know better than to waste a second,” she said.

Lee explained that she realized that she wasn't alone in thinking she wasn't good enough, and that many graduating students may feel the same way. As someone who dreams up characters for a living, she explained that no one loves perfect characters.

Thomas Appleton/Democrat photoPresident Mark Huddleston talkes to graduates Saturday morning for the University of New Hampshire 2014 Commencement exercises held in front of the Whittemore Center.

“The best characters are flawed and one of a kind,” she said.

Lee reminded students that life won't go perfectly and that everyone suffers failures.

Lee implored the graduates to take charge and ban self-doubt from their lives and left the graduates with some more parting words of wisdom.

“You are capable than more than you ever imagined. Please know that you are enough, and dare I say, more than enough,” she concluded.

Before her speech, UNH President Mark Huddleston gave similar advice.

“You show up on time and without a sense of entitlement. You are thoughtful and kind. You smile and hold doors open for people. These are things you should know about yourselves and traits you should continue to cultivate. They will serve you, and others, for the rest of your lives,” he said.

Thomas Appleton/Democrat photoGraduates Cathy Tarushka, left, and Amber Lagasse escape the rain Saturday for the University of New Hampshire 2014 Commencement exercises held in front of the Whittemore Center.

The ceremony ended with a folk rendition of the University's alma mater song, along with standing ovations from parents, friends and family. The sun broke through clouds just in time for the recessional.

Thomas Appleton/Democrat photoOtis Douce and Hannah MacBride graduate Saturday morning following a rainy start at the University of New Hampshire 2014 Commencement exercises held in front of the Whittemore Center.

Thomas Appleton/Democrat photoMike Williams, left, and Joseph DiDonna graduate Saturday morning following a rainy start at the University of New Hampshire 2014 Commencement exercises held in front of the Whittemore Center.

Thomas Appleton/Democrat photoGraduates Eric Elledias, Christian Maddox and Taylor Colliton, from left, brave the wet morning rain as they join faculty, friends and family Saturday for the University of New Hampshire 2014 Commencement exercises held in front of the Whittemore Center.
