
Welcome!

Big tobacco companies are no stranger to lawsuits. Indeed, Altria (NYSE: MO     )  and Reynolds American (NYSE: RAI     )  take the threat of lawsuits in stride, as it is just an occupational hazard of working in the tobacco industry.

However, it seemed as if tobacco companies were catching a break last year when Reynolds reported that the number of pending "smoking and health" cases against the company had fallen from 352 in 2001 to just 69 in the third quarter of 2013. The number of health-care reimbursement cases fell from 62 to two over the same period.

Unfortunately, this revelation was followed by an order from a federal court. This order obliged the major U.S. tobacco companies to publish a series of corrective statements through advertisements on television, newspapers, and the Internet which stated that the companies had deceived customers about the health risks of smoking.

Now, yet more suits face the industry.

The two newest cases facing the tobacco industry are not actually new, they are reinvestigations into previous events.

It was recently revealed that Altria is facing the reinstatement of a $10.1 billion verdict against Philip Morris USA in a lawsuit which accuses this subsidiary of misleading consumers about the risks of smoking "light" cigarettes. The lawsuit had accused Philip Morris USA of defrauding consumers into believing that "light" or "low tar" cigarettes were safer than regular cigarettes.

This case was originally brought against Philip Morris USA at the turn of the century but the courts ruled in favor of Philip Morris back during 2005.

Altria immediately appealed this ruling, which has postponed any immediate court action. That said, the appeals process is likely to to take several years and due to the size of the final settlement, it is likely that Altria will have to post a $250 million bond; this payment is likely to impact the Altria's earnings for this year.

Meanwhile, Reynolds is facing the revival of an old suit which accuses the company of money laundering. Specifically, Reynolds is facing a possible lawsuit from the European Union over claims that the tobacco company orchestrated a worldwide scheme to launder drug money.

Europe is claiming that Reynolds was part of a scheme whereby Colombian and Russian criminal organizations laundered drug profits through European money brokers. The brokers sold discounted euros obtained from drug sales to cigarette importers, who then purchased Reynolds American cigarettes.

[a] structureless morass of allegations, devoid of any sequential description of events.

However, a three-judge court panel in Manhattan recently ruled that the EU can use U.S. racketeering law to sue Reynolds.

While these cases could cost the two tobacco companies billions, both Altria and Reynolds are set to benefit from the expiration of the FETRA settlement in the next few weeks. FETRA was part of the American Jobs Creation Act, and it eliminated the federal tobacco quota and price support program which was put into place by the Agricultural Adjustment Act in 1938.

In essence the FETRA payments were a buyout of quotas placed on tobacco growers. Spread over ten years the total buyout cost the industry $9.5 billion. All tobacco companies were responsible for a contrbution to FETRA payments, the size of payments were determined by factors such as volume and market share, although the payments were capped at $500 million per year.

Altria's annual share of FETRA is around $500 million and Reynolds has paid an annual contribution of around $160 million. As the buyout ends this year, both Reynolds and Altria should benefit from income boosts. You can read more about how big tobacco will benefit from the expiration of FETRA here.

In conclusion, big tobacco continues to attract the attention of lawyers and these two most-recent suits could cost billions if courts find the companies liable. Unfortunately, rulings against tobacco companies will hit their earnings significantly but shouldn't affect their dividends.

The smartest investors know that dividend stocks simply crush their non-dividend paying counterparts over the long term. That's beyond dispute. They also know that a well-constructed dividend portfolio creates wealth steadily, while still allowing you to sleep like a baby. Knowing how valuable such a portfolio might be, our top analysts put together a report on a group of high-yielding stocks  that should be in any income investor's portfolio. To see our free report on these stocks, just  click here now .

Rupert Hargreaves owns shares of Altria Group. The Motley Fool has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. Try any of our Foolish newsletter services free for 30 days . We Fools may not all hold the same opinions, but we all believe that considering a diverse range of insights makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy .

Report this Comment icon found on every comment.

Add your comment.

Please be respectful with your comments. Review our Fool's Rules .

The secret is out... experts are predicting 458 million of these types of devices will be sold per year. 1 hyper-growth company stands to rake in maximum profit - and it's NOT Apple. Show me Apple's new smart gizmo!

Use this area to report a comment that you believe    is in violation of the community guidelines. Our    team will review the entry and take any appropriate    action.

Terms of Use © 1995 -        2014        The Motley Fool. All rights reserved.

BATS data provided in real-time. NYSE, NASDAQ and NYSEMKT data delayed 15 minutes.

Real-Time prices provided by BATS . Market data provided by Interactive Data .

Company fundamental data provided by Morningstar . Earnings Estimates, Analyst Ratings and Key Statistics provided by Zacks .

SEC Filings and Insider Transactions provided by Edgar Online.
