
Harris County voters can prepare to vote in the May 27 Democratic and Republican primary runoff elections by visiting www.HarrisVotes.com to view the contests which will appear on their ballot.

Early voting for the primary runoff elections began Monday, May 19, and continues until Friday, May 23. During this period, 39 early voting locations will be open from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. to serve the more than 2 million registered voters in Harris County. Keep in mind, election day, May 27, is the day after Memorial Day.

All voters are encouraged to vote early at one of the 39 early voting locations because the number of election day polling locations has been significantly reduced by the Democratic and Republican Parties to 12 percent of the usual number of polls on election day. Many voters will have to travel further than normal to vote on election day. To find all early voting locations and specific election day polling locations, visit www.HarrisVotes.com .

“Voters can use the “Find Your Poll and Ballot” link at www.HarrisVotes.com to print out their own personal ballot to review before going to the poll,” said Harris County Clerk Stanart, who is also the county’s chief elections officer. All Democratic Party voters will have the same ballot in Harris County. For the Republican Party, there are 11 contests, four of which are not county-wide.

To view the early voting schedule, a list of acceptable forms of Photo ID that can be presented to vote at the poll, Election Day polling locations and other voting information, voters may visit www.HarrisVotes.com or call 713-755-6965.

Posted in News on Monday, May 19, 2014 8:37 pm.

1 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language. PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.

2 Don't Threaten. Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated.

3 Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.

4 Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.

5 Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.

6 Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness accounts, the history behind an article.

Welcome to the discussion.
