
Glorious news, Comrades in Social Justice™!

Samuel Clemens - an old, dead, white, racist scribbler of trash novels - has finally been outed! Clemens, more commonly known by his fictional code name, Mark Twain, used the word "*igger" in a passage where he describes the Washoe Tribe as eaters of "grasshopper soup"! Adding to his racist rant, Clemens insults another local tribe by spelling their name with a mocking hyphen - "Pi-utes".

Warning: Culturally sensitive comrades should avoid reading the following story reported in UPI earlier today.

A cove in Lake Tahoe will not be named for American writer Mark Twain, after the Washoe Tribe complained the caucasian author was prejudiced against Native Americans.

"Samuel Clemens had racist views on the native people of this country and has captured those views in his literature," wrote Darrel Cruz, head of the Washoe Tribe cultural resource department, in a letter to the Nevada State Board on Geographic Affairs. "Therefore, we cannot support the notion of giving a place name in Lake Tahoe to Samuel Clemens."

Twain, whose real name was Samuel Clemens, objected to naming the lake "Tahoe," which comes from the Washoe word for lake.

"People say that Tahoe means 'Silver Lake' -- 'Limpid Water' -- 'Falling Leaf,'' Twain is credited as saying. "Bosh! It means grasshopper soup, the favorite dish of the digger tribe -- and of the Pi-utes as well." The word "digger" is considered a racial slur by Native Americans.

Board member Robert Stewart, who first introduced the plan to name the cove for Mark Twain, fully supports tabling his initial efforts.

Comrades, I am feeling a sensitivity even now, just reading Comrade Squirrel's exposé.

In fact, I felt a moment of progressively FORWARD-leaning righteous HATE toward this reichwing 19th century teabagger!

You do realize Iron Eyes Cody is an Italian-American actor who played Native Americans in film? Fake as a $3 bill.

Aspiring comrade,

Rubiks & Rubik’s Cube ® used by special individual permission of Seven Town Ltd.

Write down this number and report to your Kommissar at the nearest railroad station.

Don't forget warm clothes and a shovel!

Harry Reid: "Sometimes I say the wong thing"

100% of scientists agree that if man-made global warming were real, "the last people we'd want to help us is the Obama administration"

Joe Biden to Russia: "We will bury you by turning more of Eastern Europe over to your control!"

Al Sharpton: "Not even Putin can withstand our signature  chanting, 'racist, sexist, anti-gay, Russian army go away'!"

Obama's foreign policy works: "War, invasion, and conquest are signs of weakness; we've got Putin right where we want him"

US offers military solution to Ukraine crisis: "We will only fight countries that have LGBT military"

The 1980s: "Mr. Obama, we're just calling to ask if you want our foreign policy back . The 1970s are right here with us, and they're wondering, too."

North Korean voters unanimous: "We are the 100%"

Feminist author slams gay marriage: "a man needs a man like a fish needs a bicycle"

Obama to Iran: "If you like your nuclear program, you can keep your nuclear program"

Obama: "I'm not particularly ideological; I believe in a good pragmatic five-year plan"

NSA marks National Best Friend Day with official announcement: "Government is your best friend; we know you like no one else, we're always there, we're always willing to listen"

The President's latest talking point on Obamacare: "I didn't build that"

Sharpton: "British royals should have named baby 'Trayvon.' By choosing 'George' they sided with white Hispanic racist Zimmerman"

Obama: 'If I had a daughter-in-law, she would look like Rachael Jeantel'

GOP to Schumer: 'Force full implementation of ObamaCare before 2014 or Dems will never win another election'

Obama: 'If I had a son... no, wait, my daughter can now marry a woman!'

Jay Carney to critics: 'Pinocchio never said anything inconsistent'

Boston: Obama Administration to reclassify marathon bombing as 'sportsplace violence'

Joe Salazar defends the right of women to be raped in gun-free environment: 'rapists and rapees should work together to prevent gun violence for the common good'

Dept. of Health and Human Services eliminates rape by reclassifying assailants as 'undocumented sex partners'

Skeet Ulrich denies  claims he had been shot by President but considers changing his name to 'Traps'

Imam Rauf's peaceful solution: 'Move Ground Zero a few blocks away from the mosque and no one gets hurt'

Historical revisionists: "Hey, you never know"

Israelis to Egyptian rioters: "don't damage the pyramids, we will not rebuild"

Obama calls new taxes 'spending reductions in tax code.' Elsewhere rapists tout 'consent reductions in sexual intercourse'

Obama's teleprompter unhappy with White House Twitter: "Too few words"

Conservative think tank introduces children to capitalism with pop-up picture book "The Road to Smurfdom"

Obama refutes charges of him being unresponsive to people's suffering: "When you pray to God, do you always hear a response?"

Fluke to Congress: drill, baby, drill!

Planned Parenthood introduces Frequent Flucker reward card: 'Come again soon!'

Obama to tornado victims: 'We inherited this weather from the previous administration'

Hamas: Israeli air defense unfair to 99% of our missiles, "only 1% allowed to reach Israel"

Midwestern farmers hooked on new erotic novel "50 Shades of Hay"

Cancer once again fails to cure Venezuela of its "President for Life"

Obama Administration running food stamps across the border with Mexico in an operation code-named "Fat And Furious"

White House: "Let them eat statistics"
