
Simon Property Group has announced two of its team members will lead the management team at Roosevelt Field.

Deborah Weber of Freeport has been named general manager. She will be instrumental in the mall's expansion and renovation, which will include a new dining district and Neiman Marcus store. She held a similar position at Simon's Walt Whitman Shops in Huntington Station.

Nancy Gilbert of Wantagh has been appointed director of marketing and business development. She also held a similar position at Simon's Walt Whitman Shops in Huntington Station.

The Long Island branch of the American Society of Civil Engineers has announced its board of directors for 2014.

Joseph Bolos of Melville will serve as president. He is a structural inspection program leader at HDR in Manhattan.

Qaisar Khan of Selden will serve as president-elect. He is an engineer at Intercounty Paving Associates in Hicksville.

Adam DeVito, who resides in Cold Spring Harbor, will serve as vice president. He is a structural engineer at WSP in Manhattan.

Daniel Winkelman of Greenlawn will serve as secretary. He is a senior transportation engineer at VHB in Hauppauge.

Rafiqul Chowdhury of Queens will serve as treasurer. He is a project engineer at Grace Industries in Plainview.

William Blanchard of Bayport, a past board president, will serve as a director. He is a supervising engineer at KAG Engineering in Bayport.

Robert Ervolina of Rockville Centre, also a past board president, will serve as a director. He is a partner and directs construction at GEB HiRise Engineering in Uniondale.

Daniel Gale Sotheby's International Realty has added agents in Stony Brook from Virginia A. O'Dwyer Real Estate in Stony Brook.

Bessie O'Dwyer of St. James joins as a real estate sales agent. She previously held a similar position.

Michael E. O'Dwyer of Setauket joins as an associate broker. He previously held a similar position.

Carol S. Russell of Stony Brook joins as a real estate sales agent. She previously held a similar position.

Lynn J. Sabatelle of Setauket joins as an associate broker. She held a similar position before.

Lewis Johs Avallone Aviles in Islandia has two new associates.

Caroline K. Hock of Blue Point will focus on insurance coverage and liability issues. She is a graduate of Touro College's law center.

Amy S. Pincus of Huntington will focus on liability defense and insurance carriers in first-party claims. She had been self-employed.

CORRECTION. The agents joining Daniel Gale Sotheby's International Realty are coming from  Virginia A. O'Dwyer Real Estate in Stony Brook. The name of the O'Dwyer firm was incorrect in previous versions of this story.
