
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

About six months ago, Julie Engbloom and her partner Laurie Brown asked their friend, Beth Allen, if she would be willing to marry the couple when it became possible in Oregon.

Allen – make that Judge Allen – recalls saying "Gosh, yes." She thought of her dear friends last week as she heard of Judge Michael McShane's pending decision on the state's gay marriage ban. She, like many, had expected Judge McShane to rule the ban unconstitutional.

Line Begins To Form At Melody Ballroom After Gay Marriage Ruling People begin to line-up at the Melody Ballroom after the ban on gay marriage was overturned.  Oregon United for Marriage is holding wedding ceremonies here.

It was perfect timing. The couple from Northeast Portland had gotten engaged three weeks prior and they arrived in white (Engbloom) and khaki (Brown) at the Melody Ballroom and were the first in what was expected to be 100 marriages at the venue Monday.

"It's life for real," Engbloom said to a flock of reporters after exchanging brief vows with Brown along with a kiss and a hug. And another kiss and another hug. "It's a long time coming," added Brown, "love always wins."

Judge Beth Allen met Engbloom, a fellow lawyer, in 2007 and they have been friends ever since. It was for her friends that Allen performed her first wedding ceremony.

Judge Allen took a deep breathe before starting the Monday afternoon ceremony and admitted she was a little nervous.

"This is my first wedding," she said smiling.

"Ours too," answered Engbloom and Brown.

Keep tabs on the people who represent your interests in Salem and Washington, D.C.

© 2014 Oregon Live LLC. All rights reserved ( About Us ).

The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Oregon Live LLC.

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
