
The Iowa Democratic Party is making an effort to allow some form of absentee participation in the 2016 Iowa Caucuses. That seemingly untenable task was met with derision from the Republican Party of Iowa’s State Central Committee during their quarterly meeting on Saturday.

RPI Chairman Danny Carroll informed the committee that IDP Chairman Scott Brennan contacted him recently to discuss the possibility of allowing those who are unable to attend the actual caucuses, such as military members, hospital workers and nursing home residents, to still be able to participate in the process somehow.

Unlike Republicans, who simply cast a vote for their preferred presidential candidate, Iowa Democrats have an elimination system for candidates who do not achieve at least 15 percent of the vote at each caucus Supporters of that candidate are then recruited by the remaining viable campaigns. There is no logical way to keep the Democrats’ current system in place and allow absentee voting.

Chairman Carroll asked the Republican State Central Committee for their preliminary thoughts. While everyone agrees expanding access to the caucuses would be a good thing, no one expressed optimism that there is a workable method for allowing absentee voting. Carroll mentioned the Dems were considering a “web-based caucus”, which elicited derisive laughter from some members.

“This possibly could be an attention getting stunt by the Democrat Party to make it look like Hillary Clinton, in the wake of the Benghazi fiasco, is pro-military and the elderly people of America can really only depend on the open arms of the Democrat Party because they were gracious enough to invite them into the process in the nursing homes. There’s no problem with the Iowa Caucuses,” said SCC member Jamie Johnson.

Furthermore, there was a concern that turning the Iowa Caucuses into a “mini-primary” could seriously harm Iowa’s First-in-the-Nation status. It is a state law in New Hampshire that their primary must take place before any other state. Iowa works closely with New Hampshire to protect both states’ positions in the presidential nominating process.

Caucuses are not simply polls where people go to cast votes. Essentially, they are meetings conducted by political parties. There are speeches, delegate elections, committee elections and platform discussions. Casting a vote for your preferred presidential candidate is just one part of the Iowa Caucuses.

Additionally, allowing absentee voting at the Iowa Caucuses could open the system for all manner of fraud. The caucuses are conducted by the two political parties, not state election officials. Votes are usually cast on blank sheets of paper, then hand-counted publicly by volunteers. A paper trail would need to be established to ensure absentee ballots are legitimate and are included in the final count.

“What you’re essentially talking about is absentee voting at the caucus which is dangerous and complicated to the point of absurdity,” said Republican SCC member Ryan Frederick.

Danny Carroll believes such a system is fraught with peril.

“The Iowa Caucus is only a caucus. It is not an election, it is not a primary and it should not be viewed as one. A political party is neither prepared, equipped, intended by its nature to run a primary election,” the RPI chairman said.

SCC member Loras Schulte echoed those sentiments.

The Iowa Democratic Party seems determined to pursue the idea of absentee voting in caucuses, which Schulte dismissed as “ a PR stunt ”. Former IDP Executive Director Norman Sterzenbach has been dispatched to conduct a “listening tour” to discover if absentee voting in the Iowa Caucuses might be possible.

Republican SCC members Loras Schulte and Jamie Johnson expressed skepticism that IDP’s effort is truly aimed at expanding access to the caucuses. Perhaps the goal is to expand Hillary Clinton’s outreach with voters.

“They don’t have a process that we’re going to be having where there are several individuals worthy of consideration. They have one in mind, and maybe a joker in the deck somewhere, but that one has already been chosen,” Johnson said.

We still have not heard any concrete ideas from the Democrats about how to implement absentee voting in the caucuses, so Iowa Republicans have not ruled out the possibility. However, any attempt to change the nature and spirit of the Iowa Caucuses must be treated with intense scrutiny.

The Iowa Republican is Iowa’s leading source for political news and commentary.  Founded in 2009 by Craig Robinson, TIR is part of the Washington Post’s political blog network.
