
The eyes of the culinary world will be on Texas this summer when  El Cellar de Can Roca , the restaurant in Girona, Spain ranked number two in the world by Restaurant magazine, comes to Houston and Dallas this August as part of a four country, five city world tour. The three brothers behind the restaurant — executive chef Joan Roca, sommelier Josep and pastry chef Jordi — will close their restaurant for five weeks and bring their entire, 30 person staff with them for the tour.

That's right, one of the best restaurants in the world is coming to Houston. Not New York, not San Francisco, not Tokyo. Houston.

At a press conference Monday afternoon, Joan Roca, speaking Spanish translated by celebrity chef Ingrid Hoffmann , explained the tour is a way to respond to requests that the brothers open a second restaurant without having to determine a way to do so without their physical presence.

"The only option was to just take the entire restaurant on tour and recreate the entire experience . . . It seems to be the only honest way of recreating it is by shutting down for five weeks," Roca says. Although he says colleagues have asked "Are you crazy?" when they hear about the plan, Roca maintains that their goals for the visit are to be inspired by the cities they visit, to inspire others with their food and to teach students.

Over a five day visit to Texas, three in Houston, two in Dallas, the brothers will serve 100 people per day, 50 each for lunch and dinner. Furthermore, two students from each city will be invited to earn a four month-long apprenticeship at the celebrated restaurant. That's the good news.

Roca says he hopes the tour will allow the brothers to demonstrate their "food, their technique, their way of thinking and their creativity. In each city having to work with locally sourced products is a challenge that at the same time is inspirational."

Even if only 500 Texans will get to experience what all the fuss is about.

Please verify your e-mail by following the link we just sent you.
