
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

Lawson was killed in action, Oct. 24, 1944, and his name is etched on the Tablets of the Missing in Action or Buried at Sea, in the Manila American Cemetery, Manila, The Philippines.

The Lawson-Cox Veterans of Foreign Wars Post #7679 in Mantua has been named in his honor.

Lawson was awarded the Purple Heart Medal.

The Wall of Heroes honors the Gloucester County men and women who were killed in action or are missing in action while serving in the U.S. military protecting our freedoms and rights.

The Gloucester County Freeholder Board unveiled The Wall of Heroes on Nov. 11, 2010 at the Gloucester County Justice Complex featuring the likenesses of 100 Heroes.

There are at least 350 Gloucester County residents who never made it home, so there is more work to be done. The community’s assistance in identifying those residents who may be eligible to be placed on the wall is crucial.

The Wall of Heroes consists of framed 5-by-8-inch translucent artistic renderings portraying reasonable likenesses of the persons whom the county is honoring. The wall represents all branches of the military and they are arranged by era.

Because The Wall of Heroes features artistic renderings of those who made the ultimate sacrifice, photographs are of particular importance. If there is no photograph that can be found of the person to be honored, only the name and other key information of the military personnel will be framed on the wall.

Check here if you do not want to receive additional email offers and information.

Thank you for your subscription!

To view and subscribe to any of our other newsletters, please click here .

© 2014 New Jersey On-Line LLC. All rights reserved ( About Us ).

The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of New Jersey On-Line LLC.

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
