
STUART — A four-story boutique hotel could soon greet travelers headed north across the Old Roosevelt Bridge.

Northpoint Ventures LLC last month entered into a tentative agreement with the city to build a Starwood Aloft hotel on 2.1 acres of city-owned land.

The City Commission Monday gave staff the OK to finalize that lease.

Northpoint plans a 120-room, 48,000-square-foot Starwood Aloft hotel and a waterfront seafood restaurant with more than 150 indoor and outdoor seats. Parking would be under the hotel.

Developers indicate they would pay $19,500 a year, according to a budget submitted with their proposal.

City Manager Paul Nicoletti said the project's real value does not come from lease payments or taxes.

"It's a good addition from a development standpoint," he said Monday. "We could use the hotel rooms. It's a progressive thing for the city to do."

Northpoint would take over the land from SDG Group, a developer that leased the parcel for almost eight years, but, unable to secure enough money, failed to build anything.

SDG's plans included a rooftop bar, a 1,500-foot dock, a dry-storage facility for 185 boats and a two-story, 6,500-square-foot eatery overlooking the St. Lucie River.

Typically, sale or long-term lease of city-owned waterfront property requires a referendum. But, because Northpoint's plans are similar to SDG's, a referendum is unneeded, City Attorney Mike Mortell said Monday.

"It's basically the same project," he said. "Except they changed a boat barn into a proposed hotel."

SDG planned to sublease to Salt Life Food Shack, a seafood restaurant with branches throughout the state.

Northpoint also plans to sublease to Salt Life.

A letter of intent, included in Northpoint's proposal, lays out sublease terms on which Salt Life would sublease for a suggested $240,000 annually.

"We were part of the original project, and we've kept the door open," Saig said. "There have been talks here and there, and my South Florida operator may have had a conversation, but nothing else as far as I'm aware."

If built, Starwood Aloft would be one of the largest hotels in the area.

Harbor Inn and Marina manager Scott Cassady says the trendy hotel would be problematic. The inn — which also houses the Deck Restaurant — is about two-tenths of a mile north of the proposed Aloft.

"We do OK," Cassady said. "But any new hotel would hurt our business."

Northpoint says rooms at the Aloft would cost an average of $160 per night in the first year, according to the budget it submitted.

According to developers, the hotel and restaurant would employ approximately 150 people, generating more than $200,000 in property tax and more than $500,000 in tourism tax annually.

Northpoint's properties include Stuart's Ramada Inn and the Grandview Motel in Fort Pierce. The company said it has completed projects with a combined value of more than $500 million. Its net worth is more than $50 million.

All members of the project development team, including the architect and engineers, are from the Treasure Coast — the majority from Stuart.

According to the developers, "(the hotel) will be reminiscent of Stuart and Florida's historical timeless architecture."

Florida East Coast Railway tracks cut through the property, but, according to Nicoletti, they wouldn't affect the proposed hotel's success.

"Obviously the developers have thought about it and thought they could soundproof it, so it's not a problem," he said. "Plus, there isn't really that much train traffic overnight."

The city acquired the land after the construction of the Roosevelt Bridge, and the property has remained vacant since.

Aloft is a boutique offshoot of the luxury W Hotels chain.

Ready to subscribe to TCPalm? Choose between a Premium or Digital subscription below.

Need Help? Call us at 1-877-710-6180.
