
Sunday night at a gala awards program in Manhattan honoring Adelson and hosted by Rabbi Shmuley Boteach, Christie avoided the topic of Israel altogether.

But Sean Penn didn’t.

Held in the cathedral-like Cipriani restaurant, the dinner for Boteach’s This World: The Values Network  featured an unusual lineup of big-name guests. Among those joining Christie, Penn and Adelson were Texas Gov. Rick Perry; Nobel laureate Elie Wiesel; Israel’s U.S. ambassador, Ron Dermer; the Somali-born women’s rights activist and Islam critic Ayaan Hirsi Ali; human rights activist and author John Prendergast; Harvard law professor and Alan Dershowitz; Jewish philanthropist Michael Steinhardt; and Hawaii Rep. Tulsi Gabbard.

The dinner, at $750 per person, seemed to serve a mix of purposes: part awards ceremony, part fundraiser and part pro-Israel rally. It was also very much a celebration of The Values Network and its founder, the well-connected and media-loving Boteach.

.” A video at the dinner featured Dr. Mehmet Oz announcing “Kosher Lust” as his book of the month. Later in the evening, Boteach said he had dedicated the book, which he described as a modern-day “Song of Solomon,” to Sheldon and Miriam Adelson.

It appears to be as much a vehicle for supporting and promoting Boteach. Photos of the rabbi dominate its website, and the two subheads of its “About This World” tab are “About Shmuley” and “FAQ.” The only frequently asked question is, “Does Rabbi Shmuley counsel couples?” The answer is yes, and the website provides his contact information.

Christie’s speech, which The Values Network’s PR firm had promised would be a “ ‘major speech’ on Israel and the Middle East, according to insiders,” was notable for its failure to mention Israel, even as the presumed Republican presidential hopeful criticized President Obama’s foreign policy vis-a-vis Syria, Iran and Russia.

In the lineup of pro-Israel activists and Republicans, Penn stood out not just for his Hollywood credentials but for his left-wing politics. The actor, whom Boteach described as “Hollywood’s foremost humanitarian,” was an outspoken critic of President George W. Bush and friends with Venezuela’s late president Hugo Chavez.

Penn said his ties to Venezuela helped him secure the freedom of Jacob Ostreicher, an American Jewish businessman imprisoned in Bolivia for 18 months. Ostreicher, who was accused of money laundering but never formally charged — he has maintained his innocence — presented the film star with the Champion of Jewish Justice award.

During the presentation, Ostreicher thanked Penn for, among other things, giving him an all-night back rub and stocking his refrigerator with kosher food.

The eclectic program also featured a tribute by Boteach, along with his nine children, honoring his wife, Debbie, and a call for the audience to make financial pledges via text message. The pledges were projected on a large screen.

Your information will not be shared or sold without your consent. Get all the details.

JewishJournal.com reserves the right to use your comment in our weekly print publication.

Don’t miss any of the latest news and events!

Get the Jewish Journal in your inbox.

Don’t miss any of the latest news and events!

Get the Jewish Journal in your inbox.

weekly in the West – and the monthly glossy Tribe magazine ( TribeJournal.com ). Please support us by clicking here .

© Copyright 2014 Tribe Media Corp.
