
Jerry Jones greets David Reed at the Pawtucket Fire Dept., their first meeting since Reed helped save Jones' life in 2012.

PAWTUCKET, R.I. — The 73-year-old man with the smile and tanned face who got out of the Toyota pickup truck Monday morning in front of the Pawtucket fire station was nothing like the man firefighter David Reed had faced in the days just before Christmas 2012.

He was off-duty at a Christmas concert at Emmanuel Episcopal Church in Newport when he heard a man gasping for breath. Jerry Jones, of Texas, who was in Rhode Island visiting his son, was having a heart attack and collapsed.

Reed identified himself as a member of the Pawtucket Fire Department and went to work. He opened Jones’ airway, checked for signs of choking and then started CPR. Newport fire personnel arrived and used a defibrillator on Jones three times, until he was revived.

Jones, who lives in Ridge Hills, Texas, returned to Rhode Island last summer to thank the Newport firefighters. On Monday, he paid a special visit to Reed to thank him for saving his life. As he got out of his son Greg’s truck, he and Reed came face to face.

“You look a lot better than the last time I saw you,” Reed told him as the two men embraced.

“Sorry to bother you on your day off,” Jones told him. “I got a few patches for you,” he said as he pulled some patches from the Fort Worth Texas Fire Department from a plastic bag. He also gave him a Texas flag.

Reed and members of the Newport Fire Department were awarded the 2013 Rhode Island Lifesaving Medal during a State House ceremony for saving Jones’ life. Reed was also awarded the Red Cross Hero Award.

“We’ve got a place in Texas you can stay. It’s a place near the river,” Jones told Reed by way of inviting him for a visit.

Jones is under a doctor’s care and said he was feeling good. He comes to Rhode Island to visit Greg, who is retired from the Coast Guard and lives in Portsmouth. Father and son had attended the Red Sox game against Detroit on Sunday in Boston.

“I was having a good time until they started to lose,” Jerry Jones joked.

While they spoke, one of the fire engines rushed out on a run.

Jones volunteers for the Red Cross in Texas driving a canteen truck, he told Reed, mentioning that there have been a lot of brushfires. Texas is still in the throes of a drought that has shriveled crops and led to massive wildfires.

Jones said he didn’t remember much about what happened to him, but his family filled him in. He said last year when he went to visit the Newport Fire Department firefighters, they told him a firefighter in Pawtucket had performed CPR.

“If it wasn’t for this guy, I wouldn’t be here,” he said.
