
Lynchburg, VA - A little more than 48 hours after several rail cars flew off the tracks in downtown Lynchburg; trains were back, running right where they have been for years.

"You can definitely see where the cars went over and caught fire and I imagine we will for the rest of the summer” said Mason Basten, a business owner along the river.

The scars from the fire are clear.  Basten has watched it all; from clearing cars, to repairing rail.

"I think that CSX, the last thing they would ever want to happen is to have another accident here as a result of doing a poor job restoring the tracks” he said.

"I think that CSX did what they had to do to put a stable base down for the rail to operate on and to stabilize the banks” said Lynchburg’s City Manager, Kim Payne.

Payne is confident CSX wouldn't risk another derailment by rushing the repairs.  In fact, according to the NTSB, CSX would not have been able to resume travel unless the area was deemed safe.  A requirement officials tell us is vetted by numerous safety inspections.

"I certainly understand their desire to get the freight moving back on those tracks. My assumption was that they did it in a manner that was going to protect the communities they go through” said Payne.

In a statement on their website, CSX writes of their safety record, "Despite our leadership in the safety of our field, we constantly strive to attain our ultimate goal: zero incidents and zero accidents."

Lynchburg, VA - Federal prosecutors say eight people have been charged in connection with a drug ring investigation that dates back to 1998.

Bedford Co., VA – A former physical education teacher in Bedford County has been charged with aggravated sexual battery of three students at Montvale Elementary.

 Pittsylvania Co., VA- State Police say a Danville woman was killed in a crash Sunday morning in Pittsylvania County.

Update 10:18 a.m.

Fort Lee, VA (AP) - All clear given at Fort Lee Army base in Virginia where active shooter had been reported.

Henry Co., VA – Two men have been sentenced for killing a Henry County convenience store clerk four years ago.

Lynchburg, VA- A local church has challenged their members to unleash love on those around them.One Community Church in Lynchburg has a goal to provide 500 hours of community service in the next 30 days.

All content © Copyright 2000 - 2014 WorldNow and WSET. All Rights Reserved.
