
BRIAN D. SANDERFORD • TIMES RECORD / Oak Bower Community Park is seen on Friday, May 16, 2014 in Lavaca. The City of Lavaca was recently awarded a grant to assist with the construction of a Health and Fitness trail around the park.

The third try was the charm for the city of Lavaca, which has received a state grant to construct a walking trail at Oak Bower Community Park.

In a letter dated March 28, Gov. Mike Beebe informed Lavaca Mayor Hugh Hardgrave that the city will get a $22,808 grant from the Arkansas Department of Parks and Tourism to construct an 8-foot wide asphalt surface walking trail spanning 1,200 feet around the perimeter of Oak Bower Community Park, which is at the corner of West Houston Street and Taylor Avenue in Lavaca.

Grant funds will be used to purchase materials, and the Sebastian County Road Department will provide the labor, Hardgrave said.

The city first applied for the grant in 2011 and was awarded the money after the third application, Hardgrave said.

The trail will tie into 200 feet of existing city sidewalk. The plan is to someday have a sidewalk that will span from downtown to Oak Bower park, providing residents a safe way to get exercise.

Sebastian County Judge David Hudson said the county helps cities with their projects on a case-by-case basis, based on cost-sharing and an interlocal agreement.

“The smaller communities have more limited resources, and we try to assist them where we can — particularly in recreational projects like this,” he said.

There is no timetable yet on when crews will start kicking up dirt, but the city has a year to spend the money. If any grant money is left over, it could be used to install benches or lights or other additions, Hardgrave said.

Once it starts, the project shouldn’t take long to complete. It could be finished within two months, depending on the weather, Hardgrave said.

The park will remain open during construction of the trail.

Yes, I would like to receive SWTR NewsBreak (afternoon).

Yes, I would like to receive SWTR Football Insider.
