
PHOENIX - A man has been arrested for child abuse after he allegedly threw a toddler into a pool and then dropped her back into the pool after she was pulled out of the water by the father's girlfriend.

Corey Edmund McCarthy, 23, was charged with two counts of child abuse.

McCarthy was "traumatizing that little girl," said the girl's mother, Samantha.

She asked us to only use her first name.

Tears rolled down Samantha's face as she watched, for only the second time, surveillance video reportedly showing McCarthy tossing their daughter Mia into the pool.

"This is somebody who's supposed to protect [her]," the mother said.

According to court documents, officers responded to a child abuse call and talked with Samantha.

She showed officers video of McCarthy throwing the 1-year-old child several feet into a swimming pool late last month.

The video shows the baby going face first, up into the air, then down into the pool.

Sgt. Trent Crump with Phoenix police said video shows the child was unattended by the pool for about 25 minutes. During that time, according to Crump, the girl threw two dogs into the water. One of them apparently drowned.

Witnesses told police when the dad heard about the incident, he threw the girl into the water to teach her a lesson.

In the report, police said video showed a woman believed to be McCarthy's girlfriend get the victim out of the pool and hand her to McCarthy.

When interviewed by police, McCarthy admitted to throwing the toddler into the pool and then dropping her in a second time saying he was trying to teach her to be afraid of the water after she had gone near the pool earlier in the day.

The baby now has nightmares and is scared of the water, Samantha said.

No response has been received after ABC15 asked to speak with McCarthy in jail.  A telephone call to the woman reportedly in the video with McCarthy didn't connect.

Ready to subscribe to the News Sentinel? Choose between a Premium or Digital subscription below.

Need Help? Call us at 1-877-304-7769.
