
A two-day event celebrated the appeal for help from a small group of colonists to Baptists in Great Britain.

In 1714, a small group of Baptists in Virginia asked their spiritual colleagues in Britain to send “messengers” to strengthen the fledgling religious movement in the colony. The result was the first documented Baptist congregation in Virginia.

Three centuries later — almost to the day — Baptists marked the anniversary of that event with a two-day observance in Richmond.

Anderson, executive director of the Virginia Baptist Historical Society and the Center for Baptist Heritage & Studies, was keynote speaker at the service, which also featured an organ recital of hymns familiar to generations of Baptists. Among them was “I’ll Be a Sunbeam,” the theme song of the Sunbeam Band, a mission education organization for children created in Nelson County, Va., in 1886 which spread to most Baptist churches in the South.

The remembrance service, organized by the two Baptist historical groups, was held in the pillared sanctuary of River Road Church, Baptist — a marked contrast to the log structure in Prince George County which probably housed Virginia’s first Baptist congregation.

But those simple beginnings inspired a Christian movement ready to answer key questions of spiritual life, said John Upton, executive director of the Baptist General Association of Virginia .

The anniversary celebration continued the next day on the campus of the University of Richmond — founded by Baptists in 1830 to train ministers — with about 40 exhibits by Baptist agencies, institutions and churches.

The first Baptist congregation in America is generally thought to be First Baptist Church in Providence, R.I. , organized in 1638. Some evidence also exists of a Baptist presence in Virginia in the 17th century, but the group was small, scattered along the south side of the James River, and faced legal restrictions imposed by the official Anglican Church.

The next year Norden wrote Baptists in England “of the promising prospect to plant the Gospell in those parts” and reported that he had “in a little time baptized and settled 18 Persons in Gospell order.” Norden died in 1725.

Anderson said it’s uncertain what became of that first church, though some records suggest it was decimated by theological divisions and became extinct.

“The first Baptist church in Virginia appears to have suffered the fate of many Baptist churches — implosion from doctrinal controversy, the relocating of members and the gradual decline of what had been an active congregation,” he said.

Virginia’s legal and religious establishment regarded Baptists as an “ignorant and illiterate sect,” and placed restrictions on their ability to preach and worship. In some places they were tolerated; in others, they were openly persecuted.

• Out of persecution they birthed the principles of religious liberty.

• The essence of their polity was free and autonomous congregations.

• They readily embraced a concept of world mission which took them beyond their small meeting houses.

• A commitment to mission led inevitably to a wide array of Christian educational and benevolent organizations.

• They turned out generations of well-trained, well-equipped laity and clergy.

© 2014 Associated Baptist Press, Inc.

We welcome your comments on news and opinion articles on www.abpnews.com and www.abpnews.com/blog .

If your comment has been deleted or edited, it is the result of violating one or more of these rules . Policy updated on February 16, 2014.
