
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

DETROIT, MI - Corn, lime juice, water.

Those are the three ingredients in the corn tortillas made daily at La Jalisciense Tortilla Factory in Southwest Detroit. The factory at 2650 Bagley Ave. processes 2 tons of corn per day into various sized tortillas sold to Metro Detroit restaurants and grocery stores, and right at the counter just feet away from where they're pressed.

MLive visited La Jalisciense as the first stop on its statewide search of Michigan's Best taco. After all, ingredients inside can change, but you don't have a taco without a tortilla.

The 68-year-old business was started by Damaso Abundis in 1946 and lives on today through his children, Sergio Abundis and Norma Abundis-Pshaki. About 30 people work the floor at the factory, which includes a second operation nearby that manufactures flour and wholewheat tortillas.

"We're one of the few to keep it natural," Sergio Abundis explained with equipment whirring in the background. "Tortillas in the stores will say they'll last months. Ours last about a week. If you leave them out in the sun, they'll go bad."

Visit the factory, which includes a retail counter, in Mexicantown and you'll see corn soaked in lime juice to remove the shells, crushed into a paste, mixed with water and pressed into round disks for use as tacos, chips, enchiladas, burritos, to name a few uses.

La Jalisciense's name comes from the Jalisco region of Mexico where Damaso grew up with his family. La Jalisciense simply means someone from Jalisco, like Michigander is to Michigan. It's recipes come from Jalisco, but Sergio laughs at the suggestion it's some sort of family secret. Mexicans have been turning corn into tortillas for thousands of years use pretty much the same methods he uses today.

Sergio and Norma's father opened the factory in a small storefront in Southwest Detroit at a time when only Mexicans who moved to Detroit to work in the factories bought tortillas. Today, that market has obviously grown. Not only are corn tortilla tacos everywhere - so common MLive is running a statewide search for Michigan's Best taco - but you'll find some form of flour tortilla on nearly every restaurant's menu. Wraps and quesadillas are as common as tacos.

"It's like pizzas in the '70s," Sergio said, explaining the spike in demand for tortillas. "It's used to be only the Mexicans looking for them."

For about 30 years, Norma said, the factory was one of only two tortilla makers in Detroit. Today, there are three in Detroit and a fourth in Lincoln Park, with more coming on line each year. The competition reflects growing demand, especially as the popularity of tacos spreads east from California, Sergio said.

The factory's storefront enjoys a steady stream of customers visit buying bags or boxes of various-sized tortillas and pounds of "masa," the corn paste used to make tamales. The store is open Monday through Saturday from 7 a.m. to 2 p.m., closed on Sundays.

When you visit, you'll likely see Sergio or Norma at the counter working the cash register. Having worked for their father and now running the company themselves, La Jalisciense has always been a family company. Someday, that will change, Sergio said. There's no one in the family lining up to takeover the business.

"We're the last generation," Sergio said.

© 2014 MLive Media Group All rights reserved ( About Us ).

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
