
Speaking this morning in Boston at the American Society for Microbiology's annual conference , Dr. Lyle Petersen  of the CDC was asked to name the "biggest threats" in US epidemiology. The first thing out of his mouth wasn't MERS . It was "chikungunya," a mosquito-borne disease that is "taking off by leaps and bounds" in the Western Hemisphere, starting with some of America's closest neighbors.

The virus is well-known across Asia and Africa, but it hadn't made its way to this part of the globe until last year. It still has barely begun to capture U.S. media attention. That will likely start to change, Petersen said. The disease has been  spreading fast in Haiti . It's also been  identified in a Florida mosquito .

"We’ve gone up to 51,000 cases in a matter of months," said Petersen, describing the disease's spread since it first reach the Caribbean last October. "It’s spread to 12 countries and will keep on spreading and undoubtedly cause millions of cases before it’s all over. This is a huge threat to the tropical Americas, but also a threat to the contiguous states as well."

Watch the video here. Petersen starts talking about chikungunya at about 5:40.

Since then it's spread across Africa and Asia, reaching epidemic proportions in 2004.

It's frequently confused with dengue fever, but probably not as deadly.

The main thing it does is cause is intense joint pain. The name for the disease comes from a Kimakonde word meaning "to become contorted."

Epidemiologists think it came to St. Martin, carried by a tourist from Asia.

There is no cure. Existing treatments focus on the symptoms.

Doctors don't usually consider chikungunya fatal. India had 1.39 million cases of chikungunya during an outbreak in 2006. Doctors didn't count any deaths from the disease, but  a 2008 study  guessed that as many as 2,944 may have actually succumbed to the disease--not other causes, as local doctors thought.

"I have to say I have MERS envy," Petersen said during the morning's panel, the title of which was, "The Next Emerging Threat." "Because MERS has 3 cases, I’ve got 51,000 and I’m getting no attention."

Thank you in advance for any help you can provide.

Larry Griffin, Founder and President of Bio-Stasis Int. Inc., Creator and Distributor of Virapress.
