
This drop box for worn flags has been erected in front of the Opsahl-Kostel Funeral Home & Crematory in Yankton. A special dedication ceremony was held Saturday for the box, whose design was created by airbrush artist Mickey Harris.

Posted: Sunday, May 18, 2014 10:33 pm | Updated: 11:14 pm, Mon May 19, 2014.

When it comes to the proper way to dispose of a tattered or weathered American flag, respect is key.

That was the overriding theme Saturday during a dedication ceremony for a new flag drop box at Opsahl-Kostel Funeral Home & Crematory in Yankton.

The box, located in front of the building on W. 21st St., was unveiled during a ceremony that included the local VFW 791 Honor Guard, members of the Patriot Guard Riders, the Rev. Rod Veldhuizen, flags to recognize all 50 states, as well as 36 flags to recognize those military members from South Dakota who have been killed in action since Sept. 11, 2011.

According to funeral director and owner Kevin Opsahl, holding such a complete gathering was a small way to honor those soldiers who gave their lives for this country.

There was also an educational lesson by having such a formal gathering, Opsahl added.

“Most people are unaware that a formal flag retirement ceremony is actually a complete dismantling of a flag,” he said.

One such way is to remove the spine and remove the white stars from the blue field, Opsahl said. Other ways call for the traditional 13-fold technique before burning, while another calls for the stripes to be cut apart before burning.

“I’m not sure that that extreme is practiced as it’s taught, but certainly the flag drop box offers a place those flags can be dropped off before something like that,” he said.

The box, which features an American flag wrapped around the sides, a bald eagle in front, and names of all five branches of the military, was designed by renowned airbrush artist Mickey Harris.

Harris, who said he has a special connection to the military after being born on an Air Force base in Oklahoma, has airbrushed many signs and artifacts in the region. He also estimates that he has painted 10,000 flags in his career.

His goal for the Opsahl-Kostel box was simple, Harris said.

“I wanted to wrap the box in the flag, just envelope it in the whole American spirit,” he said.

Doing so, however, proved to be a challenge. Harris said he had to research how a flag would fold around a solid structure like the box. He borrowed his father’s American flag to photograph how it would look on the box.

The drop box wasn’t the only project Harris had been working on recently that dealt with military service, he said. He is in the process of airbrushing a Dodge Viper at a body shop in Menno, where he lives. The car is for the Lone Survivor Foundation, which was established in 2010 by Marcus Luttrell who wrote a best-selling book in 2007 about Operation Redwing.

“One-hundred percent of the money goes to foundations like that,” Harris said.

Shortly after the Saturday afternoon ceremony, Wilton Johnson and his wife, Georgia, who rode their motorcycle from their home in Niobrara, Nebraska, deposited seven weathered flags into the box.

Wilton said he used to sell flags and flag poles during his time as a driver for Sapa in Yankton.

The Johnsons have also discarded flags during burning ceremonies held every five years in Niobrara, Georgia said.

“But this one (ceremony) was absolutely beautiful, with all the flags and riders,” she said.

Opsahl-Kostel plans to potentially hold a more public flag retirement ceremony in the future, Opsahl said.

You can follow Jeremy Hoeck on Twitter at twitter.com/jhoeck . Discuss this story at www.yankton.net .

Posted in Community on Sunday, May 18, 2014 10:33 pm. Updated: 11:14 pm.

1 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language.

2 Don't Threaten or Abuse. Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated. AND PLEASE TURN OFF CAPS LOCK.

3 Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.

4 Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.

5 Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.

6 Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness accounts, the history behind an article.

Welcome to the discussion.
