
The mother who pushed allegations that her 14-year-old son was “tortured” by Tullytown police late last year was arrested Thursday night by borough officers after a reported shoplifting incident at the Levittown Walmart.

Marissa Sargeant, 32, of Bristol Township, along with another woman are accused of failing to scan merchandise and then attempting to walk out of the store. Walmart said the stolen items were worth $107.30, according to police.

The duo “failed to scan multiple items and then subsequently bagged them as if they had,” police wrote in court papers.

A loss prevention officer working for Walmart detained the women until Tullytown police arrived, court papers say.

Sargeant was arraigned just after midnight on charges of felony retail theft, receiving stolen property and two counts of conspiracy. She was sent to Bucks County prison on 10 percent of $20,000 bail.

As of press time, the other woman listed in court papers has not been charged.

In the fall, Sargeant lead a push on social media and later with the help of two Philadelphia-based private investigators to allege Tullytown police assaulted her son as he was being pursued on Route 13 after he was arrested with his 19-year-old uncle on retail theft charges. The charges stemmed from an alleged theft at the Levittown Walmart. After a firestorm of media attention and a scantily-attended rally against Tullytown police, Bucks County District Attorney David Heckler cleared police of any wrongdoing in the November 2013 incident.

According to court records, Sargeant has a spotted past with local police. She was arrested and convicted of simple assault and related offenses in one case and retail theft in another 2010 case, both were out of Bristol Township. The 32-year-old was also convicted of DUI after an incident in Upper Moreland, Montgomery County several years back. In total, police report she has been convicted to retail theft three times before.

Maybe they need to consider reservations in the state prison system for the whole family…..

Oxygen thieves…..

People of Walmart is a humor blog that depicts the many customers of Walmart stores across the United States and Canada. Through funny photos and videos, Please of Walmart is an entertainment blog in the Three Ring Blogs network that features over 30 of the funniest humor blogs on the internet. Walmart is the largest retail store in the United States and has millions of people visit stores each day wearing anything but proper attire.
