
Tight end Rashaun Allen and guard Nate Isles, who tried out for the team at last weekend’s rookie minicamp, were signed Monday by the Seahawks. The team also agreed to a contract with fourth-round pick Cassius Marsh, a defensive lineman.

The Seahawks added two players to the roster Monday from the  rookies who tried out for the team this weekend — tight end Rashaun Allen and guard Nate Isles — and signed fourth-round pick Cassius Marsh to his rookie contract.

Seattle cut tight end Travis Beckum and cornerback Jimmy Legree to make room for Allen and Isles on the 90-man roster.

Allen, a 6-foot-4, 250-pound tight end from Southern University, was impressive throughout the three days of the rookie minicamp. Isles, a 6-5, 348-pounder from North Carolina A&T, played guard and tackle at the minicamp. The team lists him as a guard.

Marsh, the 108th overall pick in the draft, could be due a $470,252 signing bonus and the standard four-year deal worth $2.69 million, according to OvertheCap.com.

Marsh is the fourth of the team’s nine draft picks to sign, the others being fifth-round DT Jimmy Staten, sixth-round DB Eric Pinkins and seventh-round FB Kiero Small. The other five draftees are expected to be signed before camp begins.

Want unlimited access to seattletimes.com? Subscribe now!

Take a minute to subscribe and continue to enjoy The Seattle Times for as little as 99 cents a week.

We've got good news for you. Unlimited seattletimes.com content access is included with most subscriptions.

We hope you have enjoyed your complimentary access. For unlimited seattletimes.com access, please upgrade your digital subscription.

Call customer service at 1.800.542.0820 for assistance with your upgrade or questions about your subscriber status.

To keep reading, you need a subscription.

We hope you have enjoyed your complimentary access. Subscribe now for unlimited access!

We've got good news for you. Unlimited seattletimes.com content access is included with most subscriptions.
