
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

A 54-year-old man has been indicted on theft and stolen vehicle charges, accused of towing legally parked vehicles off Portland streets and then selling them to a North Portland auto-crushing business for cash.

He's one of an estimated 10 other tow truck drivers suspected of committing the same type of crime, investigators say. Portland police, working with the Multnomah County District Attorney's Office, are continuing to work to identify the other drivers.

The indictment also marks the latest in an ongoing, months-long investigation into a stolen car ring that netted a Portland city employee and focused on two businesses along North Columbia Boulevard.

The sales occurred without any vehicle ownership documents, as required under state motor vehicle regulations.

Michael Anthony Reed has been charged with two counts each of unauthorized use of a vehicle, first-degree theft and possession of a stolen vehicle.

"Individuals like Reed were able to bring in vehicles to West Coast Car Crushing without proper paperwork because West Coast wasn't following the regulations put in place by the DMV,'' said Multnomah County prosecutor Kevin Demer. "They were stealing from people who had their cars legally parked. Just because the cars were older and heavier, they were targets.''

Last fall, Abby Lyons of Yamhill County had loaned her pickup to her daughter, then a University of Portland student.

The pickup disappeared sometime between Sept. 27 and 29 while parked on an alley behind the student's North Willamette Boulevard house.

"My daughter said some neighbors heard something drive off really fast in the night,'' Lyons said.

Lyons reported the Jeep stolen to Portland police. The officer who took the call suggested that trucks of her Jeep's vintage – a 1987 Comanche with two-wheel drive and a long bed, could be a target because they hold more metal, which can be lucrative for thieves.

Months passed. Lyons unsuccessfully tried to find the truck using Craigslist.

In the last month, she got a call from Portland police Officer Travis Fields.

"I was at the grocery store, thinking, 'Oh, they found my Jeep -- great,'" Lyons said. She also was hoping a sentimental purple quilt she'd left in the pickup was still in the truck.

But Fields shared the bad news about Lyons' pickup: "He said it's been crushed,'' Lyons recalled.

Police investigating two suspected auto chop shops since last fall had surveillance images showing her truck getting towed into the West Coast Car Crushing company in North Portland on Sept. 30.

"It was a running vehicle,'' Lyons said. "It was a cool car.''

In October, carpet layer Daniel Speer had his 1990 Ford van stolen from Southeast 136th Avenue, parked near his home.

"I parked it at 8 p.m. at night and it was gone the next morning,'' Speer said. He said he noticed broken glass where the van had been parked.

Speer said the tools he's accumulated over his career were all in the truck. He estimated the tools alone were worth about $3,000.

"In one night, it just got all wiped clean,'' Speer said.

Speer said he borrowed his girlfriend's vehicle and others loaned him tools so he could continue to work. He finally bought another van.

After reporting his van stolen to Portland police right away, Speer said he expected to see someone else driving it on the city streets.

Instead, about a week and a half ago, Speer heard from a Multnomah County prosecutor. Police had found out that Speer's van had been towed to West Coast Car Crushing, and the van was crushed, with all his tools in it.

"I was pretty pissed,'' Speer said Monday.

Reed was indicted on the stolen vehicle and theft charges last week. Investigators said Reed sold Lyons' pickup to West Coast Car Crushing for $312 in cash and Speer's van to the same business for $429.

Reed also was accused of third-degree and second-degree theft early this year stemming from the alleged theft of merchandise in January and February from a Walmart and Fred Meyer, according to court records.

Police are continuing to investigate West Coast Car Crushing and A-1 Light Truck & Van Parts, after raiding both businesses with search warrants on April 8.

Another tow truck driver was charged with unauthorized use of vehicles last fall after police said he had been coordinating with a Portland city employee to tow cars tagged as abandoned and selling them to the two North Columbia Boulevard auto chop shops. The city employee pleaded guilty to official misconduct and other charges Friday and will be sentenced June 19.

My Portland!

© 2014 Oregon Live LLC. All rights reserved ( About Us ).

The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Oregon Live LLC.

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
