
Sullins College graduate Julie Smith talks about her years at the school and working for the United Company in the same buildings that she walked in during college after they bought the campus.

Martin Hall is shown on the campus of Sullins College in Bristol, Virginia. The college closed in 1976 and was open over 100 yrs.

1957 yearbook shows Seniors holding tea at Sullins College.

Posted: Saturday, May 17, 2014 8:28 pm | Updated: 12:02 am, Sat Jul 5, 2014.

BRISTOL, Va. — Virginia Intermont College’s recent spiral toward closure stirred somber memories for Julie Smith, a graduate of the former Sullins College, which closed here in 1976.

VI, a longtime Sullins rival, held its final commencement ceremony earlier this month after 130 years. The private, liberal arts school suffered overwhelming financial challenges that sparked its loss of accreditation as diminishing enrollment and a lack of substantial giving hastened VI’s demise.

The scenes were all too familiar for Smith and other Sullins graduates who saw their alma mater shuttered after 106 years amid mounting debt and declining enrollment. More than 10,000 people earned degrees from Sullins, which was primarily a two-year women’s college that briefly accepted male students. Only two earned degrees before the college closed.

VI also began as a two-year women’s college and began accepting male students at its Moore Street campus in the 1970s.

It is advice Smith and many of her Sullins compatriots have followed. Last month, about 200 alumnae from 31 states returned to the Twin City to attend a Sullins reunion — the second such event in the past four years. Alums have established a website, facebook page and a network of friends that maintains regular contact.

Methodist minister David Sullins established Sullins College in 1870, when the town of Bristol was known as Goodson. Funds were raised and a two-story brick building was constructed on a hill overlooking the state line town bounded by the Tennessee border and railroad tracks, according to the school’s official history.

The school was incorporated in 1873 and it became a college of the Holston Conference of the Methodist Church three years later. The college founder left in 1880 to accept the presidency of nearby Emory & Henry College.

The college history is divided into two distinct periods known as old Sullins and new Sullins. Old Sullins was from 1870 to 1916 at its original Solar Hill site — which was destroyed by fire in December 1915. However, students were able to complete that school year at nearby Virginia Intermont.

When the Methodist conference declined to fund rebuilding Sullins, trustees convinced former college President William E. Martin to return to Bristol and develop a new Sullins. The city of Bristol, Virginia, accepted the old Sullins site near downtown in exchange for 36 acres previously used as a public park on the city’s “outskirts,” college history shows.

Unable to secure local financial backing, Martin persuaded his father to sell his cotton plantation near Selma, Alabama, and loan him money to rebuild the college on land that now lies along Glenway Avenue, just east of Commonwealth Avenue. Local banks provided funds to construct Martin Hall in the spring of 1917 and classes began there that fall. The four-story structure wasn’t large enough to house the 227 boarding students, so many students and faculty stayed in rented housing.

The college continued to operate on that site, adding a series of classroom buildings, housing, labs and a performing arts center.

The history of Camp Sequoyah, a component of the Sullins program, is also divided between old and new. The original, which featured an artificial lake, was established near campus in the 1920s. In the 1950s, road construction would render that site unusable for months, so work began to establish a new camp along South Holston Lake. It opened in 1958.

Sullins enrollment was 350 when Smith graduated in 1967, but plummeted through the 1970s. Its final graduating class numbered just 66 and total enrollment was about 130. News accounts from that time show the college accumulated substantial debt, suffered declines in enrollment and lacked financial resources to continue. After a failed attempt to sell the school to the city of Bristol, Virginia, the board of trustees decided to cease operations.

Similar stories continue playing out across the state and nation. In the past decade, 15 private colleges in Virginia have closed, according to the Commission on Higher Education for Virginia.

On average, five private, nonprofit U.S. colleges or universities have closed each year during the past decade, according to a 2013 Vanderbilt University study. The high water mark occurred in 2009 — amid a national recession — when nine U.S. private colleges closed in one year.

Low enrollment, low endowment levels, high debt and deficit positions and deferred maintenance were common to almost every school at the time of its closure, according to the Vanderbilt study.

Dependence on tuition as a primary revenue source — as in the cases of both VI and Sullins — is risky, the study shows.

Sullins graduates can still access their transcripts through King University, which volunteered years ago to provide that service.

While Julie Smith grew up in Bristol, and followed her mother and aunt as students at Sullins, Candy Snodgrass relocated from Chicago to enroll.

“I came here sight unseen. I hadn’t seen the school and had never seen the town. It was a shock,” Snodgrass said.

She attended classes at Sullins for a year, but left to begin working but has great memories from her time there.

Smith bristles at the term “finishing” school, saying Sullins did equip women with essential social skills, but its curriculum included a wide range of science, art and performing arts opportunities.

“It was a very prestigious, academic school. It wasn’t easy to graduate. A lot of people graduated and went on to accomplish all kinds of things,” Smith said.

Snodgrass cited another issue with Sullins’ demise.

Ironically, Smith has remained on the Sullins campus for nearly the past 30 years. As director of human relations and paralegal for The United Co., her ground-floor office is inside the former Metts Hall, the former college’s administrative building. Then known as United Coal, the company purchased the Sullins campus and buildings in late 1976 and shifted its corporate headquarters from Grundy to Bristol in 1978.

Returning to her former college and walking those same halls and stairways proved a bit surreal.

While United is no longer in the coal business, Sullins’ hilly, tree-lined campus and neatly manicured lawns look much like it did when the college was alive. Some of the buildings — the performing arts center, faculty housing and some student housing — have been removed over the years, but the essence of Sullins remains.

Some tangible forms of those Sullins memories are preserved today, carefully arranged and filling every corner and wall of a former dorm room inside stately Martin Hall – the largest building on campus. Smith and Jim McGlothlin’s daughter, Martha, began assembling the collection many years ago.

“Martha went to Sullins Academy, which leased two floors at Martin Hall on this campus for about 20 years,” Smith said, referring to the private, tuition-based school that operated on the former college site from 1977 through 1999, when it moved to a new building.

The result is an amazing array of annuals known as “The Sampler,” publications, photographs, record albums by Sullins students known as the “Cotton Pickers.” There are jackets, sweaters and flags bearing the Sullins crest and its maroon and gold colors. Prominent maroon window treatments were made from the massive curtains that once hung in the performing arts center.

Along one wall stands a booth from the former student center and a cabinet filled with photos and mementos from Camp Sequoyah. A once-busy cash register rests atop a section of tiny mailboxes, where students once received letters from home.

Down the hallway is a complete telephone booth where girls once lined up to take turns. A nearby periodicals collection includes bound copies of magazines and newspapers from the former college library.

The space is available by appointment for Sullins graduates to see.

Posted in News , Local on Saturday, May 17, 2014 8:28 pm. Updated: 12:02 am.

We're always interested in hearing about news in our community. Let us know what's going on!

Need more information about All Access? Get all of the details here .
