
Built in the early 1900's, Mabry Mill, a water powered gristmill, is a hotspot, at milepost 176.2, for visitors traveling the Blue Ridge Parkway. The wheel has recently undergone some repairs. The mill grinds corn for cornmeal and grits, sold on site.

Posted: Sunday, May 18, 2014 11:52 pm | Updated: 11:59 pm, Mon May 19, 2014.

MEADOWS OF DAN Mabry Mill’s restaurant and gift shop opened earlier this month under new management and with a new menu, but the biggest draw is still the old mill by the side of the Blue Ridge Parkway.

However, the mill’s iconic wheel is still under repair and is not operating, yet. Some visitors were not happy about that when they stopped by to see the mill in action, said Eugene Webb, the head miller.

“People got grouchy about it,” said Webb, 85, who has worked at Mabry Mill for 13 years.

The wheel’s water buckets were repaired, but parkway maintenance chief Michael Molling said more work needs to be done over the next couple of weeks. He expects the mill wheel to be in operation by Memorial Day weekend.

The leaky buckets and flume that carry water for the mill are being repaired with money raised by the Blue Ridge Parkway Foundation in Winston-Salem, N.C.

When in working order, the flume will fill each bucket with 12 gallons of water, which causes the mill’s grindstones to turn and grind corn into meal for demonstration purposes.

The National Park Service had initially planned to remove the wheel and take it to a preservation workshop in Blowing Rock, N.C. However, because the work only involved repairing the buckets and not reinventing the wheel, so to speak, the park service decided to complete the repairs on-site.

“We had no reason to rebuild the wheel in its entirety,” said Molling, who also said that the wheel was completely overhauled in the 1990s.

Other changes are happening at the mill and its attractions. Florida-based Cape Leisure Corp. is in its first year of a 10-year concession contract to operate the site.

The six-year-old management company previously operated the attractions at Natural Bridge, until that property was bought by Tom Clarke, head of the Virginia Conservation Legacy Fund.

The new managers are keeping many of the familiar menu staples such as buckwheat pancakes, and will be adding new items in coming weeks.

The mill in Floyd County near the Patrick County line will employ about 50 full-time and part-time employees during peak season this summer and fall, Krepps said.

Posted in State-regional on Sunday, May 18, 2014 11:52 pm. Updated: 11:59 pm.

We're always interested in hearing about news in our community. Let us know what's going on!

Metro columnist and reporter for The Times-Dispatch who's never afraid to take sides on hot-button issues in Central Virginia.

RTD political reporter and columnist, Schapiro has covered Virginia elections and the state Capitol for 30 years. He warns, however, not to read or watch his commentary on a full stomach!

To log in, enter the email and password for your Times-Dispatch All Access account.

Need more information about All Access? Get all of the details here .
