
Last Modified: Monday, May 19, 2014 at 5:26 p.m.

HOLLY HILL — Ray Farmer, 60, said he did not like what he was seeing on the Internet about the Bundy Ranch standoff. He felt he needed to speak up about it and other issues that troubled him.

News-Journal/PETER BAUER Ray Farmer stands outside his automotive shop next to his display protesting the treatment of Cliven Bundy, in Daytona Beach, on Monday afternoon, May 19, 2014.

He put up construction webbing in a kind of pen marked, “free speech area” and decorated it with American flags. On a pole above it all is an aluminum cylinder made up like a satellite marked “NSA” for National Security Agency.

He said the government’s designation of a free-speech area for people protesting the Bundy Ranch standoff particularly offended him.

“That’s what the government thinks of free speech, that it should be put in a box,” he said.

Another sign says, “Welcome to the reservation.” “Because we’re the new Indians in America with more rules and regulations affecting us every day,” he explained.

The issue that inspired the display is the protracted court battle between Nevada rancher Cliven Bundy and the U.S. Bureau of Land Management over grazing fees. The bureau says Bundy owes $1 million in fines for grazing on federal lands and began seizing his cattle, prompting a standoff last month involving militia groups.

The display has been up for about a month next to Arctic-Cold Auto Air, he said, but he put up new flags over the weekend.

His wife, Ramona, who works the front desk accompanied by a older dachshund, Phatti, said the response has been positive.

“A man came in, shook my hand across the counter, and said, you give this to your husband,” she said.

“You’d have to know him, but it’s not like Ray to put himself out like this,” she said.

Farmer said he’s been following the Bundy events mostly on the Drudge Report and X-22 Report. Other issues like treatment of returning veterans, the price of beef and fluoridation bother him, too, but the Bundy dispute had particular resonance, particularly after a dream told him he needed to make a statement.

“Not yet,” Farmer said.
