
Chino Valley resident Halen Roach helped pull a woman and her three children from their burning pickup truck on Highway 89 May 2.

Amanda Brown’s truck was completely engulfed in flames shortly after Halen Roach and others had extricated her and three children from the vehicle following a rollover crash that had trapped the family inside.

Halen Roach doesn't regret the burns on his hands. After all, he got them while saving a woman's life.

The 25-year-old RV repair technician was headed home from work with his uncle that Friday evening, driving north on Highway 89 to Paulden, when he saw a cloud of dust rising from the side of the road.

Amanda Brown had, seconds earlier, crashed after losing control of her F-150 pickup near milepost 334. The truck, with Brown and three children inside, rolled and caught fire.

"We pulled over to the side of the road, I jumped out and saw the flames coming from the bottom of the truck," Roach said. The truck had come to rest on its passenger side.

"The middle child was trying to bust out the windshield, and he finally got it loose enough to where I could get my hands around it," he said, and he pulled it out. The boy handed Roach a 16-month-old infant; Roach turned and handed the baby to someone else and continued pulling the boy and his older brother out.

Brown was hanging in the driver's seat by her seatbelt, but Roach had no way to cut it off until another person handed him a knife. She was conscious and screaming, he said, but she seemed to lose consciousness as just as he cut her loose.

"She dropped down to the passenger side, but her leg was on fire," Roach said, "so I used my hand to put her leg out as best I could."

Roach then began to pull Brown out of the truck, but "the side panel of the driver's door was melting and dripped all over my hand." With his adrenaline pumping, he didn't realize that the molten plastic was giving him second-degree burns.

"I just thought about people inside (the truck)," he said.

By the time Roach and others who had stopped to help had pulled Brown clear of the truck, he said, the whole thing was engulfed in flames.

After Chino Fire District firefighters arrived and had extinguished the burning truck, "that was when the pain set in," Roach said. "I looked at my hand and said, 'That's not good at all.'" Paramedics took him to Yavapai Regional Medical Center for treatment.

He lost a week of work, has to pay some medical bills, and was in pain for a while, but said the wounds are healing and he's avoided infection.

Brown was flown to Maricopa Medical Center in Phoenix with life-threatening injuries, Chino Valley Fire spokesman Rob Zazueta said, and the children were taken to YRMC.

A Department of Public Safety spokesman said Wednesday that Brown had survived her injuries.

Zazueta said they were all fortunate that Roach and the others stopped to help: "If the bystanders had not acted the way they did as quickly as they did, it would have been a different outcome for those individuals."

Zazueta said the CVFD was working on presenting Roach and the others who stopped to help, whom he declined to identify, with a citizenship award for their efforts.

Way to go Halen!  What a great story.

Comments are not posted immediately. Submissions must adhere to our Use of Service Terms of Use agreement. The email and phone info you provide will not be visible to the public. Excessively verbose or rambling comments may not be posted. Please keep comments succinct; 200 words or less. Also, in order for us to reasonably manage this feature we may limit your comment entries to five(5) per day.
