
Richard Stich, wildlife biologist for Plum Creek, gives SAU Director of Percussion Michael Britt a check for $2,000 from the Plum Creek Foundation to help the SAU Band purchase needed instruments. Pictured, from left, are director of Major Gifts at the SAU Foundation Josh Kee, director of SAU Bands J.P. Wilson, Stich, Britt, and director of the SAU Foundation Jeanie Bismark.

The Plum Creek Foundation recently gave the Southern Arkansas University Band reason to toot their horns with a $2,000 donation to help the program update its collection of instruments.

SAU has invested more than $2.1 million in its Department of Music through the construction of a state-of-the-art teaching facility which houses the Mulerider Marching Band, jazz band, concert band and other ensembles. As part of the update, the school is now working to purchase new musical equipment.

"The new facilities and updated equipment not only help current students, it also helps Southern Arkansas University attract and recruit incredibly talented students from across the country," said Josh Kee, director of major gifts at SAU.

"Over the past five years, the SAU Band has grown 35 percent. This has led to an increase in faculty numbers, as well as a need for new facilities and instruments. The Plum Creek Foundation grant will help us tremendously."

Currently, the plan is to use the grant money to purchase equipment for the percussion section, including snare, tenor and bass drums.

"We are more than excited to assist the Mulerider Band," said Richard Stich, wildlife biologist for Plum Creek. "Education and the arts are two of the Plum Creek Foundation's focus areas. This grant will help the university now and into the future attract the best instrumentalists to SAU."

The Plum Creek Foundation supports non-profit organizations that improve the overall quality of life in the communities where Plum Creek operates.

The SAU Foundation continues to seek funds for their campaign for the SAU Band. The overall goal of the band campaign is to fund a $200,000 endowment to provide annual income for the continual updating of instrumentation, travel opportunities for various ensembles and other needs of the Band. The campaign has currently raised more than $140,000.

1 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language. PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.

2 Don't Threaten. Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated.

3 Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.

4 Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.

5 Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.

6 Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness accounts, the history behind an article.

Welcome to the discussion.
