
A report released Monday from the Texas State Fire Marshal’s Office details the timeline from a 2013 blaze in which two Bryan firefighters lost their lives and two others were critically injured.

The fire at the Knights of Columbus Hall on Groesbeck Drive - which was ruled accidental and blamed on a short in a damaged power cord - killed Lts. Eric Wallace and Greg Pickard, while firefighters Ricky Mantey and Mitch Moran received severe burns.

Communication problems and firefighter staffing being "less than the national standard recommendations," were among the issues cited in the 45-page report which describes Pickard, Mantey and Moran as being engulfed in fire as they tried to rescue Wallace from the single-story wood building.

A more extensive evaluation of a fire in which no one is inside the building needs to be done when deciding whether firefighters go into a burning building and how long they stay, the report states.

Crews reported heavy smoke in the unoccupied structure but some didn't recognize that the fire was spreading quickly in a concealed space in the ceiling of the building that had no windows, according to the report.

A timeline, which begins at 11:19 p.m. Feb. 15, 2013 when dispatchers received the call, details communication between crews at the scene. The below is pulled from the report and starts at about 11:39 p.m.

Note: Names of most of the firefighters aren't listed in the report, except for those of Pickard (E5/RIT) and Wallace (L1).

After meeting with E2 and T1 in the bingo room, L1 and FF1 continued to advance into the room. They again saw fire above them, as well as fire rolling up a wall and over their heads. When the firefighter attacked the fire, the fire blacked out, the visibility immediately turned to zero and the conditions became extremely hot. FF1 checked the air gauges and determined that Lt. Wallace had one-quarter tank of air remaining, with FF1 showing amber, having a little more than one quarter. Lt.

Wallace told FF1 that they needed to get out. The firefighter turned on the hose line and began crawling down the line toward the door. FF1 reported that he felt Lt. Wallace behind him touching his boot or leg as they crawled on the hose line.

When hearing and confirming the distress call from L1, Command directed Dispatch to activate the emergency evacuation alert tones and announced on the radio for all units to evacuate the building.

A second alarm was requested. Dispatch misunderstood the request and instead sounded the emergency tones a second time. A second alarm fire response was delayed six minutes before the mistake was discovered in the dispatch center.

Safety reported heavy flames through the roof toward the C side. At about this same time Safety opened the C-side door and then the D-side door to look inside; in both instances he saw only heavy smoke and no fire. He left both doors open to aid ventilation and to provide a means of egress should it be needed.

When hearing and confirming the distress call from L1, Command directed Dispatch to activate the emergency evacuation alert tones and announced on the radio for all units to evacuate the building.

A second alarm was requested. Dispatch misunderstood the request and instead sounded the emergency tones a second time. A second alarm fire response was delayed six minutes before the mistake was discovered in the dispatch center.

Safety reported heavy flames through the roof toward the C side. At about this same time Safety opened the C-side door and then the D-side door to look inside; in both instances he saw only heavy smoke and no fire. He left both doors open to aid ventilation and to provide a means of egress should it be needed. BC1 stated during interviews that at about the same time that Lt. Wallace radioed his distress call, ground radio communications disintegrated significantly. BC1 stated that numerous times, while attempting to transmit on his radio, there was silence or sounds indicating no transmission. Emergency button activation was reset by dispatch several times during the incident. Command resorted to face-to-face communication until another radio channel was utilized. The situation with the radios was inconsistently reported and was not noticed by most of the personnel interviewed.

Command spoke face-to-face with Lt. Pickard (RIT) informing them that Lt. Wallace was out of air and directed them to “go get him.” The RIT crew of three immediately entered the structure.

There were no more radio transmissions by Lt. Wallace. E2 was told by Command in another face-to-face conversation that Lt. Wallace was lost and to re-enter the building and get water on the fire. When E2 re-entered, they saw no fire in the bingo room so they went back to the dance hall where they again found heavy fire. They began flowing water into this area.

After a few minutes, L2 returned to the door into the bingo room and discovered the room fully involved in fire “from ceiling to floor” and could clearly make out the three RIT team members dragging Lt. Wallace toward the door while engulfed in the flames. L2 quickly got his firefighter and the hose line from the dance hall to the bingo room doorway and began to flow water into the bingo room in an effort to cover the rescue operation. At about this same time, T1 and E4 re-entered the building.

Command asked Engine 5 (RIT) for a status report and requested an evacuation tone from dispatch. There was no response from E5.

Command ordered evacuation of the building and asked for a status report from RIT. There was no response from RIT.

T1, E2, and E4 crews removed the RIT victims to the outside where they were transported to local hospitals. The ISO returned to A side and assumed the role of EMS1 as injured firefighters were exiting the building. No subsequent ISO was appointed.

12:08 a.m.

L1 was removed from the building. Advanced life support efforts were initiated at the scene and the firefighters were transported to St. Joseph Regional Health Care Center. In spite of the life support efforts that continued at the emergency room, Lt. Wallace died from the injuries sustained in the structure fire. An autopsy conducted by the Travis County Medical Examiner’s O ffice concluded that Lt. Wallace died as a result of conflagration injuries.

More details on this story later.

Posted in News , Local on Monday, May 19, 2014 2:35 pm.

1 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language.

2 Don't Threaten or Abuse. Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated. AND PLEASE TURN OFF CAPS LOCK.

3 Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.

4 Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.

5 Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.

6 Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness accounts, the history behind an article.

Welcome to the discussion.

AggieMomma posted at 9:14 am on Tue, May 20, 2014.

So sad.  Serious accidents are usually the result of a series of lapses, not a single event.  I hope these problems will be addressed appropriately.  No one should died or suffer devastating injuries because of inadequacies such as these.

JMO posted at 5:35 pm on Mon, May 19, 2014.

The title seems deceptive. The key points of the report say that needed staff was available to the firemen via the College Station fire department but was never requested by BFD.

We're always interested in hearing about news in our community. Let us know what's going on!
