
Georgia voters will head to the polls tomorrow in an effort to conclude a GOP Senate primary one candidate described as "an absolute street brawl." But with seven contenders seeking the Republican nod, the fight is all but guaranteed to continue to a July runoff.

Peach State voters will also settle a GOP primary for the state's top office, as Gov. Nathan Deal (R) seeks re-election, as well as a handful of competitive House primary contests ( see related story ).

In the race to succeed retiring Sen. Saxby Chambliss (R), a trio of candidates lead the field -- former Dollar General CEO David Perdue, cousin of former Gov. Sonny Perdue (R); Rep. Jack Kingston; and former Georgia Secretary of State Karen Handel. Also in the race are Reps. Phil Gingrey and Paul Broun; attorney Art Gardner; and minister Derrick Grayson.

Republicans have made holding onto the Georgia Senate seat a top priority as the party looks to pick up the six additional seats it needs to claim a Senate majority next year, while Democrats believe their likely candidate -- nonprofit executive Michelle Nunn, daughter of former Georgia Sen. Sam Nunn (D) -- could flip the seat to their control.

But first, the GOP must pick a candidate. If none of the seven contenders receives more than 50 percent of the vote tomorrow, the top two vote-getters will advance to a July 22 runoff.

During a series of debates in the GOP primary, the candidates have largely echoed each other on issues like calling for the repeal of Obamacare and reform for entitlement programs. But in an influx of television ads and campaign stops, each of the seven contenders has sought to stand out from the field.

Perdue, who has a lead in recent polls on the primary, has sought to frame his candidacy as that of the political outsider. And he earned media attention for one ad in which he depicted his challengers as crying infants.

"The career politicians in this race have been in elected office for 63 years," Perdue said at a May 10 debate, according to The Atlanta Journal-Constitution. "If they were going to make a difference, wouldn't they have done it already?"

Despite having held both state and local offices, Handel has likewise sought to separate herself from the House lawmakers in the race, while also catering to conservative tea party activists with support from former GOP vice presidential nominee Sarah Palin and former Sen. Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania.

In a bid to revive her candidacy in recent weeks, she has also capitalized on remarks in which Perdue dismissed her campaign because she had not attended college.

"It is the career politicians and out-of-touch elitists who have gotten us into this mess," Handel said at an April debate, according to The Augusta Chronicle.

Kingston, an Appropriations cardinal who boasts the support of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, has sought to position himself as a safe bet for the general election, while also vowing that he could work with Democrats.

"I'm running for the Senate because the American dream is in peril," Kingston said at the April debate in Grovetown. "That's why I'm giving up what would be a safe election to enter what will be an absolute street brawl for Senate."

In the Democratic primary, Nunn must likewise win in a crowded race, but she is expected to easily trump a four-candidate field and will likely have a cash advantage heading into the general election.

Nunn reported raising $6.6 million in her bid as of late April and banking $3.7 million at that time, according to the Center for Responsive Politics.

Among the leading Republicans, Kingston retained $1.3 million in his war chest ahead of the primary, Perdue had $467,000, and Handel, who has struggled with fundraising, had $337,000.

While a contentious runoff contest could further drain Republican resources, Perdue could fall back on his personal wealth. He has already given nearly $3 million to his primary bid.

Although most of the GOP field has shown little support for legislation aimed at counteracting global warming -- Broun includes eliminating U.S. EPA as part of his platform -- Kingston sidestepped a question on whether he is a skeptic of climate science at the debate.

"If we can reduce the cost of gasoline, what a boon it would be to the economy and every Republican and conservative ought to be reminding everybody that this was the president who choked off our energy supplies. Ladies and gentlemen, let's build the Keystone pipeline," Kingston said, according to The Atlanta Journal-Constitution.

During the same debate, Perdue likewise avoided offering his opinion on climate science, endorsing the increased use of natural gas and calling for a "balance" in environmental regulations.

"Of course we don't want to pollute our streams and destroy our air, but we also have to be picky," Perdue said. "We have to have a way of life. We have to have an economy. And there's a balance. And when you politicize this the way it's been done over the last 20 years you lose that balance, and we've lost our competitive edge because of it."

Other candidates in the contest, including Handel, are unabashed skeptics of climate science.

"Having come off of two back-to-back snowstorms and frigid weather in Georgia, I'm in the camp of strongly disputing the whole global warming trend that some harp on," Handel told the website UnitedLiberty.org in a February interview.

Broun, who serves on both the Natural Resources and Science, Space, and Technology panels, rejects the idea that humans have contributed to global warming.

"There is no scientific consensus that there is such a thing as human-induced global warming," Broun said at the April debate, according to The Atlanta Journal-Constitution. "I want to get rid of the EPA because it is killing jobs and the economy."

At the same debate, Gingrey expressed doubt that carbon dioxide contributes to climate change and questioned the inclusion of methane as a greenhouse gas.

"What are we going to do, put a surgical mask on the rear end of every cow in the country?" said Gingrey, a member of the Energy and Commerce Committee.

Gardner is the only GOP candidate to endorse climate science -- stating at the Grovetown debate that "climate change is real" -- but said he questioned whether humans contribute to the change.

But Gardner dismissed Broun's call to dismantle EPA: "Getting rid of the EPA is the stupidest thing I've heard tonight."

Republicans also face a decision tomorrow in the state's gubernatorial primary, but Deal is expected to hold off challenges from Dalton Mayor David Pennington and Georgia School Superintendent John Barge.

Instead, political observers are looking ahead of November, when Deal is expected to face off with state Sen. Jason Carter, grandson of former Georgia governor and President Jimmy Carter.

Democrats believe Carter could become the first non-incumbent Democrat elected statewide in nearly two decades. Carter does not face a primary challenger.

A recent poll conducted for The Atlanta Journal-Constitution found Deal leading Carter in a head-to-head matchup by 3 points, 46 percent to 43 percent.

The May 5-8 survey of 1,012 registered voters had a 4-point margin of error.

E&E is the leading source for comprehensive, daily coverage of environmental and energy politics and policy.
