
ST. PAUL, Minn. – Summit Brewing Company today announces the availability of three of Minnesota’s most popular beers in 12 oz. aluminum cans: Extra Pale Ale, Sága IPA and Summer Ale. The cans will begin hitting shelves next week, just in time for the Memorial Day weekend.   The new canning line is housed in the expansion property that Summit purchased in 2013, which includes a 40,000 square foot building and 3.5 acres of land directly east of the brewery. The canning line is connected to the cellar in the existing brewery by an elevated pipeline capable of transferring 40 gallons of beer per minute. Manufactured in Waukesha, WI, the KHS can filler is state of the art packaging technology, filling at a rate of 400 cans a minute. The seamer, which is the device that puts the lids on the cans, is fabricated by Angelus of Cuyahoga Falls, OH.  To round out the Midwest connection, the cans are produced by Rexam in their facility across the river from downtown St. Paul.

By utilizing the latest in canning technology, Summit continues to set new standards not only for themselves, but for the craft beer industry as a whole.

“In combination with high-speed filling technology, modern aluminum cans provide for excellent barrier protection against two of the greatest threats to beer quality: light and air. With flavor and aroma playing a huge role in the enjoyment of craft beer, cans represent a superb package, providing the consumer with an additional opportunity to appreciate Summit’s approach to craft brewing,” says Summit head brewer Damian McConn.

In addition to the positive technical elements, the Midwest loves the outdoors, and cans are a perfect fit when Summit fans are participating in the outdoor activities they love.

“Expanding our beers to cans allows us to connect more with the outdoor culture of Minnesota and the upper Midwest, as well as adding a convenient alternative to glass,” says Summit founder Mark Stutrud.

Fishing boats, camping sites, softball games, pools, beaches and pontoon grill-outs across the Midwest will now be more welcoming to Minnesota’s pioneering craft beer.

The cans will reflect the new packaging art designed by Minneapolis-based Duffy & Partners that launched in January 2014 on Summit bottled beer.

Founded in St. Paul, Minn. in 1986, Summit Brewing Company has stayed close to its roots, serving the Upper Midwest and Great Lakes region. Summit’s beers are currently available in 18 states including Minnesota, Florida, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Michigan, Missouri, Nebraska, New Jersey, North Dakota, Ohio, Pennsylvania, South Dakota, Texas, Arkansas and Wisconsin. Summit now produces 14 varieties of premium craft beer, including seven year-round, five seasonal beers, and the limited release Unchained Series and Union Series. Since its inception, the brewery has been a consistent pioneer in the craft beer movement.
