
It was the second surprising determination that Chesapeake executives made this year on where the company could find its biggest future growth drivers. The first out-of-the-blue call came in February, when the Oklahoma City-based oil and gas producer told investors it would march back into the gas-rich Haynesville Shale in northwestern Louisiana, East Texas and southwestern Arkansas .

The Utica, an Ohio shale play that operators originally believed would yield large bounties of pure oil, turned out to have much bigger deposits of natural gas and natural gas liquids. Chesapeake and others “whiffed” on the Utica a few years ago, but now the company believes it’s going to be “a big growth driver,” said Jason Wangler, an analyst with Wunderlich Securities in Houston.

Chesapeake officials said Friday they believe the Utica holds more than 4 billion barrels of recoverable resources, and that the play will deliver 45-percent returns this year. After ramping up to seven to nine operated rigs, the company is aiming to boost its production in the region to almost 10 times its level two years ago. It’s a switch that could bring on a lot more natural gas production for Chesapeake.

The Marcellus Shale crosses several states in the Northeast, including Pennsylvania and New York.

Even the Utica’s skinny “oil window,” the hard-to-reach chunk that turned out to be a lot smaller than the industry had first believed, holds plenty of potential value, a Chesapeake executive said during a meeting with analysts in Oklahoma City last week.

But Chesapeake, Doyle said, has the technical expertise and an advantage on production costs that could turn the oil window into a much more viable piece of its portfolio.

Doyle said most companies spend an average $11.8 million on Utica wells. Chesapeake spends $6.7 million, and is looking at ways to cut costs further. The company also lifted its oil-well production from 500 to 1,000 barrels per day under new post-drilling completion models.

Chesapeake’s production regime in the Utica is expected to pump an average 1,360 barrels of oil equivalent per day this year, and the company is looking to boost its returns next year to 60 percent, a move that could make the Utica one of Chesapeake’s most valuable assets.

It shaved its well costs from $7.7 million in 2012 to $6 million this year, and cut down its drilling days to 18 last year – compared to the industry average of 35 in the Utica, Doyle said.

Like some parts of the Utica, the Haynesville Shale “was largely forgotten” by investors as natural gas prices sank and companies moved their rigs to oil-rich plays, said Jason Pigott, Chesapeake’s senior vice president of operations for its southern division.

But Chesapeake has ramped up to eight rigs up from two in the past four months, and higher gas prices, coupled with lower drilling costs, have driven higher returns in the region.

FuelFix.com is your daily must-read source for news and analysis on the energy business. Anchored by business reporters at the Houston Chronicle and other Hearst newspapers, FuelFix incorporates blogs by energy experts, market updates, useful data and a real-time summary of the top ideas, hottest stories and latest news.

Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
