
BANGALORE: Ashima R (name changed), a resident of Shantinagar in Central Bangalore, is fed up of polluted air she and her family have to endure through the day. All because her house is a few metres from the Shantinagar bus station which sees 3,400 bus trips every day. The scene is not very different at other bus stations.

Not only do hundreds of buses arrive and depart from the station, there are private vehicles of passengers as well which come there. On some days, nearby residents get the suffocating smell of paint and lubricants, when the depot attached to this bus station undertakes servicing work. When the problem of pollution and noise at the Shantinagar TTMC went out of control, some residents of the area lodged a complaint with the  Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB). The board, which had received complaints from residents near other bus depots, analyzed the ambient air quality at major BMTC depots.

The study found that the carbon monoxide (CO) level exceeds the permissible limit by 220%. While the national standard set for the ambient air quality is 2 mg/m3, when the measurement was done, it was found to be 8.1 mg/m3. The situation at Yeshwantpur and Basaveshwaranagar bus stations, where the study was carried out, was not very different.

Dr Pragati R, a physician, said excessive intake of CO can be dangerous as it reduces oxygen supply to body organs, especially the heart and brain. "People continuously exposed to carbon monoxide start experiencing chest pain and breathing problems," she added.

CD Kumar,  senior environmental officer, KSPCB, said they have also received complaints by residents alleging that staff at depot doing servicing work use chemicals with a bad odour. "In Yeshwantpur, people working in different floors of the TTMC, nearby shops and restaurants have complained about the deteriorating air quality," he added.

Anand CG, chief mechanical engineer, BMTC, said carbon monoxide is a problem due to petrol vehicles and one can't blame public transport buses, which run on diesel, for it. "The rise in carbon dioxide could be due to private vehicles which come to the premises. As for servicing works at the depot, we take enough precautions," he added.
