
Jose Blanco-Calzadilla, 24, of Mount Vernon took a few steps back and pulled out the handgun. He leveled the gun and fired a single bullet through the 16-year-old’s chest. Gomez fell facedown and died seconds later, the prosecutor said.

Blanco-Calzadilla pleaded guilty Monday to voluntary manslaughter in Fairfax County Circuit Court after reaching a deal with prosecutors to avoid murder and gun charges. He faces a maximum sentence of 10 years in prison when he is sentenced July 18 for killing Gomez, a Mount Vernon High School student.

The incident began during a birthday party at a Vienna area Residence Inn on Sept. 14. Former students of Mount Vernon High rented a room and invited friends to the party, but a number of uninvited guests showed up, including Blanco-Calzadilla, said Assistant Commonwealth’s Attorney John Murphy.

Sept. 15, Blanco-Calzadilla became angry because one of the partygoers had hugged a girl, Murphy said. Blanco-Calzadilla confronted him and pulled up his shirt to show the gun in his waistband.

The incident ended the party, but as people were leaving, Gomez walked up to Blanco-Calzadilla.

Gomez, who had been drinking, was upset that Blanco-Calzadilla had displayed the gun and yelled at the friend. Murphy said Gomez was essentially trying to “call the defendant’s bluff” about using the weapon.

Blanco-Calzadilla opened fire and then left the party.

Blanco-Calzadilla “just turned and walked away,” Murphy said in court.

Justin Daniel, an attorney for Blanco-Calzadilla, said in court that his client was half Gomez’s size and felt threatened by the teen. He said Gomez had to be restrained by his friends at one point.

He said Blanco-Calzadilla turned himself in the day after the shooting.

“He takes full responsibility,” Daniel said.

Gomez’s relatives declined to comment on the plea.

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
