
(Chambersburg) -- It might feel like a replay of an election in 2010, or 2012. A Republican congressman gets challenged from the right, by an opponent who labels himself as the true conservative. Instead, it’s 2014, and a similar storyline has played out in the state’s 9th congressional district.

"I'm a freedom loving conservative American," says Art Halvorson.

"I think I've been doing a good job as a conservative in Congress," answers Bill Shuster.

The TV ads are all about it too.

Republican candidate for the 9th congressional district, Art Halvorson, speaks at a town hall in Chambersburg on April 17th.

"The most authentic conservative is going to win. His votes tell who he is and I know what his votes are, and I can tell people what they are, and when I did that, that's when he realized his record was going to destroy him, so he had to destroy me."

Halvorson, a retired Coast Guard captain, is talking about the incumbent Bill Shuster. The seat has been in the Shuster family going back to the 1970’s, with Bill winning it in a special election in 2001 after his dad Bud stepped down.

"You gain a certain amount of experience. It takes some experience and it takes time to get to that position."

Shuster has certainly ascended at the Capitol, he’s now the Chairman of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee . Shuster’s been labeled as a rank and file legislator by the site GovTrack. Among Republicans in the House, he’s basically middle of the pack on sponsoring bills and ideology. Halvorson sees that as a weakness.

"If you’re hiring leaders to go to Congress, you’re not hiring a bureaucrat. You can hire institutional knowledge. There are people willing to work up there as institutional memory, corporate memory.

Halvorson pitches some dramatic changes to the federal government - no more Department of Transportation: "Just collect it here and keep it here."

No more Department of Education: "It's a state function, a local function, and parents should be in charge, not the federal government giving us things like Common Core."

He says he’ll shake things up; he wants House Speaker John Boehner, a fellow Republican, gone, and then he himself will get out quick. Halvorson pledges to serve no more than 6 years.

Bill Shuster says he would streamline the Department of Transportation, but wouldn’t get rid of it, as Halvorson proposes. He focuses his campaign on the economy, and says cutting regulation is one way to grow it.

"I wanna see pro-growth policies. Continuing to streamline and make the tax code easier, lower the tax rates."

Shuster says Halvorson shouldn’t be blaming Republicans for problems, but instead focusing his attention on Democrats. He says that’s what he’s done in his time in DC, and that’s what he’ll continue to do.

At a recent Town Hall in the basement of the Mount Pleasant United Brethern Church in Chambersburg, Halvorson rolled up his sleeves, literally, and heard from the audience. It was mostly an older crowd, and they peppered him with questions about Common Core, the Affordable Care Act, and the Constitution.

Shuster didn’t show up for this town hall because of a scheduling conflict, but he has appeared at 4 different debates with Halvorson. Here, most of the group of maybe 30 seemed to favor Halvorson. Michelle Jansen of Chambersburg says Shuster has gotten too comfortable.

"Congressman Shuster doesn’t want to put his face out there. I want to see him at a rally, be more vociferous, go against the leadership."

Shuster says he’s been fighting for the 9th district since he arrived in DC in 2001, pointing to his pro-life, pro-gun voting record.

The path past May 20th may be a bit easier for the 6 term congressman. Conservative Travis Schooley is also on the ballot, and there’s the fear from some that he will take some votes from Halvorson, giving Shuster the win.
