
Former senator Jim Webb (D-Va.) suggested in a Monday radio interview that he might run for president.

"My wife and I were just thinking about what to do next," Webb said on NPR's "The Diane Rehm Show" in response to a question about whether he would run in the future. "And I care a lot about where the country is. We'll be sorting that out."

USA Today's Susan Page, who was guest-hosting the program, responded that Webb's answer sounded as if he was interested in a possible run. Webb didn't deny that and signaled that he probably won't rush to make a decision.

"Well, if you look at how I ran for the Senate, I announced nine months to the day before the election, with no money and no campaign staff. It takes me a while to decide things. And I'm not going to say one way or the other, really."

Webb said he has no interest in being vice president, noting that the job "wouldn't be a good fit" for him.

A Vietnam War veteran and former secretary of the Navy, Webb was asked whether he thought Veterans Affairs Secretary Eric K. Shinseki ought to resign over scandals involving the VA that have received growing national attention and have brought him criticism .

"I'm not going to make a comment on that, but I think we definitely need more aggressive leadership to solve these problems," he responded.

Webb retired from the Senate after a single term in 2013.

Updated at 2:26 p.m.

Sean Sullivan has covered national politics for The Washington Post since 2012.

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
