
SWANSEA — About 20 to 30 seniors sit down to lunch each day at the Swansea Council on Aging.

On this particular day, they happily tucked into fish, buttered noodles, carrots, Italian bread and peaches.

The meals are provided at no charge by Bristol Elder Services, but the COA will soon be footing the bill for a nutrition site manager to heat and serve the meals, starting on July 1.

Swansea COA Executive Director Laurie Pimental said Bristol Elder Services will no longer fund the part-time position at a rate of $7,815 per year.

Pimental said she learned about Bristol Elders’ decision in March.

“It was unexpected,” Pimental said.

Pimental initially planned to seek additional funding at annual Town Meeting to pay for the position. When the Advisory and Finance Board said it didn’t have enough information to recommend a budget increase, Pimental withdrew the request.

She said the COA will use other funding that it receives for van drivers to pay the nutrition site manager.

Pimental said Bristol Elder Services, besides funding the position, handled staffing needs so it was able to deal with sick days and vacations.

Pimental said she’ll have to train a couple of her own staffers to properly serve the meal, with consideration for correct temperature to minimize food borne illness, for days when the nutrition site manager is out.

Each day, cooked meals are delivered to the site. The COA has the responsibility of checking for proper temperature, refrigerating the food and then heating and serving the meals at lunch time.

The town of Westport will be in the same position starting July 1.

Bristol Elder Services, a nonprofit agency established by the state’s Executive Office of Elder Affairs in the early 1970s, said it didn’t cut the nutrition site funding because of cutbacks, but rather to standardize its practices.

Bristol Elder Services distributes more than 2,000 meals each weekday to congregate meal sites and private homes, which for many seniors is their only real meal of the day.

Judy Klein, who directs the nutrition program at Bristol Elders, said there are numerous congregate meal sites in the 15 cities and towns served by the agency. In some cases, the sites — such as those in Fall River and Somerset — use their own paid workers or volunteers to serve lunch each day.

Page 2 of 2 - Klein said the program has been “inconsistent,” so Bristol Elders decided to stop funding the nutrition positions.

She said Bristol Elders will continue to provide meals, support and training at no charge.

Klein said there have been changes in food distribution in recent years that led to the decision.

A few years ago, Bristol Elders contracted with a new caterer to not only cook, but prepackage the meals.

Klein said some congregate meal sites, like Swansea, lost its responsibility for having to package meals from bulk cooked food, and for getting food ready for distribution. The Swansea COA was once used as the distribution site for Swansea, Somerset and Seekonk, Klein explained.

Meals are now delivered to Bristol Elders’ new site on Father Devalles Boulevard, where there is space for a distribution center, not only for congregate meals but for the Meals on Wheels program.

“We decided it made sense to centralize,” Klein said.

Klein said Bristol Elders nutrition program typically operates at a deficit. She said there wouldn’t really be any savings, because more funding has been pumped into other areas of the program, including in delivery and equipment.

Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.
