
The New Patriotic Party (NPP) “must win” the 2016 elections “at all cost,” Alan Kyeremanteng, the party’s twice-defeated flagbearer aspirant has said.

Touting himself as the best candidate to win power for the NPP in the next elections, Mr. Kyeremanteng told the NPP’s New York Chapter on Friday that “the thought of losing” the next Presidential election was “frightening” and “difficult to contemplate.

The former Ghana Ambsassador to the United States of America under John Kufuor’s reign as President is in the American city on what he called “a short visit”. Over the weekend, he used his visit to the US to canvass for votes among party loyalists and potential delegates in New York ahead of the NPP’s presidential primary.

Mr. Kyeremanteng lost his first NPP flagbearership race to Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo Addo in 2007. In 2010, Mr. Kyeremanteng again lost the NPP Presidential Primary to Nana Akufo Addo. Ahead of the 2016 elections the two men, including at least five other party heavyweights, have announced plans to run for the party’s Presidential ticket.

Addressing party loyalists over the weekend, Mr. Kyremanteng said party delegates must give him victory in the next Presidential Primary elections or risk losing the 2016 elections.

He went on, “Whatever it takes for us to get into power in 2016; that is what we ought to do. And I am saying at all costs because the thought of not being in power in 2016 is so frightening that it is difficult to contemplate”.

But, he said, getting back into power will “require two things”. First, “we need to fix our” party, he said. Secondly, “we need to choose a leader that will restore us to power”.

According to the former Minister of Trade and Industry under President John Kufuor’s rule, “The first is a necessary condition but is not a sufficient condition. But if we have to fix our party …we have to make sure we mobilize the grassroots to be at the center of our campaign… If you don’t have an effective grassroots machine it is very difficult to win power”.

“Secondly, we need to work as a united family,” he said. “I believe what you hear or see in print may not be as frightening as what is on the ground. I am sure most of you may not know this but I have a very good relationship with Nana Akufo Addo… [And] we still maintain that relationship and I believe we will continue to do that”.

“If we fix the party, I still believe that we need to be able to elect a candidate who the people of Ghana will vote because it is all about power; any other consideration must be secondary,” he stated.

After years in opposition, the NPP – led by John Kufour – formed a government in 2001 after winning Ghana’s national elections. In 2004, Ghanaians re-elected the NPP for another four-year term. In 2009, however, the NPP – led by Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo Addo – lost power to Professor John Atta Mills of the National Democratic Congress, Ghana’s largest opposition at the time. Again, in 2012, Akufo Addo led the NPP to another election defeat.

According to Mr. Kyeremanteng, the NPP cannot afford to lose the next national elections and that the time has come for the party to give Ghanaian voters a new Presidential Candidate instead of repeating Nana Addo as its flagbearer.

“I want to be very upfront…I think that we have our own senior brother, Nana Akufo Addo. He’s represented the party very well on two previous occasions. Unfortunately, for whatever reason, it’s not been possible for us to get into power. I think that we must explore other opportunities and that is why I will be putting myself up as a candidate when the nominations open and I am here to seek your support,” he said.

Mr. Kyeremanteng said the NPP lost the last two elections largely because of two main factors – apathetic party grassroots and swing voters who did not vote NPP.

“We have a margin of between 300[000] and 500,000 people who always decide the final vote and so I ask for your support because if indeed we can all work together to put me as the next flagbearer, I can assure you that 2016 we’ll be back in power,” he said to a rousing applause from his audience.
