
-- Attorney General J.B. Van Hollen said he wouldn't be surprised if Wisconsin's gay marriage ban is overturned in court.

"Our voters have amended our constitution to include that provision,"

Van Hollen said on the show, produced in partnership with WisPolitics.com . "It's my requirement, it's my obligation, to defend our constitution."

Van Hollen, who's not seeking re-election this fall after two terms in office, also slammed the three Democratic candidates seeking to succeed him. They've said they wouldn't defend the 2006 constitutional amendment banning same-sex marriage.

"I think that those sorts of people should never hold the office of attorney general, because it's not their policy decisions or what they think that matters," Van Hollen said. Democrats Jon Richards, Ismael Ozanne and Susan Happ are running in an August primary to advance to a general election battle with Republican Brad Schimel.

Van Hollen criticized court rulings striking down similar bans in other states, but he conceded Wisconsin's ban could meet a similar fate. He said the U.S. Supreme Court would likely address the issues in the Wisconsin cases when it takes up one of the other lawsuits nationally -- some of which are ahead of Wisconsin in the legal process.

But he also said it isn't a court's job to become a "super-Legislature" when public opinion about an issue changes.

"It's the people's job to pass a new constitutional amendment to eliminate the one that was there in the first place," Van Hollen said of changing attitudes on gay marriage.

-- Van Hollen also predicted a federal court ruling striking down the state's voter ID law would be overturned on appeal.

The state Department of Justice has appealed U.S. District Judge Lynn Adelman's ruling to the 7th Circuit Court of Appeals. Van Hollen told "UPFRONT" that Adelman was "horrifically wrong in the law," misinterpreting both the federal Voting Rights Act and Supreme Court precedent on photo ID issues.

"The Supreme Court's not going to take too kindly to being ignored, if this case ever gets that far," Van Hollen said.

Van Hollen predicted that if Adelman's order is rejected on appeal, he doesn't believe the Supreme Court would consider the issue at all -- unless the justices felt the need to address lingering issues over interpreting the Voting Rights Act.

-- Also on the program, state Reps. Dale Kooyenga and Mandela Barnes debated the effects of the recently completed legislative session's impact on the city of Milwaukee.

Kooyenga, R-Brookfield, called moves to freeze tuition, lower property taxes and make those at or below the poverty level eligible for BadgerCare shows "that the voters in Mandela Barnes' district are better off than they were before."

He said GOP policies toward the city reflect his caucus' belief that "everyone wants to give," as well as their belief in a safety net for those who are less fortunate.

"I think Wisconsin is stronger because of Milwaukee," Kooyenga said.

Barnes responded that the BadgerCare changes would cost nearly 18,000 people in Milwaukee County more than $8 million in premium costs.

The Milwaukee Dem also criticized a series of bills he said would curb voting, as well as the elimination of the city's residency requirement.

"Taking away a strong tax base that we have in the city of Milwaukee with our city employees was a devastating blow," Barnes said.

-- "UPFRONT" also featured excerpts from a series of never-before-seen interviews with the late Gov. Patrick Lucey in late 2009 and early 2010.

-- The deep political polarization in southeast Wisconsin produces high voter turnout, but Gousha said political strategists wonder how long that can last.

The views expressed are not those of this site, this station or its affiliated companies. By posting your comments you agree to accept our terms of use.

"Breaking Bad" is in blue heaven.
