
CEDAR FALLS | Plans to outfit the Cedar Falls Public Library’s glass-front atrium with an art installation are a little behind schedule, but progressing, according to library director Sheryl McGovern.

The library's board of trustees has selected three finalists from the 79 artists who submitted applications.

Those three are John Rogers of Portland, Ore., Koryn Rolstad of Seattle and Stu Schechter of Newton, Mass.

Whomever the board of trustees selects will receive $50,000 to install an original piece of art in the atrium by the estimated deadline of Dec. 31. The Friends of the Cedar Falls Public Library have pledged $10,000 for the project, and McGovern is hoping to raise the rest in grant funds.

No tax dollars will go toward the project, McGovern said, and any difference can be made up with funds available through the Cedar Falls Civic Foundation.

Rogers has been an artist and sculptor since 1979. In that time he has been commissioned for scores of large-scale public and private installations all across the country, from a 50-foot brass and steel sculpture at a middle school in Portland to a 450-foot glass and aluminum piece, Aqua Botanica, at the Miami International Airport.

Rogers works with metals, glass, ceramics, stone, cement, plastics and light to create his pieces. His studio is on the Willamette River in downtown Portland.

Rolstad is trained as both an artist and an architect. In 1994 she developed and conceptually designed the Banner Building in Seattle, which was awarded the American Institute of Architects Honor Award in 1996.

She has made several murals, interior suspended installations and exterior design projects that appear all over the country, mainly in Washington, Florida and Virginia.

“The major goal of these projects is to re-identify public areas as safe welcoming destinations with iconic appeal,” Rolstad said on her website.

Schechter has spent the last two years working as a solo artist.

The library board had originally hoped to select a local artist for the installation, but based on the submissions, it decided to go with the three finalists from outside Iowa.

“It was a difficult decision, weighing the local artist factor against nonlocal, and we discussed it at length,” McGovern said, adding that some of the local submissions were for murals.

The size and scale of the art piece will be limited only by the spatial confines of the atrium, which is approximately 20 feet in height, 30 feet wide, and 24 feet deep. Two of the walls are glass panels, while the other two are mostly solid with windows into the library.

The winning proposal will be announced in July, at which time the library board will draw up a contract with the selected artist.

Copyright 2014 Waterloo Cedar Falls Courier. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

For your lawn, garden, and snow needs, give Four Seasons a call today!

Username & Password Required!
