
Gov. Matt Mead wants it both ways when it comes to Wyoming's homosexual residents.

But he can't have it.

The governor recently reiterated his long-held position that marriage should only be between a man and a woman. But he also said gay couples who are married outside of Wyoming should have access to the state's courts.

"(W)e need to make sure in Wyoming that those married gay couples know they have access to the courts. And then when your dying spouse is on the deathbed, you have access to say goodbye. Those types of things."

While we appreciate the governor's evolving position on gay marriage - as far as we know this is the first time he publicly has recognized that gay and lesbian residents might have some sort of relationship rights - his position is flawed.

It is time that Mr. Mead consider another option.

It is a solution that takes much of the heat out of the argument.

Let the religious population - churches and related organizations - have the word "marriage." Allow them to perform all of the ceremonies that they like. But offer a legal option that would put committed homosexual couples on the same legal footing as their heterosexual counterparts.

This is an idea that has seen growing support among Wyoming Republicans as well as Democrats. Indeed, in the 2013 legislative session, the House Corporations, Elections and Political Subdivisions Committee moved a gay partnership bill to the floor for debate before it stalled there.

There are some in the gay rights community who oppose this idea, saying the only avenue to full equality is through marriage. They would rather pin their hopes on a ruling from the U.S. Supreme Court which would make that the law of the land than to see a civil unions bill passed.

Mr. Mead has a chance to show himself as a leader by staking out a civil unions position. Yes, some on the far right will cry foul. But the governor can pander to them all he wants; his chances of winning their votes are minimal anyway.

Mr. Mead has two choices here: He can stand for the rights of all Wyomingites. Or he can stop talking about being the governor of the Equality State.
