
The Downtown Market has added two veterans of the tourism industry to its board.

Downtown Market said this month that Dianna Stampfler, president of Promote Michigan, and Brian Ryks, executive director of the Gerald R. Ford International Airport, have joined its board of directors.

The Grand Rapids market now has 11 board members.

Stampfler, who was previously a member of the Downtown Market’s marketing advisory committee, launched Promote Michigan in 2004 and has established herself as a marketing representative for a variety of destination, lifestyle, culinary and agri-business brands.

Stampfler is also the executive director of the Kent County Lodging Association, serves on the Ferris State University Hospitality Advisory Board and the Pure Michigan Governor’s Conference on Tourism planning committee, is a founding member of the Michigan Culinary Tourism Alliance and a Michigan certified tourism ambassador.

She will also soon take on the role of executive director of the Michigan Distillers Guild.

Since joining Ford airport , Ryks has overseen a comprehensive upgrade of the airport’s restaurant and retail offerings, including bringing Bell’s Brewery Bar, Great Lakes Tap Room and a third restaurant, Greens, to the main terminal.

Before arriving in Grand Rapids, Ryks was the executive director of the Duluth Airport Authority, overseeing the Duluth International Airport and Sky Harbor.

Ryks has held airport leadership positions at St. Cloud Regional Airport, Aberdeen South Dakota, Stapleton and Denver International airports and Metropolitan Airports Commission in Minneapolis.

Ryks is a Federal Aviation Administration safety counselor and a certified tourism ambassador.

He also serves on the board of directors for Experience Grand Rapids.

The Downtown Market is quickly approaching the end of its first year, having opened its outdoor market last spring and its indoor market hall at the end of last summer.

The indoor hall has three remaining vendor slots available. It is also still planning to add a sit-down restaurant and microbrewery to its space.

Since 1983, the Grand Rapids Business Journal has been West Michigan's primary and most-trusted source of local business news. The weekly print edition of the Business Journal, a must-read for the area’s top decision-makers, is known as the business newspaper of metro Grand Rapids, Holland, Muskegon and all of West Michigan.

grbj.com provides the same trusted and objective business reporting that the Business Journal is known for -- plus real-time original content, timely enewsletters/alerts, exclusive blogs and more. Business Journal subscribers receive the weekly print edition, including bonus publications like the annual Book of Lists, and also complete access to all content on grbj.com.

The Grand Rapids Business Journal is published by Gemini Publications.
