
Cliff Consulting ( www.cliffconsulting.net ),  a leading San Francisco Bay Area management consulting firm, announced  April 1st that Kirsten Kuhlmann, a transformational leader  with 25 years of executive leadership and business management expertise,  has acquired ownership of the 42-year-old firm founded by UC Berkeley  Industrial Engineering and Operations Research professor Bob Cliff. Ms.  Kuhlmann, who joined Cliff Consulting in 2013 as a senior consultant,  will serve as president of the firm which specializes in helping  businesses plan and lead high-stakes projects including strategic  business initiatives, operational improvements, mergers and  integrations, and technology implementations.

“Kirsten’s collaborative, results-focused approach aligns perfectly with  the culture and values that have shaped our organization for the last 42  years. I feel confident that she will stay true to what the firm stands  for and its overarching commitment to delivering unsurpassed results,”  said Bob Cliff, now retired, founder of the company.

A graduate of Tulane University, Ms. Kuhlmann also holds an Executive  Certificate in Sustainable Management from Presidio Graduate School.  Prior to joining Cliff Consulting, Ms. Kuhlmann served in a number of  leadership and executive roles with U.S. and global companies including  Chief Operating Officer of The RealReal, the first online luxury  consignment store; Vice President & Chief of Staff to the CTO/CIO of the  Apollo Group, a $4.3 billion private higher education company;  Consultant at K2 Strategy & Operations Management Consulting; and Head  of Global Retail Operations for Puma, Germany, a $3 billion apparel and  accessories company.

Cliff Consulting works with a broad range of for-profit and non-profit  clients, from Fortune 500 to smaller companies in a variety of  industries including banking, insurance, consumer products, health care,  biotech, life sciences, high-tech, and philanthropy. Cliff’s roster of  clients reads like a who’s who of major Bay Area corporations as well as  select non-profit organizations and philanthropic foundations.

About Cliff Consulting, Inc.

Cliff Consulting, Inc. is a San Francisco Bay Area based woman-owned  management consulting firm that specializes in helping clients plan and  lead critical projects including strategic business initiatives,  operational improvements, mergers and integrations, and technology  implementations. For over 40 years, Cliff Consulting has offered highly  experienced, locally based senior consultants skilled at working closely  with internal client teams to get important projects accomplished. For  more information, please visit www.cliffconsulting.net .

About Kirsten Kuhlmann, Owner & President, Cliff Consulting, Inc.

Kirsten Kuhlmann brings 25 years of executive leadership and management  consulting to the conception and delivery of major, large-scale,  cross-functional projects and initiatives, domestically and  internationally. Particularly skilled at driving change in complex and  ambiguous environments, she combines strategic and tactical skills that  aid both the design of new approaches and their implementation. Kirsten  thrives in helping organizations land abstract ideas with clarity of  purpose and direction. Through executive partnership, strong  facilitation and strategic planning, she engages collaboratively with  internal talent, resulting in an organization that is optimized and  bench-strong.

Kirsten’s background features a wide-spectrum of experience from  multinational corporations to startups, including Technology, Finance,  Education, Non-Profit, Healthcare, Consulting, Retail, Consumer Goods,  e-Commerce, and Mobile. She joined Cliff Consulting, Inc. in 2013 and  acquired the firm in 2014, assuming the role of president and CEO.  Kirsten received her BA in International Relations from Tulane  University and an Executive Certificate in Sustainable Management from  Presidio Graduate School.
