
A woman accused of attacking two residents at the Stoneleigh Apartments in north Harris County Thursday was in court Monday.

Humera Mahmood was charged with aggravated assault with a deadly weapon. Her attorney said the 43-year-old suffered a psychiatric episode Friday when she charged two neighbors with a sword.

"It was a rhythmic whack, whack," said Karen Torres, one of the neighbors involved.

Torres said it took everything she had to keep 43-year-old Humera Mahmood out of her apartment. She said Mahmood spoke in Arabic, carried a ceremonial sword and was whacking at Torres' potted plants just outside her front door.

"I said to her: 'What are you doing?' Big mistake,"  Torres said.

She says Mahmood then started swinging the sword, tore up her door and tried to get into the apartment.

Torres told Local 2, "There was a moment I was thinking I might die if that woman gets in here with that sword."

Torres said she fought back by using her hand to push the sword away and close her door.

"I met it, pushed her out and the sword out and managed to get the door shut and throw the bolts," she said.

She said Mahmood took a small palm tree and tried to use her sword to plant the small palm under another tree across the apartment complex parking lot.

According to Torres, Mahmood then turned her attention to a woman and her child getting out of a car and heading to their apartment.

"She took some really bad injuries and slashes to the chest and stuff like that. She was really badly injured," Torres said.

She said a heroic neighbor wrestled the sword away.  Sheriff's deputies arrested Mahmood.

"She was Tasered and in handcuffs and she was still fighting," Torres said.

Torres' hand was bandaged with 11 stitches.

Mahmood faces two charges of aggravated assault.

Copyright 2014 by Click2Houston.com. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Are you ready to go back to a place where everybody knows your name? Then start by cheering for this "Cheers" slideshow.

No email address was supplied by .                                 To complete your registration on this site, please supply an address.

Please confirm or modify the email address to which you will have subscription offers sent.

For a more personalized experience, please supply the following optional information.
