
They were hoping to snag a few bass at the Skokie Lagoons but the fish just weren’t biting about 10:30 a.m. on May 12.

Still, the weather was mild to be outdoors on a Monday which called for brimmed hats, sunblock and shades. Adults with fishing poles shared the dam banks with eighth-graders who used a device to gauge lagoon cloudiness in the turbid waters at Erickson Woods.

The dam off of Willow Road was one stop for an estimated 450 Wilmette Junior High School students who participated in one of three field trips during the second week of May. The lagoons were a laboratory for a curriculum-based nature workshop made possible by a collaboration with the Winnetka-honed BackYard Nature Center.

The teens took a nature hike which included identifying animal tracks plus preferred and invasive plant species. The Skokie Lagoons acreage, like many Forest Preserve District of Cook County lands, requires constant maintenance to combat invasive buckthorn, garlic mustard and purple loosestrife (their deceptive beauty often dotting waterway banks with splashes of violet).

“What they’re doing today coincides with their classroom experience, their curriculum,” said Daniel Kielson of BackYard Nature Center.

“They’ve been spending time before they come here studying about the hydrology, about nature, ecology and after they leave here, they’ll be studying it again.

“It’s a full experience, it’s an opportunity for hands on, working in the field,” Kielson said.

The hands-on experience for Johnny Maday, 14 and Haley Hoover, 14, meant holding garlic mustard to their noses. The scent of garlic is pungent for this invasive species. Weeding garlic mustard is a field trip friendly task for middle schoolers since woody buckthorn often requires spade removal.

“It’s very easy to pull out,” said Matt Schaum-Rivera, 14, of garlic mustard.

Matt and his classmate Johnny Maday, 14, walked a path east to the dam near Willow Road. As they trekked along the bike path, watching for speeding cyclists, they filled a white plastic garbage bag with garlic mustard.

Their group was led by Jon Rennels, a Wilmette Junior High School social studies teacher and by Diane Greening of Glencoe, a trained guide.

“I hope they’re learning a lot about how invasive species impact the system,” said Greening, pleased to see the students were active pulling garlic mustard.

“We have some emerald ash borer damage,” Greening said, noting an area of Ash trees the students observed.

“I’m hoping they see what happens when you get rid of invasive things,” she said.

Rennels watched the teens dip a disc into the dam water to document turbidity, “which measures changes over time in river,” said Hans Schmit, 13.

Olivia Burnside, 14, carefully dropped the disc to avoid splashes.

“It went 102 centimeters (past the water surface),” said Olivia, who watched the disc until it disappeared.

“It tests how cloudy the water is,” said Olivia, of her hydrology lesson.

“This is great,” said Rennels, who wore dark sunglasses and was given the task of toting sack lunches in yet another large bag.

Rennels, who pointed out he is not a science teacher but a social studies instructor, was delighted to connect the lagoons with a social service public history message.

Rennels has been teaching about American government initiatives, many of them war connected (or close to that era), which benefit people today as forward-thinking public works projects of yesteryear.

The Skokie Lagoons, which covers nearly 900 acres, is one of the richest marsh areas in northeastern Illinois. Drained by settlers for agriculture, the wetlands were reintroduced in the 1930s by the Civilian Conservation Corps, which dug out the lagoon system to help address flooding with a benefit of recreational opportunities. The effort is considered as the largest CCC project in the nation.

While most of the conversation overheard among the teens was not peppered with tidbits from a history lesson, they did speak of water dynamics, flying bugs and of hopes of spotting fish.

Meanwhile, the aroma of garlic mustard was a constant in the scented field trip air.

“Garlic mustard is everywhere,” said Lauren Hoagland, 13, who noted how tenacious the plant is.

“You have to throw it away in a bag because the seeds get on the ground,” Lauren said.

As lunchtime approached, the teens kept smelling their garlic mustard hands, laughing each time they did.

“I’m going to have to wash them,” said Matt Schaum-Rivera, with a smile.

An estimated 140 Glencoe Central School seventh-graders will have similar experiences with the BackYard Nature Center at Skokie Lagoons on May 21.

May 19, 2014  3:52 p.m.
