
The founder of Wyoming's conservative political arm, Liberty Group, says the Next Generation Science Standards —adopted thus far by 11 states and the District of Columbia (which means those states acknowledge human climate impact)—are coercive.

Largely defending statewide outputs of companies such as Exxon and Chevron , Susan Gore of the Wyoming Liberty Group (and daughter Gore-Tex founder Wilbert L. Gore) believes government should have nothing to do with public education, and pro-coal-and-oil speak continues to dominate Wyoming's legislative rhetoric in response to the proposed standards. Opposition to the Next Generation Science Standards is "becoming a political litmus test" for this year's governorship, according to Richard Barrans , a science education professor at the University of Wyoming and member of the standards review board.

Wyoming became the first state to reject lessons on the human impact of global warming taught in its classrooms two months ago, despite a unanimous vote of the state's science educators in favor of adopting the standards. In March, lawmakers put an anti-Next-Gen footnote in writing, prohibiting public funds allocated toward achieving the standards. They hold that the standards are based in theory —not fact—and officially reject the Next Generation Science Standards for this perceived lack of validity.

"The majority of us will present evidence," a science facilitator for Wyoming's Goshen County school district told the New York Times. "That's what the scientific method is all about."

With respect to Gore's statement, the standards propose very little "big hand" involvement in how states reach the standards. Individual educators choose which textbooks they use (and, ultimately, how the standards are met ), but the big hand in Wyoming seems to reach for fossil fuels, not education.

GoPro, maker of the now ubiquitous action cameras, has  announced that it seeks to raise $100 million  in its initial public offering, according to documents released to the Securities and Exchange Commission on Monday.

We'll have to wait and see how GoPro's plan to go public will affect the company, which filed for the IPO at a particularly unstable time. Tech companies that have recently entered the market face a range of difficulties. King Digital, for example, is trading well below its IPO price, according to Forbes.

The final details of GoPro's IPO may change as the company files future registration documents. The camera maker will list on the Nasdaq under the symbol "GPRO."

Along with gasoline, reasonable coffee prices are one of the essential stabilizing forces in both our economy and mental well-being. That's what makes  the fungus known as coffee rust , a blight that has already caused more than $1 billion in damage and threatens to exponentially raise the price of coffee, so darn scary.

The threat has become so severe that the U.S. Agency for International Development has decided to step in, partnering with Texas A&M University's World Coffee Research Center to find an effective countermeasure. "We are concerned because we know coffee rust is already causing massive amounts of devastation," said USAID head Raj Shah. Agency estimates place the potential drop in production as high as 40 percent, with as many as 500,000 jobs lost. Production dropped 20 percent in 2013 alone.

The rust, known as roya in Spanish, primarily attacks the Arabica coffee bean through an airborne fungal spore. It can be combated with fungicides and planting methods, but Central America's smaller farms often lack the resources to implement these measures. Much of America's mass-produced coffee comes from Asia, so for now only the high-end, specialty coffee producers are being affected, but that may not be the case for long.

The goal now is to develop a variety of coffee plant that is rust resistant, but it will take some time before the collaboration between USAID and Texas A&M bears fruit. According to Leonardo Lombardini of Texas A&M's World Coffee Research, "We don't see an end in sight anytime soon."

Bear Grylls might want to rethink his beverage of choice . According to findings presented today at a prominent microbiology conference in Boston, the common myth that urine is sterile is flat-out wrong .

"Doctors have been trained to believe that urine is germ-free," says Linda Brubaker, dean of Loyola University Chicago's Stritch School of Medicine and one of the study's investigators. "These findings challenge this notion, so this research opens the door to exciting new possibilities for patient treatment."

The Loyola team wanted to understand why some women affected by overactive bladder don't respond to conventional treatments. After evaluating urine samples from 90 women using a cutting-edge DNA-based detection method, the researchers determined that women with overactive bladders have detrimental bacteria in their urine—and that everyone's pee contains some bacteria.

"While traditional urine cultures have been the gold standard to identify urine disorders in the past, they do not detect most bacteria and have limited utility as a result," Paul Schreckenberger, the head of Loyola's clinical microbiology laboratory, said of the detection technique.

These new findings are merely the latest to suggest your pee might not be as safe as you think. Earlier this year, a study found that when people pee in pools, uric acid binds with chlorine and produces harmful chemicals —even if pros like Ryan Lochte and Michael Phelps do it all the time.

So, Bear, while we can't guarantee your piss will make you sick, we can also assure you it isn't as clean as you suspect. When it comes to TV adventurers, we still cast our lot with Les .

Another competitor had his moment in the sun as well—but for the wrong reasons. Spanish cyclist Eloy Teruel found himself leading the seventh stage and began celebrating as he approached the finish line. He didn't notice the fans and announcers trying to tell him that he still had one lap left . He crossed the finish line after the actual last lap in 56th place.

As for Wiggins, he'll add this victory to a list that includes the 2012 Tour de France and the 2010 Olympics in London. Next stop: possibly the Tour de France, though it is still unclear if he plans to ride this year. Last year, a knee injury and chest infection kept him from competing in both the Tour and the Giro d'Italia.

After his win in the Tour of California, Wiggins did bring up the Tour de France , saying, "If I am fortunate enough to be in the Tour, it will be in support of Chris [Froome]. Chris wants to win his second Tour, and as the defending champion, everyone understands that, including myself."

On May 18, 1980, 11-year-old Tara Bowen woke up to ash rising over her Portland home and told her father to look out the window. Richard, a retired geologist and photographer, reached for the phone and called a local pilot to see if he could get closer.

Then he looked at Tara and asked her if she wanted to come along.

Richard and Tara would fly daringly close to Mount St. Helens that day, capturing these photos, first published last week by the Oregonian. Richard's flight log reads: "Flt around Mt St. Helens with Tara & K. Wheatley—Big one!"

Tara said she noticed both her father and the pilot were sometimes too  engrossed in their photography to fly the plane.

"My dad never put us  directly in harms way," she said. "He knew the mountain was erupting."

Simply put, it was something that happened. "Dad documented it and we  moved on."

The past was the past, Seth Walker writes, "and there was no need to promote or brag." So the photos remained in Richard's hallway closet for 34 years.

But he did capture something. Richard recognized what few outside the realm of geology do: That sometimes—seemingly without plan—the earth erupts and takes our breath away.

The situation is particularly grave in areas along the Sava River , the Danube tributary that runs through Serbia and along the border between Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. In addition to forcing tens of thousands to evacuate their homes, flooding in this area has threatened structures like the Nikola Tesla Power Plant in Obrenovac, Serbia, which is the largest in the country.

Serbia's prime minister, Aleksandar Vucic, said, "These are the kind of waters not seen in 1,000 years, let alone 100."

Zeljka Cvijanovic, prime minister of Republika Srpska (aka the autonomous Bosnian Serb Republic), was quoted as saying , "The damage is such that we cannot recall even after the 1992–1995 war."

Her reference to the Bosnian War is ominously relevant in more ways than one: There are increasing fears that some of the thousands of unexploded land mines from the conflict may have been dislodged in the landslides. Today also marks the start of the defense case of Ratko Mladic at the wars crimes tribunal in the Hague. The Bosnian Serb former army chief, ignominiously known as the Bosnian Butcher, faces 11 charges, ranging from hostage-taking to genocide, for his involvement in the war.

I want more news like this!

Sign up for Outside's daily news email and never miss another story.

Sign up!
