
Last month’s rejection of J Street by the Conference of Presidents of Major  Jewish Organizations has revealed an upsetting pattern within the Jewish  community: many of our leaders prefer to silence and exclude those they disagree  with, rather than debate them respectfully on the substantive issues.

The  Conference vote, which has been roundly condemned by wide sections of the  community, has finally ignited a much-needed conversation about who belongs in  the communal tent. But the problem goes beyond mere exclusion.

Some on  the right feel they have the right to engage in slander and intimidation against  pro-peace activists in a way that flies in the face of Jewish values and ethics.  If we are serious about promoting a healthier and more open Jewish dialogue, we  need to confront this epidemic of bullying and intimidation used to silence  critics every day, in synagogues, college campuses and online forums.

J  Street’s advocacy for US-led peace efforts even inspired an hour-long “documentary” called The J Street Challenge, funded by Charles Jacobs of the  ironically-named Americans for Peace and Tolerance. Jacobs’ film slings a host  of smears and personal attacks at J Street staff and supporters, accusing them  of being naïve, malicious and worse.

And now they’ve come after me  personally, because I had the chutzpah to write an op-ed arguing that this sort  of hate speech has no place in our communal discourse. Jacobs and I have never  met, but that didn’t stop him from publicly questioning my love for Israel in  The Jerusalem Post, or targeting me for insult on the film’s Facebook  page.

This is apparently how Jacobs operates. His film features  cherry-picked, out-of-context quotes from J Street head Jeremy Ben-Ami and  extensive interviews with J Street critics.

And yet it lacks a single  interview with Ben-Ami or his staff, or the 800 rabbis who serve on the group’s  rabbinic cabinet, or the hundreds of community and student leaders who run  chapters across the country.

He failed to consult any of the Israeli  generals or the lawmakers on the Left and Right who speak regularly at J Street  events.

Then Jacobs attacked me in the same way, twisting my words and  claiming that I have no right to call myself pro-Israel. For someone who has  spent a lifetime caring about Israel and working to strengthen the US-Israel  relationship in Federations, AIPAC, CLAL and other groups, I found this  gratuitous smear to be unfair and deeply insulting.

But even more  disturbing and telling were the comments on The J Street Challenge Facebook page – built and run by Jacobs and Americans for Peace and Tolerance. It featured  numerous profane and hateful slurs about J Street and me personally, including a  personal threat against me. A friend who tried to post a comment supportive of  me said his comment was posted for 30 minutes but then taken down. Only the  obscenities and slander remained.

Is that how peace and tolerance works  in Jacobs’ version of the Jewish community? This is not just about me.  Progressive, propeace American Jews are being demonized in the Israeli or  American Jewish press every day for their belief that Israel’s survival as a  Jewish democracy depends on peace with the Palestinians.

And yet,  according to polls, three-quarters of American Jews support a two-state solution  and US efforts to achieve it.

They are our friends and neighbors. Many  are young people looking for a place to form a meaningful relationship with  Israel. They deserve a seat at the table with everyone else, without having  their loyalty questioned.

Fortunately, we may finally be seeing a tipping  point in the community, though not the one that Jacobs and his supporters had  anticipated.

The leaders of the Reform, Conservative and  Reconstructionist movements have all come out strongly against the Conference’s  rejection of J Street, as has the Anti-Defamation League and a broad range of  other groups. The issue touched a nerve in the national media, and among Jews  who had never even heard of the Conference until this vote. They may not agree  with every J Street position, but they believe that we all have a right to be  heard.

And I hope they also share my belief that pluralistic  community-building organizations such as Federations, JCCs and Hillels undercut  their own stated missions when they sponsor events attacking fellow community  members. I am not suggesting censorship. Just better judgment and better choices  regarding the endorsement of programs designed to delegitimize other  Jews.

I hope that Jacobs understands that no one is trying to silence  him. As an American and as a member of the Jewish community, he has a  right to air his grievances about J Street and the ideas it supports.

He  should just keep it honest and above the belt. If he doesn’t support a two-state  solution as being in Israel’s best interest, let’s hear his  alternative.

This issue is much bigger than J Street. There are serious  challenges facing our community – let’s address them together in a positive way  and not waste time attacking each other.

The author has held leadership  positions for Jewish Federations, Israel Bonds, AIPAC, Jewish Day  Schools,Hillel, CLAL, and J Street. He is a graduate of the Wexner Heritage  program and has lectured on Jewish business ethics in the U.S. and Israel.

Your comment must be approved by a moderator before being published on JPost.com. Disqus users can post comments automatically.

Comments must adhere to our Talkback policy . If you believe that a comment has breached the Talkback policy, please press the flag icon to bring it to the attention of our moderation team.
