
BURLINGTON, Vt., May 19, 2014 /PRNewswire/ FairPoint Communications and the Vermont Center for Emerging Technologies (VCET) today announced the creation of a new collaborative called VCET @ BTV, a co-working space coupled with business mentoring and networking opportunities for promising startup companies in the FairPoint Technology Hub in downtown Burlington.

Flanked by Senator Patrick Leahy , Governor Peter Shumlin, Congressman Peter Welch, UVM Provost David Rosowsky and Burlington Mayor Miro Weinberger at Burlington's City Hall, FairPoint and VCET officials said they expect the new facility to be a vibrant, visible and high impact space for 21 st Century employers and more good jobs.

"I want to thank FairPoint and VCET for locating in downtown Burlington," Mayor Miro Weinberger said. "This facility, coupled with the Generator maker space housed at Memorial Auditorium, truly transforms that downtown Burlington block into a technology hub for the City and is a great boost to the City's BTV Ignite economic development initiative. With the support of leaders like Senator Leahy, Governor Shumlin, Congressman Welch, and the University of Vermont, I know this will be a success for the entrepreneurs of our City and serve as a catalyst for the creation of more next generation jobs. We look forward to the innovation and economic growth it generates."

Frank Cioffi, VCET Chair, said the organization has nearly a decade of experience helping leading-edge startups accelerate job creation with capital investment and its network of successful mentors who can guide new entrepreneurs.In 2013, VCET was named the #11 incubation program in the world and #5 in the United States.

"We're immensely grateful to FairPoint for providing this space and the technological infrastructure to support the creation of more great innovators in Vermont," Cioffi said. "It's more than shared office space, it is a network of inspired innovators and remote working professionals who will contribute time and talent to startups with the potential to create more good jobs and grow our economy. Collaborations between technology leaders like FairPoint and innovators like VCET will undoubtedly lead to successful results for new entrepreneurs."

Cioffi noted that demand is strong for this low cost, flexible new innovation space, and ultimately the VCET @ BTV space can handle up to 100 members.

FairPoint Vermont President Beth Fastiggi called it a one stop shop for startup entrepreneurs.

"Our goal in providing the space and supporting infrastructure was to create an environment where ideas will be shared, problems solved and new businesses created," she said. "We believe that connected communities are better communities and there's no better way to cultivate the next generation of technology-driven jobs than by connecting startup entrepreneurs under one roof with all of the resources they need to succeed in the global marketplace."

Senator Patrick Leahy , the leading proponent of VCET, said the new space would help VCET expand its ability to support job creation for generations of Vermonters.
