
That's a 16 percent increase from 2012.

But many women are not willing to shell out the roughly $5,000 it costs for the procedure, and some are doing it the cheap way-illegally.

Experts say celebrities like Jennifer Lopez, Kim Kardashian and Beyonce, are making women covet the curvy shape.

In Metairie, plastic surgeon Dr. Trey Sands has seen a spike in the number of women who want to be more plump in the rump.

"We've definitely seen an upswing in patients scheduling for that type of consultation.  In the last months we have seen seven to 10 patients that have called for consultations," said Sands.

Thirty-one-year-old Tiffany Barbarin is well-aware of the popular trend.  She now flaunts her voluptuous behind, but  she wasn't always proud of her bottom.  She has a slender frame and was always pretty flat.

"I was insecure and I had children and I wasn't happy," said Barbarin.

Until one day, her friend introduced her to a transgender woman offering butt injections in Baton Rouge. Though it was risky, she arranged to meet up at a four star-hotel.  She wanted to make sure the person knew what they were doing so started asking a lot of questions.

"I'm looking like, how many times have you done this, can I see your butt?  Because he also had it and I was like wow it looks real, can I touch it? I want to make sure," said Barbarin.

The needles looked sterile and at least it wasn't a shoddy motel so Barbarin let her guard down, set better judgment aside and agreed to let the unlicensed person poke her 20 times and inject hydrogel into her bottom.

Hydrogel is not FDA approved for backside enhancement in the U.S., but Barbarin was desperate for a change, so she held her breath, and watched as the needles went in, and gasped as her derierre inflated right before her eyes.

"Instantly it was like, I watched, I looked back and I was like, I can't believe this and when I got up, I felt like I had two heavy super sized water balloons, and I was like OMG I didn't have anything, this is really me? It almost felt honestly like an IV going in my butt," said Barbarin.

There wasn't much pain, just significant discomfort.  She couldn't sit for a few weeks, and admits it was dangerous possibly even a risk to her life.

"I could have died in a hotel you know who's to say," she said.

Exact numbers are hard to come by,  because the black market work is done in secret, but deaths have been  reported in several states.  Additional horror stories detail how women have lost limbs, kidney function, or suffered other serious complications.

"OK these people are getting high grade-silicone, they're getting fix a flat," said Barbarin.

In New Orleans, police have arrested Armani Davenport on a charge of negligent homicide.  Investigators say she administered silicone injections to a transgender woman, who slipped into a coma for two months and died.

"For a minute I was paranoid and I was like,'OK, these people are dying, the person I went to last time I heard was, they were in jail,'" said Barbarin.

It's been three years, and barbarin has experienced no side effects, however doctors say it's still too early-symptoms may not appear for several years.

"You never know you may be getting jello injected," said Barbarin.

Sands  has already treated a handful of patients who had problems from botched injections.

Barbarin knows she's lucky and wants to spare other women from the risks -- and the worries -- that can stem from chasing the perfect form.

"I don't care what size you are, you're beautiful leave yourself how you are, there's always push up bras, they have those clothing where they lift your butt for you now.  At the end of the day I tell all women be comfortable with who you are because that's how you were born, be as comfortable with who you are," said Barbarin.

Barbarin paid $750 for her injections.

At the hospital, the procedure would be about $5,000, which is why it's so enticing to get it done illegally.

The most common procedure in the medical world is fat grafting.

The views expressed are not those of this site, this station or its affiliated companies. By posting your comments you agree to accept our terms of use.

"Breaking Bad" is in blue heaven.

© 2014, New Orleans Hearst Television Inc. on behalf of WDSU-TV.
