
Welcome Back!

Thanks for being a frequent visitor to beatricedailysun.com . You have now viewed of your FREE premium pages this 30-day period. After you have viewed FREE pages, we will ask you to purchase a subscription.

Democratic gubernatorial candidate Chuck Hassebrook is visiting Beatrice and other communities in Southeast Nebraska as he campaigns for the Nov. 4 general election.

Hassebrook is the lone candidate for governor from the Democratic party and will face off against Pete Ricketts, who won the nomination in last week’s Republican primary election.

While focus has been on the primary election, Hassebrook said he’s been building a solid campaign and has high hopes for the fall election season.

Hassebrook said rural development in Nebraska is a top priority of his. One day after the primary election, he released a statement concerning his plan to boost economic development in the state.

In addition to utilizing incentives to entice small businesses, Hassebrook said education reform to properly utilize the workforce is another key aspect of enhancing business development across Nebraska.

Hassebrook spent 36 years with the Center for Rural Affairs, including 18 as the executive director. During his time at the Center, they have provided loans, training, and business-planning assistance to over 10,000 small businesses in rural Nebraska.

He also served 18 years as a Regent for the University of Nebraska, including two terms as Chair. Hassebrook currently serves on the Board of the USDA North Central Region Rural Development Center, and has previously served on the Nebraska Rural Development Commission, USDA Commission on Small Farms, and the Board of Bread for the World, a Christian ecumenical anti-hunger organization based in Washington.

Hassebrook said promoting the renewable energy industries in Nebraska is a priority, particularly ethanol and wind.

“In ethanol, we’re the nation’s second-leading ethanol producer, but we’re behind most of our neighbors in support of Nebraska use of Nebraska ethanol. We haven’t even put our state vehicle fleet on E-15. As governor, I’ll put the state vehicle fleet on E-15, but beyond that, work with our corn board, our ethanol industry to really beef up the number of blended pumps in Nebraska.

Copyright 2014 Beatrice Daily Sun. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Be notified every day when there is a new deal.

I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site consitutes agreement to it's user agreement & privacy policy.

Hint: Enter a keyword that you are looking for like tires, pizza or doctors or browse the full business directory .

Stop in today!

Login here with a previously connected Facebook account.

Username & Password Required!
