
The nine Republican candidates for state school superintendent all showed up last night for an hour-long debate sponsored by the Atlanta Press Club on Georgia Public Broadcast.

My AJC colleague Greg Bluestein was among the three journalists questioning the GOP candidates. I served on the panel that questioned the six Democratic candidates in the live broadcast last night.

The Republican candidates include more non educators than the Democrats. Among them are Nancy Jester, former DeKalb County school board member, Ashley Bell, a former Hall County commissioner, and Fitz Johnson, a successful business owner and a 21-year retired veteran of the U.S. Army and U.S. Army Reserve.

The candidates fell back on broad bromides on "proven leadership" and a "passion  for kids." Few policy changes were offered beyond killing Common Core State Standards and then there were few articulated responses on what Georgia would do if it abandoned the standards.

I was surprised at the lack of detail about major education issues and, in a few instances; the misinformation from candidates, especially given the election is Tuesday. I figured they would know their stuff by now.

Bell gave a confusing response to Common Core questions in which he cited all the strings that come with "accepting federal grants." He also blamed Common Core for the math challenges in Georgia. I talked with him after the debate about his responses, which seemed to meld Common Core with Georgia's Race to the Top grant. I was still puzzled over what he was saying.

One of the most telling parts of the debate was Round 2 when candidates could ask one another questions. This is usually seen as a gauge of the front runner. Most of questions went to Mike Buck, chief of staff to current State School Superintendent John Barge.

It was odd Buck kept getting questions because he answered the first one so well. Usually, the goal of the candidate asking the question is to damage the respondent's credibility, but the questions only gave Buck a chance to shine.

Buck and two other Republican candidates employed a unique strategy in their questions; they endorsed one another at least once in the responses. The tag team of Buck, Roswell teacher Kira Willis and Quitman County Superintendent Allen Fort emphasized they were current educators and any of them would be a good choice for voters.

Jester and Mary Kay Bacallao, a college professor and Fayette County School Board candidate in 2010 and 2012, proclaimed in several answers they would stop Common Core. I wonder about this strategy.

When you look at national polling data and state surveys of teachers in Georgia, there's strong support for Common Core. In a debate setting, viewers look for breadth. Participants who come across as single-issue candidates may appeal to voters who share that single concern but risk alienating other voters.

Fitz Johnson, a defense contractor, retired Army officer, business owner and community activist: “I have been very clear during my entire campaign; I am for rigorous standards for our students. Let’s take what is right and move forward."

Dawes called for a teacher evaluation system that's tough on teachers because teachers will then "rise to the challenge." In a question related to increasing parent accountability, Dawes said, "It's not parents who need to be made accountable."  School officials and teachers need to be held accountable, she said.

Woods called the CRCT an “autopsy report,” and urged the use of tests that are more helpful in moving students forward such as the Iowa Tests of Basic Skills. He said Georgia could use the National Assessment of Educational Progress as a baseline.

Willis said Georgia ought to align its grading scale to other states, such as Iowa where a 60 is the threshold for passing. In Georgia, a 70 is passing. “We are not at the bottom if would align our grading practices with other states in the union,” she said.

On his lack of an education background, Johnson said, "What you need is leadership. You need to understand leadership is transferable"

Fort said the state school chief in Georgia ought to be an appointed position rather than an elected one. "I should be the last elected state school superintendent here," he said.

Bell cited his cost-cutting record as a county commissioner in Hall. "I have taken a nine-figure budget and made it an eight-figure budget," he said.

Send Maureen Downey an email .

Learn how to volunteer in Atlanta and north Georgia, browse volunteer events and search local groups who need volunteers in the arts, community, food programs, housing, animal rescue and more.

Thank you for registering!

We have sent you a confirmation email. Please check your email and click on the link to activate your account.

Thank you for registering!

We look forward to seeing you frequently. Visit us and sign in to update your profile, receive the latest news and keep up to date with mobile alerts.

Don't worry, it happens. We'll send you a link to create a new password.

We have sent you an email with a link to change your password.

We've sent an email with instructions to create a new password. Your existing password has not been changed.

To sign in you must verify your email address. Fill out the form below and we'll send you an email to verify.

Check your email for a link to verify your email address.
