
The black-and-white South Carolina dog, fittingly named Piper, had his head trapped in the pipe before being freed Monday. The pesky pooch eluded Oconee County animal officials who struggled for days to catch him.

Oconee County Animal Control Piper, the dog seen with his head trapped in a pipe early last week, his finally been freed from the tube, Oconee County Animal Control said Monday.

This dog's head is finally in the right place.

A stray dog spotted roaming the woods of South Carolina with a metal pipe stuck on his head has finally been freed.

The black-and-white pup, fittingly now named Piper, had spent up to a week with his head trapped in the pipe before it fell off on Monday,  Fox Carolina reported.

A photo taken by a local Oconee County resident showed the dog standing in a street with the pipe over his head, his muzzle sticking out just far enough so he could eat and drink.

Fox Carolina The poor pooch wore the a pipe for at least a week before it fell off on Monday.

Exhausted animal officials struggled since early last week to catch the dog and render aid to the elusive pooch.

Workers with traps and tranquilizer guns went to work stalking the dog, but Piper outsmarted them every time, according to Oconee County Animal Control.

"We're doing the best we can. It's getting kind of aggravating because the dog is very timid and scared of people but we're doing the best we can," Senior Animal Control Officer Ryan Overton told the Daily News on Friday.

Kelley Blair/UARFSC via Facebook The pipe, believed to be metal ductwork, gave the dog just enough snout room to eat and drink while he lived on the run.

Oconee County Animal Control said the pipe, which appeared to be a piece of ductwork, fell off of the dog on Monday, when they were finally able to catch the pup.

Piper will be taken to a veterinarian to be evaluated Tuesday, but he appears to be healthy, animal control said.

The dog will be released to Charles Williams, the owner of the property where Piper was first spotted, after he’s neutered, WYFF reported.

Piper has been friendly with Williams for about a year. He’ll live out the rest of his years — hopefully pipe-free — on William’s property.

© Copyright 2014 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.
