
You may not get the full experience here on National Journal.

Even as he is expected to coast past the primary on Tuesday, he no longer defines Republicanism in Kentucky.

The shift has been, literally, broadcast for all to see in the last week. As the primary date has approached, one of McConnell’s closing television ads featured a testimonial from the state’s junior senator, Rand Paul.

The ad is all the more notable given that only four years ago it was McConnell in the starring and endorsing role in the final ad of the Senate GOP primary. “I need Trey Grayson in Washington,” McConnell said of the candidate he picked to run against Paul. The voters disagreed. Paul trounced Grayson by 23 points. The political winds have been shifting ever since.

The current passing of the torch is occurring even as McConnell remains one of the most powerful Republicans in Washington, a man with a serious shot to become Senate majority leader next year. Yet Paul, the feisty first-term senator with a libertarian streak and his eyes on the White House, has eclipsed him as the preeminent and most popular GOP pol in the Bluegrass State.

The Paul ad tells only part of the story. Ever since Paul's upstart win in 2010, McCon­nell has courted him and his tea-party base. As he plotted his own reelection this year, McConnell tapped his junior's 2010 campaign manager, Jesse Benton, as his own. When an audio recording later leaked of Benton saying he was "sort of holding my nose" to do the job, because it would "be a big benefit to Rand in '16," McConnell grinned and had to bear it. Benton kept his job. And they posed together for a picture on Facebook as Benton held his nose.

Concise coverage of everything I wish I had hours to read about."

People close to McConnell say he is singularly focused on winning; embracing Paul simply smoothed the path to primary victory, whatever hit his reputation took. “His ego never gets in his way of doing what he needs to do in a campaign,” said Ted Jackson, a veteran GOP strategist in Kentucky.

There is a reason the Kentucky GOP headquarters is named after McConnell. He, as much as any individual, is responsible for the conversion of Kentucky from a solidly Democratic state to a deep-red Republican one, at least at the federal level. Democrats used to dominate the congressional delegation; now they are relegated to a single House seat. Republicans took over the state Senate a decade ago, under McConnell’s watch, and hope to add the state House this year.

“He’s certainly been the architect of the modern Republican Party in Kentucky, without question,” said Steve Robertson, the party chairman since 2007.

The state GOP has grown faster than ever during the Obama administration, adding tens of thousands of new voters to its rolls. The party has taken a notable rightward turn. Kentucky Republicans have sent not only Paul to Washington but also recently Rep. Thomas Massie, one of most libertarian members of the House.

The baton has not been fully passed, in part because Paul doesn’t seem interested, Kentucky GOP strategists and officials said. Instead, he appears more focused on Des Moines, say, than Frankfort.

Of course, Paul now has added incentive to reengage at the state level. He wants the Legislature to pass a bill that would allow him to simultaneously run for the White House and the Senate in 2016. The problem: Democrats still control the state’s lower chamber. Republicans hope to change that come November.

In the coming weeks, McConnell will have to lean on Paul to reunite the party and bring those disaffected Republicans back into the fold. It is the same role McConnell played four years ago, when he organized a unity rally after Paul’s primary win left the party divided.

It is, in other words, exactly the kind of job that falls to a party’s leader.

This article appears in the May 20, 2014 edition of NJ Daily as Mitch McConnell Is No Longer the King of Kentucky.

Concise coverage of everything I wish I had hours to read about."
