
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

WALKER, MI -- Police are still awaiting a dental records comparison to confirm whether a body found Friday at a construction site is that of Yolanda Reyes, the Grand Rapids mother who went missing more than three weeks ago.

And though the woman's death is listed as a homicide , Walker Deputy Police Chief Greg Long said the classification is based on circumstantial evidence - that the body believed to belong to Reyes was found in a semi-desolate area. The site is a mile from her work, Neal Mast and Son Greenhouses, where the 40-year-old mother of four was reported missing April 24 .

"We still don’t have an absolutely determined cause of death," Long said, adding that police are hoping for more forensic evidence.

Excavators found the body of a woman Friday morning in the area of Three Mile Road and Bristol Avenue NW, in the development near Bristol Ridge subdivision. Characteristics match descriptions of Reyes, and clothing found with the body generically matches what she was believed to have been wearing when she went missing.

The discovery led police to re-interview relatives, friends and co-workers to assure information obtained when Reyes went missing is still accurate.

Residents in the area where the body was found haven't provided any substantial information. No one has been arrested in connection with the homicide, Long said.

"We have some names we're getting through tips that we're chasing, but you can't even consider them suspects at this point," he said.

Police have forwarded Reyes' dental records to the medical examiner's office but don't have a specific timeline for when they'll receive results.

Family friend Xeomara Montenegro said family had hoped for an answer early Monday on whether the woman found is indeed Reyes. Loved ones have grown frustrated and desperate for answers.

"The whole family was together all day just waiting, waiting for the phone call or the visit and none of them happened," Montenegro said.

Reyes' husband told police he dropped her off at Neal Mast and Son Greenhouses about 5:30 a.m. for her shift April 24. She didn't punch in for work that morning and co-workers didn't see her, Long said. There is no surveillance video of the business.

Montenegro said relatives traveled from Georgia and Florida to join the Reyes family during a prayer service over the weekend.

"It was kind of like a funeral of them to show support for the family - just to be there and pay condolences," she said.

Anyone with information is asked to call the Walker Police Department at 616-453-5441 or Silent Observer at 616-774-2345.

© 2014 MLive Media Group All rights reserved ( About Us ).

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
