
Subscribe today!  You can choose from several options, from print delivery to online only.

In 2007, Congress passed the Energy Independence and Security Act, which created the Renewable Fuel Standard. Essentially, what that did was to mandate that, by 2009, all gasoline in the U.S. contain 10 percent renewable fuels.

The most common of these blended biofuels is ethanol. Essentially grain alcohol, ethanol as been mass produced mostly using corn, which corn farmers think is a great idea since it provides a sure market for their crop; others view it as problematic. One frequent complaint is that with so many people going hungry in the world, we ought not to be putting a valuable food crop into car fuel tanks.

An online service is needed to view this article in its entirety. You need an online service to view this article in its entirety.

Thank you for reading 10 free articles on our site. You can come back at the end of your 30-day period for another 10 free articles, or you can purchase a subscription and continue to enjoy valuable local news and information. If you need help, please contact our office at 603-352-1234. You need an online service to view this article in its entirety.

Posted in Editorial on Monday, May 19, 2014 12:00 pm.

(%remaining%) Remaining You're entitled to view 10 free articles every 30 days. If you enjoy our site and want full access, we'll ask you to purchase an affordable subscription.

(%remaining%) Remaining Thanks for visiting Sentinel Source. You're entitled to view 10 free articles every 30 days, and you currently have (%remaining%) remaining. Then, if you enjoy our site and want full access, we'll ask you to purchase an affordable subscription.

(%remaining%) Remaining Thank you for reading Sentinel Source. You're entitled to view 10 articles for free every 30 days, and you currently have (%remaining%) remaining. Then, if you enjoy our site and want full access, we'll ask you to purchase an affordable subscription.

(%remaining%) Remaining You currently have (%remaining%) remaining, If you’ve enjoyed our site and want full access, please visit www.sentinelsource.com/site/forms/subscription_services/  to purchase an affordable subscription.

(%remaining%) Remaining Thank you for reading Sentinel Source. Because you have already viewed this article, you may view it again as many times as you would like without subtracting from your remaining free article views.

(%remaining%) Remaining Thank you for registering on SentinelSource.com. You're entitled to view 10 articles for free every 30 days, and you currently have (%remaining%) remaining. Then, if you enjoy our site and want full access, we'll ask you to purchase an affordable subscription.

(%remaining%) Remaining Thank you for reading SentinelSource.com. You're entitled to view 10 articles for free every 30 days, and you currently have (%remaining%) remaining. Then, if you enjoy our site and want full access, we'll ask you to purchase an affordable subscription.

(%remaining%) Remaining Thank you for reading SentinelSource.com. You're entitled to view 10 articles for free every 30 days, and you currently have (%remaining%) remaining. Then, if you enjoy our site and want full access, we'll ask you to purchase an affordable subscription.

(%remaining%) Remaining Thank you for reading SentinelSource.com. You're entitled to view 10 articles for free every 30 days. This is your last free article this period. On your next article we'll ask you to purchase an affordable subscription.

(%remaining%) Remaining Thank you for reading 10 free articles on our site. You can come back at the end of your 30-day period for another 10 free articles, or you can purchase a subscription and continue to enjoy valuable local news and information. If you need help, please contact our office at 603-352-1234.

(%remaining%) Remaining Welcome to SentinelSource.com We hope you enjoy this story that was shared with you.

(%remaining%) Remaining Welcome to SentinelSource.com We hope you enjoy this story that was shared with you.

Welcome to the site! Login or Signup below.
