
By sampling the current 4,800 times per second with built-in sensors, the Raritan switch transfers the load within four to eight milliseconds.  To deliver fast performance and reliability, Raritan's patent-pending hybrid design uses the best of both electromechanical relay and silicon-controlled rectifier (SCR) technologies.

"Every millisecond counts when there is a power failure," says Greg More, Senior Product Marketing Manager at Raritan.  "Our new hybrid rack transfer switch is one of the fastest in the industry -- twice as fast as standard automatic transfer switches, which take from 10 to 16 milliseconds to transfer loads."

The new Raritan Transfer Switch also provides remote monitoring and PDU unit-level metering to support capacity planning decisions and to utilize power resources efficiently.   Real-time power information gathered by the switch can be easily shared with Raritan's DCIM software solution for monitoring and managing the health of the rack and the data center.

Available worldwide, the Raritan Transfer Switch PX3TS comes with a number of options and a range of voltage and plug types.  The PX3TS switch comes with an intelligent network-ready controller with display, and with two USB-A and one USB-B ports to support Wi-Fi networking, webcams and cascading to share IP drops.  The switch's sensor ports support optional Raritan plug-and-play sensors for monitoring environmental conditions in the racks.

Raritan is an active member of the Green Grid, Climate Savers Computing Initiative, and the Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design associations.  The EPA has recognized Raritan for its contribution to the agency's data center initiative.  A number of top industry analyst firms also have recognized the company:  Raritan was named a "Cool DCIM Vendor" by Gartner; a "Major DCIM player worldwide" by IDC; a "Strong Value DCIM Vendor" by EMA; and, "Key DCIM player" by TechNavio.

All marks are the property of their respective owners.
