
Levine, a wealthy attorney and talk show host who dubs himself “the aggressive progressive,” mentions his former boss, Rep. Barney Frank (D-Mass.) and his hero, Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.), in the television ad . He is hoping to raise his profile and offer voters an alternative to front-runner Don Beyer, the only one of the seven primary candidates to have bought a significant amount of air time so far.

Beyer, who owns a chain of auto-dealerships, also gets airtime from public radio sponsorship messages purchased by his business. But local public radio station WAMU-FM suspended those ads Monday while its lawyers investigate whether they “promote, support, attack or oppose” other candidates, which would be prohibited by Federal Election Commission rules .

Patrick Hope, another candidate in the race, called for other stations to pull the dealership’s ads as well, because they mention Beyer by name.

But Beyer said the dealership has run similar ads during his three prior statewide elections without any problem. Those races were not subject to FEC rules.

Levine, who has loaned his campaign $250,000 of the $323,000 in campaign funds he has reported to the FEC, will also buy radio and cable ads, he said. The other Democratic candidates — Hope, Adam Ebbin, Lavern Chatman, Bill Euille and Derek Hyra — mostly have used their campaign funds for direct-mail and campaign yard signs. Euille bought some cable television ads in April.

The primary election is June 10. Virginia’s 8th congressional district covers Falls Church, Alexandria, Arlington County and part of Fairfax County.

Patricia Sullivan seeks out news about Alexandria and Arlington County for the Washington Post.

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
