
The unprecedented case, which has erupted in the form of a Justice Department indictment unsealed in a US District Court, opens a new front in the diplomatic and economic fracas between Washington and Beijing, who yet happen to be the world largest trading partners.

WASHINGTON: The United States on Monday charged five serving Chinese military officials with stealing American technology and trade secrets in sectors such as nuclear power and solar energy through cyber-espionage and hacking. The unprecedented case, which has erupted in the form of a Justice Department indictment unsealed in a US District Court, opens a new front in the diplomatic and economic fracas between Washington and Beijing, who yet happen to be the world largest trading partners.

In releasing the indictment, US Attorney General Eric Holder and other law enforcement officials said they were putting a human face on the impact of Chinese cybercrimes and computer hacking. "For the first time, we are exposing the faces and names behind the keyboards in Shanghai used to steal from American businesses. This indictment describes, with particularity, specific actions on specific days by specific actors to use their computers to steal information from across our economy. It describes how they targeted information in industries ranging from nuclear, to steel, to renewable energy," Assistant Attorney General for National Security John Carlin said while announcing charges against the so-called unit 61398 of the Chinese military.

The Justice Department identified the officers of Unit 61398 as Wang Dong, Sun Kailiang, Wen Xinyu, Huang Zhenyu and Gu Chunhui. "In the past, when we brought concerns such as these to Chinese government officials, they responded by publicly challenging us to provide hard evidence of their hacking that could stand up in court. Well today, we are," Carlin said.

The indictment says the Chinese officials conspired to steal trade secrets and other information from US companies such as Westinghouse Electric Co., United States Steel (X) Corp. and Alcoa Inc, located mostly in the America's industrial heartland around Pittsburgh. In language that the Chinese would doubtless find insulting, US officials said "while the men and women of our American businesses spent their business days innovating, creating, and developing strategies to compete in the global marketplace -- these members of unit 61398 spent their business days in Shanghai stealing the fruits of our labor."

Citing specific cases, US officials referred to an instance involving the American solar company SolarWorld, which it said lost market share to Chinese competitors that were pricing exports well below costs, because they were helped by Chinese hackers who stole cost, pricing, and strategy information from SolarWorld's computers. And while Westinghouse was negotiating with a Chinese state-owned enterprise over the construction of nuclear power plants, US officials said the hackers stole trade secret designs for components of those plants.

"This is not conduct that most responsible nations within the global economic community would tolerate," AAG Carlin said in a blunt indictment of Beijing, which promptly rejected the charges as "baseless" and "ridiculous." China has previously pointed to reports of NSA snooping to charge that it is a victim of American hacking and espionage.
