
Share This Story!

Marco began doing business in Fargo in 2002.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Jonathan Warrey stands outside the new Marco office   May 8  in south Fargo,  N.D.

FARGO, N.D. – Marco, a provider of voice, data, video and print services, has moved into a new 10,000-square-foot facility in Fargo.

Fargo is a regional hub for the company with 35 offices across North Dakota, South Dakota, Minnesota, Wisconsin and Iowa.

Marco was formed in 1973 when former IBM salesmen Gary Marsden and Dave Marquardt purchased a typewriter business  in St. Cloud. The Marco name was derived from their last names.

They branched out into copy machine sales in 1974, and when AT&T's monopoly was split into the so-called "Baby Bells" 30 years ago, they began selling phone systems. They have provided audio-visual services for 12 years as well.

Marco began doing business in Fargo in 2002.

Jonathan Warrey, vice president of sales, said Fargo became a regional hub for northwest Minnesota and North Dakota after the company purchased GR Graphics in 2008.

"In 2005, we had about $1 million of revenue out of this area and 10 employees," Warrey said. "The acquisition of GR Graphics and the addition of some key people helped make Fargo a hub."

He said this year the region will probably do business in the range of $40 million — a third of that through acquisitions and the rest through organic growth.

The company employs 32 in Fargo and expects to add several new positions in the near future.

"Our jobs are in the technology services sector, and Fargo is really growing in that area," Warrey said. "We have good jobs for people because everybody needs technology services, and they usually struggle to find that talent. They can partner with us, and we can handle a variety of their services such as print, voice, networking and video."

The company has come a long way since the typewriter. While few use a typewriter anymore, people are still dealing with documents, Warrey said.

They are printing and faxing less, and scanning and emailing more. The key is providing ways to scan, send, store and retrieve these documents.

He said clients may ultimately get rid of phone sets as well, but they will still need communication services.

"We've done a nice job of adapting our services and competencies to the changing needs of the technology in the marketplace," Warrey said. "We always have to be thinking what's going to sunset so we're prepared. If you don't adapt, you're doomed to go away."

Warrey also credits the company's success to employee ownership. The company has had an employee stock ownership plan, or ESOP, since 1989 and bought out the original founder for 100 percent ownership in 2001.

"People don't think we're local sometimes, but yet we have 32 employee-owners in Fargo. We have all local ownership because our ESOP really shares the ownership and success with the employees," Warrey said.
