
SAN JOSE, Calif., May 19, 2014 /PRNewswire/ -- Cadence Design Systems, Inc. CDNS, -0.43% a leader in global electronic design innovation, today announced immediate availability of DDR4 PHY IP (intellectual property) built on TSMC's 16nm FinFET process. The combination of 16nm technology and Cadence's innovative architecture helps customers realize the maximum performance of the DDR4 standard, which is specified to scale up to 3200Mbps, as compared to today's maximum of 2133Mbps for both DDR3 and DDR4 technologies. This technology enables server, network switching, storage fabric and other systems on chip (SoCs) requiring high-memory bandwidth to design-in Cadence® DDR4 PHY IP now and to exploit higher speed DRAMs when they become available.

The Cadence DDR4 PHY IP supports an unbuffered dual in-line memory module (UDIMM)/ registered dual in-line memory module (RDIMM) with reliability, availability, and serviceability (RAS) features such as cyclic redundancy check (CRC) and data bus inversion (DBI). The new DDR4 PHY IP implements architectural innovations such as 4X clocking to minimize duty cycle distortion, multi-band power isolation for increased noise immunity, and I/O with slew rate control. The Cadence DDR4 PHY IP together with Cadence DDR4 controller are verified in silicon from TSMC's 16nm FinFET process.

"The demand for 16nm FinFET-based designs continues to grow and is driving the market need for a complementary DDR4 IP offering," said Suk Lee, TSMC senior director, Design Infrastructure Marketing Division. "Because we have worked very early and closely with Cadence on this technology, our customers can review the design's silicon results to feel confident about turning to Cadence for comprehensive 16nm support from tools to IP."

Cadence enables global electronic design innovation and plays an essential role in the creation of today's integrated circuits and electronics. Customers use Cadence software, hardware, IP, and services to design and verify advanced semiconductors, consumer electronics, networking and telecommunications equipment, and computer systems. The company is headquartered in San Jose, Calif., with sales offices, design centers, and research facilities around the world to serve the global electronics industry. More information about the company, its products, and services is available here .

© 2014 Cadence Design Systems, Inc. All rights reserved worldwide. Cadence and the Cadence logo are registered trademarks of Cadence Design Systems, Inc. in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.

Cadence Design Systems, Inc.

Copyright ©2014 MarketWatch, Inc.  All rights reserved.

Intraday Data provided by SIX Financial Information and subject to terms of use .                 Historical and current end-of-day data provided by SIX Financial Information. Intraday data                 delayed per exchange requirements. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones & Company, Inc.                 All quotes are in local exchange time. Real time last sale data provided by NASDAQ. More                 information on NASDAQ traded symbols and their current financial status. Intraday                 data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, and 20 minutes for other exchanges. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM)                 from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. SEHK intraday data is provided by SIX Financial Information and is                 at least 60-minutes delayed. All quotes are in local exchange time.
