
A POSTAL blunder has led to a large number of people in Weymouth and Portland not receiving their polling cards for the forthcoming elections.

It is feared the error may affect the turnout at polling stations on Thursday because residents think they won’t be able to vote.

Weymouth and Portland Borough Council has assured residents this is not the case and they will be able to exercise their democratic right despite not being sent cards. The council blamed the error on the Royal Mail.

As well as the elections for the European Parliament, residents will elect a third of Weymouth and Portland Borough Council on Thursday. However, councillors will not be standing in Radipole , Westham West or Weymouth East.

The Echo has received reports of people not receiving polling cards in different areas of the borough and candidates have received complaints while out canvassing.

Dave Burchill from the Waterside Weymouth Community Forum, which co-ordinates projects in the Park District, said it was a concern.

He said residents should be made aware that the local polling station is the Park Centre in Chelmsford Street and that people don’t need their cards to vote. Polling stations are open from 7am-10pm.

Mr Burchill said: “I know where to go to vote and I know I can vote without my polling card but not everyone knows this.

“There also may be people who have just moved into the area who won’t know what to do.

Pam Winsper, of Links Road, Westham, said: “I have been speaking to a few people and nobody has had their cards, and nobody knows that if you can still vote even if you don’t have one.

The local Labour Party is calling for an inquiry as it fears it will affect turnout.

Mayor Ray Banham is standing for the Lib Dems and said he hadn’t received a card either.

He said: “I have had a lot of reports when I have been campaigning and people coming up to me in the streets and complaining about it.

Royal Mail: 'We are investigating'

RESIDENTS without polling cards can still vote. They just need to state their name and address at the polling station.

Borough council Head of Electoral and Member Services Sue Bonham-Lovett said: “Unfortunately Royal Mail failed to deliver poll cards to a large number Weymouth and Portland residents.

“Residents do not need their poll card to vote. As long as they are on the electoral roll they can go to their polling station on Thursday May 22 to vote.

They couldn't even get the spelling right on them either!

Maybe the thing we should do is sell off royal mail , that would not happen if it was run as a P.L.C.

Postman Pat has been a total blunder for years!

Maybe the thing we should do is sell off royal mail , that would not happen if it was run as a P.L.C.

Of course, get G4S to do it, I'm sure they'd make a much better job.

Aaahhhhhh so it was the Royal Mail that was at fault who didn't deliver them in time. Can't quite see that myself as it's now Friday and they still haven't arrived.

I hope the Echo investigates.

We want you to enjoy your visit to our website. That's why we use cookies to enhance your experience.  By staying on our website you agree to our use of cookies. Find out more about the cookies we use .
