
The conservative outside-spending behemoth American Crossroads is preparing to launch a nearly $10 million ad campaign aimed at flipping control of the U.S. Senate and focusing on four of the states with the most competitive races of the year, strategists familiar with the group’s plans said.

In their largest TV offensive of the midterm cycle so far, both the American Crossroads super PAC and the nonprofit group Crossroads GPS will go on the air in the coming weeks in states including Arkansas, Alaska, North Carolina and Colorado.

The groups have laid down ad reservations in North Carolina starting Tuesday and commercials will run intermittently in all four states between the beginning of June and the end of August.

The nonprofit Crossroads GPS, which has not yet mounted a heavy advertising campaign for 2014, will advertise in all four targeted states, spending $3.6 million in North Carolina, $2.3 million in Colorado, $900,000 in Alaska and $875,000 in Arkansas.

The super PAC arm will spend a total of about $1.8 million in two states, Arkansas and Alaska, with the money split almost evenly between them. A Crossroads spokesman confirmed the planned TV offensive.

Weiner also criticized Hagan’s GOP challenger for opposing the ACA from top to bottom.

“Thom Tillis has the wrong priorities for North Carolina families and is trying to hide the fact that his only plan would take us back to a time when people could be denied care for a preexisting condition, women were charged more than men and seniors paid more for prescription drugs,” Weiner said.

The sudden escalation of election-year spending by the Crossroads groups is an indication that big GOP donors are increasingly reengaging with unlimited-money outside groups.

After the 2012 election, groups such as Crossroads went through a long dry spell as conservative check-writers recovered from the disappointment of President Barack Obama’s reelection and the Democrats’ successful defense of their Senate majority.

That left the early stages of the 2014 air war as a contest between the heavily funded conservative group Americans for Prosperity, which spent tens of millions of dollars attacking Senate Democrats for supporting the president’s health care law, and Democratic groups led by Senate Majority PAC, which have enjoyed greater fundraising success this cycle than they did in the midst of the last presidential election.

Friends E-mail(s) Separate emails with a comma. Maximum of 5 emails allowed.
