
Residents concerned about plans for a 37-lot development off Southwest West Hills Road met for the second time Monday night with the developers.

PORTLAND — In November 2008, Michele Darr of Corvallis took to the steps of the state Capitol to protest the deployment of Oregon National Guard troops to Iraq and Afghanistan.

It became a round-the-clock vigil. She fasted, lit candles, drew up signs and talked to people. She was soon joined by others. Eventually, a group of legislators who set rules for the capitol grounds asked her to leave.

Darr refused. And when the building’s public hours ended at 11 p.m. on Nov. 13, 2008, she was cited by the Oregon State Police for second-degree criminal trespass. Darr still refused to move, and she was cited again.

The Oregon Supreme Court this week ruled that Darr’s protest was not protected by the First Amendment and, despite a good argument for allowing protests generally, the Capitol steps themselves fall under the aegis of the capitol grounds rules committee, called the Legislative Administration Committee.

The rules that force people to leave at 11 p.m. aren’t targeted at one group or type of speech, the justices ruled, and the committee is allowed to issue content-neutral, speech-neutral regulations and laws.

The protesters came away with one victory. The justices found that they should be allowed to ask the chairs of the committee about their role in enforcing the rules on the protesters.

From that testimony, the justices reasoned, the protesters could learn whether they were in fact targeted or whether the restrictions were based on time and place.

The justices found that, in such narrow terms, the protesters’ speech rights were not protected.

“The fact that expression is protected does not mean that it is exempt from content-neutral, speech-neutral laws and regulations,” they ruled.

Copyright 2014 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the Government for a redress of grievances.

No law shall be passed restraining the free expression of opinion, or restricting the right to speak, write, or print freely on any subject whatever; but every person shall be responsible for the abuse of this right.

Again this is unambiguous and has no "except" in it. The last clause is universally understood to refer to defamation.

Our federal and state ourts have added the "except" jurisprudence simply because the public, on both sides of the political aisle really aren't that keen on free speech. We don't need to go through the laundry list of selfish reasons for that. Funny thing is that the written history makes it absolutely clear the authors of both Constitutions fully anticipated all of the anti-free speech haters, which is why the language is unambiguous and doesn't include "except".

The most stringent protection of free speech would not protect a man in falsely shouting fire in a theatre and causing a panic. It does not even protect a man from an injunction against uttering words that may have all the effect of force. [Gompers v. Bucks Stove & Range Co., 221 U.S. 418, 439.] The question in every case is whether the words used are used in such circumstances and are of such a nature as to create a clear and present danger that they will bring about the substantive evils that Congress has a right to prevent.

The "yelling fire" bit is actually used here as an intellectually dishonest emotional analogy. And it rests on a blank assertion by Holmes that Congress has the right to enjoin speech, but provides no reasoning with Constitutional support for that assertion.

Follow Us!

Username & Password Required!
