
As a meat eater, beef recalls always freak me out. These major meat recalls seem to be happening more often than any of us would like, especially with ground beef, which is such a staple in so many American families' homes.

And now, there's another one: It was announced this week that Detroit-based meat producer Wolverine Packing Company is recalling about 1.8 million pounds of ground beef over concerns about E. coli contamination. Yes, more than a MILLION pounds of beef!

The recall, which comes at the same time as one for Kraft cottage cheese , happened after the Department of Agriculture found that the meat in question might be tainted with the E. coli bacteria. Eleven people have already gotten sick after eating the beef.

• The product would have the establishment number EST. 2574B.

• The meat would have a production date code in the format "Packing Nos: MM DD 14" between "03 31 14" and "04 18 14."

You can also see the entire list of recalled products on the USDA website. But the USDA states that "these products were shipped to distributors for restaurant use in Massachusetts, Michigan, Missouri, and Ohio."

Consumers who have any questions can call Wolverine Packing Company at (800) 521-1390.

contributes to The Stir, Babble, Mom.me and Fandango. When she isn't writing something, she's hanging out with crafting and cooking with her kid and dreaming of Disneyland.

Actually ontoughmami if you check the usda site the recall is nationwide and was being sold in retail stores.

So many animals died for nothing!

Not true. These cows did not die in vain.. Cows are used for everything, not just meat. Although it is unfortunate all that meat was contaminated.. It doesn't mean the other parts didn't get used..

Join CafeMom or Log in to your CafeMom account. CafeMom members can keep track of their comments.

You've signed up for The Stir Daily Ten! Look for it in your inbox each evening.

Please enter a valid email address.

© 2014 CMI Marketing Inc. All rights reserved.

You've signed up for The Stir Daily Ten! Look for it in your inbox each evening.

Please enter a valid email address.
