
The Santa Clara County District Attorney's Office announced their decision against Antolin Garcia-Torres on Monday. He's charged in the 2012 abduction and murder of the 15-year-old, as well as the attempted kidnapping of three others in 2009.

Find Sierra LaMar via Facebook Sierra LaMar, 15, was last seen walking to her bus stop near her Morgan Hill, Calif., home on March 16, 2012. Her body has not been found.

Prosecutors say they will seek the death penalty against a California man charged with kidnapping and murdering a 15-year-old, whose body has not been found.

The Santa Clara County District Attorney's Office announced their decision Monday against Antolin Garcia-Torres, who's charged in the abduction of Sierra LaMar in 2012.

"Given the facts of this case and after a comprehensive review by a committee of senior prosecutors, I have concluded that this defendant should face the ultimate penalty," District Attorney Jeff Rosen said in a release.

KTVU/KTVU Antolin Garcia-Torres, seen in late 2012, is accused of kidnapping and murdering 15-year-old Sierra LaMar in Morgan Hill, Calif. Prosecutors announced Monday that they will seek the death penalty.

"He took her away from us," Sierra's father, Steve LaMar, reacted to the DA’s decision to NBC Bay Area. "She isn't here to enjoy her life. We agree he should receive the ultimate punishment."

Garcia-Torres, a former grocery store clerk, is additionally charged in attempting to kidnap three women during attempted carjackings in 2009.

Ben Margot/AP Volunteer searchers are seen searching the area near Morgan Hill's Calero Reservoir in March of 2012. Now two years later, search efforts are still underway to find Sierra.

He pleaded not guilty to the charges filed against him in February.

The district attorney declined to provide further comment on the case, not wanting to affect the upcoming trial.

Find Sierra LaMar via Facebook Sierra LaMar's heartbroken father, Steve LaMar, said he agrees that Garcia-Torres 'should receive the ultimate punishment' in his daughter's murder.

Sierra vanished on the morning of March 16, 2012, while walking to her school bus stop near Morgan Hill, Calif.

Authorities said in 2012 that Sierra's DNA was found in Garcia-Torres' Volkswagen Jetta.

Despite it being now more than two years since she was last seen, her family and surrounding community haven't given up hope, with a Sierra LaMar Search Fund actively working to bring her home.

© Copyright 2014 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.
