
Tulsa County commissioners this morning voted 2-1 to approve a $2,167 a year pay increase for the county's eight elected officials.

After learning the status of Joe Mixon and Dorial Green-Beckham last week, now it seems we know about Frank Shannon.

'Modern Family' ties 'Frasier' as sitcom champ, Bryan Cranston earns Emmy for outstanding lead actor in a drama series for his work in 'Breaking Bad'

OKLAHOMA CITY — Democrats didn’t exactly rain on House Common Education Committee Chairwoman Lee Denney’s parade on Monday, but they did sort of drizzle on it.

Common Ed’s almost $80 million bump for fiscal year 2015 is one of the few in the $7.1 billion general appropriations agreement reached late last week, and Denney, R-Cushing, played it to the House Appropriations and Budget Committee as a major victory.

An online service is needed to view this article in its entirety. You need an online service to view this article in its entirety.

Choose an online service.

Thank you for visiting tulsaworld.com. You have used all the limited page views nonsubscribers receive for 30 days. If you would like to receive unlimited digital access to tulsaworld.com, please subscribe to one of our digital-only packages. If you would like the newspaper delivered to your home and unlimited digital access, please subscribe to one of our print + digital packages. You need an online service to view this article in its entirety.

Choose an online service.

1 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language.

2 Don't Threaten or Abuse. Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated. AND PLEASE TURN OFF CAPS LOCK.

3 Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.

4 Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.

5 Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.

6 Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness accounts, the history behind an article.

Welcome to the discussion.

Report a correction to editors when you see inaccurate content at tulsaworld.com/corrections .

We're always interested in hearing about news in our community. Let us know what's going on!
