
Quite the contrary, actually.

See the case of 21-year-old right-hander Matt Wisler, he of six dominating starts at Double-A San Antonio and now a 12.71 earned-run average through his first three starts at Triple-A El Paso.

It’s all part of the curriculum, you see.

That’s not to say the Padres’ are specifically calling Wisler’s rocky start to his tenure in El Paso a slump. More like an adjustment period as their top pitching prospect –all due respect to Max Fried (read on) – gets his feet wet at the final stop on the fast track to Petco Park.

After all, Wisler had piled up 35 strikeouts in 30 innings in the Texas League (2.10 ERA, .234 average against) and has shown flashes of that potential at points in three forgettable starts with El Paso – all at the Chihuahuas’ new Southwest University Park. To be sure, El Paso manager Pat Murphy attributes those struggles – 25 hits and five walks in his first 11 1/3 innings – to Pitching 101 and not pitching in a park that houses a humidor.

“He’s been behind in the count and he’s not making quality pitches,” Murphy said earlier this week. “He’s had a couple balls leave the yard that wouldn’t normally leave the yard, but he’s got to make better pitches.

That time may be coming soon.

Although Wisler gave up five more runs on nine hits in five innings Friday night, he escaped without issuing a single walk for the first time in three starts with El Paso. He has thrown 64 percent of his pitches for strikes over his last two starts after managing just 54 percent in his Triple-A opener.

Cuban defector Odrisamer Despaigne struck out six batters in his stateside debut with the Padres, scattering a run, two hits and two walks on Thursday at Double-A San Antonio. The 27-year-old right-hander’s fastball sat at 92 to 94 mph while flashing a good curveball and change-up, all of it coming out of multiple arm angles as he pitched to both sides of the plate.

Thirty-seven of his pitches were strikes.

Upgrade your browsing experience with a paid subscription to the U-T.
