
Share This Story!

With 22 years of service to city, Jim Ford 'set the standard' for his profession.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Mayor Jim Ford was recognized by Gov. Jack Markell and the public during "Mayor Jim Ford Appreciation Day" May 18 in Lewes. Ford served on the council and as mayor 22 years, and decided not to seek re-election in 2014.

May 18, was officially proclaimed by mayor-elect Ted Becker as “Jim Ford Appreciation Day” during a ceremony at Canal Front Park in Lewes with family, many friends and political dignitaries in attendance to wish Ford well after stepping down as an elected official. He served 22 years of which the last 10 years he served as mayor.

Jim Ford III was recognized May 18 for 22 years of service to Lewes.

Gov. Jack Markell gave Ford the Order of the First State, the highest honor he can bestow.

Mayor-elect Ted Becker will be sworn in May 19.

It is fitting, speakers said, that longtime Lewes Mayor Jim Ford III should be honored in the  park he helped create.

"If you want to see Jim's legacy, look around you," Joseph Stewart of the Greater Lewes Foundation said to hundreds of residents, local politicians, friends and family of Ford gathered in Canalfront Park to pay homage to the mayor on his last day on the job.

May 18, officially proclaimed by mayor-elect Ted Becker as "Jim Ford Appreciation Day," couldn't have been more beautiful, attendees said, with clear skies and calm temperatures. Ford served Lewes for 22 years —12 as a councilman and 10 as mayor. He decided not to run for re-election this year so he could spend more time with his family.

One of Gov. Jack Markell's first jobs as a teenager was painting houses for that family, the state's leader said during the ceremony. At age 16, he was a house painter working for Ford's family, who have been lifelong friends of his.

"You have been the beneficiaries of an absolutely exceptional public servant for these past two decades," Markell said. "Jim is the classiest of the class acts."

Ford is a "go-to" at the League of Local Governments meetings because of how effectively he leads, avoiding political conflict, Markell said.

"He doesn't get caught up in all the nonsense, he just wants to get good stuff done. That's why he's able to bring people together," Markell said. "To be well-liked and to be effective, all at the same time, is pretty extraordinary."

So extraordinary, Markell awarded Ford the Order of the First State, the highest honor a Delaware governor can issue. Other politicians gave Ford praise, such as Rep. Peter Schwartzkopf, who said the mayor had trained mayor-elect Becker well.

"It's a noble profession," Schwartzkopf said. "Not everybody does it well. You do it well. You set the standard."

There was also a portion set aside for public tributes during the ceremony. One resident, Tony Pratt, said Ford had helped him move  when he first came to town.

"Too often, we listen and we're just waiting for our chance to talk next," Pratt said. "Jim listens."

After nearly an hour and a half of praise, briefly interrupted for some dancing, Ford took to the podium to thank his family, friends, fellow council members and  the public.

"All these achievements have been accomplished by us, not by me," Ford said. "We have made Lewes the premiere community for Delaware and beyond. We are Lewes. All of my experiences, my encounters with people, my relationship and memories have been made possible because of you."

Ford told the current City Council members that, while they were young in tenure on the council, they were wise with experience, and reminded residents that Lewes will continue to evolve.

In the last moments of his speech, Ford stepped forward away from the podium to make a final statement — something he has done only twice, but has been memorable enough that audience members whispered accurate predictions.

The mayor bent over, facing the crowd and stuck his arms up, rising and letting out a thunderous, "Yeeeeeee-haw!"

Mayor-elect Becker will be sworn in at a council meeting, along with Bonnie Osler and Rob Morgan at 7 p.m. May 19.
