
Nearly a mile of the hiking and biking trail in the Village of Four Seasons will be overlayed this summer.

Nearly a mile of the hiking and biking trail in the Village of Four Seasons will be overlayed this summer.

The board of trustees voted Wednesday night to contract with Magruder Paving of Lake Ozark to replace 4,868 feet of the trail from Carl’s Village Market west to the second entrance to Chessman Drive. The project calls for a two-inch overlay at a cost of $37,440. That translates to 480 tons of material.

Village Administrator Tom Laird said the area to be replaced is the original Section 1 that was built in 2004. Today, the trail is 7.87 miles long.

Next closest bid was from APAC at $53,153.

The Horseshoe Bend Special Road District helps maintain the H&B trail, keeps it swept and watches for damaged or deteriorating areas. Laird said the original section is showing signs of age.

The east end of the trail ends at the city limits, but trustees hope the HBSRD will consider funding the trail on to Bagnell Dam Blvd.

Trustees also approved a new five-ton air conditioner coil at a cost of up to $3,500. The unit shut down during the short-term heat wave recently, although the compressor section of the heat pump on the outside of the building continues to function.

A separate AC unit for the new area of Village Hall was used to cool the office area with the aid of fans.

New Trustees Chairman Arnold Sandbothe offered a resolution expressing public gratitude for the services of former chairman Gordon Ellison from 2003 to 2014, who has been challenged by health issues that last several months.

The resolution passed unanimously. Ellison will continue as a trustee in the capacity of finance officer.

The resolution says in part that Ellison has contributed to the betterment of Village government and residents especially involving the development of the Village playgrounds and hiking and biking trails.

Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.

Your privacy is important, read our privacy policy.

Original content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted.
