
Welsh venture capitalist Sir Michael Moritz has increased his wealth by more than half a billion pounds in the past year to reach more than £1.6bn.

And Oscar winner Catherine Zeta Jones and her husband Michael Douglas have made £10m over the last 12 months taking their joint worth to £195m.

The figures are included in The Sunday Times Rich List 2014 which is being published this Sunday.

Raised in Cardiff but now an American citizen, Sir Michael is the chairman of Sequoia Capital, and no doubt his incredible surge in wealth in the past 12 months was helped by the sale of Sequoia’s protégé company messaging service WhatsApp to Facebook in February for $19 bn.

It secured California based Sequioa’s position as a titan of venture capital and puts former Howardian High School, Cardiff pupil Moritz at number one position in the “Welsh Rich List”.

Rich List editor Ian Coxon said Moritz has become “a wizard” at making money from the internet.

He said: “These net stocks can rise and fall pretty fast but Michael Moritz seems to pick winners all the time.

“He has a pretty fantastic record when you look at what he’s achieved.

“His £8m stake taken in the early days of Google turned into $6.3bn after it was floated and Moritz repeated the trick with LinkedIn.

“There his initial investment of £2.85m rose to an astonishing £912m at the time of its 2011 float.

“He seems to have the knack of picking the right internet trends and the amazing thing is, he is probably doing dozens of other deals we’ll probably never hear about it.

As well as heading up Sequoia, Moritz currently sits on the boards of a number of companies including 24/7 Customer, Earth Networks, Gamefly, HealthCentral, Green Dot Corporation, Klarna, Kayak.com, LinkedIn, Stripe and Sugar Inc.

With his novelist wife Harriet Heyman, the 59-year-old Welshman has now become a major philanthropist.

He has recently given £18.2m to the University of California, San Francisco, to fund biomedical research PhD programmes.

In June 2008, the couple announced a donation of $50m to Christ Church, Oxford, his former college, the largest single donation in the college’s history.

On July 11, 2012, it was announced Moritz had donated £75m to Oxford University to support students from families with an income below £16,000 per year.

He is a signatory of The Giving Pledge, committing himself to give away at least 50% of his wealth to charitable causes.Newbridge’s Sir Terry Matthews, the serial hi-tech and communications entrepreneur remains in second place on the Welsh Rich List and is Wales’ only other billionaire, this year being worth £1,190m, a gain of £68m in the past 12 months.

Best known in Wales for bringing the Ryder Cup to the country in 2010, hosted at his Celtic Manor Resort, near Newport, Matthews, 70, made his fortune in Canada, picking up £1bn from the sale of his Newbridge Networks computing business.

He wants to build a convention centre at Celtic Manor and, through his Celtic House International company, invests in high-tech start-up businesses.

On a visit to Swansea University last yeear Sir Terry said there has never been a better time for technology start-ups in Wales and the UK.

Carmarthenshire born policeman’s son Douglas Perkins, with his wife Dame Mary from Bristol, are third in the Welsh list.

The couple head a Specsavers empire that now extends to 1,650 stores worldwide.

Their son, John, is managing director of the operation, but the Guernsey-based couple has overseen huge expansion of the business.

They both studied optometry at Cardiff University before opening an opticians in Bristol in the 1960s. They made £2m from an initial 23 outlets, which were sold in 1980.

Specsavers was founded three years later and has grown rapidly since to record a turnover of £1.8bn in 2012-13.

The list is based on identifiable wealth, including land, property, other assets such as art and racehorses, or significant shares in publicly quoted companies.

Ian Coxon added: “I don’t actually think Catherine Zeta Jones was involved in that many films over the past year but her wealth is being rankedjoinly with Michael Douglas who has been pretty busy.

“Lord Heseltine who is now 81 continues to be a mainstay of the Welsh list with a lot of his successful Haymarket business now being run by his son.

Sir Chris Evans, the “King of Biotech” who was brought up in Sandfields, Port Talbot, is said to be worth £160m, a rise of £10m in the past 12 months.

Eeducated in microbiology at Imperial College London he then obtained a Ph.D. from the University of Hull, followed by a research fellowship at the University of Michigan.

Evans runs Merlin Biosciences (founded 1996), which manages investments in the biotechnology industry. He was the founder of Chiroscience (now merged with Celltech), Celsis, Enzymatix, and over 20 other life sciences based companies during his career.

Twice elected “Cambridge Businessman of the Year”, he was awarded the OBE in 1995 and knighted in 2001.

Pontypridd singing legend Sir Tom Jones is said to be worth a cool £145m, his wealth not having changed since 2013.

What do you think about this story? Have your say by leaving your comments below.

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

Join us on social media.

For the latest local news straight to your Twitter, Facebook feed, e-mail inbox or tablet .

WalesOnline.co.uk conforms to the newspaper industry's voluntary Code of Practice, administered by the Press Complaints Commission.

If you feel we have made an error in a report, or have fallen below our usual high standards, please write in the first instance to: Ceri Gould, Online Editor, WalesOnline.co.uk, Media Wales, Six Park Street, Cardiff CF10 1XR. Tel: 029 2024 3672.

We reach over 1,384,563* unique users a month with dedicated coverage of all things Welsh.

WalesOnline is part of Media Wales, publisher of the Western Mail, South Wales Echo, Wales on Sunday and the seven Celtic weekly titles, offering you unique access to our audience across Wales online and in print.

Ceri has been editor of WalesOnline since April 2012. She was previously executive editor of Media Wales and deputy editor of the Western Mail. She started her career on the Glamorgan Gazette.
