
He also played the same number of rounds of golf.

The military post had reported an active shooting situation via social media Monday morning.

Undersecretary Brothers launches collaborative online channel for feedback on long-term strategies.

Retiring Wisconsin Republican says he is looking forward to the results of the inquiry he requested earlier this year.

Allegations of feds abusing telework at Patent and Trademark Office put honest employees and managers in a tough spot.

Eugene W. Grant is conducting city business in a tent.

While voters still care about progressive issues — 71 percent want to see sweeping immigration reform and 79 percent want tougher measures on gun purchases — Obamacare remains the deciding issue in voters' minds. This is good for Republicans, who have spent a lot of time railing against the ACA and not a lot of time figuring out how to pass immigration reform. Politico's Alexander Burns  explains ,

The poll reveals that voters — even in the more conservative midterm states like Georgia and Arkansas, and tossup House districts in states such as Illinois, West Virginia and California — still lean in a liberal direction on several issues ... But none of those issues comes close to approaching health care as a major concern for midterm voters. By comparison, only 28 percent said that immigration reform was 'very important' to determining their vote, and 16 percent who said the same of male-female income disparity.

Democrats have continuously championed equal pay for women and immigration reform over the past year, but those issues just don't resonate with voters the way "death panels" do. Ed Morrisey at the conservative blog Hot Air is already celebrating : "Even if one takes this with a small grain of salt based on the composition of the sample, it’s bad news almost all the way around for Democrats. ... Democrats appear to be rolling into disaster, and the only real debate is its scope."

Want to contribute to this story? Share your addition in comments .

By using this service you agree not to post material that is obscene, harassing, defamatory, or       otherwise objectionable. Although GovExec.com does not monitor comments posted to this site (and       has no obligation to), it reserves the right to delete, edit, or move any material that it deems       to be in violation of this rule.
