
PEORIA — For an hour, a dozen representatives from various relief organizations converge in an American Red Cross conference room hoping to fill in the cracks.

For a family displaced by the November tornado that hit Washington and asking for $300 to cover the cost of gas for their commute — Bethany Community Church can help.

For a low-income family in need of a washer and dryer to replace appliances lost in the storm — Church of Christ and the Salvation Army has a program for them.

For a resident in Woodford County with a large, damaged tree endangering the home — St. Mark’s Lutheran Church and Bethany have the equipment and volunteers.

And the list goes on.

The group is the funder’s forum, formed under the Tri-County Long Term Recovery Committee, a team of not-for-profits, churches and community organizations dedicated to the ongoing needs that follow a large-scale disaster such as the Nov. 17 tornadoes or the April 2013 floods.

During a May 7 meeting, the funder’s forum heard 10 cases and offered 10 solutions, each time an organization or the Community Foundation or the recovery committee itself stepping in with the needed resources.

Now the committee’s focus is the unmet needs of tornado victims in Woodford and Tazewell counties, though one of those 10 cases involves a family asking for help paying for mold remediation after the record floods more than a year ago.

The committee was formed, coincidentally, just before the waters rose to the doorsteps of those living on the banks of the Illinois River.

When the tornadoes struck, the committee had coalesced and was ready to respond.

When the next tornado, flood, earthquake or other disaster hits, the organizations will have this service-sharing model in place.

The Red Cross heads up the committee’s case management process through an information-sharing system that compiled a disaster affected resident’s data into one file that includes assistance received from various relief organizations.

Page 2 of 2 - Some of the agencies have long-standing partnerships while others are forging new ground.

Corey Campbell of Human Health Services co-chairs the LTRC’s emotional and spiritual care subcommittee, made up for mental health providers as well as religious leaders.

The committee works to meet the most needy, but is willing to help anybody.

Until then, residents seeking assistance can reach the committee by calling 677-7272.

Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.

Your privacy is important, read our privacy policy.

Original content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted.
