
KANSAS CITY, KAN. ----- Kansas City Kansas Community College will be celebrating new beginnings this week during several graduation and pinning events.

Five commencement ceremonies will be taking place as the 2013-14 academic year wraps up.

Including graduates from December 2013, May 2014 and Summer 2014, KCKCC will have approximately 950 students graduate with associate degrees or certificates this year.

Respiratory Therapy Pinning – 7 p.m. May 19 at Providence Medical Center.

GED Graduation – 6 p.m. May 20 at the KCKCC Field House.

Nurses’ Pinning – 8 p.m. May 20 at the KCKCC Field House.

KCKCC Graduation – 8 p.m. May 21 at the KCKCC Field House.

Physical Therapy Assistant Graduation – 7 p.m. May 22 at the KCKCC-TEC.

Major General Karen E. LeDoux, United States Army, will be the speaker at the KCKCC Graduation Wednesday.

LeDoux has a Bachelor of Science degree from Central Missouri State University in Warrensburg, Mo. and a MMS Degree in Strategic Studies from the United States Army War College.  She has also attended the Combined Arms and Services Staff School and the United States Army Command and General Staff College.

She has served as a training officer, deputy commander and commander of the Logistics Civil Augmentation Program Support Unit, commander of the 94th Training Division, commander of the 55th Sustainment Brigade and Commanding General of the Army Material Command – Southwest Asia/G4.

LeDoux is currently the deputy program manager and research fellow for logistics and technology Group at the Logistics Management Institute in McLean, Va.

Among the many U.S. decorations and badges she has received are the Legion of Merit, the Bronze Star Medal, the Joint Service Commendation Medal and the Army Achievement Medal.

All commencement ceremonies are open to the public.

For more information on Kansas City Kansas Community College, visit its website at www.kckcc.edu.

Webphibian is a unique design firm offering a variety of services from basic Website Design to complete e-commerce website development. We are well on our way to designing, developing and launching hundreds of GREAT websites for all types of businesses.

Check Us Out On Facebook!

Webphibian is a unique design firm offering a variety of services from basic Website Design to complete e-commerce website development. We are well on our way to designing, developing and launching hundreds of GREAT websites for all types of businesses.

Simple template. Powered by Blogger .
