
Inspired by an origami pattern, collapsible “metamaterials” could be used to absorb  impacts or to build portable shelters.

Everyone remembers origami. It’s that thing you did in grade school where you folded a piece of paper into the shape of a bird or a fish.

Increasingly, however, it’s also the stuff of serious science.

A Stanford University professor has gotten a fair bit of attention recently for devising the Foldscope —a simple, 50-cent microscope that can be printed on thick paper and shipped to places like Africa, where it can be quickly and reliably folded into a tool capable of 2,000-times magnification, enabling life-saving tests for malaria and other diseases.

That’s one instance of how scientists are using origami principles. They’re creating stents that can accurately position themselves inside blood vessels. They’re designing antennas that can automatically unfold when needed for a range of uses that include spacecraft and farm sensors. And, as origami brings together experts in fields as diverse as graphic arts, genetics, and physics, it’s helping to break down academic silos in ways that universities and funding agencies have only dreamed of.

In fact the biggest limitation may be the word "origami" and its association, at least in the United States, with child’s play. "Even after you explain," said Glaucio H. Paulino, a professor of engineering at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, "people remain skeptical."

That’s an especially important consideration when it comes to winning federal support. Congressional critics such as Senator Tom Coburn, Republican of Oklahoma, have often mocked projects with names that don’t suggest a clear economic rationale.

"The origami applications scientists have developed, such as the Foldscope microscope, are breathtaking," said Mr. Coburn’s spokesman, John G. Hart. "But rather than asking for federal funds, we’d challenge these scientists to apply these principles to smarter budgeting."

The believers, however, are pushing ahead. As director of the Mechanics of Materials program at the National Science Foundation from 2009 to 2011, Mr. Paulino led the development of a program, known as Odissei, that financed research based on origami principles.

The Odissei framework now consists of at least 13 grants, for about $2-million apiece. Many are basic explorations, like a Pennsylvania State University study of ways that electric, thermal, and magnetic fields can be used to transform a flat sheet of a material into complex three-dimensional shapes. Studies at North Carolina State University and the University of Colorado at Boulder are making similar attempts to fold materials using light.

Then there are the applied uses. Mr. Paulino held a conference last month at the University of Illinois campus, where participants included Sergio Pellegrino, a professor of aeronautics and civil engineering at the California Institute of Technology, who has used origami techniques to design high-precision retinal implants, and Yihui Zhang, a postdoctoral researcher at Northwestern University, who has used origami concepts to develop a flexible lithium-ion battery that patients can wear without being connected to a bulky power supply.

Origami certainly isn’t the answer to every scientific or technical challenge, said Robert J. Lang, a physicist and engineer who has become a pioneer in meshing origami and mathematics. The concepts can be very useful, however, in a range of situations that involve a flat material, a need to move between a stowed position and a deployed configuration, and a lack of options for direct human intervention, Mr. Lang said.

"Those conditions are quite broad, and they show up in a lot of places," he said.

In the case of the plastic stents, made at the University of Oxford, they’re small enough to pass through a blood vessel and then pop open when they reach a point where they are needed to hold open an artery or vein. Mr. Pellegrino’s artificial, electronic retinas don’t unfold inside the eye, but origami principles allow surgeons to efficiently place them in a precisely curved shape that matches a human retina.

Keep up with all that's happening in higher education with a free Chronicle report, emailed to you every weekday morning.

The retina project is one of many instances in which Mr. Lang, who earned a doctorate in applied physics from Caltech and later quit a corporate career to pursue his origami passion full time, has been a central resource. Mr. Pellegrino recalled that when he was struggling over the design, he asked Mr. Lang, who dug into his catalog of origami patterns. "He said, ‘I’ve got this thing that might work,’" Mr. Pellegrino said. "And that’s the way we went."

Now, Mr. Lang said, it’s even easier for researchers to find origami solutions because so much work on origami is getting published in books and scientific journals and discussed in conferences. Much of the work turns out to be interdisciplinary, Mr. Paulino said, with artists pairing up with engineers. "The origami idea seems to be very conducive to promoting a blend of people in technology and fine arts," he said.

Still, success is coming just as the politics of science funding are getting trickier. Mr. Coburn, in particular, has a penchant for making phrases such as "shrimp on a treadmill" synonymous with wasteful federal spending on research. That’s a reference to an NSF-financed study with a more sober-sounding objective—investigating the effects of low oxygen levels on marine life—that became political fodder in 2011 after some researchers posted a web video of their shrimp walking along a moving platform as a test of the animals’ activity levels.

The fear of such attacks was clear at the NSF, Mr. Paulino said, when he proposed the Odissei program. Even though origami was the central concept, agency staff members worked on terms that avoided any reference to the word. "They were very afraid of this," Mr. Paulino said. "Until the last minute, I thought that ‘origami’ would never be in the acronym."

Mr. Coburn’s criticism on the shrimp project "was just awful," especially for the university researchers involved in it, said Tobin L. Smith, vice president for policy at the Association of American Universities. The development of science using origami should now give policy makers another lesson about keeping an open mind, he said.

"Sometimes what sounds funny from their perspective may be legitimate and worthwhile science," Mr. Smith said of lawmakers. "And to call it something else would be misrepresenting it, because it is origami—that’s what the principle is based upon."

From Mr. Coburn’s perspective, the anxiety described by Mr. Paulino is a good thing. "Fear of public backlash is the beginning of political—and scientific—wisdom," Mr. Hart said. "It is a very appropriate, necessary, and useful fear, and one we hope to continue to amplify."

Representative Lamar Smith, Republican of Texas and chairman of the House science committee, offered a similar warning. He has proposed legislation that would require the NSF to explain the public benefit of each grant it issues, and he said any scientist wanting NSF money for origami should be ready to explain why that’s more important than doing work in areas such as cancer, Alzheimer’s disease, and earthquake and tornado resistance.

"If the NSF funded numerous grants to study paper-folding without any public justification for why these studies are important, it would be reasonable to ask if this was a good use of taxpayer funds," he said. "On the other hand, if origami research has the potential to reveal new scientific principles with broader applications, why not publicly disclose this information?"

The Foldscope’s inventor, Manu Prakash, an assistant professor of bioengineering at Stanford, said he widely shares the details of his creation and is confident that Congress will support such work.

"We do what we believe is the best possible approach to tackle a problem, and in this case origami happens to be the right approach," Mr. Prakash said. While the Foldscope was developed with private foundation money, origami science deserves public backing, he said. "Congress and the public are smart," he said, "and they can realize what we have achieved and make a decision themselves."

1255 Twenty-Third St, N.W.
