
A recent interview reminded us that attitude and drive win the game.

campus. The Chalkville campus, owned and operated by DYS, was the traditional secure training school for females committed by the state's juvenile courts to the department. The facility was constructed in the 1930s to house more than 150 youths whose offenses were often noncriminal status violations, such as truancy, and beyond parental control. The 575-acre campus consisted of 12 buildings, including five dormitories, a school, a gymnasium, recreational facilities, a cafeteria and an administration building.

4:30 a.m.

Miraculously, the dorm housing the girls and staff was the least-damaged building on the entire campus. Not a single youth or staff member was injured. Had the tornado struck while the youths were in school or the cafeteria, it is highly probable that numerous injuries and possible fatalities would have occurred. However, eight buildings were damaged beyond repair, including the cafeteria, the school and the gym, which were essentially leveled by the tornado.

By daybreak, senior DYS staff members were on-site to secure the facility, and most important, to determine where the 18 girls would be placed. Within several hours, when roads were cleared to the campus, the girls were evacuated to the DYS Vacca campus - a secure male facility located approximately 15 miles from the Chalkville campus. By the end of the day, placements for all of the girls were located with existing private contract providers utilized by DYS. Since Chalkville was the only state-operated facility for females, contract providers were selected based upon services offered relative to the girls' assessed needs, security levels and available bed space. Once every girl had been placed in a facility, site cleanup and emergency repairs were planned, the insurance claims process began and a longer-term placement plan was initiated. With the assistance of the insurance adjusters, a disaster recovery company was brought in to clear roads, remove debris and place blue tarps on buildings that could be repaired. Campus staff were offered the opportunity to transfer to other DYS-operated facilities.

DYS also entered into an emergency contract with an architectural firm to assess all of the physical facilities of the campus, and help negotiate a fair and reasonable settlement with the insurance underwriters. The firm's structural assessment revealed even more damage than was initially thought. For example, one dormitory that appeared to have minor roof damage was found to have sufficient damage from torqueing of the walls and roof. It was determined to be so structurally unsound that it was unsafe to even remove property and equipment from the building.

After a year of assessments and negotiations with the insurance underwriters, a financial settlement was reached that DYS felt was fair under the insurance coverage for the campus. One requirement of the coverage was that the money received had to be utilized for construction of a replacement facility. However, DYS had great flexibility on the design and location of the replacement facility.

also recognized that many of these committed youths could be served by more appropriate services than commitment to state residential care.

To help address these concerns,

to assist DYS in developing alternatives for commitment. Also, a Juvenile Detention Alternative Initiative began in the state's five largest counties. By the end of 2011, these efforts had reduced the number of youths in DYS by almost 50 percent.

, DYS was able to create a diversion grant program to financially support efforts to serve youths in their local communities rather than in DYS residential facilities.

tornado. DYS was facing a serious programmatic and fiscal mismatch with a population of 18 in a facility built to house 150. Because of the layout of the campus and its buildings, a staff of more than 70 was still employed at the campus. These were all issues that DYS was weighing while considering the future of the Chalkville campus when the tornado struck. From the devastation of the campus, an opportunity to design and build a new, right-sized facility arose.

state law; second, a site had to be determined; and third, a schematic building layout design had to be developed to fit the needs of the population.

state agency to select an architect requires that: a request for qualifications be posted, the architects' proposals be received and reviewed, and three to five firms be selected for an interview process by a committee established by the agency head. Following the interviews, the committee ranks the firms and makes a recommendation to the agency head. If the agency head agrees, contract negotiations begin and a contract is executed. For this project, 13 proposals were received, and three firms were interviewed.

, was chosen for the project.

campus to provide support services, such as maintenance and food service.

state law now requires that a "school" must provide a safe room to shelter the youths during a tornado. The planned safe room will be large enough to accommodate both the student population and staff, and will be constructed of concrete and steel built to withstand winds of up to 200 miles per hour.

Determining an appropriate size for the facility was a major consideration. Based upon female population commitment trends for the previous six years, and the needs of those girls who were committed to DYS, it was determined that a 24-bed facility would be appropriate. The site has the ability to add another 12-bed living unit if future needs require more bed space. Each of the living units was designed with individual bedrooms facing a central day room. This arrangement will allow direct supervision by staff at all times, and will create physical separation of the youths. Educational facilities will include classrooms, a library, and a career and technical education resource room. The medical area will provide sufficient space for examination and treatment rooms, storage space and office space for medical staff.

The entire facility, both the interior and exterior, was planned and designed to meet adequate security requirements, and to create a community atmosphere rather than a traditional institutional setting. From the security perspective, the entire facility will be under camera surveillance, and perimeters will be enclosed with a security fence. For the softer community-type environment, a modem, light-filled and colorful interior design was planned.

Since the decision was made not to rebuild at the old Chalkville facility site, the next step was to demolish the damaged buildings and clean up the site for future use. Also, a plan and specifications were developed to repair the four remaining Chalkville buildings. The next step will be for the department to declare this site and property surplus for DYS use. The possibility exists that the property will be used by another state agency or other governmental entity.

Two years following this horrible natural disaster, the Alabama DYS is moving forward with the construction of a new secure girl's treatment facility. The new facility was specifically designed to serve this population, and will incorporate the latest programmatic principles for an often traumatized adolescent female population. The campus will also incorporate the latest in sound environmental design and energy efficiency. The new facility will be open in early 2015.
