
Austin-based USA Compression Partners, which provides gas-compression equipment and services to oil and gas companies, said Monday it netted $138.3 million from a secondary stock offering.

USA Compression Partners sold 5.6 million common shares of stock at $25.59 per share, according to a securities filing.

The company said it plans use the proceeds to pay down existing credit obligations and for general business purposes.

The company also said two of its current investors - Argonaut Private Equity and Jason Martin - planned to sell 1 million shares between them. They collectively could sell up to 990,000 more shares if underwriters choose to purchase additional shares. USA Compression Partners will not receive any of the proceeds from the investors’ offerings, according to the securities filing.

USA Compression Partners raised $198 million in a January 2013 initial public offering. In 2013, the company had record revenue of $152.9 million, up 28.7 percent from $118.8 million in 2012. Net income more than doubled, to $11.1 million from $4.5 million.

For the first quarter of this year, USA Compression Partners’ revenue rose 54 percent to $50.2 million, compared with $32.6 million in the same quarter last year. The company had net income of $3.9 million, or 10 cents per share, compared with net income of $4.4 million, or 12 cents per share, for the same period last year.

Founded in 1998, USA Compression Partners is one of the largest gas-compression service providers in the nation. It leases systems that compress natural gas to create the pressure needed for production and transportation.

The company’s equipment is used in key gas production areas, including the Eagle Ford and Barnett shale fields in Texas.

USA Compression Partners’ stock closed Monday up 28 cents, or 1.13 percent, at $25.11.

Thank you for registering!

We have sent you a confirmation email. Please check your email and click on the link to activate your account.

Thank you for registering!

We look forward to seeing you frequently. Visit us and sign in to update your profile, receive the latest news and keep up to date with mobile alerts.

Don't worry, it happens. We'll send you a link to create a new password.

We have sent you an email with a link to change your password.

We've sent an email with instructions to create a new password. Your existing password has not been changed.

To sign in you must verify your email address. Fill out the form below and we'll send you an email to verify.

Check your email for a link to verify your email address.
