
The movie film that passes through Paul Bishow’s hands represents both ends, the alpha and the omega, of the cinematic spectrum.

Paul is a projectionist at a Smithsonian Imax theater, regularly handling reels of that format’s large, meticulously shot 70mm film. Thirty years ago, he chronicled the District’s nascent, sweaty punk rock scene with a hand-held Super 8 camera, each frame just 8mm wide.

Paul came to Washington in 1978 from Long Island. He didn’t really intend to stay, but he was drawn into the fervent, fertile scene that coalesced at Madam’s Organ — not the Adams Morgan blues bar of today but an artist’s collective on 18th Street NW that hosted music and film.

That kind of sums up punk in a nutshell.

Eumig camera in hand, Paul captured the early days: punk, hardcore, straight edge and new wave at places such as Madam’s Organ and d.c. space. He has more than eight hours of footage, including early performances by one of the most interesting bands ever to come from Washington: Bad Brains, black musicians playing what was primarily white music, inspired by — of all things — self-help author Napoleon Hill’s work. Their blitzkrieg attack would echo in bands such as Fugazi.

Paul is 62 and once managed the Biograph movie theater in Georgetown. His co-director, James, 42, came of age in the District a generation later, obsessed with the bands spawned in the wake of the 1978-’80 explosion “Punk the Capital” focuses on. He’s made films with the Makeup and Chain & the Gang, and directed a documentary about French filmmaker Jean Epstein.

For now, the movie’s structure is basically planked out. Most of the interviews — with the likes of Dischord’s Ian MacKaye — are done. Part of the money from the Kickstarter crowdfunding campaign will be used to transfer Paul’s original footage to a more stable, high-definition digital format. It will join a D.C. punk archive being assembled by the D.C. Public Library’s Special Collections department.

Thanks to Paul, you can be there, too.

Bad Brains played at the Bayou in Georgetown once before being banned. (They opened for the Damned.) A documentary about that legendary club — “ The Bayou: D.C.’s Killer Joint ” — has been nominated for a local Emmy award. It’s up against “The Kennedy Half Century,” a documentary based on Larry Sabato’s book about the late president’s lasting influence.

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
