
Burnaby, British Columbia CANADA, May 19, 2014 (Filing Services Canada via COMTEX) -- Viscount Systems (otcqb:VSYS), a growing provider of security software and services, has been awarded two additional contracts to secure U.S. Federal Government facilities in New York and Louisiana. In keeping with contractual obligations the government agencies have not been named.

"We continue to fortify our relationship with agencies in the federal sector by gaining more of their business. Belief and endorsement in our Freedom Access Control technology continues to grow," notes Dennis Raefield, President and CEO of Viscount. "We are able to work with our federal partners and provide solutions that meet their requirements for cost, stable technology and focus on rigorous security standards."

Freedom is the first and only access control system that allows entry devices (ID cards, RFID readers, biometrics, etc.) to be connected to, and controlled by, standard building IT networks without requiring expensive control panels and wiring. Freedom brings cyber security protection to access control, eliminates the significant costs of traditional access control systems and providing a green, environmentally friendly solution.

Viscount Systems, Inc. brings cyber security protection to physical security and building automation systems. Its software solutions are sold and installed only by certified security integrators. Viscount's industry awards include the Microsoft "Be What's Next" Award, Security Industry Association Convergence Solution of the Year and Homeland Security Platinum Award for Emergency Response and Gold Award for Access Control at GOVSEC.

Forward looking statements: This press release and other statements by Viscount Systems Inc. may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act with respect to the outlook for earnings and revenues, other future financial or business performance, strategies and expectations. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as "believe," "expect," "estimate," "position," "assume," "potential," "outlook," "continue," "remain," "maintain," and similar expressions, or future or conditional verbs such as "will," "would," "should," "could," or similar expressions.

Copyright ©2014 MarketWatch, Inc.  All rights reserved.

Intraday Data provided by SIX Financial Information and subject to terms of use .                 Historical and current end-of-day data provided by SIX Financial Information. Intraday data                 delayed per exchange requirements. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones & Company, Inc.                 All quotes are in local exchange time. Real time last sale data provided by NASDAQ. More                 information on NASDAQ traded symbols and their current financial status. Intraday                 data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, and 20 minutes for other exchanges. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM)                 from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. SEHK intraday data is provided by SIX Financial Information and is                 at least 60-minutes delayed. All quotes are in local exchange time.
