
Idaho State Journal!

Visitors to the Journal’s website may access up to seven articles a month for free without a subscription. For unlimited access to the best local news, purchase a digital or print subscription.

Discounted price!

Welcome back, Chuckie Keeton.

The deadline to place an obituary in the Idaho State Journal is 3:00pm the day before publication.

Obituaries can now also run in our Wednesday publication of The Portneuf Valley Trader.                          The deadline to include an obituary in The Trader is 3:00pm the Thursday prior to publication.

    Jensen asked voters to take advantage of the Idaho Education Tax Credit. An individual or couple in the 25 percent tax bracket making a $500 donation to their local school would be eligible for an Idaho Education Tax Credit of $250, federal deduction of $125 and an Idaho tax deduction of $39 – leaving the out-of-pocket cost at just $86.

An online service is needed to view this article in its entirety. You need an online service to view this article in its entirety.

Posted in Members , Local on Sunday, May 18, 2014 12:48 am.

The Idaho State Journal invites you to take part in the community conversation. But those who don't play nice may be uninvited. Don't post comments that are off topic, defamatory, libelous, obscene, racist, abusive, threatening or an invasion of privacy. We may remove any comment for any reason or no reason. We encourage you to report abuse, but the decision to delete is ours. Commenters have no expectation of privacy and may be held accountable for their comments.

Comments are opinions of the author only, and do not reflect the opinions or views of Idaho State Journal.

Firefly posted at 5:13 am on Mon, May 19, 2014.

This was a kind gift to the schools.  All four of the candidates deserve consideration, but only one - Enyon - is opposed to Common Core as introduced in Idaho.  It's worth your time understanding his position on this controversial educational reform before you cast a vote on Tuesday.
