
President Obama will declare the largest national monument in his tenure Wednesday, setting a nearly 500,000-acre swath of southern New Mexico  off-limits to development.

Many community leaders had pressed the president to protect the  Organ Mountains-Desert Peaks  region — which has petroglyphs from three American Indian societies in its canyons, as well as desert grasslands and a petrified forest — under the Antiquities Act rather than waiting for Congress to act. But some in the area near Las Cruces, including cattle ranchers and Rep. Steven Pearce (R-N.M.), opposed a presidential designation on the grounds it was too far-reaching and represented an overreach on the administration's part.

White House press secretary Jay Carney said the president was working "to preserve the prehistoric, historic and scientific values of the area for all Americans," and that it would spur tourism. Carney added that the signing of the designation, which will take place at the Interior Department, was part of a week-long effort aimed at "helping businesses invest here in America" to spur job development.

Sen. Martin Heinrich (D-N.M.), who had pressed for the presidential designation, said in a phone interview that it reflected the hard work of local and community advocates.

"Anytime you have a recognition of that work that reaches all the way to the White House, that’s pretty special," he said, adding it will also spur outside interest in the region. "It will be a huge source of pride for  Doña Ana County."

“This designation is a long time coming, and we are excited that Doña Ana County is finally going to be able to reap the economic benefits of the Organ Mountains-Desert Peaks National Monument," said Carrie Hamblen, executive director of the Las Cruces Green Chamber of Commerce, in a statement.

The area is twice as big as the largest national monument previously established by Obama.

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
