
The Flair equine nasal strip.

The California-bred 3-year-old has won six consecutive races wearing nasal strips designed to open up his air passages. His trainer says that if New York racing officials rule California Chrome can’t wear them in the June 7 Belmont Stakes, he might not run the race that could give him the feat.

“I don’t know why they would ban you from wearing one. But we’ll have to cross that bridge when we get there, I guess,” 77-year-old Art Sherman said Sunday, a day after California Chrome followed up his victory in the Kentucky Derby with a win in the Preakness Stakes.

What’s so important about the nasal strip — an accoutrement that looks like a glorified Band-Aid? And why is it allowed in Kentucky and Maryland but maybe not in New York? New York racing authorities haven’t explained in the case of California Chrome. They haven’t yet made a formal decision.

Dr. Ted Hill, the Jockey Club steward at Belmont Park, said the nasal strip issue has been reviewed a number of times and said the problem is how to regulate its use.

Part of the issue, Hill said, is what to do with a horse who was scheduled to wear a nasal strip if the strip comes off in the paddock or at the gate, perhaps because of wet weather. Further, Hill said there has not been a clamor among New York horsemen to use it.

Well, like those buoyant swimsuits banned from the Olympics , nasal strips offer an arguably unfair advantage. The company that makes them says they make the horses breathe better.

More than 7 separate clinical studies, several physiology and veterinary textbook articles, numerous symposia, presentations, discussions and debates confirm our original hypotheses. We have been awarded over 15 U.S. and international patents directed to the discovery that by supporting the external wall of the nasal passages, nasal strips reduce upper airway resistance in horses during exercise. Perhaps most importantly, we found that through the reduction of upper airway resistance, FLAIR Strips optimize horses’ performance and help horses stay healthier by protecting the lungs, reducing bleeding, reducing fatigue, and recovering more quickly after exercise. After their introduction at the 1999 Breeder’s Cup races and the 2000 Olympics, the Strips have been regularly used for training and competition by world class professional horsemen as well as amateur owners around the world.

According to the equine health care Web site the Horse , a professor of veterinary medicine who’s appeared at Flair events said the strips “support the soft tissue overlying the nasal passages during inspiration.” This allegedly prevents airways from shrinking during exertion and reduces pulmonary hemorrhage. Then again, the publication also cited another study showing the strips had no effect.

In a sport maligned by PETA for its reliance on performance enhancing drugs, nasal strips allegedly offer faster ponies sans injections. Not bad for a product that sells for about $13 .

Curiously, nasal strips are permitted in New York for harness racing. But the line has been drawn in thoroughbred racing at New York Racing Association tracks.

Congratulations to CALIFORNIA CHROME, Trainer Art Sherman, and the entire California Chrome Team, for winning the first two legs of the Triple Crown — The Kentucky Derby and The Preakness Stakes. CALIFORNIA CHROME is a very special horse. We commend their team for choosing to protect him with FLAIR® Equine Nasal Strips. We will continue to do everything in our power to work with The New York Racing Association to get the strips approved for New York Thoroughbred racing as quickly as possible.

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
