
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

DETROIT, MI - A spokesman for a public relations firm hired by Wolverine Packing Company said Monday afternoon that ground beef that is now the subject of a massive recall tested clean when it left its Detroit-based company's facility earlier this spring.

"All of our product is tested when it’s made, and so none of our tests were positive (for E. coli), so it was not a positive link to our product," company spokesman Lyle Orwig said.

Nevertheless, about 1.8 million pounds of ground beef is being recalled by Wolverine Packing out of concern that it may be contaminated with E. coli bacteria, the U.S. Department of Agriculture announced Monday.

The ground beef was shipped to distributors for restaurant use in Michigan, Massachusetts, Missouri and Ohio. A spokeswoman for the USDA said the agency does not release the names of restaurants in these instances.

The USDA’s Food Safety Inspection Service was notified of possible E. coli illnesses on May 12. The contaminated beef is believed to have affected 11 diners in the four states from April 22 to May 2.

Orwig said that nine of the 11 people who got sick on ground beef ordered hamburgers "rare." The other two people could not trace their illness to ground beef, he said. A spokesperson for the CDC was not immediately available for comment Monday afternoon.

Orwig said Wolverine sources its meat from multiple suppliers in Michigan. The ground beef being recalled was the processed at its 150,000-square-foot facility, where it also processes pork, poultry, lamb and veal.

It is the company’s second recall in 75 years, Orwig said.

E. coli is a potentially deadly bacteria that can cause dehydration, bloody diarrhea and abdominal pain, according to the USDA. Its symptoms typically last three to four days. Most people recover within in a week, but seniors and children under the age of 5 are susceptible to other health complications such as kidney failure.

Meanwhile, the state departments of Community Health and Agriculture and Rural Development are investigating the recent illnesses alongside the health departments in Oakland, Livingston, Kent and Ottawa counties, Oakland County said in a statement Monday.

Five of the confirmed E. coli illnesses have been reported in adults between the ages of 20-41, and three people have been hospitalized. None of people who have fallen ill have developed sever complications, the county said, and no deaths have been reported.

Like the USDA, the county urged consumers to ensure that raw meat is fully cooked before they eat it.

© 2014 MLive Media Group All rights reserved ( About Us ).

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
