
Somewhere in Iraq, Heidi Diedrich is smiling. So is Eric Jay Fidler in Illinois. The pair are joined in their joy by many others who sport past or present affiliations with The Daily Egyptian .

After more than a year of financial duress and a recent rejected effort to secure money to survive , the student newspaper at Southern Illinois University Carbondale suddenly has a much stronger chance of obtaining the funding that will keep it operating on all cylinders — and ensure it continues appearing regularly in print. After saying no to a student media fee proposal the first time around, the SIU Carbondale president changed his mind Friday . With the backing of his board of trustees chairman and some Illinois legislators, he lent his support behind a $9-per-student-per-semester fee to help the DE — placing it on the agenda for hopeful approval at next month’s board meeting.

Along with Fidler’s efforts, DE alums have recently written commentaries and personal letters reflecting on the value of their own DE experiences and underscoring the need for the outlet to remain in action and in print. I shared one of them — from Heidi Diedrich, an international human rights worker based in Iraq — in a post late last week .

Dear Faculty, Advisory Board and DE alums,

The past week has been wild but I think we are in a much better position today than a week ago relative to the DE fee. The main reason is the social media and email storm that DE alums created over the past week. The hashtag #savethede is now ubiquitous.

Here are the main developments: On Monday I was able to get Dr. Dunn the background on how we had vetted the $9 fee with a score of industry leaders, including many of you.  He said he might have pushed back harder on the board had he known about this process.  He told me he could take the fee back to an executive committee of the board this summer and get it in place by the fall term.  He asked that I put together a working group/swat team of industry leaders without DE connections to vet the fee.  I told him I’d do it.

On Wednesday and Thursday, Dr. Dunn visited Springfield where DE supporters in the general assembly were well prepared.  An amendment was added to the SIU appropriation to give $70k to the School of Journalism for the DE.  Dr. Dunn found that Jackie Spinner had been invited to talk to legislative leaders about the issue.  After meeting with legislators and their aides, Dr. Dunn and Chairman Thomas signed a memo of understanding supportive of the the DE and the fee.  It is attached and the DE story on the memo can be found at the link below.

The memo says that Dr. Dunn and Chairman Thomas accept the analysis that led to the $9 fee and will propose it to the board so it can be enacted by July..  Dr. Dunn still wants me to complete the working group analysis to verify the numbers behind the fee.

The long and short of it is that just about everything is in place for enactment of the fee this summer.  And the reason is you all.  Thanks to everyone.  I’ll keep you posted as the board action approaches.

It has been dubbed "the next new mandatory text for college journalists." My book from Routledge features advice from hundreds of contributors, lots of digital storytelling tips, tons of story ideas and more than 300 exercises, games and prompts aimed at sparking you to come up with endless ideas of your own.

CMM is proudly partnered with the Associated Collegiate Press, the country’s largest and oldest membership organization for college journalists. To learn more, click on the ACP logo above.
