
Issue 20, Volume 18.

WINCHESTER - The nation's largest solar-powered boat competition finished today with students from Los Angeles and Orange counties earning top honors during the Metropolitan Water District's 12th annual Solar Cup race in Winchester.

Students from Long Beach Poly High, Canyon High School in Anaheim and West Covina High School claimed the top awards during the competition. The schools were among the 40 teams representing the MWD's 5,200-square-mile service area, which includes Los Angeles, Orange and Riverside counties, MWD spokesman Armando Acuna said.

Long Beach Poly and Canyon high school tied for first place in the veteran's division -- a first in the competition's history -- while West Covina High School took first place in the rookie division.

[ Berry-Bell and Hall Mortuary ] at MWD's Lake Skinner in Winchester, which is located in the Temecula Valley area of southwestern Riverside County. The Solar Cup is a school-year long program during which students build, equip and race 16-foot single-seat canoes powered only by the sun, Acuna said.

The students spent the past seven months readying their hand-built crafts, constructed from kits consisting of batteries, drive trains, electrical systems, propellers, rudders and solar panels.

Images, Formatting, or HTML is not allowed : plain text only. You may post up to 5 website addresses within your comment.

The Valley News has tightened its' policy regarding comments.

While we invite you to contribute your opinions and thoughts, we request that you refrain from using vulgar or obscene words and post only comments that directly pertain to the specific topic of the story or article.

Comments that are derogatory in nature have a high likelihood for editing or non-approval if they carry the possibility of being libelous.

The comment system is not intended as a forum for individuals or groups to air personal grievances against other individuals or groups.

Please, no advertising or trolling.

In posting a comment for consideration, users understand that their posts may be edited as necessary to meet system parameters, or the post may not be approved at all. By submitting a comment, you agree to all the rules and guidelines described here.

Most comments are approved or disregarded within one business day.
