
According to the indictment announced Monday, hackers targeted the U.S. nuclear power, metals and solar products industries and are accused of stealing trade secrets and economic espionage. The alleged victims are Alcoa World Alumina, Westinghouse Electric Co., Allegheny Technologies, U.S. Steel Corp., United Steelworkers Union, and SolarWorld, Attorney General Eric Holder said Monday.

The charges have been described as unprecedented and dramatize a long-time Obama administration goal to prosecute state-sponsored cyber threats.

"In sum, the alleged hacking appears to have been conducted for no other reason than to advantage state-owned companies and other interests in China at the expense of businesses here in the United States," Holder told a news conference at the Justice Department. "This is a tactic that the United States government categorically denounces."

Said Bob Anderson Jr., executive assistant director of the FBI's criminal, cyber response and services division: "This is the new normal. This is what you're going to see on a recurring basis."

No officials in China were available Monday night for comment.

The charges against the Chinese military officials come on the heels of a separate worldwide operation over the weekend that resulted in the arrest of 97 people in 16 countries who are suspected of developing, distributing or using malicious software called BlackShades, Holder said. The software allows criminals to gain surreptitious control of personal computers. An announcement on those arrests was expected for later Monday in New York.

"These two cases show that we are stepping up our cyber enforcement efforts really around the globe," Holder said, adding that the U.S. will not tolerate these activities.

U.S. officials have previously asserted that China's army and China-based hackers had launched attacks on American industrial and military targets, often to steal secrets or intellectual property. China has said that it faces a major threat from hackers, and the country's military is believed to be among the biggest targets of the NSA and U.S. Cyber Command.

"It is our hope that the Chinese government will respect our criminal justice system," Holder said.

The indictment will put a greater strain on the U.S.-China relationship.

In recent months, Washington has been increasingly critical of what it describes as provocative Chinese actions in pursuit of territorial claims in disputed seas in East Asia. For its part, Beijing complains that the Obama administration's attempt to redirect its foreign policy toward Asia after a decade of war in the Middle East is emboldening China's neighbors and causing tension.

The hackers allegedly stole emails and other communications that could have helped Chinese firms learn the strategies and weaknesses of American companies involved in litigation with the Chinese government or Chinese firms.

Despite the ominous-sounding allegations, at least one of the firms downplayed the hacking.

"To our knowledge, no material information was compromised during this incident, which occurred several years ago," said Monica Orbe, Alcoa's director of corporate affairs. "Safeguarding our data is a top priority for Alcoa, and we continue to invest resources to protect our systems."

Last September, President Barack Obama discussed cybersecurity issues on the sidelines of a summit in St. Petersburg, Russia, with Chinese President Xi Jinping.

Associated Press reporters Matthew Pennington in Washington, Joe Mandak in Pittsburgh and Didi Tang in Beijing contributed to this story.

This is an interesting approach, and I have to give Obama and Holder points for creativity here.Â  To criminally indict members of another country's military for crimes they committed under orders, rather than, say, launching military strikes against their military leadership, is the kind of approach I would have recommended in many past cases where the offenders were not major trading partners with large armies.

The real trick is what happens next.Â  Obama doesn't have much moral high ground on the whole spying issue, and unless he's willing to make a big, credible push for civil liberties in the near future, the Chinese are more than likely to just laugh in his face.

Was it me, or was this a very poorly written article? The flow was off, and it jumped around on topics that seemed unconnected.

."In sum, the alleged hacking appears to have been conducted for no other reason than to advantage state-owned companies"

"Alleged" "appears to have" "Â for no other reason"

ChinaÂ steals trade secrets then sells inferior versionsÂ back to us? No way! Hmm. Chinese light switch costs $5.00 and lasts 5yrs. US light switch costs $10.00 and lasts 25yrs. That's a dollar a year for Chinese VS 40 cents a year for American, but the Chinese switch is "cheaper" so we buy it. Meanwhile, the US light switch company goes out of business because their product costs too much and they can't compete.

I think I just found out what's wrong with our economy. Street Jesus 2016!

Any comparisons here to the NSA are ridiculous.Â Â  I'm  not fond of what the NSA is doing,Â  but it is in defense of our country.Â  China is spying and stealing patents for their own  profitability.  What China is doing is simply theft.

These commies have been spying and hacking for decades, stealing not only military but trade secrets too. But yet we keep importing their crap. I say instead of the usual weak response from our government, ban all Chinese imports starting now. That should get their attention back in Beijing.

Holder should be arrested for gun running that killed a cop.

@Sutekh Â "Obama doesn't have much moral high ground on the whole spying issue, and unless he's willing to make a big,"

Thank you Snowden, Countries spy on each other, it's a mutual discretion among goevernments.

That kind of legal-speak is standard for a criminal complaint.

@AL_WA Â Yes and they've been playing that game for many years. Before all the computer hacking, it was actual...physical theft. I watched a report on it where two products were compared side-by-side. One was American-made and the other Chinese. The kicker was that not only were the products identical but some of them even had identical serial numbers to their American counterparts! The American product fell flat because the Chinese duplicate was sold at half the cost because of the low labor costs, etc.

There's a "crotchety old man" stigma towards those who will not buy anything "Made in China"...but in truth, it really should be avoided at all costs. Chinese products are made by exploited workers and usually are stolen/duplicate designs that will end up killing a company somewhere else who can't afford to pay their worker's a decent wage and still sell their product at a competitive cost.

If I could like your comment more than once, I sure would.

I'm not sure if this angler took any fish home, but he sure landed a prize catch with this sunset at Golden Gardens Beach.

Seattle,

Copyright © 2014 Sinclair Interactive Media, LLC; a member of Sinclair Broadcast Group, Inc.
