
I’m sure our pals over at  Mugshotrow.com  will get a kick out of this lady that asked the police if she could just get one more fix in before she was booked for shoplifting at Wal-mart. Hey, say what you want about Wal-mart shoppers but at least you know they are honest. Check out the story below.

A 33-year-old Minnesota woman stopped for shoplifting Monday night at a West Side Walmart found herself in bigger trouble after she asked arresting police officers if she could do some heroin, police said.

Edith Hancock, of the 3000 block of Riverwood Drive in Hastings, Minn., was charged with felony possession of a controlled substance and misdemeanor retail theft, police said.

Hancock, who told police she was three months pregnant, was seen going into a changing room at the Walmart at 4650 W. North Ave. with a pair of jeans, leggings, and a black shirt and then leave the changing area wearing those items, according to police.

After taking some cosmetics and placing them in her purse, she tried to leave the store without paying and was stopped by security, according to police. Chicago police were called and she was taken to the Grand Central District station where she was arrested at 7 p.m., according to police.

While she was being processed, she “continually asked” officers for “just one blow,” a street name for heroin, from her purse because she was “getting dopesick,” according to a police report.

Officers found multiple bags of heroin in her purse, and she continued saying that she “only wanted one” of the bags “because she had ten of them and she thought they might be more than a gram although a couple were very light because she had already used from a least a couple,” the report said.

Hancock was released on a signature bond during a hearing today before Judge Donald Panarese at the Leighton Criminal Court building. She is scheduled to appear in court next on Feb. 18.

Why why would this person be released on a signature bond???  What are the police doing crack too??  She needs to be committed to a treatment facility right that moment.

Wouldn’t this be in Illinois rather than Minnesota?  It sounds like this happened at the Wal-Mart in Chicago.

She’s three months pregnant.  Maybe this should be on Proud Parents.

This is sad, not funny. This woman needs to be in rehab for the sake of her unborn child!

Every thought I have about this and the woman have already been mentioned here. Except one. This woman needs prayer. P.O.W. commentators, pray for this woman and her circumstances. Clearly, no one wants to be in these circumstances or her condition. May the Good Lord protect her child if she is pregnant.

Pray for her?  Hell NO!  This person is scum and should be euthanized .

The sad part is the fact that she is 3 months pregnant and doing drugs.  I hate to say it but I would rather see the baby aborted now rather than continuing it’s life in the womb of a drug user.

People of Walmart is a humor blog that depicts the many customers of Walmart stores across the United States and Canada. Through funny photos and videos, Please of Walmart is an entertainment blog in the Three Ring Blogs network that features over 30 of the funniest humor blogs on the internet. Walmart is the largest retail store in the United States and has millions of people visit stores each day wearing anything but proper attire.
