
ENCINITAS, Calif., May 19, 2014 /PRNewswire/ -- Pong Research Corporation, maker of the Pong Case for mobile devices, today announced that it was selected as a winner in the prestigious 2014 TiE50 Awards Program, putting it in an elite group of 50 winners selected from more than 2,800 companies. Pong engineers "intelligent antenna technology" that enables smartphones and tablets to interact optimally with both wireless networks and users.  The Pong Case redistributes mobile device electromagnetic fields dramatically to reduce consumers' exposure to wireless energy and improve transmitted signal.  The patented design of the Pong Case also complements mobile device antenna architectures.

"At Pong, our mission is to develop cases that do more than offer protection from daily wear and tear.  Our multi-patented passive coupling antenna technology has been tested in FCC-certified laboratories, making Pong the only case proven to reduce your exposure to wireless energy while also increasing your mobile device's outbound signal strength," said Kevin Passarello, EVP, Pong Research Corporation. "We are proud to be acknowledged as one of the top 50 start-ups by the TiE program and are excited to continue our work to bring smarter cases to mobile device users worldwide."

"In the six short years since inception, the TiE 50 program has become a global brand that attracts thousands of companies worldwide for this recognition," said Venktesh Shukla, president of TiE, Silicon Valley. "It is unique in terms of rigor of selection and the broad scope of companies that it reviews for this award and is one of TiE Silicon Valley's most successful programs. It is also worth mentioning that this is the only awards recognition in technology to be held by a large global non-profit organization."

To determine the winner, a panel of experts screened the companies and created a list of the "2014 TiE50 Top Startups." The list was then reviewed by a screening committee of deep domain experts. About 100 of the best of the breed companies were selected to the elite TiE50 Finalist pool who were judged by a panel of highly accomplished team made up of serial entrepreneurs, venture capitalists, angel investors, CEOs and well-rounded technology experts, to determine finalists and winners. Companies were evaluated on three parameters: Business Model, IP Value and Leadership team.

"This year the TiE50 Awards Program screened more than 2800 companies from 27 countries. The finalist pool is represented by early through late stage companies. A star attraction of the conference is TiE50 Finalist presentations. Audiences are treated to great ideas and amazing technologies," said Ram K. Reddy, the program chair.

For further details on the TiE50, visit www.tie50.org .

For more information, visit  www.pongresearch.com .

TiE is a global not-for-profit organization fostering entrepreneurship through mentoring, education, and networking. We consider entrepreneurship to be the single most powerful instrument to advance global prosperity. Our greatest strength is our network of over 60 chapters in 17 countries with a worldwide membership exceeding 14,000 that includes successful entrepreneurs, venture capitalists, corporate executives, and aspiring entrepreneurs. For more information on TiE, visit www.tie.org .
