
Four million people in Britain now work from home – an increase of 62,000 over the year to a new record figure. Swiftly evolving technology is changing the face of employment, says the TUC following its analysis of data from the Office for National Statistics.

But the TUC has also warned this boom may soon be on the wane as too many employers did not trust their workers to do their jobs from home. As someone who works from home every Friday, I know the pluses of office-free life but also the minuses of how it can be perceived.

I’m my own boss these days so don’t have to endure employer scepticism but it is hilarious how family and friends can misinterpret the work ethic of the housebound. Those confined to their corporate cells assume you’re just skiving in your jim-jams in front of Homes Under the Hammer.

My home-working day is routinely referred to as my “day off” by commuting chums, envious of a journey that involves crossing the landing. When I had a builder in for several months he was so amused by the concept that tapping on the home computer was real work, he spent half the day popping his head round the door offering cups of tea and yapping nineteen to the dozen.

People think you’re available for visits, long lunches or even an illicit shared viewing of Loose Women. Retired neighbours give you a knowing smile but just because they’ve got a long afternoon of cross-stitch and Countdown ahead, it doesn’t mean you have.

Indeed a government survey reckoned home-workers slaved for an average 45 hours a week compared with the 37.2 hours clocked up by their office counterparts. Many businesses have reported that the introduction of “smarter working practices” has resulted in better productivity, and improvements in employee relations and staff retention.

And the shocking truth is you do get more done. There’s nobody to talk to for a start. It’s impossible to have a solo water cooler moment. That daily dose of office gossip, banter and dissection of last night’s episode of Gogglebox is somewhat wasted on the cat.

Yet there are drawbacks. I couldn’t do it every day. It’s too lonely. I’d miss the camaraderie of the office – even when we’re arguing about opening/closing the windows, car-park etiquette and whose turn it is to do the tea run. And there’s the need for creative company too – the sharing of ideas. But a balance of home and office can undoubtedly aid the work-life equilibrium. Presenteeism is so last century.

The Western Mail carried a fascinating article over the weekend on the meaning of dreams. Psychologist and dream expert Ian Wallace, who has written a new dictionary of slumber stories gave interpretations of some of our most common reveries.

I recognised all of them. Turning up in the office in your nightie or stark naked (means you’re feeling exposed in real life). Teeth falling out (means you’re losing confidence).

And of course the Exam Dream. I’ve had every variation of this from sitting Finals without a jot of revision to being in the school play having never seen the script to entering a Grade VIII oboe exam and trying to convince the invigilator I don’t actually play the oboe. Again this is your unconscious mind attempting to tackle the fact you’re feeling unprepared for life’s challenges. Marvellous. All my dreams seem to point to me being a complete loser.

But there was one dream interpretation that surely takes the psychobabble too far – the loo nightmare is our third most common dream: “You are desperate for the toilet and searching frantically to find one, but the only toilets that you may be able to find are in strange places or in full public view because they have no walls or a door that you can’t lock,” says Mr Wallace.

So what does this mean? “Theories suggest that the toilet is a place where people go to release substances that are no longer healthy or sustaining and so dreaming about a call of nature reflects a situation in real life that has become unhealthy for the dreamer, but he or she is unsure how to get rid of it.” So without wanting to be too crude, it is a metaphor for weeing away your worries.

I beg to differ. This dream has a purpose that is more practical than psychological. I have had it many times. Every lavatory I enter in the land of nod is about as appealing as the festering bog that swallows Ewan McGregor in Trainspotting. On and on goes the search for the perfect toilet but in the dreamworld it never materialises. The unconscious quest finally makes you wake up and go to the bathroom.

The grande dame of American broadcasting Barbara Walters has finally retired at the age of 84. In a career spanning six decades, she became the first TV news anchor to make $1m, interviewed every world figure from the Shah of Iran to the Dalai Lama and created The View, a pioneering daytime format that showcased female opinion.

Walters didn’t so much smash the glass ceiling as hurl a wrecking ball through it. And not just the glass ceiling of media sexism, but the crystal roof of broadcasting ageism. While British television applies the principles of Logan’s Run to female presenters – kill ‘em off over 40 – and Cilla Black ridiculously thinks anyone over 75 shouldn’t be let near the small screen, America has a refreshing attitude to mature women.

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

Join us on social media.

For the latest local news straight to your Twitter, Facebook feed, e-mail inbox or tablet .

WalesOnline.co.uk conforms to the newspaper industry's voluntary Code of Practice, administered by the Press Complaints Commission.

If you feel we have made an error in a report, or have fallen below our usual high standards, please write in the first instance to: Ceri Gould, Online Editor, WalesOnline.co.uk, Media Wales, Six Park Street, Cardiff CF10 1XR. Tel: 029 2024 3672.

We reach over 1,384,563* unique users a month with dedicated coverage of all things Welsh.

WalesOnline is part of Media Wales, publisher of the Western Mail, South Wales Echo, Wales on Sunday and the seven Celtic weekly titles, offering you unique access to our audience across Wales online and in print.

Ceri has been editor of WalesOnline since April 2012. She was previously executive editor of Media Wales and deputy editor of the Western Mail. She started her career on the Glamorgan Gazette.
