
Get Inquisitr's daily viral news by e-mail and never miss the internet's hottest stories!

BLM forest rangers were ordered to open gates for thirsty cattle in New Mexico by state officials. Bureau of Land Management Forest Service agents blocked gates in a rural area which prevented livestock from crossing freely during a water rights dispute late last week.

Tensions between the ranchers and the federal government made international headlines last month when BLM agents converged upon the Bundy ranch , owned by Cliven Bundy , in Bunkerville, Nevada. As previously reported by The Inquisitr, approximately 52 percent of the land in the western United States is owned by the federal government.

The situation in Otero County, New Mexico has been compared to the Bundy ranch standoff and is now garnering international media coverage as well. The ranchers involved in the New Mexico water rights have not had grazing fees levied against them.

Tempers flared after US Forest Service agents locked the gates which had always allowed cattle to cross into the Lincoln National Forest to drink water in a creek. The rangers reportedly told the ranchers that the move was an effort to protect the habitat of the New Mexico Jumping Mouse.

Next month the New Mexico Jumping Mouse is slated to join the endangered species list. The expected listing would include the protection of nearly 200 miles of “critical habitat” in New Mexico, Colorado, and Arizona. The endangered species listing comes after a lawsuit settlement with the WildEarth Guardians group.

The Otero County Commission voted 2-0 (one New Mexico commissioner was absent) to “immediately take steps to remove or open gates that are unlawfully denying citizens access to their private property rights.” During the Monday meeting Otero County Commissioner Ronny Radin stated that although he was not comfortable action against people that are his friends, referencing the forest rangers, he had an obligation to uphold the Constitution.

Otero County Sheriff Benny House told the media that he plans to enforce the order by the county until after a meeting at the end of this week organized by acting US Attorney Damon Martinez.

Join Us!

Get Inquisitr's daily viral news by e-mail and never miss the internet's hottest stories!
