
As a Kentico Gold partner, Bit-Wizards continually encourages its team to contribute to the Kentico development community. One way the Bit-Wizards team accomplishes this is through the development of modules that can be used within the Kentico platform by other developers. When a new module is developed, Bit-Wizards submits it to the Kentico marketplace for approval.

Once the new module is approved Kentico publishes it to their marketplace for other developers to download and use. Bit-Wizards always submits their modules for use free of charge so that everyone can benefit.

Over the past few years Bit-Wizards has submitted many modules to the Kentico Marketplace. The most current was submitted just this week by Bryan Soltis, Kentico MVP and Director of Research and Technology at Bit-Wizards. The new module is the very first module submitted for use in the new Kentico 8 platform, which was just made available in late March.

The Bit-Wizards SQL Execution Module allows site administrators to execute SQL commands against a Kentico database directly from the Kentico Admin portal. The command required for execution can be selected and the appropriate results are then displayed on the developer’s screen. Additionally, results can be displayed in multiple UniGrids and exported using standard Kentico functionality.

Kentico provides an affordable, award-winning integrated marketing solution that’s easy to use, but also highly customizable for powerful real-time customer-centric marketing across multiple channels, on-premise or in the Cloud. Founded in 2004, Kentico is headquartered in the Czech Republic with offices in the US, UK, and Australia. A Microsoft Gold Certified Partner with 1,100 digital agency partners, Kentico powers more than 18,000 websites in 90 countries. Customers include Bacardi; Great British Chefs; Gibson; Mazda; Microsoft; Mighty River Power; Run and Become; Sony; Vodafone.

All product and company names herein may be trademarks of their respective owners.
