
Nevada State Trooper Jeremie Elliott explains the purpose of The Convincer to Maj. Eric Deturk, 799th Security Forces Squadron commander, during an equipment display at Creech Air Force Base as part of Police Week May 14, 2014. The Convincer simulates a 5 mph accident so an individual can feel the safety belt stop their momentum to put into perspective that higher speed accidents will hit harder.

CREECH AIR FORCE BASE, Nev. -- In honor of National Police Week, the 799th Security Forces Squadron, local highway patrol officers and the Las Vegas Police Department gathered at Creech Air Force Base for several demonstrations, challenges, a retreat ceremony and a vigil run May 12-16.

During the display and demonstration expo, Creech members participated in a military working dog demo, received a briefing and illustration about taser usage, and viewed military and civilian security vehicles.

Police Week is a nation-wide event proclaimed by the president of the United States during the week of May 15 each year to recognize all law enforcement officers who have paid the ultimate sacrifice.

"This year specifically, it has really hit home because during this past year our unit lost one of its defenders," said Maj. Eric Deturk, 799th SFS commander. "The Las Vegas Metro Police also lost one of their members in the line of duty. This gives us the opportunity to recognize the ultimate sacrifice they have made for the safety of others."

Creech defenders make it a point to invite the local law enforcement agencies of the Las Vegas area to participate in the commemorative week. These agencies provide security for Creech members who make the drive out to the base and who live off base.

"A number of the Hunter and Diamondback members live in the local area," Deturk said. "This is our way of showing local police department and troopers appreciation for what they do to keep our families safe."

During Police Week local law enforcement agencies were able to come onto the base and show their equipment and the devices they use on a daily basis, while also building a better relationship with Creech members.

"This is a good opportunity for us to assist people and answer any questions they might have about what we do," said Senior Sgt. Thomas Higgins, Nevada Highway Patrol. "Often times it is a real eye opener when we're able to show our new SUVs and equipment we use to the public. During this past week I've really appreciated all the people who have come up to me, shook my hand, and told me thank you for my service; it means a lot."

This work, 799th SFS, local law enforcement gather to recognize Police Week, by SSgt Adawn Kelsey , identified by DVIDS , is free of known copyright restrictions under U.S. copyright law.
