
DART First State confirmed Friday that it will eliminate the Newark-to-Elkton route.

Posted: Monday, May 19, 2014 12:15 am | Updated: 6:55 pm, Wed May 21, 2014.

The future of the only remaining public bus route from Newark to Elkton, Md., is growing more dreary as DART officials confirmed the elimination of the route while Cecil County transit officials continue to work toward a possible service transfer.

Last Friday, Delaware Transit Corporation, the parent company of DART First State, announced it would end service of the 13-year-old Route 65 Newark-to-Elkton route as of July 1. The proposal was first announced a month ago, and several public hearings were held for the public to voice their opinions.

DART officials noted in the announcement that it is still in active negotiations with the Cecil County Department of Senior Services & Community Transit to try to transfer that route to Cecil County. Department Director David Trolio confirmed that negotiations are continuing, but added that he is awaiting the final budget figures.

The Cecil County Council briefly discussed the transit department’s proposal to absorb the route during a May 13 work session, where some objections were raised. The department is seeking $19,000 from the county to change four part-time bus drivers to full-time and add an additional driver as part of several initiatives, including the DART takeover.

County Councilwoman Diana Broomell voiced concern that the majority of the route would operate out of the county.

“Isn’t our taxpayer-subsidized bus route supposed to prioritize serving our citizens and getting them to the places where they need to be? Sounds like they’re serving a lot of the citizens of Delaware,” she added.

Her colleagues said many county residents need to get to Delaware for employment or services, which would serve their interests.

Trolio said that if the council does approve the project, it is possible that there could be a service delay before Cecil County drivers could begin the route and DART ends service.

Trolio previously told the council that he believes the county could absorb the route and run it for cheaper than DART First State.

Trolio’s department would alter the bus’ route slightly, making at least 10 stops at the intersection of Route 279 and Fletchwood Road, the Newark Rail Station, the Newark Transit Hub, Four Seasons Plaza on Route 896, Peoples Plaza, Wal-Mart on Route 40, Union Hospital, the Elkton Housing Authority, Cecil College Elkton Station and the Elkton Central Library. Four of those stops are not available on the current DART route. He said the approximate ride time on the altered 21-mile Route 65 route would be about 1 hour, 6 minutes.

The estimated cost to take on the route is about $189,834. Trolio said he requested DART fund $75,000 of the route, because the Maryland Transit Administration previously contributed that amount to DART’s current Route 65 service, and the bus would continue to serve Delawareans. He added that negotiations are also looking at securing such funding for several years.

“(If we don’t get the DART funding) then we likely won’t take over the route,” Trolio said.

When asked how exactly Cecil Transit could run the route cheaper than DART, Trolio said the smaller administrative costs in Cecil County wouldn’t burden the service, and the expense of non-unionized drivers would also be cheaper. The average Cecil County bus driver salary is $22,000, with about $7,000 in benefits.

The county department currently operates services that run in the length of the Route 40 corridor from Glasgow to Perryville, Md. Trolio said his department is seeing increased ridership in the county as marketing grows, and this year projects to serve 91,000 riders, an increase of about 18.5 percent over last year.

DART officials noted that ridership for the route in fiscal year 2013 was 15,319, which was three to five times less than the average New Castle County route per revenue hour. Since 2009, the route has nearly tripled its annual ridership though, which is encouraging, Trolio said.

Posted in News on Monday, May 19, 2014 12:15 am. Updated: 6:55 pm.

1 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language.

2 Don't Threaten or Abuse. Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated. AND PLEASE TURN OFF CAPS LOCK.

3 Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.

4 Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.

5 Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.

6 Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness accounts, the history behind an article.

Welcome to the discussion.
