
Get Inquisitr's daily viral news by e-mail and never miss the internet's hottest stories!

A 9-year-old girl was removed from her adoptive parents and given to the father she never knew. At the age of 2, Sonya was placed with Kim and David Hodgin as a foster child. Although she lived with the Hodgins for seven years and was eventually adopted, Sonya was removed from their home in January.

While she was living with the Hodgins, Sonya’s biological father, John McCaul, was convicted of a weapons charge and sentenced to 15 years in prison. Under Tennessee law, defendants who are sentenced to more than 10 years in prison automatically lose parental rights.

In 2008, Sonya was legally adopted by Kim and David Hodgin. Months later, McCaul’s sentence was reduced to seven years. With credit for time served, he was released from prison in 2009. He immediately filed for a reversal of the adoption.

Although the adoption was reversed, and Sonya was given to her father, the Hodgins continued to appeal the decision. As reported by Daily News, a hearing is scheduled for June 18 .

Kim and David said they received one phone call from Sonya and it was not encouraging. Although the 9-year-old said her father is “being nice to her,” she asked the Hodgins to “come and get” her. CNN reports that Sonya is unhappy at her father’s home .

This breaks my heart! If the bio dad was any kind of human being he would return the girl to her actual parents!

Clearly the obvious choice was to put her back with as idiot she does not know, because when she was a baby he cared about her enough not to have weapons.  This is so stupid, if he really wanted his daughter to be happy he would have left her were she was.  Who cares about stability and now the mental stress on the kid.  I assume he is getting some type of government benefits to have the kid… so she is his income.

if I was in the father's shoes, I would try for an open adoption. That way she could remain with the family she knows and be part of  mines as well. We all could have been family instead of the whole tearing apart they have now.

but the courts followed the law, he does have a right to raise his child.

It says "While she was living with the Hodgins, Sonya’s biological father, John McCaul, was convicted of a weapons charge and sentenced to 15 years in prison"

Why was she living with them at that point before he even went to jail. it doesn't really say why she was in foster care to begin with. Why didn't the father have the child before he went to jail. was he not allowed to take care of her then, did he already give up parental rights? there's more details that are not shown here that i would like to know.

his is why so many people wont step up to help children in the system.

For those blindly supporting the Former Foster Parents because of the half-truths reported in the media, you might want to do some further research about this case (through true, unbiased facts – like actual court documents and not PR fed stories such as this) before supporting and encouraging the actions of these people.

From the very beginning, Sonya's family has fought for her. She was never in need of adoption! DCS was working with her Grandmother, eight years ago, so she could be returned to her family where she belonged.

But the Foster Parents did all they could to force Sonya away from her own family. They decided they were entitled to another man's child and went against DCS and Sonya's family to illegally adopt her.

The adoption was overturned five years ago and yet the foster parents have continued to deny Sonya her family. For eight years they have fought to take a child that was never in need of a family.

This is not a case of father goes to jail, adoptive parents come in and lovingly care for a child in need, father gets out of jail and suddenly decides he wants his child back.

This is the case of a father, an entire family, that has fought against the Foster Family from the VERY beginning because their love for her was never ending and she deserved to be with her family. It is a case of a couple, desperate for a child, deciding they had a right to try and rip an innocent little girl away from her own family so they could have her.

DCS just testified in court on Friday that the Foster Family has fought against them for eight years to return Sonya to her family and that, even if she were ever removed from her Father's care, she would not be returned to the Foster parents because that would be detrimental to her!

I cannot understand, once learning the facts, how anyone could support such cruel actions by a couple who feels they are entitled to take an innocent girl away from her family simply because it's what they desire.

The Judge followed the law – there is case law that supports his decision.  Sonya has spoken and said she wants to stay with her biological father in Nebraska.  There is much more to this please go to SONYA IS HOME if you have any specific questions. We will be happy to answer them on behalf of Sonya.  Thank you.

You may want to ask yourself why did the foster parents get the child taken away, what did they do? They did not cooperate with DCS. Sonya has since learned the truth about how she came to live with the foster parents and has chosen to live with her father in Nebraska.  She is doing very well. If you have any questions, please feel free to contact SONYA IS HOME.

So… there are a lot of comments that say that the biological father is wrong, and I can see where that comes from. What if it was the biological mother, though? Men get a bad rap in custody cases and often women are given preference over men. The fact remains that the state made a mistake. He is the biological father of the child and has the right to BE her father. There are plenty of children who grow up under all kinds of circumstances… homeless, abused, etc. So this one child has to transition to a different type of life then the one she had before… does that necessarily make it a bad thing? He is her father, for Pete's sake.

This child will never recover from this.

The attorney Gasaway is completely nuts. Really this whole thing is insane…that child should be returned to the adoptive parents. If the biological father hadn't gone to prison in the first place then none of this would be happening…..what a horrible outcome!

The father was awarded custody in 2005.  They did have reunification plan in place but the Hodgins were not cooperating – why do you think DCS came in and took her.  They were uncooperative period.

They already tried that – it did not work that is why DCS came in and took her from the foster parents.

This judge should lose his license and college degree for this.

Jo Anna Hoffmann According to the story, the child was legally adopted in 2008 while Daddy Dearest was in prison.

This makes me sick!  Some 'rules' are made to be broken.  A convicted felon, really!  My prayers for this child and the family who loves her.

Mickie Lynn Halley . If the grandmother was such a great option, why wasn't the child placed with the grandmother when she was removed from the father?  Did the grandmother protect the child while she was with her father from a criminal life?  Maybe this would have been an option when she was two but she is not two, she has been living with her "parents" for seven years.  She is happy, well-adjusted and has a thriving life.  Did the grandmother take them to court when she was two, three, five, seven?  CPS looks to the family first for placement and then foster.  Now she is living in filth, how long before the dad gets sick of having her around?  Her options for a decent life are over with him.

Join Us!

Get Inquisitr's daily viral news by e-mail and never miss the internet's hottest stories!
