
The charges come as the U.S. has long complained about Chinese hackers stealing information and trade secrets from U.S. computer systems.

WASHINGTON, May 19 (UPI) -- The Justice Department on Monday will announce charges against individuals linked to the China's People's Liberation Army accusing them of cyber espionage.

This is the first time the United States has charged employees of a foreign state with stealing trade secrets from American companies, according to law enforcement officials. U.S. government officials have long complained about Chinese intrusions into U.S. computer systems, targeting trade secrets and giving Chinese companies a competitive edge.

The charges are being filed against five people who allegedly work for a part of the People's Liberation Army known as Unit 61398 in Shanghai. The hackers allegedly stole plans for a nuclear power plant and cost and pricing information from a solar panel firm.

Attorney General Eric Holder and senior Federal Bureau of Investigation officials plan to announce the charges Monday morning.

© 2014 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Any reproduction, republication, redistribution and/or modification of any UPI content is expressly prohibited without UPI's prior written consent.

UPI licenses content directly to print outlets, online media and institutions of all types. In addition, UPI's distribution partners provide our content to thousands of businesses, policy groups and academic institutions worldwide. Our audience consists of millions of decision-makers who depend on UPI's insightful and analytical stories to make better business or policy decisions.

In the year of our 107th anniversary, our company strives to continue being a leading and trusted source for news, analysis and insight for readers around the world.

© 2014 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

UPI.com is your trusted source for world news, top news, science news, health news and current events.

We thank you for visiting us and we hope that we will be your daily stop for news updates.
