
May 5 —  Public companies should prepare for a new wave of Securities and Exchange Commission enforcement actions stemming from whistle-blower complaints, securities lawyers said May 2 at a legal gathering.

William Michael, a partner with Mayer Brown LLP in Chicago and co-chair of the firm's white collar defense practice, said publicity surrounding the growing number of awards to whistle-blowers already is motivating new whistle-blowers to come forward.

Michael noted that 3,001 complaints were filed with the SEC's Office of the Whistleblower in 2012 and 3,238 complaints in 2013. He said 6,573 complaints have been filed since the Office of the Whistleblower was created in 2010.

Michael noted that the office announced its first major award late last year, with $14 million paid to a whistle-blower who provided information that triggered an SEC enforcement action and recovered substantial investor funds.

“What you are going to start seeing is many of these complaints, the 3,000 that have been filed in each of the last couple of years, are going to start coming to fruition. And that is when the awards will start happening,” Michael told practitioners attending the Northwestern University School of Law's annual Ray Garrett Jr. Corporate and Securities Law Institute.

Junaid Zubairi, chair of the government enforcement and special investigations practice at Vedder Price in Chicago, agreed and said the awards would trigger growth in initial complaints coming into the commission.

The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act provided for a whistle-blower program within the SEC. Under the program, individuals who supply high-quality original information that leads to an SEC enforcement action in which more than $1 million in sanctions is ordered may be awarded between 10 percent and 30 percent of the money collected.

Dodd-Frank also included enhanced anti-retaliation employment protections for whistle-blowers and provisions to protect their identity. The law restricts the SEC from disclosing any information, including information that could reveal the identity of the whistle-blower.

In this new climate, Zubairi said public companies need to reexamine their internal whistle-blower policies and procedures. He said strong internal programs tend to alleviate the frustration and mistrust that frequently drive employees into federal whistle-blower programs.

“What can companies do to foster internal reporting? I think there has got to be direct communication to the employees that: we take your concerns seriously; we are going to listen to you; we understand where you are coming from; and, we can evaluate the concern you have raised in a thorough, thoughtful way that has everyone's interests in mind,” he said.
