
The 2014-2015 Washington FFA state officers are, left to right, secretary Maya Wahl of Lind, Wash., vice president Becca Foote of Yelm, Wash., president Apolinar Blanco of Chelan, Wash.;  treasurer Megan Miller of White River, Wash.; reporter Samantha Brown of Stanwood, Wash, and sentinel Lizbeth Bumstead of Pullman, Wash. The officers were elected and installed during the Washington FFA Convention May 17 on the Washington State University campus in Pullman, Wash.

Newly elected Washington FFA president Apolinar Blanco of Chelan, Wash., looks on as outgoing president Bailey Peters reads his duties for the coming year during the Washington FFA Convention May 17 in Pullman, Wash.

The Washington State FFA installed new officers during its annual convention in Pullman, Wash. State FFA adviser Rebecca Wallace hopes to further connect the FFA with the greater industry inthe year ahead.

PULLMAN, Wash. — Washington FFA will work to connect members with the greater agriculture industry in the coming year, says a state adviser.

The state convention concluded May 17 with the installation of the new 2014-2015 officers: president Apolinar Blanco of Chelan, Wash., vice president Becca Foote of Yelm, Wash., secretary Maya Wahl of Lind, Wash., treasurer Megan Miller of White River, Wash., reporter Samantha Brown of Stanwood, Wash., and sentinel Lizbeth Bumstead of Pullman, Wash.

Departing president Bailey Peters, of Centralia, Wash., said during her farewell address that farmers like her grandfather live a life of service to provide food, clothing and housing across America.

State FFA adviser Rebecca Wallace, who took over her position in July 2013, believes the state program’s leadership development will help members be ready to enter the workforce at a time when projected agricultural employment is growing.

“The parts that I’m most proud of are all the things that happen outside of convention, that our chapters are doing for their community,” she said.

Wallace said agriculture is in a unique position to meet new state education standards. The new science and engineering practices are student-based learning, which has long been the state FFA’s educational model, she said.

Wallace plans to develop a new state advisory council in the early summer, to carry from middle school, high school and college, community college or technical school and into the industry.
