
The United States is charging a group of Chinese military officials with corporate espionage for allegedly stealing secrets from American companies.

The United States has charged five members of China's military for stealing American corporate secrets, the first time the US has indicted foreign government officials with economic espionage.

Just days after the top US general hosted his Chinese counterpart in Washington to promote closer ties, US Attorney-General Eric Holder has "categorically denounced" the members of the Shanghai-based Unit 61398 of China's army.

"We are announcing an indictment against five officers of the Chinese People's Liberation Army for serious cyber security breaches against six American companies," Mr Holder said.

"When a foreign nation uses military or intelligence resources and tools against an American executive or corporation for the benefit of its state-owned companies we must say enough is enough."

"The indictment alleges that Wang, Sun, and Wen, among others known and unknown to the grand jury, hacked or attempted to hack into US entities named in the indictment, while Huang and Gu supported their conspiracy by, among other things, managing infrastructure (e.g. domain accounts) used for hacking," the summary of the indictment says.

The corporations are based in Pennsylvania and include nuclear power company Westinghouse Electric, aluminium maker Alcoa, specialty metals company Allegheny Technologies Incorporated, United States Steel, United Steelworkers Union and Solar World.

US attorney for western Pennsylvania, David Hickton, was more blunt.

"This 21st century burglary has to stop. We would not stand idly by if someone pulled a tractor trailer up to a corporate headquarters, cracked the lock and loaded up sensitive information," he said.

Chinese state media reported the country had summoned US ambassador Max Baucus over the indictment.

Assistant foreign minister Zheng Zeguang lodged a "solemn representation" with Mr Baucus on Monday night, the official Xinhua news agency reported, citing the foreign ministry.

The Department of Justice said the companies got tired of being "raided" and called in authorities to track the hackers.

"Right about the time that Solar World was rapidly losing its market share to Chinese competitors that were pricing exports well below costs these hackers were stealing cost, pricing and strategy information from Solar World's computers," assistant attorney-general for the national security division John Carlin said.

"And while Westinghouse was negotiating with a Chinese state-owned enterprise over the construction of nuclear power plants, the hackers stole trade secret designs for those plants," he said.

Facing questions at the daily White House briefing that the Chinese military officers would never be brought to the US to face the charges, spokesman Jay Carney defended the laying of charges.

"The behaviour that's been identified, by China, has continued and it's not acceptable. State-sponsored, cyber-enabled theft of trade secrets and other sensitive business information for commercial gain is not something we can tolerate," Mr Carney said.

A statement from the Chinese foreign ministry in Beijing declared the charges were "made up" and would "damage Sino-American cooperation and mutual trust".

"China is a staunch defender of network security, and the Chinese government, military and associated personnel have never engaged in online theft of trade secrets," said the statement from spokesman Qin Gang.

The US state department said "a discussion about the issues" was the best way forward.
