
A Connecticut teen asked Vice President Biden to her high school prom never expecting to get a response. But the day before prom, a note and corsage showed up on the 17-year-old’s doorstep.

Talia Maselli, a senior at Newington High School, wrote to the vice president last fall. “I could only tolerate a high school dance if I was to be escorted by the most delightful man in America,” said Maselli in the note,  reports  the Hartford Courant.

Months later, Biden responded, saying his schedule would prevent him from making it. “I hope you will accept this corsage and enjoy your prom as much as I did mine,” the vice president wrote to Maselli and tweeted earlier today.

The teen told Biden in her note that she may have to ask House Speaker John Boehner if her request was turned down.

“And we can’t have that now can we,” she wrote. The corsage must have smoothed things over because there are no signs that Boehner went instead.

JulieAnn McKellogg is the video producer for The Reliable Source.

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
