
The caller reported being robbed at gunpoint at the intersection of Elaine Drive and Bluefield Avenue.

The caller reported being robbed at gunpoint at the intersection of Elaine Drive and Bluefield Avenue.

An active shooter has been reported at the Fort Lee Army base in central Virginia.

and shot a man before escaping.

Jessica Jones lives in the home with her boyfriend and his family. She says she was just getting ready to go to bed when she heard a commotion at her front door.

“I was scared, I was scared to death, because I didn't know if they were trying to break into the room and shoot us, too,” she said.

1:15 a.m.

, but the suspects had already fled the scene.

“They thought that there was money in the house or something,” said Jones. “But there is nothing in the house, they came to the wrong house."

Neighbors say crime within this community has increased drastically within the past few months and that's why they are intent on helping police catch those responsible.

"I sometimes have to walk late at night and it kind of leaves me a little concerned because I don't carry weapons to defend myself,” said Joshua Hensley, who lives and works in the neighborhood.

police say they've received a number of calls throughout the day. Some were from neighbors reporting unusual activity in back alleys. Others were reports from people who say they saw suspicious vehicles in the area. Neighbors blame recent crime in the neighborhood on drug use.

One person has been shot and another person assaulted in South Charleston, WV.

Metro 911 dispatchers say at least three people were reported fighting around 1 a.m. Monday, when one person shot another in the leg.

Two masked men entered a home on the 4800 block of Ohio Street and began arguing with the people inside.

One person was shot shortly after, while another sustained a head injury.

The shooters left the scene and are on the run.

Units from the Dunbar Police Department, Charleston Police Department, Kanawha County Sheriff's Office, and the West Virginia State Police are assisting South Charleston Police at this time. Multiple K-9 are also assisting in the search.

The victims were taken to the hospital and are expected to be okay.

If you have any information on the whereabouts of the shooting suspects, you are asked to dial 911.

All content © Copyright 2000 - 2014 WorldNow and WOWK. All Rights Reserved.
