
Massachusetts-based tech giant EMC is among the most prominent champions of keeping noncompete agreements legal in the state.

As Callum Borchers writes in Sunday’s Globe , EMC “fiercely guards its workforce against competitors” in Massachusetts (while aggressively recruiting workers from rivals in California, where noncompetes are banned).

The approach has been working swimmingly for EMC, it would appear. But if the tide is truly turning against noncompetes in Massachusetts , it could prove very shortsighted.

Competition for talent being what it is in the fast-growing tech industry, workers have many choices these days. And in Boston, a number of young companies have been spurning noncompete agreements from the start (among them are Boundless, Dunwello, and Change Collective).

Other tech firms have gotten rid of noncompetes ( Acquia , RunKeeper, SavingStar). And still others, such as Plexxi, are required by venture capital agreements to have noncompetes, but support banning them across the board in Massachusetts.

Pushing hard to keep noncompetes enforceable in Massachusetts could thus backfire for EMC. Judging from what I’m hearing in the startup community, the stance clearly serves as a turn-off to many talented tech workers. And it appears that those who don’t want to sign a noncompete will have an increasingly easier time finding companies without the agreements.

If noncompetes are banned outright in Massachusetts, EMC and other companies lobbying to keep the agreements — including Boston Scientific, Abiomed, and Covidien — could take a hit on their recruiting efforts, particularly when it comes to their ability to attract the most sought-after workers.

Click “+” on any tag to track what matters to you.

Add tags to My Beta to follow the news stories, trends, and companies you care about.

Boston’s cybersecurity cluster , take note: You may not be very popular with government snoopers.

Cisco plans to lay off 6,000 employees, or 8 percent of its headcount, in declining business lines.

Nasuni has added $10 million to its Series C round to expand its data storage software used by large companies.

In some ways, Boston’s tech community—while highly active and growing—seems like it’s playing in the minor leagues. And yet the potential is there to play in the majors, provided that more companies succeed at growing large and staying independently owned over the long term (becoming major hirers and acquirers along the way).

The current state legislative session ends July 31, and if anything is going to be done about noncompete clauses—even a compromise between opponents and supporters of the status quo—it’ll need to be done by then.
