
So this one’s personal for me.

The day they bused the poor kids to my school was the first time I’d ever come face to face with children my age who were so poor they weren’t properly clothed. It was the first time – in a society where I saw separate water fountains for blacks and whites, and the black maid who helped my mom around the house explained to us she wasn’t allowed to use the dressing rooms at the local department store – that I was taught to – yes, taught to – sit across the aisle from a kid whose skin color was different from mine and treat him as my peer.

It was the first time the real public was allowed to show up at my “public” school. And although I was only seven years old, I’ve never forgotten it.

The headline was not so surprising: “New Chicago High School To Be Named For Obama.” The president, after all, is a monumentally historic figure for breaking the nation’s color barrier in its highest elected office. And he is an adopted son of Chicago.

But then you get into the fine print, and you learn the Mayor Rahm Emanuel and Chicago Public Schools CEO Barbara Byrd-Bennett are building the Barack Obama College Preparatory High School on the North Side, and it’s going to be “a selective-enrollment high school,” with $60 million in tax funds financing it.

Then recall, if you will, Emanuel and Byrd-Bennett are the officials who oversaw last year’s mass closure of 50 schools – the worst such event in American history – in the neighborhoods of black and brown Chicago school children. Then go a little deeper.

And the announcement of the new Obama academy virtually coincided with a decision by Emanuel’s “hand-picked school board” to “fire every administrator, teacher, paraprofessional and lunch lady from three neighborhood schools … on the south and west side,”  – i.e., where poor children of color live.

So 60 years after Brown v. Board, here’s what passes for advancements in civil rights: grand gestures of “progress” – honoring a mixed race president – that amount to empty symbolism, while more direct harm is done to minority school children every day.

It’s indeed a “tale of two cities,” to use Klonsky’s words. And it’s a tale of two nations.

The dynamics of racial inequality in public education practiced in Chicago is at work in schools in the Deep South too. In an outstanding report “Segregation Now,” ProPublica journalist Nikole Hannah-Jones took us to a high school in Tuscaloosa, Alabama that “was one of the South’s signature integration success stories” but is now “a struggling school serving the city’s poorest part of town.” The school, now 99 percent black, stands in sharp contrast to schools in adjacent white neighborhoods that have been gerrymandered into attendance zones that keep the races separate.

Join the Human Rights Campaign if you believe that everyone has the right to marry the person they love.
