
Abel Ferrara's new film screens out of competition, in a pavilion on the beach, where it is, for an instant, the hottest ticket in town. There is no queue, just a furious, surging free-for-all, as the delegates mass at the gate, standing on each others' toes and jostling with the camera crews. It makes no odds that Welcome to New York actually goes straight to VOD the moment the Cannes premiere begins. For a heady 10-minute spell, it's the Holy Grail, the Ark of the Covenant and Thomas Pynchon's passport all rolled up into one.

Inside the tent, on the screen, Gérard Depardieu plays a thinly-veiled Dominque Strauss-Kahn, who is arrested for sexual assault and made to go buck-naked for his strip search at the prison. Welcome to New York is a bracing, jolting movie , weaving like a drunken uncle from one outrageous setpiece to the next. The pavilion bucks and billows. The music from next-door's party keeps seeping through the canvas. And out on the Croisette, the sex workers tout for business. Try as he might, I don't think Ferrara could have dreamed up a more appropriate setting.

And still the movies pour forth. Maps to the Stars is a luxuriant Hollywood satire, shot in the manner of a daytime soap and performed with gleeful gusto. Foxcatcher , meanwhile, proves an engrossing brew of privilege and testosterone, buttressed by a fine performance from Steve Carell as the self-deluding billionaire who buys himself a wrestler. After a quiet start, there is a sense that the Cannes competition has now begun to hit its stride. Even so, I'm not sure I've yet seen anything I've loved as much as The Great Beauty, Blue is the Warmest Colour or Inside Llewyn Davis, which all played here last year. Have we seen the winner yet? I'm hoping it's still out there.

Two rows behind, just before the movie starts, a journalist is on the phone to a publicist. "OK, so you promise me a 20-minute interview and then cut it down to six. But that's OK, that's fine, and you know why it's OK?" Her voice has started to rise. "Because the movie is shit," she says. "Because it's never going to play in my territory anyway! And because I was never going to run the interview anyway!"

All around her, the delegates are transfixed. Summon the stewards; we have a traumatised Cannes casualty. She's in row-P; she's gone insane. Stick her inside the wagon and cart her back across the river.

Our editors' picks for the day's top news and commentary delivered to your inbox each morning.
