
Elissa Silverman, who came within five percentage points of winning election to the D.C. Council last year, said Monday she will try again to claim an at-large seat, this time as an independent.

In her last run , Silverman ran was able to garner significant support from young voters and those identifying as progressive, running first among several candidates who took aim at eventual winner Anita Bonds (D) as being too hidebound in the Democratic establishment. In her e-mail to supporters Monday, she said her previous campaign “challenged the conventional wisdom” and helped “changed the culture” of local politicking.

“I will continue my focus on fairness and equity; on keeping DCPS and D.C. public charter schools accountable; on assuring that every neighborhood has a high-quality elementary, middle, and high school; on keeping our city affordable to all by investing in housing and good public transportation; and on making our government transparent and accessible to residents and businesses,” she wrote.

Silverman, a former reporter and policy analyst, also said she would again eschew corporate contributions — a stance that has endeared her to progressive voters but could leave her with fewer campaign resources than her competitors. Democratic mayoral candidate Tommy Wells, for instance, took a similar pledge and found himself outspent by several competitors, finishing third in the April 1 primary.

Speaking of Wells, who gave up a likely third term as Ward 6 council member to pursue the mayoralty, he said Monday he would not pursue the at-large seat as an independent. In an interview, Wells said his first inclination after concluding his 15-month mayoral run was not to leap back into another campaign, and a few weeks of reflection did nothing to change that.

As many as 12 candidates could appear on the pick-two ballot in November, taking advantage of incumbent independent David A. Catania’s decision to run for mayor. Besides Silverman and the four candidates who won party nominations in last month’s primaries — incumbent Anita Bonds (D), Marc Morgan (R), Eugene Puryear (Statehood Green) and Frederick Steiner (Libertarian) — another six independent candidates have filed papers with campaign finance authorities — Wendell Felder, Brian Hart, Graylan Hagler, Khalid Pitts, Kevin Valentine Jr. and Robert White.

Another potential independent candidate, Eric Jones, has formed an exploratory committee, and a sitting D.C. Council member, Yvette M. Alexander (D-Ward 7), recently mused about switching her party status to independent and pursuing the at-large seat.

Mike DeBonis covers local politics and government for The Washington Post. He also writes a blog and a political analysis column that runs on Fridays.

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker .

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
