
Halt and Catch Fire captures the rise of the PC era in the early 1980s, during which a renegade trio — a visionary, an engineer and a prodigy — risk it all to realize their vision of building a computer that could change the future. The series charts the changing culture of Texas’s Silicon Prairie while tensions build within the group as they attempt to truly innovate. They navigate the thin line between genius and delusion, as their drive to do something that might truly matter runs up against innumerable obstacles. The 10-episode series is created by Christopher Cantwell and Christopher C. Rogers and executive produced by showrunner Jonathan Lisco (Southland), Gran Via Productions’ Mark Johnson (Breaking Bad, Rectify, Diner, Rain Man) and Melissa Bernstein (Breaking Bad, Rectify).

Halt and Catch Fire is set roughly one year after IBM all but corners the market with the release of its first major product — the IBM PC. It is also the same year people realize that the IBM PC has a fatal flaw, which quickly makes personal computing anyone’s game. In this fictional drama, a former IBM executive, Joe MacMillan (Lee Pace), plans to reverse-engineer the flagship product of his former employer, and he forces his current company, Cardiff Electric, into the personal computer race. MacMillan enlists the help of Gordon Clark (Scoot McNairy), a once-great engineer who dreams of creating a revolutionary product while trying to manage his initially unsupportive wife, Donna (Kerry Bishé), and Cameron Howe (Mackenzie Davis), a volatile prodigy who puts her future in jeopardy to join MacMillan’s rogue PC project.

It’s a thoroughly entertaining pilot, but we’ll have much, much more in the show in coming days; Chris Vognar spent time with the cast for a piece running a little closer to the actual premiere, though, I guess, this counts.

Actually, this is a perfect show for summer. But Halt and Catch Fire will do.

News, reviews, nuggets and tidbits from the world of pop culture, including movies, music, TV, local and national celebrities.
