
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

JACKSON, Mississippi --A jury has found a 23-year-old Jackson man guilty on 17 various counts of bank fraud, wire fraud, aggravated identity theft and money laundering, U.S. Attorney Gregory K. Davis has announced.

During the three-day trial, prosecutors presented evidence that Gregory Bernard Griffin used a stolen identity to open a bank account at a Jackson area credit union, stole more than $193,000 from a Marriott hotel and laundered some of his ill-gotten proceeds through his sisters -- Tiffany Griffin, 30, and Eric Griffin, 27, also of Jackson.

Evidence showed that Griffin routed the stolen money from the Courtyard Marriott in Jackson to the fraudulent bank account her opened by submitting a forged account change form to Bank of America Merchant Services.

The forged form directed Bank of America Merchant Services to stop depositing the proceeds from all Visa and MasterCard transactions conducted at the Courtyard Marriott into the Marriott's bank account and to begin depositing those funds into the account Gregory Griffin had established with a stolen identity.

During the trial, the government introduced evidence that Griffin spent the stolen money at various places throughout Jackson, all while posing as the victim of the Aggravated Identity Theft.

The evidence further showed that Griffin laundered some of the stolen money by depositing a $57,900 check made payable to his sister, Tiffany Griffin, into a bank account that she had opened at a second Jackson area bank in her name.

Griffin then purchased a vehicle from a salvage yard through an intermediary buyer and obtained auto insurance on that vehicle in the name of his sister, Erica Griffin, and paid the premium with some of the stolen money.

Gregory Griffin was found guilty on three counts of bank fraud, three counts of wire fraud, four counts of aggravated identity theft, six counts of money laundering and one count of conspiracy to commit money laundering.

Tiffany Griffin and Erica Griffin pled guilty last week to misprision of a felony for their role in the money laundering offenses.

All three defendants will be sentenced by U.S. District Judge Daniel P. Jordan on Aug. 4.

Gregory Griffin faces a maximum penalty of 30 years in prison and $1 million fine on each count of bank fraud, 20 years in prison and a $250,000 on each count of wire fraud, two years in prison and $250,000 fine on each count of aggravated identity theft, 20 years in prison and a $500,000 fine on each count of money laundering and conspiracy to commit money laundering.

He also faces the forfeiture of two vehicles and other property he purchased with the proceeds of his fraud scheme.

Tiffany Griffin and Erica Griffin each face a maximum penalty of three years in prison and a $250,000 fine.

The case was investigated by the U.S. Secret Service and prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Scott Gilbert and Jay Golden.

© 2014 Alabama Live LLC [al.com and gulflive.com]. All rights reserved ( About Us ).
