
Thanks for contacting us. We've received your submission.

The 14-year-old autistic boy who went missing on Friday was found and re-united with his family in Brooklyn, cops said Monday.

Eliceo Cortez was spotted on Oriental Boulevard by a guidance counselor on her way to work at Leonard M. Goldstein High School in Manhattan Beach around 7:00 a.m., not far from where he went missing three days earlier, cops said.

The teacher drove the teen to the 70th precinct station house where police notified his family, cops said.

Cortez told police he spent the weekend riding the subway. He was found safe and in good condition.

The teen, who also suffers from mental disorders, told his mother, Nancy Reavis, 48, he went to Dave and Buster’s Restaurant and Arcade in Time Square and slept in city parks during his weekend adventure.

“He was at Dave and Buster’s he said. He was in the park, Canton Park, right here in Brooklyn … He was winding around for a couple of days,” said Reavis.

Cortez is known to skip class, said his mother, who put in a request to the Department of Education for a “one-to-one” para professional to escort him to and from school — that request was ignored, Reavis said.

Before he went missing, Cortez was last seen riding the ‘Q’ train at the Sheepshead Bay station near Voorhies Avenue around 2:40 p.m. after leaving school Friday, cops said.

“I’m glad he’s home. That’s the main thing. Thank God he’s home,” said Reavis.

The Yankees are leading the Angels 6-5 in the ninth, but Mariano Rivera blows the save. Leave it to Jeter, who hits a walk-off single in the ninth inning for a 7-6 Yankees win.

Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.

Welcome back!

{* #socialRegistrationForm *}             {* socialRegistration_emailAddress *}             {* socialRegistration_displayName *}             {* socialRegistration_ageVerification *}             By clicking "Create Account", you confirm that you accept our terms of service and have read and understand privacy policy .

Don't worry, it happens. We'll send you a link to create a new password.

Create a new password Sent!

We've sent an email with instructions to create a new password. Your existing password has not been changed.
