
1B Justin Morneau hit his sixth career walk-off homer and the Rockies' second this season. Charlie Culberson hit the other, a two-run shot in the ninth May 3 off Kyle Farnsworth of the New York Mets that gave the Rockies an 11-10 win. Morneau's walk-off was a two-run shot off Dale Thayer in the 10th inning that gave the Rockies an 8-6 win. It was Morneau's first walk-off homer since Sept. 9, 2012, while with Minnesota against Cleveland.

RF Michael Cuddyer (left hamstring strain) went 0-for-1 with a walk while playing first base for three innings Sunday on a rehab assignment at Triple-A Colorado Springs. He last played for the Rockies on April 17 but is scheduled to be activated Tuesday when the Rockies open a series with the San Francisco Giants.

SS Troy Tulowitzki hit his National League-leading 13th home run. He has homered in back-to-back games for the fourth time this season. The last Colorado players to have more than 13 home runs through the team's first 45 games were Larry Walker (16) and Todd Helton (15) in 2001. Tulowitzki is four homers shy of tying Andres Galarraga (172) for fifth all-time in franchise history.

C Michael McKenry was optioned to Triple-A Colorado Springs. In eight games, five starts, McKenry hit .211 (4-for-19) with two doubles and one RBI.

C Wilin Rosario (viral infection) was activated from the 15-day disabled list, and C Michael McKenry was optioned to Triple-A Colorado Springs. In eight games, five starts, McKenry hit .211 (4-for-19) with two doubles and one RBI. Rosario was sidelined with influenza B and lost 10 pounds due to the illness and saw his temperature rise above 103 degrees. "I never get this before in my life, and I don't want anybody to have this," Rosario said. "At one point, I feel like, I don't know, I might ... I don't want to say that. But I feel like if I pass away or something like that. At some point, the light bother your eyes a lot and you can't open it. I feel like I can't walk around because I get dizzy. You don't have (an appetite) to eat because you feel if put something (in your stomach), you throw up. It's bad, man."

Copyright Thomson Reuters, 2014.
