
During today’s White House press briefing, Obama spokesmodel Jay Carney trotted out an old line to excuse a new scandal. Carney told the assembled media that they told the president what is going on in his own administration .

CNN’s Jim Acosta asked Carney when President Obama first learned about the secret wait list and other problems — which have resulted in the deaths of some military veterans — in the Veterans Administration.

That isn’t true.

Barack Obama was told about the problems shortly after he was elected president. He has done nothing about them for six years.

They have gone from "phony" scandals to phone-in scandals.

And when they sneer down their noses at you and tell you they will not allow themselves to be questioned...take that literally.

When the tantrum thrower squinches up their face and shoulders and bellows it doesn't matter to them at this point anymore, don't bother looking for a deeper meaning.

When they tell you that the scandal is "so last year, dude"...take this at in your face value.

When they minstrel act out that they don't care about yo 401k or yo daddy or yo granddaddy...they mean they don't care what happens to it, your healthcare, your borders, your job, your civil rights, your polling booths, your veterans, your religion, your economy, your military, your allies, your gas prices, your national debt, your homeland security.

They are not your government.  They are your rulers. You are not here to be served, but to be transformed.

So sit down, shut up and learn to be weaned off of choice.

And freedom.

In this case, I believe Carney; major problems within Obama's regime only show up on his radar when they become news items which reflect poorly on him.

Obama is a lazy slacker, and doesn't want to be bothered with the details; it's too much trouble for him to worry about. If, as we know, he skips national security briefings, why wouldn't he be inclined to skip briefings on other matters? He only get's involved when a real conflagration starts, and he reads about it in the media, then he's "mad as Hell" about it.
