
On June 26, 1913, Governor Edward F. Dunne, seated, of Illinois signed the Suffrage Bill that gave Illinois women the right to vote. Governor Dunne signed the bill in the presence of Grace Wilbur Trout and union labor leader Margaret Healy, also seated.

Suffragettes walked and drove the parade route in Chicago in 1916.

Suffragettes drilling, Chicago. According to a June 3, 1916 article in the Chicago Daily Tribune, suffragettes rehearsed their parade routine in preparation for the June 7, 1916 event at Grant Park in Chicago. Undated photo.

A woman models her marching costume for Chicago's suffrage parade, June 6, 1916. The parade was held on June 7, 1916, during the Republican National Convention in Chicago. More than 5,000 suffrage supporters marched during a large rainstorm.

More than 40 years after the Equal Rights Amendment was first passed by the U.S. Congress, an Illinois state senator is taking another crack at getting her colleagues in Springfield to adopt the provision that would enshrine in the U.S. Constitution the idea that rights can't be abridged on account of sex.

Sen. Heather Steans, D-Chicago, said the proposed amendment is still relevant today given the ongoing debates about equal pay, abortion rights and other issues on which women are fighting for equality.

And she said it's symbolically important to "get Illinois off the list" of 15 states that have not yet adopted the proposed amendment. The other holdouts are mostly traditionally more conservative states in the southern and western parts of the country.

"Illinois has been in the forefront of equal rights," Steans said. "I think this is some unfinished business, an opportunity to right a historic wrong."

Steans has supported proposals for the General Assembly to adopt the amendment in previous years, without success.

The amendment appeared to die in 1982 after only 35 states passed it by the deadline that Congress set after adopting it in 1972. That was three short of the 38 needed to amend the Constitution. Supporters of the amendment are now pushing a "three state solution," arguing the 1982 deadline should not apply. If three more states pass it, the supporters will try to make the case that there is no need for the U.S. Congress to start the amendment process over.

Steans' proposal is scheduled to get a hearing on Wednesday, she said.
