
It has taken the U.S. government decades to even acknowledge the real and present threat presented by scientifically-proven, devastating climate change. But it’s not as if it hasn’t been doing anything about the dangers that face us.

In April of 2011, the government actually came up with a hypothetical plan for what to do in the event of a zombie invasion. It was called “CONPLAN 8888,” and yes, it really exists, as Ned Zeman of Esquire.com reports, and yes, real tax dollars were spent on creating it.

We wish this were a joke.

The plan was quite comprehensive. It started with a “zombie threat summary” which included: pathogenic zombies, radiation zombies, evil magic zombies, space zombies, vegetarian zombies—which aren’t actually a threat to people, ‘cause they eat vegetables, and chicken zombies (which are the only kind of zombies that are not pure fiction.) So this is obviously important.

Okay, so they are not technically zombies, because they're not technically dead, but the sight of chicken zombies causes people real distress and some become vegetarians because of the extreme animal cruelty involved.

The report also has sections on Environmental Effects and Legal Ramifications. And if you are dying to know, the way the U.S. would combat a zombie apocalyse is by dispatching the Chaplain Corps (for religious counseling of zombies) and remote-controlled robots. Of course, the robots would deprive the zombies of the flesh they so dearly love to eat. The clergy would especially be useful apparently when combatting "evil magic zombies," or EMZs. Why? We don't know.

The report also mentions the importance of hand sanitizer when combatting zombies.

Unfortunately, this is all true.

The report is 31 pages long. And if this little taste didn’t offer enough amusement for you and disgust, you are more than welcome to click on it here.

Laughable, yes, but more than a little outrageous. Is this what the government has been reduced to? With its do-nothing, obstructionist Congress? There are actual problems, and Americans overwhelmingly want their government to address them. Not fiddle with fictional monsters while the world burns, cities drown and gun violence claims more lives (the CDC has been prevented from studying that actual problem), schools resegregate and more Americans sink into poverty.

What a joke! Almost as much of a joke as Peggy Noonan claiming yesterday that Republicans are actually interested in governing.

Join the Human Rights Campaign if you believe that everyone has the right to marry the person they love.
