
Cody Stevens of Fort Lupton has been named the Colorado Young Farmers Educational Association Outstanding Colorado Young Farmer Agri-Business Award winner for 2014.

This award is presented each year to recognize a Colorado Young Farmer member who has demonstrated huge competencies in ownership of an agri-business operation. The recipient may receive the award only once in his or her lifetime. Winners are selected based upon their overall business program, leadership activities and civic, church and community service work.

Stevens, 28, is the owner and operator of a sideline farm equipment sales and repair business located on his personal property which specializes in providing farm ready used tractors and other implements. Not only does he do repair work for others, but also buys and sells tractors that he has refurbished or restored. By taking profits he's made and buying investment equipment for resale, he has created a growing, specialized business that has certainly found a niche on Colorado's Front Range. Since opening his business, he has expanded his inventory and his facilities and he's self-financed it to date.

It's small, but it's self-sufficient and that has given him some leeway in business that many only aspire to enjoy. Stevens also works full time at Long's Peak Equipment, a John Deere dealership in Longmont, but hopes that this business will eventually become his sole income.

With a service base of over 60 clients — primarily small production farms and horse boarding operations — Stevens finds himself busy during any off hours providing upkeep and repair on equipment for these customers. He also sells between 20 and 30 tractors per year as well as some other implements he has acquired that he knows will meet someone else's need. His tractor inventory ranges from 25 hp to 140 hp models. "I primarily deal in older equipment from the late 1980s and older," he explains. "I have been moving my focus to newer equipment and machinery," but he says, it is a slow process when you are paying as you go. "I also buy and sell antique farm tractors. My custom repair work ranges from general repairs to full restorations." From engines and transmissions to hydraulic component rebuilds, Stevens does it all, including welding, fabrication work and painting. His success proves that not everyone wants a new tractor and some clients, especially organic farming operations, really appreciate the simplicity of the older models. As part of his service offering, he provides annual inspection and service programs.

It's not easy being a sole proprietor and Stevens knows this well. He oversees all the management responsibility, scope of operation, labor situation and financing. As the owner, he oversees the location and purchasing of inventory, purchasing of parts, repair and restoration activities and in the end, the sales transaction with a customer. At any given time, he could be juggling numerous work orders, to date, all done by hand. He is in the process of moving to an electronic recording keeping system.

As busy as he is in this growing enterprise, Stevens still finds time to help his community out by participating in a number of activities, most of them sponsored by his Front Range Young Farmer Chapter. He is currently vice president and helps with the leadership decisions. Most notably, Stevens helps with an annual ATV Challenge which raises money to go back into the community for special needs students. He has helped judge the competition, tally scores, and monitor safety requirements. He's been an active volunteer for Casino Nights, helped with the Adam's County 4-H luncheon, and helped present scholarships to Brighton FFA students. The Front Range Young Farmers are actively involved in the Colorado Foundation for Agriculture and Stevens is always active in the collection of food and supplies for the Fort Lupton Food Bank, an annual effort by the group.

Most recently, Stevens' chapter teamed up with Aims Community College's agribusiness program. Stevens plans to support this program individually by providing internships in the future to students who want to learn about the equipment repair and welding business.
