
RALEIGH, N.C.-- Myers Bigel Sibley & Sajovec, P.A. (Myers Bigel), the largest independent patent law firm in North Carolina, has been ranked by IAM/Ocean Tomo PatentRatings® as one of the top performing law firms in the country for highest quality patent grants from the USPTO for its clients. Intellectual Asset Management (IAM) Magazine published the results in its April 2014 issue, which included an interview with Myers Bigel patent attorneys Lynne Borchers and Julie Richardson.

“The IAM/Ocean Tomo rankings reflect what our many clients experience:  quality patent work by dedicated attorneys well-versed in the technologies they protect,” David Purks, managing partner, said.

According to Purks, because Myers Bigel has very little turnover of attorneys, the same experienced attorney not only remains responsible throughout the multi-year process from patent development through patent grant but moreover throughout development of a client’s patent portfolio. Work is performed for clients at a high level of expertise, but at a low level of cost, because inefficiencies associated with handing-off client matters to new attorneys is not present.

Based on research specially commissioned by IAM magazine from Ocean Tomo's Patent Ratings business, the article features top 10 rankings covering four specific industry areas - Consumer Electronics, Healthcare, Industrials and Information Technology - as well as an overall top 20 across all industries.

Myers Bigel ranked 10th in the overall top 20 law firms, up from 13th in 2013.

The statistics used in ranking law firms are garnered not just from 2013 but from statistics reaching over the past three years and are therefore accurately representative of the highest quality patents.  Ocean Tomo PatentRatings uses a patented method to calculate the relative quality of all utility patents issued by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) since 1976 on the basis of more than 50 independent and objective factors. The IPQ score represents a numerical measure of patent quality and potential value with a median score of 100 for US issued patents.

Lynne Borchers, one of the Myers Bigel patent attorneys interviewed in the IAM Magazine rankings article “Change in practice” heads the firm’s litigation group and was recently quoted as a thought leader on patent trolls for an article in The News & Observer of Raleigh, N.C. She has been a litigator for 23 years, concentrating her practice in intellectual property litigation in technology such as communications systems, pharmaceutical compounds, computer systems, consumer products, electrical devices, orthopedic devices, medical devices, packaging methods, and poultry egg technology.

Fellow IAM Magazine interviewee Julie Richardson was recently named as one of Business North Carolina magazine’s “Legal Elite” listing of the state’s top lawyers in the Intellectual Property category. Her primary practice area is in patent prosecution in the electro-mechanical arts with an emphasis on biomedical devices, and has also prepared and prosecuted hundreds of patents directed to various technologies including MRI-based inventions.

In the IAM Magazine article, Richardson discussed the impact of switching from a 'first-to-invent' US patent system to a 'first-to-file' approach -- including a filing frenzy in the months leading up to the switch and a broader definition of ‘prior art’ -- while Borchers explained how changes in patent review procedures are leading to a more collaborative effort between litigation and prosecution teams.

Ocean Tomo PatentRatings is the official ratings partner to Intellectual Asset Management (IAM) Magazine, publisher of IAM Patent 1000 2013 – The World’s Leading Patent Professionals, which determines its list of attorneys based on positive feedback from peers and clients with knowledge of their practice and the market within which they operate.

Dedicated to best practices in patent law, Myers Bigel continues to be recognized by legal media and industry organizations as producing quality results and leading in the protection of intellectual property. The firm’s numerous awards and accolades, successful patent applications, and continuing referrals speak volumes to the talent and dedication of its vibrant team of longtime attorneys.

Operating out of the Research Triangle Park area of North Carolina, Myers Bigel represents corporate and university clients located in the Carolinas, throughout the Southeast, across the United States, and in Europe and Asia.

For more information, visit www.myersbigel.com .

Myers Bigel Sibley & Sajovec, P.A. (Myers Bigel) is an intellectual property law firm combining patent law expertise with a stable continuity of counsel to produce quality patents that stand up to scrutiny. We are the largest independent patent law firm in the Carolinas, continually ranked among the top national firms by well-respected legal media and industry organizations. Our knowledgeable, vibrant team of attorneys with degreed technical experience successfully acquires, protects, enforces and defends patent assets and intellectual property in a variety of fields including biotechnology, chemistry, electronics and computing, mechanical and? trademark practice, as well as in litigation. Headquartered in Raleigh in the Research Triangle Park region of North Carolina, with clients spanning the globe, we remain active in symposia, seminars, and continuing education efforts to further best practices in intellectual property protection and enforcement. For more information on our high quality work visit www.myersbigel.com .

North Carolina  technology news available daily on NCTechNews, your source for updated  information on the business of life sciences and innovation.

Innovative Public Relations, Inc. Simple template. Powered by Blogger .
