
The Utah Supreme Court has temporarily blocked adoptions by the second parent of legally married gay couples while the justices decide whether the rights can be granted.

The stay issued late Friday halts an order that state judges approved on adoptions and issuance of amended birth certificates naming both parties as parents after a federal judge struck down Utah's ban on gay marriage last year.

The federal judge's ruling in December is under appeal and Utah has said its laws that ban same-sex marriage, bar the recognition of legal gay marriages and prohibit second-parent adoptions stand while the case is on appeal.

About 1,300 same-sex couples wed in Utah after the federal judge in December struck down Utah's voter-approved ban on gay marriage as a violation of the U.S. Constitution and before the U.S. Supreme Court halted the unions 17 days later pending an appeal.

It's not known how many of the couples filed second-parent adoption petitions because adoption proceedings are private.

Utah's Office of Vital Records and Statistics had asked the state attorney general to provide a legal opinion before it complied with the court orders.

The attorney general's office told the state supreme court the petitions should be put on hold until the U.S. Court of Appeals rules on the marriage ban appeal.

"The attorney general's office is encouraged that it will be able to present the department's full arguments to the court so that these issues may be resolved to give people who seek adoption and the department clarity on the issues," Utah Attorney General Sean Reyes said late Friday in a statement.

It was not immediately clear when the state supreme court would hear arguments on the issue. A U.S. Court of Appeals panel in Denver heard oral arguments in April on the decision that overturned Utah's ban on same-sex marriage.

© 2014 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved.

This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it.

Please be considerate and respectful of your fellow posters. If Jesus and your mother would not approve of your writing, you should revise your comment before submitting.

Use standard writing style and punctuation. Complete sentences and proper grammar will help others understand you.

Do not use profanity, obscenities, abusive language or otherwise objectionable content (as determined by Charisma Media moderators, in their sole discretion). Comments should not harass, abuse or threaten another's personal safety or property, make false statements, defame or impersonate someone else.

Do not question others' faith just because you disagree with them. It adds nothing to the discussion and only causes strife.

Do not question why someone comes to this website just because they disagree with you or the content of the article.

Do not post personal information including phone numbers, email or mailing addresses, or credit card information belonging to you or others.

Do not include copyrighted content or other intellectual property that you do not own or have the explicit rights or lisenses to distribute.

Do not post, directly or through links, viruses, misleading, malicious or off-topic content.

Appearance of comments, advertisements or hyperlinks made by other commenters on this site do not necessarily indicate or constitute acceptance of or endorsement of the products, companies, corporations, ministries, organizations or agencies in whole or in part by staff members and/or the members of the editorial board of Charisma Media.

Charisma Media is not responsible or liable in any way for comments posted by its users.

The latest breaking Christian news you need to know about as soon as it happens.

Sign up to receive Charisma Digital Magazine FREE for a limited time.

Prophetic messages from respected leaders & news of how God is moving throughout the world.

To receive email newsletters, updates, and special offers from Charisma, select your newsletters, enter your first and last name and email address, and click "Sign Up."

It takes courage to confront spiritual abuse—and help to escape it.

© Copyright 2014 Charisma Media , All Rights Reserved.

Stay in touch with the news, bloggers and articles that you enjoy.

Almost there!

We sent you an email to confirm your newsletter subscription. You'll not receive any newsletters until you complete this step.

Protecting your privacy is very important to us. We will not rent, sell, or trade your e-mail address to any person or entity for any purpose. However, by subscribing you agree to receive occasional special offers on behalf of our advertising partners (they will not have access to any of your personal information). You can opt out of these third-party marketing emails at any time without affecting your newsletter subscription.
