
Personalize your weather by entering a location.

Sorry, but the location you entered was not found. Please try again.

U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder revealed an indictment Monday, May 19, 2014 charging five Chinese military officials with cyber-espionage charges.

A grand jury in the Western District of Pennsylvania has filed criminal charges against five Chinese military officials for allegedly hacking U.S. business interests to gain unfair economic advantage.

U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder, the head of the Justice Department's National Security Division, John Carlin, and other federal law enforcement officials revealed the new indictments during a news conference Monday morning.

The five officials are facing 31 counts, including conspiring to commit computer fraud and abuse, accessing a protected computer without authorization to obtain information for the purpose of commercial advantage and private financial gain, transmitting a program information, code, or command with the intent to cause damage to protected computers, aggravated identity theft, economic espionage and theft of trade secrets.

The indictment accuses the hackers of targeting six U.S. nuclear power, metals and solar products firms between 2006 and 2014.

The U.S. government says they used unauthorized access and emails to steal secret and sensitive information from brand-name companies Alcoa Inc., U.S. subsidiaries of SolarWorld AG, United States Steel Corp., Allegheny Technologies Inc., the United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, Allied Industrial and Service Workers International Union and Westinghouse Electric Co.

The five defendants have been identified as Wang Dong, Sun Kailiang, Wen Xinyu, Huang Zhenyu, and Gu Chunhui, who were officers in Unit 61398 of the Third Department of the Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA).

U.S. intelligence officials have long believed that the Chinese government has been engaged in a state sponsored campaign to hack U.S. interests, stealing research and development from U.S. companies.

The prosecution is the first-of-its kind and could increase tensions with China. Nevertheless, Holder said the U.S. will not tolerate foreign government efforts to sabotage American companies.

"This is a case alleging economic espionage by members of the Chinese military and represents the first ever charges against a state actor for this type of hacking," Holder said. "The range of trade secrets and other sensitive business information stolen in this case is significant and demands an aggressive response. Success in the global market place should be based solely on a company's ability to innovate and compete, not on a sponsor government's ability to spy and steal business secrets.  This Administration will not tolerate actions by any nation that seeks to illegally sabotage American companies and undermine the integrity of fair competition in the operation of the free market."

The FBI conducted the investigation that led to the charges in the indictment. The five Chinese military officials are now considered international fugitives, but it's unclear if they will ever be taken into custody.

ABC News and The Associated Press contributed to this report.
