
We have re-imagined our design in a bold new way. Before we roll it out for everyone, we are giving select readers an opportunity to try out the new design. We welcome your feedback.

We've removed you from the beta test of the new design.

Please note: if you clear your cookies you may be invited back to the beta. In order to prevent this from happening, please do not clear your SFGate.com cookies for the next 30 days.

Steve Ferrero , who lives along the Panhandle, says this year's Bay to Breakers was "very much an improvement" over the drunken bacchanal of some previous years. He's even got a checklist to make his point.

"There was no vomit in our yard," he said. "No one challenged me to a fight. Nobody fell out a window. Our landscaping didn't get trashed and nobody walked into our house, which happened a couple of years ago."

Having said that, Ferrero is quick to add that after 11 a.m., "it is still not family safe" on Bay to Breakers day. So, for an alcohol-fueled event like this, "improvement" is a relative term.

"At noon it was crazy," he said. "There were still a lot of drunks. I saw guys climbing the street lights."

Jon Rodriguez , another Panhandle resident, also thought things improved this year, especially since he was there for the infamous 2010 race, which was so violent and debauched that it nearly shut the race down on the eve of the 100th running. From that year he remembers fist fights on the grass, people so drunk they couldn't stand, and hundreds of incidents of partygoers peeing on front porches.

"Our biggest concern was 2010," he said. "That was the low point. It was awful."

This year, he says, the larger police presence and the fencing off Alamo Square made a difference.

"I'd say it was better," Rodriguez said. "I think what we've done is move this from something with elements of danger to a manageable event. Now, are we ever going to get to the point where we are holding hands and singing 'Kumbaya'? No, we are probably never going to get to that point."

Ferrero and Rodriguez both praised the police officers on bikes and the effort to keep people on the race course, instead of letting them drop out and set up a street party in the parks.

"If there is a tweak to be made," Rodriguez said, "it would be in the Panhandle. They've removed Alamo Square as an end point and now the Panhandle is. But overall it's a seminal event, a fun event, and I think it is a great event for the city."

Besides, it wasn't all public drunkenness. The B2B tradition of witty and clever costumes endures. A personal favorite was the human roller coaster, a collection of about a dozen folks whose costumes were a high-backed chair strapped to their backs. They walked in a pack, tipping back as a group to simulate going up a hill, then shrieked in unison and raised their hands when they went "downhill."

I also took a photo of five guys in some very serious, head-to-toe giraffe costumes. Six hours later I was in our local Safeway and there's one of the giraffes, shopping.

"So," I said, "where do you get five giraffe costumes?"

"Amazon," he said.

Of course.

San Francisco venture capitalist Tom Perkins continues to be a buzz-worthy personality. Perkins, you'll remember, set off a media sensation with his comments about a war on "the 1 percent" of the population that has most of the wealth. The fact that he compared the plight of the rich to that of the Jews in Nazi Germany made his comments go viral.

That was back in January, but apparently he's still a hot topic. Two weeks ago, the CBS series "The Good Wife" featured a wealthy character who made the same comparison. They even name-checked Perkins, to his surprise.

"This is all quite astonishing," he wrote in an e-mail. "I just got a copy of the English-language newspaper from Myanmar where I am all over the front page and apparently I am now sufficiently known that I can be referred to in a national soap without background reference. It's a crazy world!"

Perkins would probably prefer to get attention for his donation of $2.5 million to UC San Francisco to establish a professorship in cancer research in honor of oncologist Charles Ryan , who has devoted his career to cancer research. Perkins' wife, Gerd, died of cancer in 1994.

Confluence of factors means few in Napa will get paid out.

Billy Crystal's moving tribute to his late friend during Emmys.
