
Monterey >> When Police Chief F.W.A. Cording escorted two members of the Ku Klux Klan out of Monterey in 1923, he did not take kindly to their threats.

"If you try to get me," the chief was quoted telling the men, "I have plenty of ammunition and have had no target practice lately."

The Klan's many attempts to set up shop in Monterey — despite "klaverns" in Santa Cruz, Watsonville and Hollister — were constantly rebuffed, even at the height of the hate group's influence.

"There was a lot of opposition to the Klan," said Jeff Lanzman, a Colton Hall Museum docent, to a room of 38 people Sunday at the Monterey Public Library. "But even in the articles it said 70 percent of Montereyans were against. Well, 30 percent were still in favor of it. And that was considered good."

Lanzman, 64, of Pacific Grove, said he came across 1920s newspaper clippings about a year ago that described a KKK trial at Colton Hall. Fascinated by the little known event, he worked with museum operators to bring the story to the community.

When the Klan made a play for Monterey it was undergoing a massive boom in membership — some estimates put the group around 4 million members — brought on by a new public relations strategy, social upheaval after World War I and a shift of focus.

"They changed the emphasis on who they hated the most," Lanzman said.

Catholics went to the top of the list because the Klan said they were loyal to the pope, Jewish people were second because the organization claimed they wanted to take over financial institutions and last was people of color.

This created a problem for organizing in Monterey, Lanzman said, because of all the new Catholic immigrant fishermen flooding the city.

The Klan first tried to organize in 1922 but a Superior Court Judge in Salinas threatened a grand jury investigation if they attempted it. A year later, two Klansmen came to Monterey and were arrested while soliciting a membership.

They were brought up on charges of vagrancy, prompting a two-day trial at Colton Hall that brought out "hundreds" of Klansmen and plenty of angry, young Catholics.

"The 'fiery cross' may soon be blazing on the hills back of Monterey!" read a 1923 news article. "Alvarado Street may yet resound to the tread of marching feet, whose owners are attired in nightshirts and pillowslips!"

Despite arguments that the Klan was an illegal organization by the Monterey County deputy district attorney, the judge eventually ruled the pair were not guilty of vagrancy.

Even after the win, the Klan apparently stopped trying to organize in Monterey because, Lanzman said, it was clear the community did not want them.

Attendees at the library event were not convinced local KKK organizing ended with the trial. They told numerous stories of the Klan showing up during the civil rights movement and stories of finding robes and other Klan gear on the Monterey Peninsula.

Larise Baker of Seaside said she was helping organize a garage sale for elderly residents about 20 years ago when she came across a book which had notes in it about a Pacific Grove Klan meeting. She didn't remember what year the meeting was supposed to happen but was "shocked."

CSU Monterey Bay instructor George Station said he knew from his experience in Indiana that even though the white robes may have gone away it doesn't mean the Klan's views are not still present.

"Just because the (trial) was over," he said, "It doesn't really mean it was over."

What makes the Monterey story unique is the Klan seemed to be having so much success everywhere else, even locally.

Santa Cruz High School allowed the organization to hold a fundraiser at the school, Watsonville had a thriving chapter and, in 1924, four Klan members elected to Anaheim city council and fired all the Catholics, Lanzman said.

He said there are some reports of a KKK chapter in Salinas but he could not say for sure.

Today there are just 5,000 to 8,000 Klan members spread among several organizations that use the Klan name, according to the Southern Poverty Law Center.

Dennis Copeland, the museum's cultural arts and archives manager, said he and Lanzman decided about four months ago the story of the Klan in Monterey fit well into National History Day's 2014 theme of "rights and responsibilities."

Phillip Molnar can be reached at 646-4487.
