
Source: Tampa Tribune, Fla.

TAMPA — The brutal murder of a Hillsborough County sheriff’s deputy seven decades ago is bringing together cousins from across the country who never knew of one another before.

The occasion is the dedication Thursday in Tampa of a memorial to 15 local deputies known to have died in the line of duty.

One of those deputies, whose story was largely a mystery to the sheriff’s office until recently, is Robert Maxwell Suarez — stabbed 17 times and shot to death while serving civil papers over an unpaid furniture bill on Sept. 22, 1944.

A researcher contacted Gonzalez while trying to track down relatives of Suarez through his obituary in the Tampa Tribune.

Gonzalez told the researcher he had the wrong number.

Then she was read the names of eight surviving siblings in the Suarez obituary and recognized the names of her mother, four uncles and one aunt. Still, Gonzalez was skeptical because the other two siblings were unfamiliar to her.

Still working from the obituary, the researcher contacted Suarez’s two surviving children, William Suarez of Dunnellon and Carole McEwen, 78, of South Carolina.

They also dismissed the connection to their father, saying they had never heard of the six siblings.

Their father had only one full sister and, through his mother’s second marriage, a half-brother, they insisted.

Genealogists brought in to help in the research came to a different conclusion.

The children of Deputy Suarez are related to Sandra Gonzalez through their grandfather, Jose Suarez.

Jose Suarez was married twice; the son who became a deputy was born into his first marriage and Gonzalez’s mother was born into the second one.

The two families lost contact at some point for reasons that may never be known.

Sandra Gonzalez and William Suarez first spoke by phone in September and made plans to restore contact between their families during the dedication of the memorial in May.

Carole McEwen, the deputy’s daughter, lived long enough to learn about her lost cousins but was too ill from cancer to speak with Sandra Gonzalez. McEwen died in October.

Her husband, Roy Mc­Ewen, hopes to make the trip to Tampa this week.

Also attending the dedication will be Zolia Rod­riguez, another daughter of a sibling of Deputy Suarez from the second marriage.

William Suarez is bringing all three of his sons.

That may be a tall order.

Suarez has long been a mystery to the sheriff’s office. Besides the way he died, little was known about him.

The histories of many fallen officers from decades past are shrouded in mystery. Even the month and day remains unknown for Deputy Richard Roach, and there is no photo of him.

Roach died in 1874 when Tampa was a small town with dirt roads. Proper record keeping was years away.

They were lacking even in the mid-1900s when Robert Suarez was slain.

In the case of Suarez, the man he was serving papers on refused to accept them, according to what records remain of the incident.

A scuffle broke out.

A knife was thrust into Suarez’s head 17 times. He was then shot in the abdomen and shoulder.

The next day, the father of four died from his injuries.

Like his parents, Suarez had children from two marriages.

His first wife, Lois Carter Moore, was a respected musician.

They married in 1929, had two children — Robert Jr. in 1931 and Carole in 1935 — then divorced in 1940.

Suarez later married Elizabeth Barr. Their son William was born in 1942 and daughter Patricia Ann in 1945 — after Suarez’s death.

Only Robert Jr. was old enough to have lasting memories of his father, but he died two years later in 1946.

In an interview before her death, daughter Carole McEwen said she never learned how her father died until she reached adulthood. Her mother never wanted her to know. She never even mentioned Suarez.

With chiseled Latin looks and thick jet black hair, he looked more like a movie star than a deputy, McEwen said.

Some information on Suarez is provided through city archives and census reports.

He was born in Tampa on June 8, 1904.

Before joining the sheriff’s office, Suarez sold cars, worked in a pet shop and owned Nance-Suarez Poultry with Leonard Nance, considered one of the early pioneers of baseball parks in Tampa.

McEwen said her father’s sister Carmen moved to Davis Islands in Tampa for a short period after the murder but she saw little of her. Her aunt returned to New York City, where she had lived for years.

Neither McEwen nor William had a relationship with their paternal grandparents before or after their father died. They wondered whether there was a rift.

According census reports, Jose Suarez, the deputy’s father, was from Spain, worked in the tobacco industry and regularly traveled between Tampa and Cuba in the early 1900s.

Perhaps it was to purchase tobacco. Or perhaps it was to visit Suarez’s mother, who was from Cuba and not living in Tampa at the time.

Jose divorced and remarried, then settled in Tampa in 1908. His second wife gave birth to six children — Jose Jr., Mercedes, Carlos, Rosa, Manuel and Geronimo.

Suarez’s mother also settled in Tampa, married a man named Garcia and gave birth to one son, Angel Garcia, whom Mc­Ewen met on several occasions as an adult.

Though both his parents and many siblings lived in Tampa, Robert Suarez was raised by an aunt.

Grandfather Jose passed away in 1946.

McEwen’s husband Roy said his wife and her brother William also were estranged for 40 years, losing touch after they moved from Tampa.

They reconnected about 10 years ago, Roy McEwen said.
