
Karl Rove, the bete noir for Democrats (and some Republicans), has dared to raise questions about Hillary Clinton’s health.

The physical condition of a president, or one seeking the office, is a fundamental issue in any campaign and in every presidency.

The physical condition of a president, or one seeking the office, is a fundamental issue in any campaign and in every presidency. Virtually every president since George Washington has had health issues, some minor, some major. Not all presidents or their staffs were forthcoming about them.

Perhaps the most famous cover-up occurred with Woodrow Wilson. In 1919, during his second term, Wilson embarked on a national tour to promote the World War I peace treaty he had personally negotiated. During the trip, Wilson experienced headaches and fatigue. The tour was aborted and Wilson returned to the White House where he suffered a stroke.

Wilson’s inner circle, including his wife, doctor, private secretary and even the secretary of state, hid his condition. They told the press and cabinet the president had suffered a nervous breakdown. No one was allowed to see him, not even his vice president. Wilson retired from the White House in 1921 and died three years later.

John F. Kennedy suffered from multiple health problems. Among the cover-up conspirators was Kennedy’s doctor, Janet Travell, who is credited with the idea of JFK’s rocking chair to ease his back pain and to convey a positive image.

Bill Clinton refused to release his medical records to the public. Barack Obama released a one-page letter from his doctor testifying to his “excellent health.” Both men admitted to using recreational drugs in their youth, though Clinton ludicrously claimed he didn’t inhale. Obama smoked cigarettes.

Just as most candidates for high office feel compelled to release their tax returns (Mitt Romney was a rare exception), all candidates, especially candidates for president, should publish their medical records.

The media also have an obligation to keep up the pressure until the truth is known.
