
You must be registered to comment and vote on comments.

He admitted robbing 31 Minnesota banks in 12-month span.

He wielded a knife and a toy gun, stole $11,400, and the terror of that day in March 2011 still haunts Pat Zellman, the bank manager at KleinBank in Cologne, Minn.

So ended the latest chapter in the strange tale of a man once called Mark E. Wetsch, 51, then “the Man in Black” and now Sheikh Bilaal Muhammad Arafat.

He was sentenced to 14 years in prison and ordered to pay $108,771.71 in restitution.

Arafat, who has formally changed his name, acted as his own attorney.

Nelson said Arafat appeared to care only for himself and evidently had not learned anything from his previous imprisonment for embezzlement and did not take any responsibility for his actions. She suggested he consider getting some psychological help in prison.

Arafat pleaded guilty last year to six bank robberies, and admitted to robbing 25 others. He sought unsuccessfully to retract his guilty pleas and according to prosecutors had filed 170 motions and pleadings — an unusually high number — challenging many aspects of the case.

Although the bank robberies caused the biggest stir, Arafat had achieved some notoriety long before he was the Man in Black or Arafat.

In 2002 he made news in the sports pages, in a disagreement with a cross-country coach over the handling of his daughter, who was considered one of the best distance runners in the state. Wetsch wanted the 14-year-old to skip half the cross-country meets on the Chaska High School schedule to preserve her long-term running career. When the school balked, she ran independently that year.

Three years later, Wetsch was in the news again, indicted on a charge of taking $1.4 million from a St. Paul nursing home where he was the nursing director.

Wetsch committed his first known bank robbery on Jan. 11, 2011, holding up a Bremer Bank branch in Minneapolis . In some of the early robberies, he covered his face with a scarf, said assistant U.S. Attorney Deirdre Aanstad. It would be followed by 28 more bank robberies and two attempted bank robberies over the next year, according to court documents. He was dubbed “The Man in Black” due to a black face-covering mask.

The robbery that ended the spree occurred on Jan. 3, 2012, at the Rolling Hills Bank and Trust in Brewster, Minn.

Travis Sandland, a detective with the St. Peter, Minn., Police Department, had been investigating a bank robbery that occurred two weeks earlier in St. Peter, when he got a call from a colleague about the Brewster holdup. The robber escaped, driving a vehicle with a description much like the one used in the St. Peter crime.

Because of the locations of the previous robberies, Sandland guessed that the robber lived in the Twin Cities and would be heading that way, north on Hwy. 169.

Parked along the roadway in St. Peter, Sandland spotted Wetsch, driving a Silver Ford Edge SUV, and pulled him over.

Mark E. Wetsch, who changed his name, failed to take responsibility for his crimes, judge said at sentencing.

You are now subscribed.
