
Sadly, Hurricane Irene destroyed the building’s foundation. Neighbors raised funds to repair the foundation, as well as flood-proof and reconstruct the restaurant’s interior in a historically sensitive manner.

In Guilford, citizens have been restoring derelict properties and remediating a toxic brown-field site. Five years ago, they took ownership of The Guilford Country Store, originally opened in 1817.

Donations, grants, loans, and sweat equity allowed them to refurbish it, guaranteeing this community a vital gathering place.

They transformed the structure, taking what had become a deteriorated storage facility and creating a central meeting and event center for both town and college.

The town hall is one of Vermont's only stick style buildings. Its resurrection began in 1999, when residents raised funds for a new roof, window repair and a polychromatic painting restoration.

Residents of Island Pond had a similar journey as they restored their Brighton Town Hall’s original architectural elements from 1889.

The town hall is one of the most prominent landmarks in the town. As the building was repeatedly repurposed over the years, most of its historic characteristics were covered. In 2010, the idea of restoring the building to its former grandeur took hold.

Installation of solar panels made this one of the lowest cost housing projects in the state to operate.

Bellows Falls Middle School also rejuvenated its building, modeling adaptive historic reuse with sustainable energy features in creating their 21st-century classrooms.

The school was constructed in 1926. By 2010, the building was deteriorating. After much discussion, the community decided pursue renovation over rebuilding.

On a regional level, Two Rivers Ottauquechee Planning Commission was acknowledged for its work prioritizing redevelopment in downtown districts, thereby keeping villages robust and farms and forest lands secure.

Finally, historians Glen Andres’ and Curtis Johnson’s comprehensive study, Buildings of Vermont , received accolades for its quality and for their persistence. It took them 20 years to complete this important compendium.

At the conference, I heard a new term, not a word really, but still apt as it combines preserve and perseverance. It’s called “pre-serverance.” I know it’s made-up, but it reflects the grit and dogged determination needed to save iconic landmarks, not as relics of bygone eras, but as vital components in the heart of each of our communities today.
