
When Caddo Parish District Attorney Charles Scott announced a second degree murder indictment against James Montgomery, 72, and Larry Thompson Sr., 70, Thursday it ended decades of speculation and mystery for Deanna Montgomery's family and the investigators who worked her 1979 homicide.

"The outcome shows that our office and law enforcement agencies are committed to following leads, even when the case is long-forgotten by some," Scott said. "It's important for criminals to know that crime will eventually catch up to them."

Now a Bossier City resident, Montgomery already faces aggravated rape charges after his step-daughter and a former neighbor said Montgomery raped them while both women were children in the 1970s.

Montgomery's attorney, Elton Richey, says those sexual allegations were just the means to a much more serious end: this week's murder indictment for the 1979 murder of his wife, Deanna Montgomery.

"That's never been a hidden agenda of the District Attorney's Office or the investigators, Richey said. "All along it's been about that."

Deanna Montgomery was killed by a shotgun blast fired at close range while she and her husband drove north on Line Ave. Jan. 1, 1979. James Montgomery was behind the wheel. Glass shards hit him in the head and neck, but he did not suffer major injuries. Police long suspected he was involved, but no arrests were ever made.

Police executed two warrants on Montgomery's current house last year, one for the rape case while the second sought anything related to Deanna Montgomery's death.

"I always base a prosecution on the facts and what I can prove in court, not based on any other outside factors," Dhu Thompson, Caddo Assistant District Attorney, said. "[It's] not based on sympathy, prejudice or public opinion. I wouldn't bring a case that I didn't think I could prove in court."

In conversations with the district attorney's investigators, Montgomery's stepdaughter says police pointed her in Montgomery's direction from the beginning, but "they just didn't have enough evidence to put it together."

"That's really the myth that's grown up in police lore: James Montgomery did something to hire someone to kill his wife and he got away with it," Richey said. "The real problem with that is they did a very thorough investigation when all the leads were hot and nothing."

Montgomery's alleged accomplice, Larry Thompson, is no stranger to Louisiana law enforcement. Currently serving a life sentence at Louisiana State Penitentiary in Angola for the 2003 armed robbery of an armored truck, he's the suspect in a string of unsolved crimes. His own wife's death was ruled a homicide, but charges were never filed.

Another of Thompson's alleged murder-for-hires plots played out in the 1990 TV movie "Blind Faith."

Police believed he killed New Jersey wife Maria Marshall on her husband's orders.

There are strong similarities in all three homicides. Thompson, Montgomery and Marshall were all at the wheel when their wives were killed. In each case, there an insurance policy at play: $20,000 for Thompson, $250,000 for Montgomery and $1.5 million for Marshall. In the end, Thompson's involvement was never proven in court, but New Jersey authorities announced Friday that Thompson had finally confessed that he was the one behind the trigger.

Richey says investigators are building the case they want against Montgomery rather than digging for the truth. Montgomery was scheduled to go to trial on the rape charges in June, but Scott says that will likely be rescheduled.

Whataburger has made fast work of some of its workers, saying it's fired those involved in an angry and disturbing confrontation at its restaurant in southeast Shreveport early Saturday.That confrontation was caught on a customer's cell phone video.

Whataburger has made fast work of some of its workers, saying it's fired those involved in an angry and disturbing confrontation at its restaurant in southeast Shreveport early Saturday.That confrontation was caught on a customer's cell phone video.

 A late week weather pattern change may bring us some rain and slightly cooler conditions.

 A late week weather pattern change may bring us some rain and slightly cooler conditions.

Clint Richardson and Jason Vaughan will plead guilty to prostitution charges, trading testimony for dropped felony charges, the promise of no jail time, and the possibility of expungement. ADA Dale Cox calls them "the least culpable" of the defendants.

Clint Richardson and Jason Vaughan will plead guilty to prostitution charges, trading testimony for dropped felony charges, the promise of no jail time, and the possibility of expungement. ADA Dale Cox calls them "the least culpable" of the defendants.

The Natchitoches Police Department Detective Division is currently investigating a battery that occurred at Natchitoches Central High School in Natchitoches this afternoon.

The Natchitoches Police Department Detective Division is currently investigating a battery that occurred at Natchitoches Central High School in Natchitoches this afternoon.

Shreveport Police are looking for a man who allegedly barged into an east Shreveport home Friday morning in an attempted sexual assault.

Shreveport Police are looking for a man who allegedly barged into an east Shreveport home Friday morning in an attempted sexual assault.

All content © Copyright 2000 - 2014 Worldnow and KTBS. All Rights Reserved. For more information on this site, please read our Privacy Policy and Terms of Service .
