
Congratulations!

Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.

The kids of Barrett Elementary School got a blues concert.

The school's gymnasium Monday was transformed into an age-appropriate blues music hall as Little Jimmy Reed played classic tunes before what had to be the youngest audience of his career.

The performance was a climax of the school's music unit on the blues. Music teacher Francina Morales wanted to give her students a first-hand lesson from a real bluesman, so she contacted her longtime friend from Enterprise, Ala.

Little Jimmy Reed, aka Leon Atkins Plays the Blues at Barrett Elementary School May 19, 2014 Students at Barrett Elementary School in Birmingham, Ala. got a first-hand lesson in the blues from real life bluesman Leon Atkins aka, “Little Jimmy Reed” Monday, May 19, 2014. The students studied a unit on blues that climaxed with a live performance. Atkins, a native of Louisiana, lives in Enterprise Ala., and performs internationally.

With a small grant from Councilwoman Kim Rafferty the show was set. Atkins arrived hours early, eager to get started.

"This was to introduce them to different genres of music that they would not normally be exposed to," Morales said. "It was fantastic."

Reed, whose real name is Leon Atkins, stopped his set a few times to answer questions from the second, third and fourth graders, including how long he had been playing the blues.

"I was 16," he said. "My daddy bought me a guitar on Monday and on Saturday I was playing. I just love the blues. I don't like no other kind."

Atkins, a native of Louisiana, lives in Enterprise, and performs internationally.

He took the name 'Little Jimmy Reed' in homage of another senior blues performer.

"When I came up, I imitated him, but I didn't get the chance to meet him," Atkins told the students.

Students then went back to tapping their feet and moving to the music as the bluesman performed with his guitar, vocals and a harmonica.

"The Blues is Alright," and "Down Home Blues," were just a few.

Atkins also talked about his time with B.B. King and performing with late bluesman Bobby Blue Bland. Atkins' career has taken him around the globe from England to Sweden. But on this day, all his attention and talent was focused on pleasing the crowd at Barrett Elementary School.

"All of us are getting old," he said. "That's why these young folks have got to take it up."

To the delight of both students and teachers, Atkins played well beyond the agreed upon set, insisting he had more.

"We aren't finished are we?" he asked, guitar still in hand. "I didn't come all this way for nothing."

The room then sat down for the encore.

"I saw a man and he sang good," second grader Latorrian Shepherd said later. "I loved the part where he played the guitar."

Teachers and staff weren't immune from catching the blues as they stood at the back of the room clapping, waving and smiling.

Even principal Wanda Birchfield was spotted swooning from the music that permeated the hallway.

Writer's note: In the interest of full disclosure, Francina Morales is this reporter's mother. I attended the show as a visitor and enjoyed it so well that I decided to share the experience.

© 2014 Alabama Media Group All rights reserved ( About Us ).

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
