
Posted May 19, 2014, at 4:01 p.m.

Last modified May 19, 2014, at 8:54 p.m.

Adam MacDonald of Presque Isle (second row, second from left) is joined by Bangor firefighters for the MDA Fill the Boot campaign in 2012. Shown during the campaign are (first row, from left) Pamela Small, Lacie Willett, Ryan Blanchette, (second row) firefighter Cory Wyman, MacDonald, Ben Money, (back row) Jeff Sennett, Chuck Rodway, Dale Wunder and David Rudolph.

BANGOR, Maine — For 60 years, firefighters from across the nation — including those in Bangor, Maine — have supported the Muscular Dystrophy Association through local Fill the Boot fundraising. That won’t change this year, but union representatives say this year’s effort in Bangor will look decidedly different because of changes ordered by the city’s fire chief.

Firefighter-paramedic Jeff Sennet, who is leading this year’s MDA campaign, and another firefighter spoke with Fire Chief Scott Lucas on Friday to give him an update on plans for this year’s first fundraising event at the Tim McGraw concert later this month. At that meeting, the fire chief gave them a new set of rules, union representative John York said Monday.

“There will be no use of city equipment, no use of uniforms and no on-duty personnel,” York said, explaining Lucas’ new rules.

In years past, the city’s heavy rescue or another firetruck was parked near the entrance to the waterfront concerts located across the street from the Main Street fire station, and firefighters, some on-duty and some volunteers, would greet those who entered carrying “retired” rubber firefighter boots that patrons filled with donations for the MDA. Those on-duty would be in uniform, and most of the volunteers would wear bright yellow T-shirts purchased a couple years ago that showcase the MDA logo.

Lucas is out of town, Conlow said Monday afternoon, saying she has heard from firefighters and their union, but still needed to talk to the fire chief before giving any statements.

“It may take a couple of days before I get to the bottom of this,” she said.

The MDA has been supported by the International Association of Fire Fighters, which includes Bangor, for the last six decades, York said.

“As the Muscular Dystrophy Association’s largest national sponsor, the IAFF fuels MDA’s mission to improve and save the lives of more than 1 million Americans affected by muscle disease,” the MDA’s website states .

“Fill the Boot is an honored tradition for both organizations, and it’s a great way for firefighters to be out in the community reminding residents that they are here, always ready to help,” Harold A. Schaitberger, IAFF general president, states on the MDA’s website.

The ratio of on-duty and volunteer firefighters at each event differs depending on who signs up to collect, but “we’ve always used city apparatus,” York said of the firetrucks.

“We’re not sure why the fire chief took the stance he has,” the union rep said.

The firefighters met with city leaders in hopes of coming to a resolution that will not hurt future MDA fundraisers, York said. Using an old firetruck kept at the Hose 5 museum is a possibility, he said.
