
The Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta (MEND) has claimed responsibility for Sunday’s explosion at the Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) jetty, Okrika, Rivers State which left an unspecified number of people dead and scores injured.

This came as the Petroleum and Natural Gas Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (PENGASSAN) called for an urgent probe of the incident.

In a statement posted online yesterday afternoon, MEND said the explosion was part of its Operation ‘Hurricane Exodus” aimed at sabotaging oil installations in the Niger Delta region.

The statement signed by its spokesman, Jomo Gbomo, read: “The Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta (MEND) takes responsibility for the sabotage on Sunday, May 18, 2014 , of the NNPC Refinery Jetty pipelines in Okrika, Rivers State of Nigeria.

“This attack is line with our ongoing operation ‘Hurricane Exodus,’ which was intended to bring down the entire refining facility. This facility was infiltrated by a few of our fighters with the aid of our internal agents within the NNPC contrary to speculations that the sabotage was carried out by “pipeline vandals and oil thieves,” which is a very convenient phrase used to shield the truth from the public.

“Thorough investigations will reveal  that the bomb fragments are the same used in the Warri Refinery explosion of Tuesday, 22 October, 2013.

“We will persist with our attacks on the Nigerian oil industry due to the inaction of President Goodluck Jonathan who continues to rely on an unsustainable and fraudulent Niger Delta Amnesty programme which is only a guise to line the pockets of Goodluck Jonathan, his wife Patience, his cronies and members of the Amnesty Committee whose sudden wealth remains unchallenged by the Nigerian media. The entire Amnesty process is a fraud on the people of Nigeria who are being promised peace in the Niger Delta, in the absence of justice.” The movement said its operation ‘Hurricane Exodus’ was still on course.

However, reacting to the incident yesterday, PENGASSAN called on the federal government to launch a thorough investigation to decipher the circumstances that led to explosion at the NNPC Loading Jetty.

National Publicity Officer of PENGASSAN, Mohammed Seyi Gambo, said there was need to know the real cause of the explosion to ensure it did not happen again.

He said PENGASSAN had brought the issue of oil theft to the attention of the government and the public but expressed regret that nothing had been done to stop the incidence of illegal bunkering and theft.

Meanwhile, the Executive Director, Services, of the NNPC, Mr. Ralph Ugwu, yesterday said none of the corporation’s facility or equipment was damaged by the fire explosion.

He maintained that the explosion was caused by the tragic failure an operation by oil vandals who had attempted to illegally siphon petroleum product belonging to the NNPC.

The corporation said it had  sent a team of engineers and technologists to evaluate the situation of events at one of its destroyed pipelines in the Niger Delta creek from which oil thieves were siphoning petroleum products on Sunday.

The corporation also denied in a statement that its Port Harcourt Refinery located in Alesa-Eleme and the nearby Pipelines and Product Marketing Company (PPMC) petroleum products evacuation/reception jetty in Okrika, Rivers State were gutted by the fire from the pipeline.

The statement which was signed by its Group General Manager, Public Affairs, Ohi Alegbe, in Abuja, explained that findings from the corporation’s preliminary investigation revealed that the fire was caused by the activities of oil thieves.

Alegbe noted that the pipeline was hacked into somewhere in the creek but exploded as petroleum products were been siphoned.

He added that contrary to wide the reports that the explosion affected its refinery and jetty, both assets did not experience any form of destruction by the fire.

“We can confirm that the Port Harcourt Refinery and the Okrika Jetty are intact. The reported fire incident did not in any way affect our operations,” Alegbe said.

NNPC also affirmed in the statement, the integrity of its pipelines, stating that engineers and technologists from the PPMC pipelines Right of Way (RoW) unit are being dispatched to the scene of the incident for proper technical evaluation.

Please leave your comment below. Your name will appear next to your comment. We'll also keep you updated by email whenever someone else comments on this page. Your comment will appear on this page once it has been approved by a moderator.

Please enter some keywords that you'd like to search for. Your results will be displayed below.

THISDAYLIVE cares about you, help us to report better!
