
Share This Story!

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

An idea to meet quarterly and discuss ideas has turned into a source of collaboration and inspiration for Brevard County's 16 mayors. Video by Britt Kennerly, May 20, 2014.

Cape Canaveral Mayor Rocky Randels, right, talks with other Brevard mayors at a meeting at Cocoa’s Parrish Grove Inn.

For the record, I don't seek out ways to hear elected officials talk on a gorgeous Saturday morning.

But when I was invited to a recent "Brevard mayors' meeting," I was intrigued by what might come up when leaders of places large and small get together.

Turned out, topics were as all over the map as Space Coast municipalities — but all, just like these mayors, play an important role in Brevard's future.

The quarterly meetings, the brainchild of Cocoa Beach Mayor Dave Netterstrom and West Melbourne Mayor Hal Rose, kicked off in 2013.

As many as a dozen mayors — Brevard has 16 — have shown up at one time, and different mayors host meetings at varied locations. This time, over pizza, nine leaders met at the Parrish Grove Inn bed and breakfast, owned by Cocoa Mayor Henry Parrish.

"It's amazing when we talk it out, how much we all have in common," said Gene Newberry of Indian Harbour Beach, the only one of those present that day who is up for re-election this year.

"For me, our mayors' meetings give me insight on other cities' issues," said Parrish, elected in 2012.

And those issues and idea-sharing are wide-ranging.

The health of the Indian River Lagoon, which is "critical for all of us," said Melbourne Village Mayor Robert Downey. The impact of ecotourism. Jobs. Police and fire services. The real estate upswing. Housing prices. Homelessness and hunger, and tackling the latter problem as a united front.

In Melbourne, the city is excited to be working with Florida Institute of Technology and Melbourne Yacht Club on improvements at Riverview Park, which was deeded to the city from the county, said Mayor Kathy Meehan.

In West Melbourne, the positives include explosive growth and low tax rates, said Rose.

Netterstrom explained how Central Florida Partnership, a collaborative of businesses and civic leaders, measures its seven counties by its GDP output. Brevard is second only to Orange County, Netterstrom said, and that's encouraging.

Between the Port, aerospace expansions, our beaches and more, "the Orlando area is taking notice, and both sides agree to find ways to partner," he said.

From there, these mayors hope, it's on to action.

"We believe things that come out of discussion here end up at the Space Coast League of Cities because so many of us participate in that," said Titusville's Jim Tulley.

A show of hands revealed the mayors think Florida voters will approve the legalization of medical marijuana this November. Where the places dispensing pot would be located is of concern to all.

And while a few — Rose, a teacher, included — think a half-cent sales tax sought by Brevard Public Schools will be OK'd by voters, a majority of the mayors don't see it passing.

What affects one, they agreed, affects the others.

"His concerns are different than mine, and mine with homeless sleeping on the beach because they drift down here is different than (for) somebody living inland, but yet we're all concerned about the county," said Rocky Randels, Cape Canaveral mayor.

"We've learned that a lot of our issues are interconnected," said Parrish. "And we add a little humor to it because it gets very serious, very quickly."

Two and a half hours in, I'd learned more about my community, including that the mayors have declared Melbourne Village's Robert Downey, a triathlete, the "fastest" mayor.

Even when they don't agree, which is often, they can learn, they said.

"Good or bad, it creates a raw, spirited debate," said Parrish. "We all realize we need to work together for the betterment of our cities."
