
CASPER – Gov. Matt Mead kicked off the Wyoming Energy Summit today warning that “significant portions” of the U.S. would start to go dark within 60 days if Wyoming energy production ground to a halt.

“There is consequences for starting to take [energy sources] off the list,” he said.

Mead keynoted the Wyoming Business Report’s inaugural summit today in Casper, saying that everyone needs to be thinking about energy. He quoted a bevy of past Wyoming governors, both Republicans and Democrats, who have sought a good balance with energy.

Mead added that Wyoming “truly” wants an “all-of-the-above” approach, borrowing an oft-used, sometimes-questioned federal phrase used to describe goals for nationwide energy production.

On the matter of the environment, Mead said the energy industry and the environment can coexist. He referred to the assumption that the two are mutually exclusive as a “false question,” saying it’s not an either-or scenario.

Mead said that if Wyoming were a country, it would be No. 10 for energy production and No. 3 for energy exports in the world. Even so, it has the cleanest air in the nation. Wyoming is also the nation’s top producer of both uranium and coal. Meanwhile, the state is the fifth-largest producer of natural gas in the nation and the 12th for installed wind capacity.

But replacing the state’s fossil fuel footprint would alter the state’s energy landscape vertically. A recent study Mead admitted people could squabble on the details and assumptions on, though the basis, he said, is sound. The study indicated phasing out fossil fuel-production in Wyoming would require 700,000 wind turbines to replace it.

Mead said similarly, it would take 10 million solar panels to do the same thing, which would cover half the state. In other words, he said the state’s lucky to have the energy sources we have and the state should be proactive in keeping each useful and accessible.

The Wyoming Lottery launch drew customers who spent almost $200,000 buying Powerball and Mega Millions tickets Sunday after sales began statewide at noon.
