
President Barack Obama is “madder than hell” about the problems facing the Department of Veterans Affairs but still supports its embattled chief, Secretary Eric Shinseki, according to the president’s chief of staff.

Two of Mr. Shinseki’s critics— Rep. Adam Kinzinger (R., Ill.), speaking on NBC’s “Meet the Press,” and Dan Dellinger, the national commander of the American Legion, also on CBS—repeated calls for his resignation.

Dr. Sam Foote, a prominent VA whistleblower who may have been the catalyst for the department’s recent scrutiny, said Mr. Shinseki should remain in place.

Dr. Foote, a VA employee for more than 20 years and one of the most high-profile people to bring allegations against the VA, said more is needed to ensure solutions to what he says are systemic problems in the department.

“If we switch secretaries it will focus not on who’s going to fix the problem but who the next secretary will be,” Dr. Foote said on “Fox News Sunday.” Dr. Foote also said a new secretary could have to go through a lengthy confirmation process, and then would be given a sort of grace period while becoming accustomed to the new job.

In April, Dr. Foote’s allegations of scheduling improprieties at the Phoenix VA Health Care System became public, kicking off a series of similar whistleblower allegations at other VA hospitals.

Dr. Foote alleges the Phoenix VA kept an unofficial list for scheduling patient appointments which made official wait times, which were reported to VA authorities, seem much shorter than they actually were.  He also alleges as many as 40 veterans could have died while waiting for appointments.  The House Committee on Veterans Affairs has also said it has found similar discrepancies in its own investigation of the facility.

The VA’s independent inspector general has an ongoing review in Phoenix that includes examining scheduling practices and Mr. Shinseki has put the director of the Phoenix VA, Sharon Helman, along with two other employees on administrative leave.  In a statement made just after her suspension, Ms. Helman said she understands Mr. Shinseki’s decision.

The VA’s acting inspector general, Richard Griffin, said at a Senate Committee on Veterans Affairs hearing Thursday that of the 17 cases his office has examined thus far in Phoenix, no deaths can be attributed to lengthy wait times.  But, he added, federal criminal investigators have been consulted regarding scheduling improprieties that could lead to criminal charges.

On May 1, the nation’s largest veterans’ advocacy group, the American Legion, with some 2.4 million members called on Mr. Shinseki and two top VA officials to resign.  No other major veterans’ organization has echoed the call.

Mr. Shinseki on Friday forced the senior VA official in charge of the VA health-care system, Dr. Robert Petzel, to resign .  The VA had already announced, in September 2013, Dr. Petzel’s eventual retirement.  He was one of the top officials the American Legion had been targeting for resignation.

Mr. Shinseki announced last week he had ordered a system-wide review of health care accessibility with a report to be issued in approximately three weeks, a review that will cover questions of scheduling procedures.

Following the announcement, at least one VA hospital system discovered possible improprieties during preparations for the review.  Mr. Shinseki announced he had placed two employees at the Durham, N.C., facility on administrative leave pending the review.

The VA did not release the names of the employees, citing privacy concerns.

The VA, Mr. Shinseki and Dr. Petzel could not be immediately reached for comment.

Capital Journal Daybreak Newsletter: Sign up to get the latest on politics, policy and defense delivered to your inbox every morning .

We welcome thoughtful comments from readers. Please comply with our guidelines . Our blogs do not require the use of your real name.

“Democrats’ plans to expand education and health benefits for veterans died in the Senate on Thursday after Republicans blocked the bill for not having a funding source and thus busting the budget all sides agreed to just two months ago.

Sen. Bernard Sanders, Vermont independent and chairman of the Veterans Affairs Committee, vowed to try again later. But without finding substantial spending cuts elsewhere, it’s unclear he’ll have any better luck.

“I don’t know why we have a Congress, why we pass laws that say we’re only going to spend so much money and then we waltz in a few weeks later and spend billions more than we agreed to and, oh, we’ll just waive the budget we just passed,” said Sen. Jeff Sessions of Alabama, who led the Republican resistance.

Two Republicans did vote with 54 Democrats, but that left them still four votes shy of the 60 needed to waive the budget and advance the bill.

Senate Veterans Affairs Committee Chairman Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) said in an interview Monday that politicization of the issue would be “unconscionable.” He said representatives of service organizations who testified before his committee last week agreed that VA continues to provide quality health care to veterans.

Really??? Madder than hell???  Sure is funny that he has not come out and said one word about it, nor has he stopped giving his support to the head of the VA who continues to not know what the hell he is doing.  Everyone focuses on the 40 veterans that died waiting for treatment.  While this is horrible to treat our veterans like this, how about the 40,000 back logged appointments for treatments that the VA “removed from the books” because they were unable to keep up with them???  That is 40,000 veterans that did not get their scheduled appointments for treatment because the VA is a bloated, inefficient example of what is wrong with our Federal Government.

Oh how the democrats said that it was silly to say that government run healthcare would not result in Death Panels.  Well, here they are, secret ones, right before our eyes.

An error has occured and your email has not been sent.

• Seperate multiple addresses with Commas.

• Must enter an email address.

• You must enter the verification code below to send.

• Invalid entry: Please type the verification code again.

An error has occured and your email has not been sent.

• Seperate multiple addresses with Commas.

• Must enter an email address.

• You must enter the verification code below to send.

• Invalid entry: Please type the verification code again.
