
There are indications that tomorrow’s rescheduled National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting of the All Progressives Congress (APC) will be very stormy as the opposition political party grapples with the challenges posed by lapses in its nationwide congresses and the likely zoning formula ahead of its national convention.

Some of the stakeholders of the party, who spoke to THISDAY on their views over the party’s congresses concluded last week, gave divergent assessments of the exercise.

A chieftain of the party from the South-east alleged that there is an orchestrated attempt by certain interests among the national leadership of the party to cause disharmony within the South-east states by manipulating the congresses held in the zone.

The aggrieved member, who did not want his name mentioned, vowed to open up on issues of clandestine moves to undermine the interest and aspirations of key leaders of the party from the South-east if tomorrow’s meeting fails to address the concerns.

In one of the petitions sent to the party leadership, an aggrieved party member from one of the states in the South-east accused a supervising congress  officials of not conducting any congress, alleging that he merely colluded with some persons to compile names and submitted them as winners of the congress.

THISDAY learnt that the party has received so many petitions over the misconduct of some of the officials who supervised the congresses, especially in states like Edo, Abia and Ogun.

Speaking on the protests and controversies trailing the congresses, the APC interim National Publicity Secretary, Alhaji Lai Muhammed, said a lot of complaints about the party’s congresses showed that members may not have understood the nature of the exercise.

The APC spokesman, in an interview with THISDAY at the weekend, expressed the hope that the various appeal panels would be able to do justice to the petitions and to restore confidence in the party’s members.

He said contrary to reports on the congress lapses, the number of states that had submitted petitions were far fewer than those without complaints.

While explaining the process of the congress, he said while at the ward level almost everybody is involved, at the local government and state levels, only a few persons (delegates), including those considered automatic delegates, are to participate.

On what may have caused the avalanche of complaints from some states, Muhammed said distortions arose when during a local government congress, those believed to be popular at their wards found it difficult to win at the local government congress due to the wider interests involved.

Another issue expected to generate arguments and discordant tunes at tomorrow’s NEC meeting is the zoning of party positions in preparation for the first ever national convention of APC.

Currently, the three most influential organs of the party, the top leadership caucus, the interim National Executive Committee led by its chairman, Chief Bisi Akande, and the APC Governors’ Forum, also known as the Progressive Governors’ Forum, chaired by the Imo State Governor, Rochas Okorocha, have all stepped up efforts at reaching a consensus on sharing of positions.

The APC governors are said to have taken up the initiative to assist in resolving some of the touchy issues and in pursuance of this objective, they met early this month in Abuja to consider options in the zoning arrangement.

At the meeting, the governors almost narrowed their choice for the zoning of the chairmanship position between the South-east and South-south.

A reliable source, who witnessed the discussions, said support was from the two zones as the 12 governors present took their positions on the matter.

It quoted one of the prominent governors from the North-east as having suggested the retention of the interim chairman, Akande, as way of stabilising the party and preventing a “sell out” ahead of the 2015 elections.

However those who saw the move as a way of denying either the South-east or South-south of the chance to head the party, have also suggested that the position be given to either the former National Chairman of the defunct All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP), Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu, or the former Governor of Edo State, Chief John Odigie Oyegun.

The argument of this group is that both Onu and Oyegun have remained steadfast with the party, ANPP, all these years, except for the brief period when Oyegun moved to the defunct Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN).

“Nobody can impeach them on the basis of lack of loyalty and being compromised on principle. Both of them were former governors that were not found wanting in the administration of their states,” said a party source.

On the scheming by the National Vice-Chairman of APC, South-south, Chief Tom Ikimi, who is eager to secure support of the governors to run for the chairmanship of the party, the party source said the Edo-born politician had always evoked suspicion among key leaders of the party ever since his first move to transit from his role in the merger committee into substantive chairman of APC.

“Ikimi has remained aggrieved since his subterranean moves to become the interim chairman failed and so he is not in the reckoning as far as the chairmanship of the party is concerned now,” he said.

Please leave your comment below. Your name will appear next to your comment. We'll also keep you updated by email whenever someone else comments on this page. Your comment will appear on this page once it has been approved by a moderator.

Please enter some keywords that you'd like to search for. Your results will be displayed below.

THISDAYLIVE cares about you, help us to report better!
