
While his brethren were busy ferrying tourists, Nishad was concerned about retaining the original form of Ganga and its 84 ghats in Varanasi and apprehensive of BJP victory. "Modi is known for development but we don't want him to modernize ghats of Varanasi. Ghats are sacred and we want them to retain their originality," he said.

Nishad felt that ancient heritage and culture draws tourists to Varanasi and any alteration in the original structure would hurt the sentiments. "Spirituality and holy ghats are found only in Varanasi while malls, buildings and skyscrapers are found everywhere. It should not be disturbed. Modernization should be restricted to big cities," he said explaining his mood. The boatmen want the new government to focus only on cleaning ghats and promoting tourism in Varanasi.

There are around 15,000 families of boatmen that reside on the banks of Ganga. For them, the river is more than a mere source of livelihood. They have a deep spiritual bonding with it. Boatmen Pappu Sahni gave words to community's exasperation with subsequent governments, "While other weaker sections of the society are enjoying all financial benefits from the government, our community lives in utter neglect." The community has been demanded scheduled caste status for long. "Not a single leader from BJP came forward to listen to our plight during the recent campaigning," he lamented.

Sahni further said that around 1.75 lakh people, including Nishad (boatmen), Majhi, Machwara (fishermen), Bind (net weavers) and farmers, were directly or indirectly dependent on Ganga for livelihood. "We all are connected with the river, hence should be given the responsibility of safeguarding it. But none of us has any role in the Ganga Action Plan," he said.

Joining the discussion once again, Nishad said the community had decided to opt for NOTA this time but "at the last minute we decided to vote for Modi." He added, "Modi won with a margin of more than 3.7 lakh votes in Varanasi. His victory would have been doubtful if we had opted for NOTA" and lamented: "Despite all this, our demands find no place in Modi's manifesto for the city."

Around 150 boatmen are expert in deep diving and often save people on the verge of drowning. The ability of these people to dive into deep waters without oxygen had never been acknowledged by the governments, he rued and added, "They are never considered for jobs in water police." Nishad said that these families were living below the poverty line and in absence of SC status were unable to reap benefits of various government schemes.

Another boatman Laxman Majhi rued rude behaviour of administration. Boats are banned from entering river for three months during monsoon owing to possibility of Ganga crossing the danger mark. "Our families starve during the off season but the  state government does nothing for us," he cribbed. He added that the community was often a target of police atrocities for cultivating crops on banks or catching fish in the river.

"Ganga will cleanse itself provided government frees it from various clutches (dams). If the river is allowed to maintain its original flow, the water will automatically get cleaned. There is no need for any action plan for the river," said  Manjhi.
