
The Star Wars phenomenon has been raging for eons, manifesting in an array of block-busters, TV movies and series, games, comic books, etc. Now Disney, together with Lucasfilm Animation, have produced Star Wars Rebels, an animated series. Debashine Thangevelo caught up with executive producer Dave Filoni (Star Wars: The Clone Wars, Avatar, The Last Airbender) to find out more.

THE action-packed series bridges the divide between Star Wars: Episode III – Revenge of the Sith and Star Wars: Episode IV – A New Hope.

This era covers two decades of never-before-explored storytelling centred on the Brave Rebel Alliance. With Order 66 executed, the Empire searches for the last of the Jedi Knights.

A die-hard of the franchise, Dave Filoni says: “It’s funny, I always tell people that when I was a kid I didn’t know there was such a thing as being a Star Wars fan. You were just a kid, and Star Wars was what we had and everybody I knew loved it. It just kind of bridged everybody and their parents. So when we grew up we had Star Wars everything, just like kids today.

In case you are wondering, one of his two favourite Star Wars characters is Plo Koon, who was on the Jedi council in the prequels.

INTERGALACTIC EXPERIENCE: Executive producer Dave Filoni delves into the painstaking detail of making the CGI-animated series, Star Wars Rebels.

Having worked on an animated TV series before, he sheds light on his new project.

“Well, my job is rather unique in that I followed this right from the very beginning with the spark of ideas all the way to the final picture look and sound design. I’ll have, you know, some story ideas that I’ll have written down and then Simon (Kinberg) and I would get together and kind of discuss where we wanted the stories to go and then we would talk to Greg (Weisman) and Greg would have some ideas.

And they had Freddie Prinze jr and Vanessa Marshall do the character voice-overs of Cowboy Jedi Kanan and Hera, respectively.

Filoni says the idea for the series germinated in late 2012.

On engaging with their target market with the show airing on Disney XD and Disney Channel later this year, he says: “Star Wars Rebels is an action adventure show that’s driven by classic Star Wars sensibility. It’s set right before the first film New Hope, episode four, and it tells the story of a band of rebels who are fighting against the Galactic Empire.

“I think because our story takes place closer to those films it made sense to have the tone more like New Hope. I think we are dealing more directly with a small group of characters in this series, just like the original movies dealt with a small group of characters.

And the force lives on!

Login and register, if you haven’ t already.

© Copyright 1999 - 2014 Independent Online, a division of Independent Newspapers (Pty) Limited. The copyright in the literary and artistic works contained in this online news publication and its other related and connected websites, as well as in the published editions of group newspapers, their supplements and any other content or material, belongs exclusively to Independent Newspapers (Pty) Limited unless otherwise stated.
