
An error has occured and your email has not been sent.

• Seperate multiple addresses with Commas.

• Must enter an email address.

• You must enter the verification code below to send.

• Invalid entry: Please type the verification code again.

Baghdad--A coalition led by Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki won the most seats in the country's first parliamentary elections since U.S. troops left in December 2011, setting the stage for what could be months of wrangling among the country's fractured political class.

Mr. Maliki's State of Law coalition won 92 out of 328 parliamentary seats in the elections held in late April, three more seats than it won in 2010, according to the Iraqi High Election Commission on Monday.

But the results still fell short of the "political majority" government that Mr. Maliki had hoped would hand him a mandate in his third term. Instead, the controversial prime minister will have to negotiate for power with former allies--many of whom now consider Mr. Maliki a political enemy.

Such lengthy negotiations would leave Iraq's government even more adrift amid a rising tide of insecurity, sectarian violence and political gridlock. Following the 2010 elections, lawmakers spent nearly 10 months negotiating over a new government.

But while the 2010 elections unfolded during a period of relative calm, the coming negotiations will take place amid a level of violence that hasn't been seen in Iraq since the height of the country's sectarian civil war in 2006 and 2007.

"Certainly the security conditions this time will be impacted by the political negotiations," said Ahmed Ali, an Iraq expert at the Washington-based Institute for the Study of War. "There is a possibility of destabilization, particularly if Prime Minister Maliki uses the results to twist the arms of the other political groups. That will add to the security deterioration."

Months of political horse-trading could also complicate efforts to contain a continuing conflict in the Sunni-majority western province of Anbar, where al Qaeda-inspired militants have held the city of Fallujah since early January. Emboldened by their successes against Iraq's military, the group has taken to attacking targets far beyond its Sunni heartland.

Last month, the Islamic State of Iraq and al-Sham was able to cut off a crucial dam that feeds water into the agricultural lands of southern Iraq. It also seized territory in the Abu Ghraib neighborhood, well within striking distance of Baghdad.

If Mr. Maliki feels the need to demonstrate to potential coalition partners that he is tough on terror, he could decide to launch an aggressive clampdown on the province, said Mr. Ali, a move that could inflame already mounting violence.

The prime minister entered the April 30 vote with few friends even among the Shiite coreligionists who emerged as runners-up in the elections. Among the other prominent Shiite parties, a list led by hard-line cleric Moqtada al-Sadr won 34 seats, while the Iran-backed Islamic Supreme Council of Iraq, or ISCI, won 31 seats.

Both groups regard Mr. Maliki with hostility, accusing him of dominating power and leading a corrupt regime for the past eight years.

Given the public anger that Mr. Sadr and ISCI leader Ammar Al Hakim have for Mr. Maliki, the prime minister will probably first reach out to his Sunni Arab and Kurdish allies. If he can cobble together an alliance with them, said Mr. Ali, he will be in a better position to tempt Shiite politicians to join his government.

Even then, Mr. Maliki may have to accept limits on his now expansive political power. Some Shiite politicians are already talking about giving Mr. Maliki a third term on the condition that he devolve some of his authority to his coalition partners.

Despite Iraq's growing security problems, Mr. Maliki's victory wasn't surprising to many of his opponents. Nada Ibrahim Al Jubori, a former Sunni member of parliament, said the results further demonstrate the power of incumbency in Iraq's nascent democracy--a system that Mr. Maliki's critics say he has dominated to his own political ends.

"Iraqis still like to go to vote to for a man with power as prime minister, even in spite of all the problems, all the disagreements between the Kurds and his blocs and between the Sunnis and his bloc," said Nada Ibrahim Al Jubori, a former Sunni member of parliament.

Ms. Jubori said that Mr. Maliki owes at least part of his victory to his moribund political opposition. Not only is the Iraqi electorate divided among ethnic and sectarian groups, but each group is further splintered by infighting.

Iraq's Sunni Arab minority, which makes up about 20% of the population, was unable to unite around a single candidate or electoral bloc despite sharing a long list of grievances against Mr. Maliki's Shiite-dominated government in Baghdad.

A Sunni-dominated list led by former Prime Minister Ayad Allawi won only 22 seats, while the "Mutahidoon" list, led by Maliki opponent and speaker of parliament Osama Al Nujaifi, won 23 seats.

"There is no name to be agreed on," Ms. Jaburi said of the lack of alternatives to Mr. Maliki. "No name who has the acceptance of all other blocs."

An error has occured and your email has not been sent.

• Seperate multiple addresses with Commas.

• Must enter an email address.

• You must enter the verification code below to send.

• Invalid entry: Please type the verification code again.
