
Amid suspense whether Nitish Kumar will withdraw his resignation, Janta Dal(United) President Sharad Yadav today said Mr Kumar's decision to quit as Chief Minister was "final" and a new leader would be elected.

"Nitish Kumar's resignation is final. The decision has been taken after much deliberation and is in the favour of the party, as well as, Kumar. It is in continuation of our decision to sever our ties with the National Democratic Alliance (NDA)," Yadav told reporters ahead of the crucial JD(U) Legislature party meeting here.

Mr Yadav, who faced ire of party supporters as well as several JD (U) MLAs yesterday for his stand on Mr Kumar's resignation, said it was a "difficult, but a right and valid decision."

"The meeting will be held and the legislators will put their stamp of approval on Nitish Kumar's decision to resign from the post of the CM. A new leader will be elected at the meeting," he said.

JD(U) Chief Whip Shravan Kumar has issued instructions to all MLAs to be present at today's meeting to be held from 2 PM.

Nitish Kumar, who stuck to his decision to quit had sought time till today to convey his decision in the face of strong plea of JD(U) Legislators to continue to lead the government in the state.

Meanwhile, JD(U) protestors have gathered again in large number outside the chief minister's residence where the meeting will be held. They have raised slogans in favour of Mr Kumar and against Mr Yadav. Chorus for continuation of Mr Kumar has also been heard from districts. JD(U) supporters are holding protests in Bhagalpur, Nalanda,  Darbhanga and elsewhere to put pressure on Mr Kumar to continue to lead the government.

The content of this field is kept private and will not be shown publicly.

Web page addresses and e-mail addresses turn into links automatically.

Lines and paragraphs break automatically.

Web page addresses and e-mail addresses turn into links automatically.

Lines and paragraphs break automatically.

This question is for testing whether you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions.
