
FITCHBURG -- Fitchburg State University President Robert V. Antonucci announced Monday that he will retire at the end of the 2014-2015 academic year.

"I am honored to have been chosen to lead this great university and its dedicated faculty and staff, and thankful to have served under a supportive and talented Board of Trustees," Antonucci wrote in a letter to the campus community. "I value the past 11 years as the most rewarding of my professional life."

Antonucci, Fitchburg State's 10th president, made the announcement before a campus gathering in Hammond Hall. He noted that he was announcing his intentions now to allow as much time as possible for a broad national search.

Antonucci began his tenure at Fitchburg State in June 2003.

He previously served as the Massachusetts commissioner of education.

Enrollment has increased during his tenure, as have the number of full-time undergraduate faculty members. Academic programs have been revised or added, online programs have multiplied, and a major fundraising campaign was completed, according to a press release announcing Antonucci's plans.

Antonucci was also a leader in the successful effort to rename the comprehensive state colleges as universities.

"It would be difficult to overstate the impact President Antonucci has had on this institution," said. Board of Trustees Chairman Carol T. Vittorioso. "He has overseen what is likely the most extensive transformation of the campus in its 120-year history."

The search for Antonucci's successor will begin at the start of the fall semester, Vittorioso said.

"It will be open and transparent, with all voices heard," Vittorioso added. "This institution and the people who care so deeply about it deserve nothing less. I have no doubt that we are positioned to attract high-quality applicants."

As education commissioner in the 1990s, Antonucci played a key role in the passage and enactment of the state's historic Education Reform Act of 1993, a landmark law now seen as a national model.

Antonucci is former president of the school group at Cambridge-based Riverdeep -- The Learning Company, a leading provider of electronic educational software. He has also held the positions of president and chief executive officer with Harcourt Learning Direct and Harcourt Higher Education, and chief executive officer of Harcourt eLearning and the California College for Health Sciences. Harcourt was the first online college in Massachusetts granted authority to award bachelor and associate degrees.

For 12 years Antonucci was superintendent of schools in Falmouth. From 1974 to 1980, Antonucci served as assistant superintendent of the Leominster Public Schools. He began his career in education in 1967 as a teacher and administrator in Lunenburg.

His wife, Jeanne, also holds bachelor's and master's degrees from Fitchburg State. The Antonuccis have a son, a daughter, and five grandchildren.

Welcome to your discussion forum: Sign in with a Disqus account or your social networking account for your comment to be posted immediately, provided it meets the guidelines. ( READ HOW .) Comments made here are the sole responsibility of the person posting them; these comments do not reflect the opinion of The Sentinel and Enterprise. So keep it civil.
