
Washington - Obama administration actions to change some of the National Security Agency's surveillance practices after the leaks of classified documents by contractor Edward Snowden are falling short of what many private cyber experts want.

Top government experts told the Reuters Cybersecurity Summit this week they would be more transparent about spying activity.  Non-government guests, however, said the administration was not doing enough to advance Internet security.

For instance, last December a White House review commission called for a drastic reduction in the NSA's practice of keeping secret the software vulnerabilities it learns about and then exploiting them for spying purposes.

White House cybersecurity advisor Michael Daniel said at the conference that he would chair the interagency group charged with weighing each newly discovered software flaw and deciding whether to keep it secret or warn the software maker about it.

Commission member Peter Swire told the summit he was pleased by the formal process for debating vulnerability use, but others said there were too many loopholes.

In an April 28 White House blog post, Daniel wrote that the factors the interagency group would consider included the likelihood that the vulnerability would be discovered by others and how pressing was the need for intelligence.

“That is the loophole that swallows the entire policy, because there's always going to be an important national security or law enforcement purpose,” Chris Soghoian, a technology policy analyst with the American Civil Liberties Union said at the summit.

Some security experts active in the market for trading software flaws said they had seen no sign that US purchases were declining.

“There's been no change in the market at all as far as we can see,” said Adriel Desautels, chief executive of Netragard Inc, which buys and sells programs taking advantage of undisclosed flaws.

The review commission implicitly acknowledged that the NSA had developed the capability to penetrate some widely used cryptography, and it urged the NSA to commit to not undermining encryption standards.

Critics say such statements leave plenty of wiggle room.

Among other things, they do no not preclude using backroom deals. For instance, the Snowden documents published by journalists say Microsoft had worked with the NSA to allow the agency to obtain access to some user emails before they were encrypted.

According to Snowden documents, the NSA has hacked into Google and impersonated Facebook overseas, where it faces far fewer restrictions on what it can collect. The NSA has said nothing about changing such tactics.

For that reason, many US technology companies are unhappy. They are spending more to boost defenses against intrusions and contesting more requests from the NSA for user data.

Login and register, if you haven’ t already.

© Copyright 1999 - 2014 Independent Online, a division of Independent Newspapers (Pty) Limited. The copyright in the literary and artistic works contained in this online news publication and its other related and connected websites, as well as in the published editions of group newspapers, their supplements and any other content or material, belongs exclusively to Independent Newspapers (Pty) Limited unless otherwise stated.
