
The exercise to form the next government reached a crescendo on Monday, a day before prime minister-designate Narendra Modi is elected the leader of the BJP's central parliamentary board, with leaders making a beeline for Gujarat Bhawan, the residence of party president Rajnath Singh and the RSS headquarters.

After a meeting of the BJP-led NDA chooses Modi as the leader of the coalition, he is expected to meet President Pranab Mukherjee at 2.30pm on Tuesday to stake a claim for government formation.

Rajnath Singh is almost certain to join the Cabinet, and the list of ministerial hopefuls includes senior leaders like Arun Jaitley, Sushma Swaraj, Nitin Gadkari, Ananth Kumar, Ravi Shankar Prasad, Venkaiah Naidu and Rajiv Pratap Rudy.

Sources said the latest entrant in the list is Arun Shourie, the former Disinvestment Minister, who will be given a key assignment.

He is tipped to become either the Finance Minister or deputy chairman of the Planning Commission. Shourie was spotted with BJP leader Sudhanshu Trivedi at Rajnath Singh's residence on Ashoka Road on Monday.

He, however, refused to talk to the media. Sources said there will be around 30 Cabinet ministers and an equal number of ministers of state.

There was a buzz that Modi might get a BJP outsider for the law portfolio.

"A tentative list of Cabinet ministers will be finalised by Tuesday evening before Modi leaves for Gujarat. It has been left to Rajnath Singh to work out the formula for the number of ministerial slots to be given to allies and this may take two more days.

Given the list of hopefuls, it will be a challenge for Modi to accommodate both BJP colleagues and leaders from other parties in the Cabinet.

Another person who is being closely watched is BJP general secretary Amit Shah, Modi's closest aide.

Lobbying was at a peak amid discussions on allocation of portfolios, and the Gujarat Bhawan in New Delhi turned into a virtual Prime Minister's Office.

Modi called Home Secretary Anil Goswami to the Bhawan for a meeting on Monday to get an update on the internal security situation across the country, and was briefed on the situation in J&K, the North-East and the Maoist-affected areas.

Modi also held a meeting at the Bhawan with Shah and Jaitley.

Senior BJP leader and former UP Chief Minister Kalyan Singh also held discussions with Modi, who is likely to meet leaders of other parties in the NDA soon, including Uddhav Thackeray and representatives of the TDP, sources said.

Besides the Gujarat Bhawan, the other nerve centres were the residence of BJP president Rajnath Singh, and the RSS headquarters at Keshav Kunj.

Among those who joined the meetings at Rajnath Singh's residence were Shourie, Sushma Swaraj, Uma Bharti, Gopinath Munde, Yogi Adityanath, Varun Gandhi, Vasundhra Raje and several newly-elected MPs.

Anupriya Patel of Apna Dal, a partner of the BJP in UP, also met Singh.

Sources said the BJP wants the RSS to be kept in the loop on all important decisions, and party leaders were visiting the office at Keshav Kunj.

A host of BJP leaders, including Shah and Jaitley, met top RSS functionaries. YSR Congress leader Jaganmohan Reddy also met Modi on Monday.

French president Francois Hollande on Monday called Prime Minister-elect Narendra Modi to congratulate him and assure him of his "commitment to the strategic partnership and friendship between France and India".

"The French Head of State invited Modi to come to France whenever he wished," a source from the entourage of the French President stated.

The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) has hinted that it is not interested in any Cabinet berth, BJP sources said on Monday.

The "not interested" message has come from none other than TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu himself, the BJP sources said.

TDP's N. Chandrababu Naidu (left) said he had not applied for positions in a Modi cabinet, and SAD leader Parkash Singh Badal (right) said he had not applied on behalf of his daughter-in-law Harsimrat Kaur Badal.

While Chandrababu Naidu has shown "complete aloofness", individual requests were made by the TDP MPs for accommodation in the new Union Cabinet.

Close aides of PM-designate Narendra Modi and BJP president Rajnath Singh received requests from the TDP MPs bypassing their leader's stand, they added.

The buzz is that given the way Naidu works, he does not want any other power centre of the TDP in Delhi.

The TDP has 16 MPs in the Lok Sabha. During Atal Bihari Vajpayee's tenure, the TDP had only taken the Lok Sabha Speaker's post.

In Chandigarh, SAD leader and Punjab Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal clarified that he has not made any demand to the BJP leadership to induct his daughter-in-law Harsimrat Kaur Badal as a Cabinet minister.

"We have not made any such demand," he said in response to a media query.

Harsimrat won from Bathinda where she defeated her rival Manpreet Singh Badal, a joint candidate of the CPI, Congress and PPP, by a victory margin of mere 19,874 votes.

State house turns into 'fortress'

Gujarat Bhawan - the new seat of power just a stone's throw away from 7, Race Course Road - has turned into a virtual fortress with at least 250-300 dedicated security personnel manning the building.

The state bhawan, where the country's PM-designate Narendra Modi has been staying for the last two days, has been made out of bounds.

"The Gujarat Bhawan canteen was not open to visitors as usual and many had to return," an insider said, adding: "The security was so tight that even some MPs and MLAs were not allowed inside the premises."

Media personnel were also reportedly not allowed inside and were made to take note about the "select visitors" being allowed to enter the premises.

Modi seems to have turned the second floor of the building into a Prime Minister's Office, and only those visitors who had been given prior appointments were allowed to enter the premises.

The Resident Commissioner's office was also out of bounds for the local media and other visitors on Monday.

It seemed jammers were already in place as no calls were being answered. Calls on the mobile phones of all senior officials went unanswered.

Security personnel comprising officers of Gujarat Police, Delhi Police, CRPF and NSG, keep watch in and around the new seat of power. Modi will be leaving the Capital on Tuesday evening.

Nice glasses hipster Prakash.

The comments below have not been moderated.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
