
TEHRAN (FNA)- The coup attempt by CIA-linked General Khalifa Hifter has now spread to the Libyan capital and the parliament buildings, where lawmakers had to flee the buildings under gunfire, and now observers are asking if the US has started a new scheme in the Arab-African nation.

Hifter's forces themselves however are an unofficial militia apparently being allowed to mount a coup against democratically elected representatives. Hifter has past connections with the CIA. Perhaps the US has decided that they need a military strongman in Libya to put down (Salafi) Islamist influence in Libya. Recently the US has moved special response teams from Spain to Sicily. They may be standing by if needed to help "restore order" or evacuate US personnel if the coup attempt results in violence against US interests.

Hifter started his attacks in Benghazi on Friday by attacking two Islamist bases. The government declared a no-fly zone over Benghazi. However, it is not clear that the government has any means of enforcing it and the armed forces cannot even defend the parliament and Libyan lawmakers. Security officers were able to evacuate lawmakers from the parliament buildings when it was feared the building would be stormed. The gunmen raided offices of the lawmakers. Representative Omar Bushah said the gunmen had not only entered the parliament but had set it on fire. The state news agency LANA reported that gunmen had closed off streets leading to the parliament. Gunfire was reported in several areas of Tripoli. Omar al-Saleh of Al Jazeera said that the city has turned into somewhat of a battlefield.

Saleh said that eyewitnesses told him a large convoy of vehicles with heavy machine guns had stormed the General National Congress or parliament: "There were few cars set on fire. There was heavy fighting. The situation is very tense."

The Libyan News Agency reported that the attacking forces were from the Zintan brigade a group that controls the international airport. The group has not yet said that the attack was made on behalf of Hifter. At least 70 people are now reported killed in Hifter's Benghazi operation and 140 injured.

A new prime minister had been named who was supported by Islamists. However, his election had been challenged and rebels holding two oil ports had refused to negotiate with him. He had not yet appointed a cabinet. Now it seems he will not even be able to assume his position. There seems to be no sign of the regular armed forces attempting to stop the coup.
