
A political committee that sent out mailers and paid for television ads hitting 4th Assembly District candidate Dan Wolk last week has fired back at Wolk’s campaign for blasting the mailer’s claims as inaccurate.

FairPAC , which is run by the Civil Justice Association of California, spent almost $280,000 on mailers and television ads attacking Wolk as a flip-flopper, as well as a TV spot supporting Wolk’s rival in the 4th District race, Napa County Supervisor Bill Dodd.

Wolk’s campaign said last week that the ads were not true, and said FairPAC received money from Koch Industries. The campaign sent out a fundraising pitch and a statement that noted the money donated from Koch Industries, Dow Chemical and insurance companies.

A related FairPAC committee — not the one that paid for the ads — did receive a $6,800 contribution from Koch Industries last May, but returned the entire amount donated, said Kevin Reikes, a political consultant with Sacramento-based Media & Associates, which produced the pieces for FairPAC.

Campaign finance reports filed with the secretary of state’s office show that the $6,800 donation was refunded. An earlier contribution of $6,500 made in May 2012 was also returned, Reikes said. Both contributions were returned in fall 2013, according to the records.

The committee that paid for the ads has taken money from the California Farm Bureau, Farmers Insurance, Realtors, the Doctors Co., dentists, hospitals, the San Manuel Band of Mission Indians, Chevron, Anheuser-Busch and the California Credit Union League, among other donors, according to Reikes.

Wolk’s campaign reiterated the connection in a statement.

David McCuan, a political science professor for Sonoma State University, said independent political groups focusing negative attack ads on candidates are par for the course at this stage of a competitive contest such as the 4th District race.

With two weeks to go to Election Day, independent money spent in the 4th District race has topped $800,000, according to new reports filed with the secretary of state’s office Monday. McCuan predicted the final tally of independent money spent in the June 3 primary election will be $1.3 million to $1.5 million.

Few legislative races are competitive so close to Election Day, and even fewer feature candidates vying for an open seat. The 4th District race and others have been emblematic of shifts in the Democratic Party in California, as a self-described moderate Democrat, Dodd, has been squaring off with the more traditional labor-backed candidate in Wolk, McCuan said. That makes the races attract spending from the independent groups, representing various interests such as business or labor that are trying to make plays in the contests, McCuan said.

Reikes stood by the mailer’s claim that Wolk ignored the community in Davis in voting to increase water rates by 300 percent, despite years of planning in advance of the City Council’s vote in March 2013, and residents voting in favor of the water project the rate increase will fund.

Reikes supports his claims by noting that in 2011 Wolk told the Sacramento Bee he wanted to build community support for the project. Fifty-four percent of Davis voters ultimately voted to approve the project, but Reikes hinged his claims on the fact that 46 percent of Davis residents voted no on it, and 1,800 ratepayers protested the water rate increase. The city needed more than half of its 16,500 ratepayers to protest in order to block the increases, according to a March 2013 Davis Enterprise article Reikes cites .

Frank Loge, a UC Davis professor who worked closely with the City Council on the water rates issue, said last week that the mailer’s claim that Wolk ignored the community was “blatantly wrong.” Loge served on a citizens’ committee that spent two years between 2011 and 2013 analyzing the size of the water project and the potential rate increase, and then gave its recommendations to the City Council.

A second claim states Wolk voted against fire safety at a late-night meeting. Reikes said it’s in reference to a vote, which happened at 11:30 p.m. last December, to share management of the city of Davis’ fire service with UC Davis’ fire service.

Wolk voted no on the agreement, after having supported an earlier iteration of the deal in October, which the city’s firefighters had supported, according to an Enterprise article.

The firefighters later reversed course after the first several months of the agreement, and Wolk questioned the way it had been managed. The agreement passed anyway, with three councilmembers supporting it.

Wolk voted to oppose a shift in the fire services’ staffing last spring, which would have reduced staffing from 12 on-duty firefighters to 11, and changed the way the department responded to calls, according to a Davis Enterprise article. The plan passed despite Wolk’s vote.

Copyright 2014 Napa Valley Register. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Has Dan Wolk ever compromised the quality of the water? Has he ever tried to pollute the water? Has he ever tried to take it away from his community? Dan cannot control inflation and the money supply. Dan can only try to collect as much water as he can and return it still clean to his community. To me Dan is Man when it comes to water accountability! Go Dan! The money is fake, clean water is essential.

Sam Manuel is an Indian gaming interest.

FairPAC supports Dodd but not Wolk? Hmmm.

I'll vote for Wolk. He's not perfect. He still has a lot to learn but he's a type of person that's less likely to be bought by casino interests etc.

FairPAC is supporting Dodd for a reason. They most likely support politicians whom they think are easily influenced.

Nepotism is the Hallmark of liberalism…if you like our no job growth state, our trillion dollar debt to public employee retirement funds...here’s your guy,  A guy that have never managed a real business, people who get elected who never ran a business are almost always public employee union hampsters.

We’re in this mess for two reasons…public employee union corruption and liberals.

vocal, don't you think Mr. Wolk might be influenced by the unions? He takes a lot of union money. He's certainly not running his campaign on his own money to avoid influence from outside interests.

Vocal - so you are saying that Dodd supports Indian gaming in Napa? If so you couldn't be farther from the truth. Every single member of the Napa Board of Supervisors opposes a casino in a Napa. Dodd cares about Napa and if you have Napa's true interest at heart you will vote Dodd.

We as a people have had democratic legislators for the last decade and longer, The problems of California have become worse. There is no respect for our Constitutional rights at the state capitol. When are we going to get some people in office who will bring back our freedom to our state and our rights. I hope that we will not put in office another freedom thieving democrat.

Democrats are famous for false attack ads like this and it will surely influence voters to vote for Wolk.

Bill Dodd only cares what's best for Bill Dodd and what will further his name. Nothing more. He's a bully and everybody knows it even if folks are too scared to say so.

Wow, I guess you've never met Bill, as you could not be farther from the truth.

Yes I do OTN. And I don't like that either.

I wish we had politicians around who actually represented the PEOPLE rather than corporations or unions.

But if I must pick the lesser of two evils, I'll pick the candidate who's supported by unions? Why? Because unions are more of an expression of the people, the working ones, than corporations are. The bad thing about unions is that they do not consider their impact on all people, just a select group who benefit. However, if done right, unions do protect our middle class, up to a point. I can't say the same thing about corporations. Their goal is to drive this country down to the lowest common denominator of wage and benefits so that a few, mostly super wealthy, shareholders will benefit. Or they outsource jobs, whichever is cheapest.

Just read that the Bay Area is one the hottest parts of the country for job growth-good paying jobs at that.  Oops. Sorry to bring up an inconvenient fact.

Really? What about Democrats? They are famous for trying to take as much money as they can get.

Username & Password Required!
