
NEW DELHI: Narendra Modi has thanked world leaders for their good wishes over BJP's landslide victory in Lok Sabha elections and underscored India's strong ties with countries like the US, Japan, Russia and Nepal.

The Prime Minister-elect tweeted his gratitude to the heads of state and government and other dignitaries since yesterday.

"In our conversation, @BarackObama & I talked about further strengthening India-USA strategic partnership that will help both nations," he said in a tweet.

In our conversation, @BarackObama & I talked about further strengthening India-USA strategic partnership that will help both nations.

Obama had a few days ago called up Modi to congratulate him over his victory.

Modi has had an uneasy relationship with the US which denied him a visa in 2005 over 2002 Gujarat riots. He has, however, in his public utterances stressed that foreign relations cannot be "influenced" by incidents related to individuals.

Among others, Modi thanked leaders of Japan, Russia, Spain, Nepal, Canada, Germany and South Africa besides the UN secretary general and the Dalai Lama.

"I thank President Putin for his good wishes. Looking forward to making our relations with Russia even stronger in the years to come."

I thank President Putin for his good wishes. Looking forward to making our relations with Russia even stronger in the years to come.

"India-Russia friendship has stood the test of time. We will further strengthen our relations in a wide range of fields," he wrote in two tweets.

The Gujarat chief minister also mentioned Japan in his tweets speaking of his experience of working with the East Asian economic powerhouse.

"Personally, I have a wonderful experience of working with Japan as CM. I am sure we will take India-Japan ties to newer heights."

Thanking Nepal President Ram Baran Yadav and Prime Minister Sushil Koirala for their wishes, he referred to the neighbouring country as an "old & deeply valued friend".

In his tweets, he also thanked the prime ministers of New Zealand and Fiji for their good wishes.

I spoke to President Hollande over the telephone & accepted his wishes. We both understand the importance of strong India-French ties.

My gratitude to @UN Secretary General Mr. Ban Ki-moon for his good wishes. India values our long & proud relationship with the UN.

We encourage you to log in and comment. Non-logged-in comments will go through a verification process for security reasons.

Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community. Help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive. Let's work together to keep the conversation civil.

We encourage you to register/login and proceed.

However, if you choose to remain                                                                                  non-loggedin, you are required to fill up the form below and verify                                                                                  your email address before we can publish your comment.

That way, we                                                                                  can verify that the email address doesn't belong to someone else.

We encourage you to register/login and proceed.

However, if you choose to remain                                                                                  non-loggedin, you are required to fill up the form below and verify                                                                                  your email address before we can publish your comment.

That way, we                                                                                  can verify that the email address doesn't belong to someone else.

Your Reason has been Submitted to the admin.
