
In his career as a pilot, Captain Idris Ichalla Wada, the Kogi State Governor, had a successful practice.  As a businessman, he was also a trailblazer and model to many Nigerians.  He became a first class flying instructor at the record age of twenty-three (23) and has been credited for training the best set of pilots ever produced in Nigeria in his generation.

He joined the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) years back and towards the end of the second term tenure of former Governor Ibrahim Idris, Wada, showed interest to fly the kite to Kogi Government House.  After a controversial primaries and a gubernatorial election that was trailed by criticism, he assumed office. Three years down the lane, Wada must have come to terms with the fact that politics is a different ball game. Aside the legal tussle that almost crippled his administration, the governor’s convoy had been involved in accidents that almost condemned him to permanent disability.

When many of his political followers thought the dust had settled, another crisis erupted at the Abuja headquarters of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). Some stakeholders from Kogi State came to the electoral body to express their anger over the governorship election that the commission conducted in the state almost three years ago.

The protesters, who came under the aegis of the Association for Justice and Good Governance of Kogi State, displayed placards bearing inscriptions like: "INEC must conduct fresh election as ordered by Supreme Court"; "Kogi must be free from illegal hands"; "On Supreme Court judgment of 27/01/12 we stand" and "Wada must go".

Specifically condemning the process that threw up Wada as governor of the state, they told the body to conduct fresh governorship poll in the state. Numbering about 2,000, they urged the commission to respect the Supreme Court judgment of January 27, 2012, which declared null and void, the continued stay in office of the governors of Sokoto, Adamawa, Bayelsa, Cross River and Kogi States and ordered INEC to conduct fresh elections in the states.

Speaking on behalf the group, the Chairman, Mr. Umar Goodman Akwu, who had initially submitted a letter to the commission's chairman, Prof. Attahiru Jega, faulted the swearing in of Wada and described it as illegal.

Making reference to the Supreme Court judgment, Akwu said, the Supreme Court ordered that the speakers of the state Houses of Assembly be inaugurated, pending the conduct of fresh governorship election.

"In compliance with the January 27, 2012 Supreme Court decision, INEC held governorship elections in Adamawa State on February 4, 2012, in Bayelsa State on February 11, 2012, in Sokoto State on February 18, 2012 and in Cross River on February 25, 2012. Surprisingly, INEC did not hold fresh governorship election in Kogi despite the subsisting Supreme Court judgment ordering it to do so,” he said.

The latest onslaught against the governor is from Alhaji Mohammed Jamiu Audu, who partook of the election on the platform of the defunct Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN). He is asking a Federal High Court to declare the primaries that brought Wada in as the PDP governorship candidate as illegal, null and void. Audu said pointedly that the PDP had no candidate in the election.

Justice Abdulkadir Abdulkafarati initially fixed May 12 as ruling date after listening to arguments from lawyers to parties in the suit instituted by Audu. The new date of the case is sometime in June.

Named as defendants in the suit marked, FHC/ABJ/CS/311/2012 include the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Wada, Jibrin Isa Echocho, the PDP, former governor of the state, Abubakar Audu and the Attorney General of the Federation.

It was the plaintiff's main contention that the process leading to the conduct of the December 3, 2011 governorship election, from which Wada emerged a major beneficiary, was allegedly manipulated by INEC in violation of the Electoral Act.

The plaintiff, who said he participated in the ACN's primary and emerged it's deputy governorship candidate, Professor Yusufu Obaje as governorship candidate prior to May 28, 2011, argued that he remained a legitimate candidate of the party, even when Obaje went to another party.

Audu, who queried the legitimacy of INEC's decision to substitute him and Obaje with Abubakar Audu in the December 3, 2011 election, argued that the process that produced Wada as the PDP's candidate for the election violated the Electoral Act, particularly Section 33.

The plaintiff, who raised five questions for the court's determination, wants the court to among others declare that he is the valid and legitimate winner of the election, and therefore entitled to be made the state governor. He also wanted the court to order Wada to vacate office, and for the state's Chief Judge to swear him into office immediately.

He equally prayed the court for an order of perpetual injunction, restraining Wada from further parading himself as governor, and directing the AGF to enforce all the orders made by the court.

The plaintiff's lawyer, Mackings Nezianya, after adopting his final written address filed with his originating summons, argued his counter affidavit to the separate objections filed INEC, Wada and PDP. In relation to the substantive suit, Nezianya urged the court to grant his client's prayer and discountenance the counter-arguments by the defendants.

He argued that as against the contention by the defendants, his client has the locus standi to institute the suit, adding that the court has the jurisdiction to hear the case in view of the provision of Section 87(9) of the Electoral Act. Nezianya urged the court to engage in a community reading of Sections 31, 33 and 87(9) of the Electoral Act before deciding case.

The plaintiff's lawyer, while responding to the defendants' preliminary objections, argued that the case cited by Wada's lawyer, Chris Uche (SAN), was misconceived. He said they did not support the issue at stake in his suit.

Relying on Order 26 Rule 3 of the Federal High Court's Civil Procedure Rules, he urged the court to disregard the objections by INEC and PDP on the grounds that they were incompetent, the defendants having failed to indicate any grounds supporting their objection.

Uche argued that the plaintiff lacked locus standi to institute the case on the grounds that the plaintiff, not being a member of the PDP, cannot contest the process adopted by PDP in choosing its candidate. He observed that Audu failed to sue his party, which allegedly substituted him with another candidate and under whose banner he stood for the election.

Wada's lawyer also challenged the court's jurisdiction to hear the suit. He argued that the suit related to post-election issues that could only be taken before the election tribunal.

Lawyers to INEC and PDP equally argued in similar manner and urged the court to dismiss the suit. However, what is certain is that this is not the best of times for the Wada governorship owing to the ceaseless onslaughts on him. That regardless, he has trudged on almost unscathed.

Please leave your comment below. Your name will appear next to your comment. We'll also keep you updated by email whenever someone else comments on this page. Your comment will appear on this page once it has been approved by a moderator.

Please enter some keywords that you'd like to search for. Your results will be displayed below.

THISDAYLIVE cares about you, help us to report better!
