
The lawmakers of the Pakistan Muslim League – Nawaz (PML-N) in Sindh are so upset with the party leadership that they have threatened to leave.

Ghous Ali Shah, the Shirazis of Thatta, the Jatois of Naushero Feroze and Dadu and the Bhuttos of Larkana have similar complaints about the leadership, he added. “Our people are being politically victimised in Sindh but our leaders don t bother to ask about their sufferings,” he said, referring to recent law and order meeting in which all major stakeholders of Karachi were invited, except the PML-N local representatives.

Marwat also claimed that they will consider joining the coalition government of the Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) if approached. “We have not made any decisions to sit on the treasury beaches but that option is also open,” he said.

PML-N has 10 MPAs and three MNAs from Sindh. According to sources privy to the development, the PML-N MNA from Malir, Hakeem Baloch, who was given the state railways minister portfolio, has also tendered his resignation a few days ago.

He was among the three MNAs of the party, apart from Ayaz Shah Shirazi and Ghulam Murtaza Jatoi, who had protested earlier against the prime minister’s attitude towards them. Sharif did assure the enraged leaders that their issues will be resolved. “Nawaz Sharif called me and promised to redress our grievance,” Hakeem Baloch told The Express Tribune. He admitted that he had resigned but has taken it back after the prime minister’s phone call.

Published in The Express Tribune, May 20th, 2014.

Your comments may appear in The Express Tribune paper. For this reason we encourage you to provide your city. The Express Tribune does not bear any responsibility for user comments.

Comments are moderated and generally will be posted if they are on-topic and not abusive. For more information, please see our Comments FAQ .

Notify me of new posts by email.

Unless otherwise stated, all content is copyrighted © 2014 The Express Tribune News Network.
