
While RNC Chairman Reince Priebus is trying to scare Hilary into not running, while also – in case she does – talking himself into believing Hilary Clinton will not run in 2016, Chris Christie is busy trying to talk himself – and others – into believing he is still a viable candidate for 2016.

Appearing at the allegedly nonpartisan Champions of Jewish Values International awards gala in New York on Sunday, he said that America “must lead” and “in some very messy, difficult places.” Presumably, places like Iraq and Afghanistan.

The rest of the world watches in desperation and hope that America will realize and act upon once again its indispensable place in the world. We must lead.

We see Russian activism once again rearing its head in the world, we see an America that backed away from a commitment made by the president of the United States in Syria, we see a country, our country, permitting even a thought of a terrorist state like Iran having nuclear capability. It’s unthinkable that the America that has led in the way that it has always led this world would permit that to happen. Yet we are sitting in a world, we are watching the vacuum that the lack of American leadership has created being filled and it is almost never filled by virtue, it is almost always filled by evil.

If the saccharin-coated America Christie describes does not make you vomit, the brazen hypocrisy will.

According to Christie, who has demonstrated himself not to be very moral at all, says that America is “the strongest moral power for what is good and what is right in the world.” We could ask, in the wake of Bridgegate , if Christie knows the difference between right and wrong, or if he wishes merely to transfer his own bullying nature onto the international stage.

The whole reason Christie appeared, of course, is to fill is war chest with the wealth of Jewish donors, and also to make up for his recent gaffe at the Republican Jewish Coalition, where he had referred to the “occupied territories” – forgetting the conservative line that if you don’t talk about the territories in question as being occupied, then they are not, in fact, occupied.

This is just like, if you talk about Hillary not really falling down, she didn’t fall down, and if you later talk about her not only falling down but suffering brain damage, she fell down and had brain damage. And three days in the hospital become thirty, or 300 people on the capital mall thirty million – almost like a biblical miracle.

Despite all the evidence at our disposal, that there are, in fact, no Republicans to be found today evincing any discernible any values at all, Christie told his rich potential donors,

We need to stand once again loudly for these values,” he said. “And sometimes that’s going to mean standing in some very messy, difficult places. Standing long and hard for those things that we believe in.

The things Christie and other Republicans believe in include, most notably, dishonesty and hypocrisy, the two linchpins of modern conservatism – leavened with a heavy dose of greed. We saw how well a foreign policy based on these “values” impressed the world during the Bush administration. Half of his administration is now wanted as war criminals and Iraq and America were left economically ruined.

Well, if anyone knows about disappointing, it’s Christie. And sometimes it is too late (I am speaking about Christie here) whether you want it to be or not.

And sometimes, Hillary is going to run, whether you want her to or not.

Chris Christie Wants a More Aggressive Foreign Policy in Very Messy, Difficult Places was written by Hrafnkell Haraldsson for PoliticusUSA.

Hrafnkell Haraldsson, a social liberal with leanings toward centrist politics has degrees in history and philosophy. His interests include, besides history and philosophy, human rights issues, freedom of choice, religion, and the precarious dichotomy of freedom of speech and intolerance. He brings a slightly different perspective to his writing, being that he is neither a follower of an Abrahamic faith nor an atheist but a polytheist, a modern-day Heathen who follows the customs and traditions of his Norse ancestors. He maintains his own blog, A Heathen’s Day, which deals with Heathen and Pagan matters, and Mos Maiorum Foundation www.mosmaiorum.org, dedicated to ethnic religion. He has also contributed to NewsJunkiePost, GodsOwnParty and Pagan+Politics.

Chris Christie Is So Doomed That Republicans Are Invoking… Chris Christie is in such big trouble that the only thing Republicans like RNC Chair Reince Priebus can do is compare Christie to Benghazi to try and save him.

Chris Christie Is Cooked as Former Campaign Manager Says Gov As Chris Christie delusionally continues to believe that he can be president, his former campaign manager says that he personally told him about the GWB lane closures the day before they happened.

Chris Christie’s Comeback Tour Flops as Scandals… Chris Christie thought that he would put himself on the comeback trail by going to Florida in raising lots of money. Instead, new scandal allegations followed Christie to the state, and sent him hiding from the public.

While Standing on Dry Land Thanks to Obama, Christie… While forgetting all about Hurricane Sandy, Gov. Chris Christie tried to rehab his image for 2016 by criticizing President Obama's ability to lead.

The Lies Pile Up: Chris Christie Says He Doesn’t… Gov. Chris Christie still believes that he can be president, but when a reporter asked about the text that connects him to Bridgegate, the New Jersey governor revealed just how doomed he is.

Like the bridge going out of New Jersey.

Like the bridge going out of New Jersey.

Well, he hasn’t a snowball’s chance in Hades of winning a national election, but that aside, even if he could, he knows absolutely ZERO about foreign affairs.  The closest he’s been to anything foreign is the local Chinese restaurant.

Well, he hasn't a snowball's chance in Hades of winning a national election, but that aside, even if he could, he knows absolutely ZERO about foreign affairs.  The closest he's been to anything foreign is the local Chinese restaurant.

Nor does he have any interest in foreign affairs. Ambition is all that he has.

Nor does he have any interest in foreign affairs. Ambition is all that he has.

I sometimes go on foreign boards and I can tell you what kind of light of the world we are seen to be. I’d make you a dandy political cartoon if I could upload it.  P. S. The Weapons of Mass Destruction were found during George W. Bush’s last Presidential colonoscopy.

I sometimes go on foreign boards and I can tell you what kind of light of the world we are seen to be. I'd make you a dandy political cartoon if I could upload it.  P. S. The Weapons of Mass Destruction were found during George W. Bush's last Presidential colonoscopy.

“P. S. The Weapons of Mass Destruction were found during George W. Bush’s last Presidential colonoscopy.” That was a big surprise to me too, considering how much of that space was taken up by his head.

"P. S. The Weapons of Mass Destruction were found during George W. Bush's last Presidential colonoscopy."  That was a big surprise to me too, considering how much of that space was taken up by his head.

Pander, pander, pander, doughnut, pander, pander and one more doughnut.

Pander, pander, pander, doughnut, pander, pander and one more doughnut.

This photo at the top should be used in every article or blurb about Christie. It exemplifies the loudmouth ignorant BULLY that he is from the very core of his being. He knows nothing about foreign policy which makes him the perfect Repub/Conserv. and the worst for POTUS and this world.

This photo at the top should be used in every article or blurb about Christie. It exemplifies the loudmouth ignorant BULLY that he is from the very core of his being. He knows nothing about foreign policy which makes him the perfect Repub/Conserv. and the worst for POTUS and this world.

This is Krispies way of sucking up to Shalom Adelson. And worse, lets not forget that $omney also said that as president he would control events in the middle east, not react to them. A very direct statement that said taking over middle eastern countrys was part of his agenda.

This is Krispies way of sucking up to Shalom Adelson. And worse, lets not forget that $omney also said that as president he would control events in the middle east, not react to them. A very direct statement that said taking over middle eastern countrys was part of his agenda.

UNLESS and UNTIL these people are willing to send THEIR children off to “messy difficult places” they can sit down and shut up. No, it’s always somebody else who pays the price. These are the kind of people who would cut the VA if they could get away with it (after creating millions of new veterans with terrible life-long injuries).

UNLESS and UNTIL these people are willing to send THEIR children off to "messy difficult places" they can sit down and shut up. No, it's always somebody else who pays the price. These are the kind of people who would cut the VA if they could get away with it (after creating millions of new veterans with terrible life-long injuries).

These Right Wing donors are affectionately called “the crazies” by the rest of Jews. They are bolstered extremely by the end time Dominionists and other end times Christians who think that if all the Jews would only move to Israel that it would bring Jesus’ second coming.  You can’t reason with these people. They are insane.

These Right Wing donors are affectionately called "the crazies" by the rest of Jews. They are bolstered extremely by the end time Dominionists and other end times Christians who think that if all the Jews would only move to Israel that it would bring Jesus' second coming.  You can't reason with these people. They are insane.

It is the idea of America being exceptional on a positive note is what makes me want to puke.  The idea that we have a duty to lead the world to a bright and shining future is nauseating to me. The GOP can’t lead Its own citizens forward in the 21st century.

It is the idea of America being exceptional on a positive note is what makes me want to puke.  The idea that we have a duty to lead the world to a bright and shining future is nauseating to me. The GOP can't lead Its own citizens forward in the 21st century.

Christi is trying to make himself relevant.  Here’s a man who has know foreign policy experience but his first notion is to go to war.  This something he would not commit his kids to but willing to throw our kids into the bowels of death.  He needs to focus on keeping his job which i believe is in jepardy (excuse my spelling).

Christi is trying to make himself relevant.  Here's a man who has know foreign policy experience but his first notion is to go to war.  This something he would not commit his kids to but willing to throw our kids into the bowels of death.  He needs to focus on keeping his job which i believe is in jepardy (excuse my spelling).

Gov Bridgegate better be more worried about that super size orange jumpsuit that might be in his future!

Gov Bridgegate better be more worried about that super size orange jumpsuit that might be in his future!

Like all the the rr sissys chrississy is just a phony, liar and pos. How anyone in their right can support any of these self righteous delusional mittheads is beyond comprehension.    These rr wingnuts have no self esteem or values that are mandated by the ten commandments and the Constitution.    This includes the “Supreme Corrupt” and entire RNC. I would truly like at sit a round table with these phonys. It would be easy to rebut any of their SDR=self delusional rational.    There is not anyone of crazy wingnuts that deserve any semblance of respect as they (RR)continue to verbally defecate.

Like all the the rr sissys chrississy is just a phony, liar and pos. How anyone in their right can support any of these self righteous delusional mittheads is beyond comprehension.    These rr wingnuts have no self esteem or values that are mandated by the ten commandments and the Constitution.    This includes the "Supreme Corrupt" and entire RNC. I would truly like at sit a round table with these phonys. It would be easy to rebut any of their SDR=self delusional rational.    There is not anyone of crazy wingnuts that deserve any semblance of respect as they (RR)continue to verbally defecate.

It’s always easy for one who is not the president to speak about invading other countries for whatever reason they deem “important.” These don’t have a clue about the responsibility the Office of the Presidency has… Wake up, Christie. It’s time you grew up!

It's always easy for one who is not the president to speak about invading other countries for whatever reason they deem "important." These don't have a clue about the responsibility the Office of the Presidency has...  Wake up, Christie. It's time you grew up!
