
New court documents in the latest battle over the vast fortune of Huguette Clark have claimed that the reclusive heiress was 'insane'.

It is the first time that the insanity argument has been used during three years of feverish litigation over the Montana copper heiress' estate.

Clark died in May 2011 after spending the last two decades of her life living in a New York hospital.

The current court battle comes eight months after Clark's distant relatives - many of whom she had never met - won a $34.5million settlement in a separate legal fight over her two contesting wills.

In a new court battle over the late Huguette Clark's $300million fortune, executors of her will have claimed that the reclusive heiress was 'insane'

However the executors' lawyer John Morken said his  clients simply want to show that the elderly lady was 'incapacitated',  according to the Post.

According to court papers,  Mr Morken claimed that when Clark moved into the hospital in 1991, she  was an 'eccentric recluse' living in a dirty bathrobe and weighed just  75lb.

Clark was the daughter of copper magnate Senator William A Clark. After losing her father, then her 16-year-old sister to meningitis and a failed marriage, she withdrew from public life. She spent decades out of the public eye, designing doll houses and painting exquisite works of art.

Despite  owning properties on Fifth Avenue and in California and Connecticut,  Clark elected to live in Beth Israel hospital for her last two decades. She met only with close  friends, advisers and a nurse.

Just  before Clark's death, distant relatives began questioning how her  lawyer and accountant were handling her affairs - particularly after a  will cut them out - and a criminal investigation was launched.

The  relatives also argued that she had given hefty gifts to her advisers,  doctors and carers, suggesting that they had manipulated her - but they  argued that she was simply giving generously to the people in her life.

The  argument was settled in September and the relatives - many of whom had  never even met Clark - walked away with the largest payout, while her  devoted nurse was left with nothing.

More  recently, prosecutors failed to find evidence of criminal conduct  towards her, instead discovering that Clark's extravagant gifts were  made in her own steady handwriting or with her written authorization.

No criminal charges were filed against Attorney Wallace Bock and accountant Irving H. Kamsler, who all along denied any wrongdoing, and the investigation closed earlier this year.

The investigation, carried out by two  detectives and a forensic accountant, found that Clark's extravagant  gifts were made in her own steady handwriting or with her written  authorization.

Documents and testimony also showed that  Clark was not kept from her relatives, NBC reported, but instead made her own  decisions about whom to speak with in person or by phone.

A neurologist who testified  in the investigation visited Clark in 2005, six months after she signed  the second will. She said that the then-99-year-old seemed alert.

'She seemed cute as pie,' Dr. Louise Klebanoff testified. 'Perfectly content.'

Attorneys  for Bock and Kamsler told NBC that their clients were satisfied because  they had always worked within Clark's interests. But a settlement last  year ruled that they were not to receive the huge sums of money left to  them by Clark.

The settlement combined elements from the two contradictory wills.

The  family - many of whom Clark never even met - came out as the winners,  receiving $34 million while her private nurse of 20 years, Hadassah  Peri, was left with nothing.

Peri, an immigrant from the Philippines who worked 12 hours a day, seven days a week for Clark as she lived in New York hospitals, had originally been given $30 million in Clark's final will.

Peri had also been given $30 million in gifts throughout Clark's life. A separate deal ordered her to pay $5 million of these back to the estate after the attorney general's office deemed them excessive.

However, the settlement stopped Clark's relatives trying to get any more of these gifts.

While the Bock and Kamsler missed out on their payouts, the settlement also disposed of all potential legal claims against the pair, in relation to mistakes they allegedly made - such as failing to video her signing the will, and failing to claim gift tax returns for seven years.

The comments below have been moderated in advance.

The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
