
As the BJP is reportedly drawing up plans for Prime Minister-designate Narendra Modi's swearing-in ceremony on the forecourt of Rashtrapati Bhavan, the authorities are scrambling to make arrangements for the ceremony to be held either at the sand-covered space outside the presidential palace or inside the Durbar Hall.

"Both options are open and we are preparing for both," a senior official in Rashtrapati Bhavan told Mail today.

The BJP has not yet formally conveyed to Rashtrapati Bhavan whether it wants the ceremony to be held on the forecourt or inside the Durbar Hall, but reports have suggested that the party wants Modi to be sworn in before a large gathering of thousands.

The Cabinet Secretariat has asked all departments, including Commerce and Industry, to keep a presentation ready for appraising the new Prime Minister of their achievements and fresh steps needed.

The presentation next week by respective secretaries will include things like five important achievements, failures and steps the department would like to take in order to boost the country's economic growth, an official source told PTI.

The Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion (DIPP) has prepared about 30-32 ideas to present before the new Prime Minister, sources added.

Narendra Modi, who led BJP in the just concluded Lok Sabha elections, is the prime minister elect.

BJP won 282 seats out of 543. The presentations assume significance as the new government is expected to initiate strong steps to boost the country's economy and create more jobs.

Officials of the Railway Ministry is also gearing up for possible requests from the BJP for special trains to ferry in supporters from Varanasi and Vadodara for the swearing-in ceremony.

A top official said: "The date of the swearing-in is not confirmed as yet and so the issue of ferrying passengers from Vadodara and Varanasi has not been discussed by the Railway Board.

"But we have done that in the past in special cases and we can do that now also. Maybe the local administration may have discussed it with Divisional Railway Managers, but a final confirmation is yet to reach us.

"Once we get that, we have no issues in running trains for people keen to watch the swearing-in of the new PM," he said.

If Modi takes oath on the forecourt, he will be only the third prime minister in history to be sworn in at the venue.

In the past, Chandrashekhar and Atal Bihari Vajpayee were administered the oath of office on the forecourt.

PM Manmohan Singh, who resigned on Saturday after the Congress rout, was sworn in at Durbar Hall after 2004 and 2009 polls.

We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
