
Admittedly, Tamil Nadu chief minister Jayalalithaa had two wishes ahead of the Lok Sabha elections - one, to mop up all the 39 seats and second, to play kingmaker in Delhi. She almost succeeded in the first, but in the second, the BJP’s stupendous win has spoiled her plans.

However, the new prime minister designate Narendra Modi , an old friend, didn't forget to call her and congratulate her on her party's sweeping win in the state, while she lauded him on his win. She also wished him and "the government under his stewardship the very best." She said that she looked forward "to an era of meaningful cooperation" between the centre and the state governments.

Although the NDA and the BJP have a strong majority in the Lok Sabha, Narendra Modi will need the support of leaders such as Jayalalithaa, not only for moving legislations in the Rajya Sabha, but also for better centre-state relations. In fact, the BJP getting her support in the Rajya Sabha depends on better centre-state relations. It will be a symbiotic relationship that Modi and the BJP cannot live without.

Jayalalithaa is a great champion of federalism, which often brought her into a collision course with the Congress/UPA government. During the last three years, since she came to power in the state, Jaya had told Delhi time and again to keep off from meddling on the subjects that the state ought to have complete control over, and to exercise restraint on subjects that the state and the centre have joint stakes on. If provoked, as happened during the UPA regime, she could remind the government and its institutions such as the Planning Commission that their role is limited to what the Constitution has outlined.

In June 2013, she unequivocally told the Planning Commission that it was overstepping its advisory and allocation mandate and was taking up an executive role by issuing directives. What she sought to tell Delhi was the primacy of the autonomy of the states.

Therefore, Modi will need her support in pushing through with the reforms and all the administrative and development plans he has in mind. More over, she can be a pivot behind which the non-BJP states might rally to tell New Delhi that they have to be first taken into confidence. Apparently, Modi has big plans for India, but none of them can work without Jaya’s or other state chief ministers’ concurrence. Modi knows this and has already mentioned how state chief ministers will be consulted for rolling out his development agenda.

The most common will be the vertical development programmes that successive central governments have been implementing without taking the state governments into confidence and issues such as subsidies, food security and right to education. Tamil Nadu is way ahead of the other states in terms of food security and on sectors such as health and education, and any national programme, which doesn’t complement them will only disrupt the good work that has been going on in the state.

Economists such as Jagdish Bhagwati and Arvind Panagariya, who are likely to advise the Modi government, are supporters of cash transfers instead in-kind programmes. This will be a serious point of conflict between Jaya and the new government.

She, in the past, has strongly opposed any move to monetise the food and fertiliser subsidies. “Not just the quantum of subsidy, but the access to and timely availability of commodities are the main concerns,” she had said. Tamil Nadu has a universal PDS system, that has come in for appreciation by the Wadhwa committee which studied all the states, and has a slew of timely welfare measures that will in principle go against the nee-liberal doctrine of the economists who are hovering around the BJP and Modi. Jaya had always maintained that food and energy security cannot be compromised.

Another critical point she made during the UPA regime was about the strain that the state administration was put under by the government of India schemes and their threat to decentralised governance. “State governments are expected to place their field machinery at the disposal of the Government of India and are reduced to becoming mere bystanders.” she had said.

Jayalalithaa had never minced words when it came to the states’ autonomy and the efforts of the centre to step on her feet. During the UPA regime, she had refused to participate in a chief ministers’ meeting on internal security, which incidentally shot down the centre’s efforts at a national counter terrorism centre (NCTC); had walked out of a national development council meeting for not getting enough time to speak; and making it abundantly clear that her government is totally opposed to the UPA’s pet cash transfer scheme.

On the geo-political front, a point in which she will be the master will be Sri Lankan Tamil issue. In the past, the stand of Congress/UPA has been ambivalent whereas Jaya wanted India to be tough on Sri Lanka for its alleged war crimes. The stand of BJP is no different from the Congress and it could create sparks between the centre and the state.

Jayalalithaa is tough and her consistent message has been that as far as Tamil Nadu is concerned, she is the master. It’s easy to congratulate her and promising to work together, but to keep the camaraderie intact is tough.
