
San Marcos firefighter Tim Bergon took a picture of him smiling while on a break with his colleagues to let his family know he was OK. The picture has drawn lots of attention on the Internet and the dangerous wildfires are finally being contained.

A selfie that a firefighter sent to his wife has captured a remarkably endearing image of the destructive San Diego area wildfires.

Tim Bergon took the photo of himself smiling as he and fellow exhausted firefighters in San Marcos, Calif., were taking a break and lying on the ground amid the destructive blazes that have consumed about 39 square miles.

The picture drew instant popularity and quickly became a viral sensation.

STUART PALLEY/EPA Smoke rises from the ashes on the hillsides of San Marcos, Calif., last week. Over 1,000 firefighters battled a series of fast-moving wildfires that spread across the region despite the efforts of more than 20 firefighting aircraft.

"We were kind of shocked at how people responded honestly, but I guess it just really shows you how much that meant to everybody because of what they did," owner Monica Calles told TV Station CBS 8 in Sand Diego.

The owners said they are friends of the family and wanted to recognize all of the firefighters. They posted the picture with the caption "Thank You!"

The restaurant is now accepting donations to provide food and drinks for all the first responders.

We were kind of shocked at how people responded honestly but I guess it just really shows you how much that meant to everybody because of what they did.

"When you see how exhausted they are, it just makes you really really grateful for all that they do, and all they always do," Calles said.

Emergency personnel have been battling the fires for the past week, and the conflagration is only now being contained.

All evacuation orders were lifted Sunday as firefighters reported making good progress on the remaining four of the nearly dozen blazes.

Firefighters take a break on a hillside after hours of work Thursday in San Marcos, Calif.

Firefighters plan their attack as the brush fire flares up heading toward homes Thursday.

The fire season started early in California this year due to an extended drought and high temperatures.

About 5,000 firefighters have battled the flames. At least 47 houses, an 18-unit apartment complex and three businesses have been damaged.

© Copyright 2014 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.
