
Arabian Gulf states are still eyeing strong Kremlin relations, Defense News analyst AWAD MUSTAFA writes. Though US Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel met with his Gulf Cooperation Council counterparts the US-GCC defense ministerial forum last week in Jiddah and reassured in that the US commitment to strengthening joint defense cooperation to combat security challenges facing the region.

Among the topics Hagel discussed in Jiddah were Iran, missile defense and cybersecurity coordination. However, GCC states are looking for more, according to Theodore Karasik, director of research and analysis at the Institute for Near East and Gulf Military Analysis.

"This administration is completely dropping the ball on a whole host of foreign policy issues," he said.

Hagel’s visit will not allay the misgivings among gulf Arab states regarding US inaction in Syria and caving in to Iranian overtures, Karasik said.

"The Russians have succeeded in seeking markets like in Iraq, UAE, Algeria, among others, and are looking to expand their presence in the region," he said. "I think that the relations between some of the Middle East and North African states and the Kremlin are quite strong, given America’s words-only policy."

Some of these countries might align themselves closer to the Russians because Moscow has been more proactive, he said.

"The Middle East and North Africa states also view the US foreign policy in Ukraine as a mistaken one; they are very likely to side with Moscow on the US-EU imposed sanctions issue.," he said.

GCC Secretary-General Abdul Latif Al Zayani expressed the keenness of the GCC countries to consolidate their efforts with their partners, among which Washington is the key ally, to maintain regional security and stability amid persistent threats.

He singled out concerns over "political crises" in some Arab states, as well as "attempts to acquire weapons of mass destruction and meddling of certain states" in the internal affairs of others, in an apparent reference to Iran.

However, analysts believe the US stance on Syria and Iran somehow contradicts the view on these issues in the region, making Moscow a more likely security partner.

All rights reserved.
