
I'm proud to be a product of state universities -- premiere schools which are subsidized by the government. We are given quality education so that in time, we will serve the country.

When I was in elementary, I had the chance to be schooled at a private institution where tuition fees were soaring high. Although we were too pampered with the best facilities and top-caliber teachers, I knew that my parents were paying too much. Nonetheless, I have been thankful for what I have learned there.

You see, to be given basic education is a child's right. Children have every privilege to learn the lessons of life which will prepare them for the real world. However, it is quite sad that this year, a number of institutions in Central Visayas are raising their tuition fees to cover expenses. The Department of Education said parents should rethink about enrolling children in private schools if the tuition fee increase is too much to handle.

The lessons are the same -- same concepts and same principles. Yet, in public schools, 60 students are cramped inside one tiny classroom. There is almost no ventilation or a decent restroom. The teaching corners are cluttered with waste coupled with the aroma of sweat and heat. Yes, this is how our public education system is. Not to mention the meager salary the teacher receives after nights of preparing for lessons without having to mind their own expenses on daily materials.

Our public basic education system is going down the drain. There may be success stories of public students here and about but they are just the tip of the iceberg. While the K+12 scheme seems promising as it delivers our students to be globally competitive as in aligning standards with the world, it seems like we cannot support this kind of system if there is lacking support from the government.

The education sector needs to have the highest allocation if this global scheme is to be continued. There have to be funds for more classrooms, chairs and other facilities needed for vocational skills training (which are part in the new curriculum). More schools should be opened in towns and municipalities so children need not swim or walk for miles in order to get to school. Teachers should also be given higher wages as an incentive for all their hard work.

If there is continuous support from the government on our basic education system, for sure our children today will fly in their chosen fields. There shall be no child who will be deprived of the right to learn the lessons needed for life. Every young Filipino shall know the basics to survive. When people are duly educated, then there will be no room for sheer voting of public officials out of popularity. Those sitting in position will be deserving of their seats because of their true capabilities to lead and serve the nation. I can only imagine public servants who are placed in position because of their true desire to help the country.
