
Venezuela vowed Sunday to accuse the United States of meddling in its political crisis at the United Nations and other international organizations. President Nicolas Maduro's socialist administration has been jolted by three months of often deadly street protests that have killed 42 people and wounded more than 800.

The government has blamed local elites and the United States for what it says is trying to oust Maduro, an elected leftist who succeeded the late longtime President Hugo Chavez. The two countries have had strained bilateral ties for more than a decade.

"We will be making formal complaints at the United Nations, since (the United States) is violating the UN Charter," Foreign Minister Elias Jaua charged on Televen television, AFP reports.

Jaua said Caracas also will lodge complaints against the United States at regional groups, including the Organization of American States, Latin American and Caribbean grouping CELAC and South American bloc UNASUR.

The government has a "comprehensive file" with statements of "interference" from US President Barack Obama, Secretary of State John Kerry and other top American officials, Jaua said.

Those are "in addition to constantly threatening to impose sanctions... Enough already; it is not for the United States to take on authorities that belong to international organizations," Venezuela's top diplomat said.

In recent weeks, the United States has raised the possibility of slapping sanction on Venezuelan authorities over reported abuses of protesters and if a dialogue with the opposition breaks down.

Maduro said Saturday he hopes to speak with opposition members after their leaders meet Sunday with international supporters of the process.

The Democratic Unity opposition coalition (MUD) is scheduled to meet in the capital Caracas with the foreign ministers of Brazil, Colombia and Ecuador, as well as Vatican's envoy.

Saturday, President of Venezuela Nicolas Maduro accused the right-wing forces of planning a coup d’état. "They (the right) said that June will be the month of a collapse, that in June, the people will make head against the government, that this will be the month for a coup, that in June, the revolution will end," the Noticias24 news portal quotes Maduro’s words.

Protests against the policy of the authorities are under way in Venezuela since mid-February; they have already taken lives of 42 people. Earlier, Maduro also accused the right-wing forces and the USA of destabilizing the situation in the country. According to the head of state, he has confidence in the power of the revolution. "But I must announce to our homeland and the world that the madness of the conspirators still supposes the use of violent scenarios," said Maduro.

A meeting of opposition representatives with Foreign Ministers of Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador and the Papal Nuncio is scheduled for Sunday in Caracas, where an attempt to achieve conditions for the resumption of a dialogue with the authorities on peaceful settlement in the country. This dialogue began in April and was suspended after the arrest of 300 oppositional students a few days ago.

Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro said he hopes to talk with the opposition after their leaders meet Sunday with visiting South American foreign ministers.

The Democratic Unity opposition coalition is scheduled to meet in the capital Caracas with the foreign ministers of Brazil, Colombia and Ecuador, as well as the ambassador from the Vatican.

The Democratic Unity opposition coalition on Tuesday declared all negotiations with the government "frozen" after hundreds of demonstrating students were arrested. Many of them have since been released.

Maduro, speaking at a news conference late Friday, said he hoped that talks with the foreign ministers "will be fluid, calm, with no pressure and with a positive agenda for the country."

Opposition leaders began tentative talks with the government on April 10, but there has been little progress and few results.

"They say that there must be results," Maduro said. "Results in what? The dialogue alone is a positive result."

Maduro added there were some unacceptable issues being raised by the opposition.

The Democratic Unity coalition is an anti-government front of 30 parties that includes left and right-wing groups.

The visiting foreign ministers, all belonging to the Union of South American Nations grouping known as UNASUR, issued a statement urging "prudence."

While the intensity of the protests has diminished over the last month, in some areas, especially Caracas, anti-government demonstrations continue.

All rights reserved.
