
Thanks for contacting us. We've received your submission.

A group of retired NYPD detectives is raking in hefty pensions while also grabbing second taxpayer-funded salaries thanks to a loophole in double-dipping laws.

“This law is on the books for a reason. And the reason is that lawmakers, at one time, didn’t want certain people double-dipping,” said Blair Horner of the New York Public Interest Research Group.

Ordinarily, retirees younger than 65 who are collecting pensions from agencies such as the NYPD need a special waiver to be hired by another municipality or public entity in New York and earn a second $30,000-plus annual salary.

“The [state civil-service] commission has to approve a public employee who is receiving a [public] pension” and working in a second public job, said commission spokesman Ed Walsh, adding that agency grants the waivers on a limited basis.

But the ex-NYPD detectives don’t have to go through the process — and risk getting turned down — because they are legally paid as “independent contractors” by private security firms that essentially act as employment agencies.

Under a nearly $9 million, five-year contract with the inspector general’s office, the companies can hire up to a total of 15 of the retired detectives annually.

Nine former cops — who would likely be garnering an annual police pension of at least $50,000 — are currently in the posts earning an additional $200 a day.

The investigators are hired to help trim fraud from New York’s $54 billion Medicaid budget. They are required to have a minimum of six to 10 years of investigative experience and must be fluent in Spanish, Russian, Chinese, Korean, Arabic or Pakistani or Indian dialects, as well as English.

Three companies awarded the contracts in August were Trooper Tech, MSA Investigations and Summit Security Services.

Wanda Fischer, a spokeswoman for the Inspector General’s Office, defended the arrangement.

“The investigator positions are filled under a contract that was fully vetted, competitively bid and certified by the comptroller and attorney general’s offices,” she said in a statement.

Officials at MSA Investigations — awarded a $3,536,738 contract — and Trooper Tech — which landed $2,629,935 — did not return calls for comment. Trooper Tech’s CEO, William McGoldrick, is a politically connected former state trooper and Long Island lawyer, according to NYPIRG.

The Yankees are leading the Angels 6-5 in the ninth, but Mariano Rivera blows the save. Leave it to Jeter, who hits a walk-off single in the ninth inning for a 7-6 Yankees win.

Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.

Welcome back!

{* #socialRegistrationForm *}             {* socialRegistration_emailAddress *}             {* socialRegistration_displayName *}             {* socialRegistration_ageVerification *}             By clicking "Create Account", you confirm that you accept our terms of service and have read and understand privacy policy .

Don't worry, it happens. We'll send you a link to create a new password.

Create a new password Sent!

We've sent an email with instructions to create a new password. Your existing password has not been changed.
