
The Ministry of Science and Technology (MoST) is mulling over a plan to power 16 government buildings located on Constitution Avenue using solar panels. The ministry has submitted a summary to the Planning Commission requesting the installation of 20 to 200 kw solar power systems on their rooftops.

According to the summary, the total sanctioned load of the buildings is more than 10 mw.

Once the project is completed, it will set a trend for public and private sector buildings consuming large amounts of electricity to opt for solar power, the summary document read.

The power will be used to energise the essential load of lights, fans, computers and telephone exchanges.

The 16 buildings are Pak Secretariat blocks A, B and C, the Supreme Court of Pakistan, PM Secretariat, Pakistan Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, MoST, Pakistan Science Foundation, COMSTECH, Election Commission of Pakistan, Wafaqi Muhtasib, Federal Shariat Court, Auditor General of Pakistan, Federal Board of Revenue, Ministry of Privitisation and Industrial Facilitation Centre.

Minister Zaid Hamid said this is a pilot project to show the government and other institutions how solar energy can help overcome the energy shortage.

The Rs613m initiative will help save up to Rs10 million annually, according to the document.

So far, 15 private sector companies have started installing solar power plants of up to 50MW capacity in Pakistan. Solar energy is available for more than 320 days a year with over five daylight hours in the winter and eight-plus hours in the summer.

Published in The Express Tribune, May 20th, 2014.

Your comments may appear in The Express Tribune paper. For this reason we encourage you to provide your city. The Express Tribune does not bear any responsibility for user comments.

Comments are moderated and generally will be posted if they are on-topic and not abusive. For more information, please see our Comments FAQ .

Notify me of new posts by email.

Unless otherwise stated, all content is copyrighted © 2014 The Express Tribune News Network.
