
Prime Minister Tammam Salam announced Monday that he will not discuss the presidential vote with Saudi officials during his visit to the kingdom, denying that Maronite Patriarch Beshara al-Rahi had asked him to propose the extension of President Michel Suleiman's term.

“Al-Rahi did not ask me to convey a proposal on extending Suleiman's term and my visit to Saudi Arabia is not for discussing the presidential election, which is for the Lebanese to conduct,” Salam told reporters onboard the plane that carried him to the Gulf state.

He revealed that “the issue of Syrian refugees will be raised with Saudi officials,” noting that he will ask for full support and that the idea of creating camps on the border will be mulled.

“There is a successful experience in Jordan” in this regard, the prime minister added.

Meanwhile, a spokesman for Salam told Agence France Presse that his visit to Saudi Arabia has nothing to do with the presidential elections in Lebanon and that it aims to thank the kingdom for the support it is offering to Lebanon.

Later on Monday, state-run National News Agency said al-Mustaqbal movement leader MP Saad Hariri threw a dinner banquet in honor of Salam and the accompanying delegation in the city of Jeddah.

Salam, who arrived Monday in Riyadh on his first official foreign trip since the formation of his cabinet in February, is expected to meet with Saudi King Abdullah and senior Saudi officials.

“My visit to the kingdom is to thank its leadership for all the aid it offered to Lebanon,” the premier said.

He said that the delegation will tackle with Saudi officials all the local crises to seek the Gulf country's help, in particular the Syrian refugee crisis.

The prime minister is expected to visit Kuwait after his trip to Saudi Arabia.

Social Affairs Minister Rashid Derbas, who will accompany Salam, told al-Liwaa newspaper that the delegation will tackle the Syrian refugee crisis.

Lebanon has not signed the international refugee convention, but had generally kept its border open to people fleeing the conflict in Syria despite the scale of the influx.

The country hosts more refugees from Syria than any other country, with 52,000 Palestinians among a total of more than a million. It now has the highest refugee population per capita in the world.

Derbas expected the visit to be positive noting that Salam's visit to Kuwait is awaiting any developments regarding the presidential deadlock ahead of the May 25 deadline.

Y.R./H.K.

Dear friends,

I have an offer for you! yes, as you may be aware, there are elections on the 25th of May, we can't pick our president in Lebanon but I can help you pick a European MP.

First come first served! you have six days left to pick.

PS1: M8ers.... don't bother.

hahaha I'm not a Brit, I can't vote for a Brit.

you're getting closer.

this is where u get it wrong! :) most of the time i carry my nex in my purse. It's much more comfortable than a small screen.

anyway, i'd consider the upcoming "OnePlus One" 64GB which will be retail next month for 299 euros. A high end device for a mid range price... I dunno about u but I can't spend lots of money on technology, the planned obsolescence these devices have make me sick!

good nite.

Were is our independence ,One needs go ahead from saudis and the other needs go ahead from iran.Our politicians have no dignity.A bunch of low life losers.
