
Lusaka Mayor Mulenga Sata has forced cash strapped Lusaka City Council to splash out K 12,000 for a new television set for his office.

Mulenga is President Sata’s son who was installed as Mayor last month. Before his father became president, he was selling stolen dogs to earn a living.

He has not wasted any time to make his demands known to the council management by demanding that a new plasma TV be installed in his ceremonial office.

Mulenga has also demanded that his office be installed with Wi-Fi internet.

Lusaka City Council is one of the local authorities that is struggling financially and fails to pay its workers on time.

Lusaka City Council Public Relations Manager Mulunda Habeenzu confirmed the developments in an interview and defended the demands from the mayor’s office.

“As a council, we have gone ahead to purchase the plasma TV and put up internet in the Mayor’s office as part of our modernisation programme. We want to do a face lift to that important office because there are a number of dignitaries that visit the Mayor and so the office must be in good shape,” Mr Habeenzu said.

Mr Habeenzu said Mulenga is not being extravagant with his demands.

That is a business office not a cinema. Amazing no priorities at this level.

Shame indeed.

“We considered the request from the Mayor and as management we approved because it is good for the image of the council” how about paying the workers what image is it showing to the world sure.what a face lift your children are starving in your home you go and buy expensive tv.A plasma TV is really nothing for the honorable Mayor’s office on expense of a poor Zambian.

Guys, ZWD, please, be be more realistic!

A plasma TV is really nothing for the honourable Mayor’s office. The guy to be questioned is the one who spent K12,000 on a K7,000 TV. And I don’t even believe the ZWD reported price.

As for Wi-Fi. Guys don’t be foolish. What is the cost of a Wi-Fi Access Point (AP) or router? perhaps K300 to K600.  LCC already have internet, all that will be done is to extend the internet using the AP to the honourable Mayor’s Office.

He has two iPad and the council pays for both and he also has a network port working in his office. There has always been a TV in that office so what does he need those things for? He can use his personal money if he badly needs those things. For one our number one  priority is the poor council workers who once paid will help project a better image about the mayor  and poor LCC.

H wants Wi-Fi so he can continue reading the Z_W_D, and he wants a big screen TV so he can watch the World Cup… what an overzealous stooge!

Reminds me of the intra-council fights between Wynter Kabimba as town clerk and Fisho Mwale as mayor. Does this mean Mulenga will be spending as much time in the office as Fisho did back then? The majority of constituents in Mulenga’s ward still drink untreated underground water in kabulonga ward’s bauleni area over and above the council’s own unpaid retirees and casual workers. Pro-poor? Your guess!

K12,000 for a plasma TV? Someone is chewing. A 50′ 3D smart plasma TV goes for less than K7,000 in most shops. And I doubt a 3D smart TV is required if he will not be using the office anyway.

Mr Habeenzu dont support things which you dont know,baka mikaka pay those workers you owe money and then buy that plasms for that fool who wants what he dose’nt have at his home kabwalala iwe.

WHAT DO U EXPECT FROM A DOG SELLER OTHER THAN MAKING SUCH DEMANDS.MORE DEMANDS TO COME.

Zambia's Leading Investigative, 24-hour Breaking News Newspaper.
