
Another good month for Pennsylvania’s unemployment rate, which fell to 5.7% in April.

It’s down from 6% in March.

The state job numbers will play a major role in the 2014 campaign and so this is an ongoing PoliticsPA feature.

Pennsylvania’s seasonally adjusted unemployment rate declined by three-tenths of a percentage point in April to 5.7 percent, the lowest rate since September 2008.

The state boasts a lower rate than the federal – 6.3%. Since last year, Pennsylvania was down 1.9 percentage points from its April 2013 rate of 7.6 percent.

Pennsylvania’s civilian labor force – the number of people working or looking for work – was essentially unchanged in April. Resident employment, however, was up 23,000, marking the eighth consecutive gain and the fourth straight increase exceeding 10,000. The number of unemployed residents decreased by 22,000 to its lowest level since September 2008.

This was the ninth consecutive decline and one of the largest on record, according to the Department of Labor and Industry.

Total nonfarm jobs grew by 10,900 in April to reach 5,768,800, the highest level since October 2008.

Most of those jobs come from the private sector, which added 11,600 jobs. The largest gain was in professional & business services (+8,100), which reached a record high at 759,000 jobs. Construction also added a large amount of jobs in April, up 6,500, the third gain in the last four months.

Governor Tom Corbett’s campaign is running with the good news and it will likely be the centerpiece of his general election campaign.

As is the campaign’s custom, they rounded up repetitive praise for the Governor from upstanding Republicans across the state.

Public sector jobs fell by 700 and compared to other states, Pennsylvania’s recovery hasn’t been speedy.

We still rank 47th in a 12 month moving average from the W. P. Carey School of Business at the University of Arizona.

This entry was posted             on Monday, May 19th, 2014 at 11:00 am      and is filed under Features , Front Page Stories , Top Stories .       You can follow any responses to this entry through the RSS 2.0 feed.               You can skip to the end and leave a response. Pinging is currently not allowed.

What are the numbers in PA of those who are unemployed and not on unemployment. It still seems there are a lot of people who are still unemployed who aren’t getting unemployment compensation.

This story may not matter to those of us who are privileged to work jobs that afford enough time to also be political junkies who post comments on Politics PA all day, but it does matter to those Pennsylvanians who are now employed. Policies that cut taxes encourage job creation. That is simply reality of how businesses work. When they don’t make money because they are paying more and more to bloated government, they lay off their workforce. When they profit and grow, they hire. And that helps our friends and neighbors who may not be as fortunate as we are. So while it may be wretchedly inconvenient to admit that standing for fiscal responsibility does work, that inconvenience makes it no less true.

I have suggested numerous times on this site that our governor had no plans to rollover and play dead. No matter who wins tomorrow’s primary, this is going to be a tough fight, and it’s going to be close. I am happy for those who found work, but beating the govenor just got harder.

The number of people looking for work remaining the same for the month doesn’t signify job growth. It means there are still people searching and the growth is still stagnant.

I seem to remember two years ago the Republican Party being pretty convinced that unemployment numbers were the direct result of the immediate actions of the current President of the United States.

Or it means that those looking for jobs found one.

@um.what, that means that the long-term unemployed that removed themselves from the labor pool by stopping their job search have recommenced their search.
