
Sindh Chief Minister Syed Qaim Ali Shah inaugurated the special immunisation campaign against measles in the province by injecting anti-measles vaccine to a child at the Chief Minister's House in Karachi on Monday. Speaking on the occasion, the Chief Minister said the PPP government was giving priority to the health sector and has earmarked Rs 17 billion in the current budget for the purpose.

He said the Sindh government was investing huge fund to serve the ailing humanity but more awareness for the care of patients was needed. He said that care is better than the cure. He said public and private sector organisations should concentrate on the challenging health issue. The Chief Minister of Sindh said that measles, polio, hepatitis B and C and other fatal diseases were the challenges to the organisations concerned and these could be eradicated only with joint efforts of the government and the community.

The Chief Minister stressed upon the print and electronic media to sensitise people about the issue through their news and views for maximum vaccination of the children. The Chief Minister also stressed upon the political and social workers to get the children of their area vaccinated from this fatal disease.

The Chief Minister stressed upon the people to avail the opportunity of Extended Programme of Immunisation (EPI) available at each hospital and get their children vaccinated from all diseases. On the occasion Sindh Health Secretary Iqbal Durrani briefed the Chief Minister on the special immunisation campaign which was being launched with the collaboration of Gavi-World Health Organisation with a joint investment of Rs 1.05 billion.

He said out of this amount Rs 800 million being spent on the purchase of vaccines, while Rs 250 million would be incurred on its operational activities throughout the Sindh province. Iqbal Durrani said at least 13.33 million children between age group 6 months to 10 years would be immunised with the help of 6,959 skilled persons and 1,30,181 social mobilisers in 1,120 union councils of 29 districts of the Sindh province.
