
Shaun got his first job in journalism age 18 at his local paper in Australia. He reported for several newspapers in his home city of Melbourne before moving to the UK to work for a press agency in London. In June 2013 he followed his girlfriend to her home city of Bucharest and decided to stay and work as a freelancer.

China’s Ambassador to Romania Huo Yuzhen recently encouraged her countrymen to visit the ‘truly amazing’ Targu-Jiu after touring its Constantin Brancusi sculptures.

Visiting on the weekend with a group of 38 ambassadors, Huo Yuzhen also said the countries should continue their economic cooperation.

“I think that fruitful relations can be established between the two countries,” Yuzhen said.

After learning about Brancusi in Paris, Yuzhen said she was glad to see his work with her own eyes.

“I believe that you are very rich culturally speaking,” she said.

Targu-Jiu mayor Florin Carciumaru said the delegation’s visit was a moment of pride for the city.

Brancusi has been called “The Father of Modern Sculpture” and his works can fetch tens of millions of dollars at auction. He was born near Târgu Jiu in 1876. He studied in Bucharest initially and later in Munich and at the École des Beaux-Arts in Paris.

He worked briefly in Rodin’s studio, before developing his own hugely influential abstract style. He did not gain favor with the communist regime Romania, which criticized his works for being “bourgeois,” and after he gained French citizenship, he lived out his later years as something of an exile in France.

Brâncuşi died in 1957 and was buried in Montparnasse Cemetery, where some of his friends’ graves were already adorned with his sculptures. Brâncuşi is now considered one of the most important sculptors of the last century.

No related posts.

Want to be up to speed with what's happening in Romania? We'll send your first batch of news for the day directly to your inbox.

Go mobile with our partner City Compass ' mobile app exclusively in English - places, events - everything you need to discover Romania at your fingertips. iOS and Android version.
