
AHMEDABAD: Twenty-two courts from Bhadra have been shifted to the old high court campus near Income Tax Circle, and the lack of basic facilities created chaos on Monday - the first day of functioning on this campus.

Following the plan to construct an eight-storied court complex at Bhadra, all courts have been shifted from that location. The plan was cleared after the administration reportedly obtained permission from archaeological authorities to pull down the existing buildings because of their proximity to historic structures like Bhadra Fort and the old Shahi Jama Masjid.

Though the city civil and sessions court were scheduled to be shifted to the  old HC campus a long while ago, the administration seemed unprepared as the building did not have water running in the lavatories, nor did the court staff have drinking water. Construction work and white-washing of walls were still underway.

The lack of computer connectivity resulted in adjournment of cases. However, authorities maintained that the situation was normal. "There are no issues about shifting," said court registrar, F B Pathan. But when asked about the situation, he immediately said that the PRO would give more details. The PRO's chamber was found locked.

As the courts have been shifted in face of reluctance of lawyers because parking is a problem. An  advocate said, "Six vehicles came in the morning from jails with prisoners, and the road outside the campus got blocked." At present, the civil courts are on vacation and there is thin presence of lawyers in criminal courts. "If lawyers faced parking problems during vacation, one can imagine what will happen after the break," he added.

Besides parking, lawyers have difficulty in finding sitting arrangements to confer with clients.

Lawyers have been protesting ever since the announcement was made of the construction of the new building at Bhadra. Reluctant to even temporarily shift from Bhadra, lawyers entered into an altercation with the court administration several times. "Lawyers and the court staff fear that the government might change its plan of constructing a court complex in Bhadra," said a  lawyer. "So lawyers might not be able to return there."
