
Mali's Prime Minister Moussa Mara has warned the country is "at war" with terrorists in the northern city of Kidal, after clashes between separatist militants and the army left dozens dead.

Eight soldiers and 28 insurgents were killed in fighting on Saturday outside the regional governor's offices during Mara's visit to the desert town, the government said, adding that around 30 civil servants were being held hostage.

"The terrorists have declared war on Mali, so Mali is at war against these terrorists. We will mobilise the resources to fight this war," Mara said by telephone.

MINUSMA chief Albert Koenders "condemns in the firmest manner" the killings, the UN peacekeeping force said.

The government has blamed the clashes on Tuareg separatists, but Mara said militant groups had taken advantage of the crisis to infiltrate Kidal on Saturday night "to participate in the chaos alongside other terrorist groups".

Kidal, 1500 kilometres northeast of the capital Bamako, was the scene of anti-government protests by several hundred people on Friday and Saturday.

"When someone attacks the republic, he is a terrorist, whatever his origin or allegiance to a territory. We will take a war without mercy to these terrorists," said Mara, who is on his first tour of the north since his appointment in April.

He visited the desert caravan town of Timbuktu on Friday, Kidal on Saturday and was due to spend two days in Gao, northern Mali's largest city, but cut the final leg short to return to Bamako a day early for urgent talks with President Ibrahim Boubacar Keita.

The president is expected to discuss the Kidal crisis in a televised address to the nation on Monday.

MINUSMA said two of its troops had serious gunshot wounds and 21 of its police had been injured.

"We urge restraint and refraining from violence which may endanger the civilian population," the force said in a statement.

"We encourage dialogue as soon as possible to ensure the safety of Kidal. For a lasting solution to the problems of the North, there is no alternative to a peaceful solution."

Malian Defence Minister Soumeylou Boubeye Maiga announced reinforcements in Kidal, identifying the rebels as members of the Tuareg separatist National Movement for the Liberation of Azawad "supported by members of terrorist groups".

"Our forces have taken control of all government buildings except, for the moment, the governor's offices," he said in confirming the toll, vowing to rapidly boost forces in Kidal.

The MNLA said it is holding hostage there the regional director of Kidal, a prefect, the governor's adviser and 24 soldiers, promising "humane treatment" to its captives.
