
We have re-imagined our design in a bold new way. Before we roll it out for everyone, we are giving select readers an opportunity to try out the new design. We welcome your feedback.

We've removed you from the beta test of the new design.

Please note: if you clear your cookies you may be invited back to the beta. In order to prevent this from happening, please do not clear your SFGate.com cookies for the next 30 days.

Antolin Garcia-Torres, right, appears with unidentified attorney in a Santa Clara County courtroom in San Jose, Calif., for his second court appearance Thursday, May 31, 2012. He is accused of the kidnapping and murder of 15-year-old Sierra Lamar in Morgan Hill, Calif. She was last seen on March 16, 2012.

Demonstrators hold up signs after Antolin Garcia-Torres appeared in a Santa Clara County courtroom in San Jose, Calif., for his second court appearance Thursday, May 31, 2012. He is accused of the kidnapping and murder of 15-year-old Sierra Lamar in Morgan Hill, Calif. She was last seen on March 16, 2012.

Antolin Garcia-Torres appears in a Santa Clara County courtroom in San Jose, Calif., for his first court appearance Thursday, May 24, 2012. He is accused of the kidnapping and murder of 15-year-old Sierra Lamar in Morgan Hill, Calif. She was last seen on March 16, 2012.

Antolin Garcia-Torres appears in a Santa Clara County courtroom in San Jose, Calif., for his first court appearance Thursday, May 24, 2012. He is accused of the kidnapping and murder of 15-year-old Sierra Lamar in Morgan Hill, Calif. She was last seen on March 16, 2012.

Support Emma Spencer holds up a sign after the court appearance of Antolin Garcia-Torres in a Santa Clara County courtroom in San Jose, Calif., for his first court appearance Thursday, May 24, 2012. He is accused of the kidnapping and murder of 15-year-old Sierra Lamar in Morgan Hill, Calif. She was last seen on March 16, 2012.

Antolin Garcia-Torres is escorted from a Santa Clara County courtroom in San Jose, Calif., for his first court appearance Thursday, May 24, 2012. He is accused of the kidnapping and murder of 15-year-old Sierra Lamar in Morgan Hill, Calif. She was last seen on March 16, 2012.

Santa Clara County prosecutors said Monday that they will seek the death penalty against the man charged with killing Sierra LaMar, even though the body of the 15-year-old Morgan Hill girl has never been found.

Antolin Garcia-Torres , 22, pleaded not guilty in February to a grand jury indictment alleging that he killed Sierra in 2012 and tried to kidnap three women in 2009.

"Given the facts of this case and after a comprehensive review by a committee of senior prosecutors, I have concluded that this defendant should face the ultimate penalty," District Attorney Jeff Rosen said in a written statement.

The decision heartened Sierra's father, Steve LaMar , who said Garcia-Torres had taken a "precious family member from us. He's destroyed multiple lives. ... We don't think he should be allowed to live his life, even if it's in a prison cell."

If convicted and sentenced to death, Garcia-Torres would join about 750 inmates on California's Death Row - the nation's largest. But executions in the state have been on hold since 2006, when a federal judge said flaws in lethal-injection procedures and staff training created an undue risk of a botched and agonizing execution.

State officials are making a third attempt to rewrite the rules for lethal injections to satisfy the courts.

An attorney for Garcia-Torres, David Epps , said in a statement that he was "extremely disappointed" by the decision to seek the death penalty, noting that he had "always viewed this as a missing person case, not a homicide."

Epps said the facts of the case do not "appear to meet any objective criteria for seeking death, nor do they appear to match in any manner the facts and circumstances of other cases in this county where the district attorney has sought death. As everyone is aware, there are serious issues with the administration of the death penalty, not only here in California but around the nation."

Sierra was last seen March 16, 2012, in her home in an unincorporated area near Morgan Hill. Authorities say she was kidnapped and killed by Garcia-Torres, whom she did not know. Investigators followed Garcia-Torres for weeks before arresting him, hoping he would lead them to Sierra's body.

Authorities have said they believe Garcia-Torres, driving a route he usually took on his way to work, saw Sierra from his Volkswagen Jetta, snatched her from a bus stop and killed her. Investigators have said Sierra's DNA was found in the Jetta and that his DNA was found on clothes belonging to Sierra that were found near the bus stop.

Garcia-Torres was indicted on charges of murder with the special circumstances of killing in the course of a kidnapping. He is due back in Superior Court on June 11.

The indictment also accuses him of trying to kidnap and carjack three women, one of whom he allegedly accosted with a stun gun. One of the incidents occurred in the parking lot of a Safeway store in Morgan Hill where the defendant had worked.

Deputy District Attorney David Boyd will try to convict Garcia-Torres despite lacking critical pieces of evidence - Sierra's body, a murder weapon and witnesses. He will have to prove that Sierra is dead, and not simply missing.

Boyd will probably point to a conspicuous lack of activity by Sierra. A teenager devoted to social media has been silent on Twitter since the day she disappeared, authorities say, and Sierra broke a scheduled rendezvous with a classmate to compare homework and share makeup.

'Strong message'

"It certainly is a strong message from the DA that they believe in their case," said legal analyst Steve Clark , a former Santa Clara County prosecutor who now works as a defense attorney. "But the question remains, is a jury going to return a death verdict without a body, without the methodology of the killing? If the jury feels the DA is overreaching in seeking the death penalty, it could affect the way they view the entire case."

But there have been other cases in which prosecutors have successfully won murder convictions without a body.

Computer entrepreneur Hans Reiser of Oakland was found guilty of first-degree murder for killing his estranged wife, Nina Reiser, on the strength of circumstantial evidence, including testimony that she was devoted to her two young children and would not have abandoned them.

After he was convicted, Reiser led police to the body in exchange for a reduced sentence for second-degree murder.

Confluence of factors means few in Napa will get paid out.

Billy Crystal's moving tribute to his late friend during Emmys.
