
Sign up now for our News Alert emails and the latest breaking news plus new features.

Thailand's government was not consulted ahead of the imposition of martial law by the military, the caretaker PM's aide has told CNN.

BANGKOK: Thailand's powerful military declared martial law in the pre-dawn hours of Tuesday after anti-government protesters declared they were moving to replace the country's crippled government.

Troops were moving throughout the capital after the law was announced by army chief Prayuth Chan-ocha.

Troops seized Thailand's main television broadcaster before 6am Bangkok time (9am AEST).

A ticker message on Channel Five read: ''Army is to ensure the safety of all sides . . . no need to worry.'' Other troops massed at key parts of city.

General Prayuth appeared on television in uniform and declared martial law had been imposed at 3am Bangkok time.

He said the people's movement is allowed and no curfew has been imposed.

Soldiers armed with automatic weapons have secured key intersections in Bangkok, disrupting traffic.

They were also seen inside government buildings.

Anti-government protesters said they had cancelled rallies planned for Tuesday and would stay at their camp in the city.

For days they have been building sand-bag protection barriers around the camp.

Last week unidentified assailants had fired grenades into the camp killing three people and injuring 23 others.

Thousands of pro-government Red Shirts camping on the Bangkok's outskirts are also expected to remain where they are.

Australian and other tourists in Bangkok were not immediately affected and were not in any danger.

Australia's smartraveller.gov.au advisory has been warning Australians in Thailand to stay away from protest rallies and sites and to exercise a high degree of caution.

But throughout the crisis many Australians have ignored or being unaware of the advice and were often seen among protesters.

A spokesman for the Department of Foreign Affairs said the Australian government was following the events closely and ''encourage(d) all parties to resolve their political differences through peaceful, democratic processes''.

''Thailand has Australia's goodwill and support as it tries to find ways to settle its political difficulties,'' he said.

The department's travel advice for Thailand has been updated to alert Australians that martial law is in place, but does not urge reconsideration of travel. Rather it recommends travellers ''exercise a high degree of caution''.

''We advise Australians to avoid all demonstrations and large-scale gatherings, including surrounding areas, monitor developments that might affect their safety in Thailand and plan their travel accordingly,'' the spokesman said.

The number of tourists visiting the country has dropped sharply since protesters took to the streets last November in a campaign to topple the government.

General Prayuth asked all groups to stop political activities and enter into period where problems can be solved.

He said the army has set-up a peacekeeping command, replacing the government's Centre for the Administration of Peace and Order.

He said he is in-charge of the command centre which had the authority to summon people to be interrogated or to hand over documents and evidence to authorities.

General Prayuth ordered that all government agencies except the army, navy and airforce return to their offices and their normal duties.

The armed services have authority to support operations of the command centre, he said.

The government was not consulted about martial law but remained in place, a government aide said.

''This martial law is just to restore peace and stability. It has nothing to do with the government, the government is still functioning as normal,'' deputy army spokesman, Colonel Winthai Suvari, told Reuters.

Troops were seen at Bangkok's Victory Monument where anti-government protesters have been rallying for months.

The army's move came after a meeting between the government and Senate on Monday failed to break the impasse.

Prime Minister Niwattumrong Boonsongfpaisan refused to step down to pave the way for an interim government as demanded by establishment-appointed senators and anti-government protesters.

Observers described the meeting as ''unsatisfactory.''

The government has been preparing for an emergency response to threatened strikes by unions later this week.

Key unions had swung their support behind the anti-government movement.

The Thai air force had said it was ready to provide public services if they were disrupted by strike action.

The government, however, is likely to welcome the military's intervention as long as it stops short of a coup.

Ministers insist that new elections are the only way to break a political impasse.

But anti-government protesters have been demanding the resignation of the government and appointment of an interim prime minister and administration to run the country for up to two years during a reform period.

They disrupted elections in February and have vowed to do the same again if new elections are held.

Bangkok Post's military writer wrote on Twitter: ''Everything now [is] on General Prayuth's shoulders.''

Tensions soared in Bangkok last week as Prime Minister Yingkluck Shinawatra was forced from office by a controversial ruling of Constitutional Court judges.

Her supporters saw the ruling as being part of a campaign by influential figures in Bangkok's royalist establishment to force her wealthy family to quit politics.

But General Prayuth has resisted calls by anti-government protesters to intervene in Thailand's six months of crisis that has left 29 people dead, hundreds injured and dragged Thailand's economy.

Thailand's armed has staged 18 coups or attempted coups since the 1930s.

No comments so far. Be the first to comment using the form below.

Want an avatar for your comments? Register with Gravatar .

Do not enter anything in this text box otherwise your message will not be sent!
