
Please enter a maximum of 5 recipients. Use ; to separate more than one email address.

Royal Dutch Shell, Europe ’s biggest oil company,       is considering retiring one of two coking units at its only       refinery in California as the company seeks to run lighter       crude at the plant.

The company has applied to county regulators for a permit to       shut the flexicoker at the 156,400-bpd Martinez refinery       northeast of San Francisco, a move that would shrink the       plant’s reliance on heavy oils and cut its       greenhouse-gas emissions by 15%, said Destin       Singleton, a Shell spokeswoman. The unit helps convert the       denser crude into more valuable products such as diesel and       gasoline.

Shell is considering the shutdown as hydraulic fracturing and       horizontal drilling unleash record volumes of light oil from       shale formations across the middle of the US.       California’s refiners, lacking pipeline access to the       growing crude supplies, are bringing in the most ever by rail       as they work to counter shrinking production within the state       and from Alaska.

Industry refining margins on the US West       Coast, a rough indicator of profitability, averaged $7.62/bbl       in the first quarter, almost twice the $4.07/bbl coking       margin on the Gulf Coast, Shell said.

While the Martinez refinery doesn’t have the equipment       to unload oil from rail cars, it receives crude by pipeline       from a complex in Bakersfield, California, that takes train       deliveries. The refinery would continue to receive       oil by pipeline and vessel using existing infrastructure once       the coker is shut, she said.

A delayed coker, which was installed at the refinery in the       1990s, based on air regulatory filings, will remain in       service, she said.

Refiners from Tesoro to Valero are working to bring more       shale oil to their plants on the US West Coast by rail.       Trains delivered 395,053 bbl of oil to California in March, a       record volume for that month, the most recent data available       from the state Energy Commission show.

Shell is seeking permits to build a rail complex at its       Anacortes refinery in Washington state that would allow the       plant to unload oil from as many as six trains a week,       regulatory filings show. The company has also said that       it’s carrying upgraded crude to the West Coast from its       Scotford oil-sands upgrader in Canada.

Martinez imported 903,000 bbl of medium-to-heavy crude in       February from Canada, the most recent data available from the       Energy Information Administration show. The complex already       processes some lighter crudes, like oil from North       Dakota’s Bakken formation, along with heavier feedstock from California’s       Central Valley, Singleton said.

Contra Costa County regulators are expected to prepare a       report on the environment al impacts of the coker       retirement, and the public will have a chance to comment on       the plan during that process, she said.

Chevron's Richmond refinery , west of Martinez, is       also applying to local regulators for a project that would change its       crude slate. The plan would replace a hydrogen plant and       increase capacity at the fluid catalytic cracker’s       hydrotreater and sulfur-recovery system to run higher-sulfur       oils.

All fields are compulsory.

© 2014 Hydrocarbon Processing. © 2014 Gulf Publishing Company.
