
Already have a Rappler Account? Login OR Register to create one.

Welcome to Rappler, a social news network where stories inspire community engagement and digitally fuelled actions for social change. Rappler comes from the root words "rap" (to discuss) + "ripple" (to make waves).

MANILA, Philippines – President Benigno Aquino III defended Rehabilitation Secretary Panfilo "Ping" Lacson, who faces criticism for supposedly focusing on the pork barrel scam instead of rehabilitation efforts after Super Typhoon Yolanda (Haiyan).

On the sidelines of a United Nations conference Monday, May 19, Aquino said it is the media, not Lacson, that is preoccupied with the scam rather than the typhoon's aftermath.

The President said he and Lacson talked, probably twice, about this issue. "In one text exchange, I said, 'Ping, why are stories surrounding your name always about the Napoles list?'"

Aquino recalled: "He told me he was invited to one particular briefing on Yolanda, but when he got there, the media did not ask about anything on Yolanda, only about Napoles. So the question is: Is it he who is concentrated on Napoles or is it the media concentrated on Napoles?"

He also chided some of Lacson's critics who "still have the energy to engage in politics at a time we should be focused on Yolanda rehabilitation efforts."

The Napolist, supposedly passed on to Lacson by Napoles, names lawmakers who allegedly worked with her in channeling their Priority Development Assistance Fund to her bogus non-governmental organizations in exchange for hefty kickbacks.

'Not the primary topic'

On Monday, the President said he is "satisfied" with Lacson – whom he appointed immediately after the typhoon to coordinate rehabilitation efforts – but admitted there is much work to be done. He said he continues to push further to improve all inefficiencies.

He also said he felt no need to speak to his Cabinet secretaries who have been linked to the pork barrel scam , to remind them to focus on their work instead of the allegations against them.

Both lists, however, did include 3 of Aquino's current Cabinet secretaries – Budget Secretary Butch Abad, Agriculture Secretary Proceso Alcala, and Technical Education and Skills Development Authority head Joel Villanueva.

"To a large degree, I do not need to tell them because these people have responsibilities and they know their respective missions in our administration. Sometimes it's talked about but I guarantee you this isn't the primary topic in our meeting either on a cluster basis or even on the Cabinet basis," he said.

"It's still what we need to do and when we can expect the promises we made to the people to happen or to materialize."

Meanwhile, Aquino talked about the administration's efforts in rehabilitating areas affected by Yolanda, and gave highlights from his last Cabinet meeting on this last Friday, May 16, which spanned 6 hours.

The status of infrastructure rehabilitation is yet another concern the government is focused on.

Aquino said there are discussions about the suitability of the Tacloban airport, which studies show is located on the path of disasters. The President said they are studying whether Tacloban is still the right venue for an airport that should serve the region, or the airport should be moved elsewhere.

Fields with * are required.

Click close to continue.
