
In ten minute long telephonic conversation with India's Prime Minister-elect, Narendra Bhai Modi, Nepal's Prime Minister Sushil Koirala urged the latter to make Nepal his first destination abroad for an official visit after assuming his office.

"Each Prime Minister(s) of Nepal have made it a tradition to visit India first", said Sushil and added, "However the visit of an Indian Prime Minister is due for long time now. I request you as our good friend to visit Nepal first after assuming the post of the Indian Prime Minister."

Sushil also extended best wishes to Modi and his party, BJP for successful term in office.

Similarly, Leader Baburam of Unified Maoists talked with Modi over telephone and extended his best wishes to him and his party.

Modi in response told Baburam that he and his party will be giving special consideration to strengthen relations between the two countries.

“I am indebted for the support and goodwill extended to me. I will put my utmost efforts to make our relations more cordial,” Bhattarai’s personal aide Bishwadeep Pandey quoted Modi as saying, reports Republica Daily.

In the mean time, in the bordering areas, the Indian SSB forces has stepped up its activities that undermine Nepali territorial integrity.

TERMS OF USE:The views, opinions and comments posted are your, and are not endorsed by                          this website. You shall be solely responsible for the comment posted here. The website reserves the right to delete, reject,                          or otherwise remove any views, opinions and comments posted or part thereof. You shall ensure that the comment is not                          inflammatory, abusive, derogatory, defamatory &/or obscene, or contain pornographic matter and/or does not constitute hate                           mail, or violate privacy of any persons) or breach confidentiality or otherwise is illegal, immoral or contrary to public                            policy. Nor should it contain anything infringing copyright &/or intellectual property rights of any person(s).
