
A dramatic improvement in the health of the Nigerian child may be in the offing with the distribution of vitamin A fortified cassava stems to over 2000 farmers in Koton Karfe Local Government in Kogi State last week by HarvestPlus-Nigeria and its partner.

The ceremony to hand over the items was graced by His Excellency, Captain Idris Wada, the Executive Governor of the State and hosted by the Ohimegye of Koton Karfe,HRM, Alhaji Abdulrazak Sani Isa Koto in his palace.

The distribution of the enhanced quality cassava stems to the farmers follows HarvestPlus-Nigeria’s mandate to ensure that an additional 350,000 farming households receive the fortified cassava stems in 2014 from the 106,000 farming households who have received the quality stems in 2013.

Wada pledged to make Koton Karfe a centre for the cultivation and distribution of vitamin A cassava in order to arrest the problem of malnutrition. He added that the State has perfected plans to become a model for staple crop processing in Nigeria by establishing model processing centres that will help create jobs for the youths.

He appreciated HarvestPlus for the provision and distribution of the fortified cassava stems, a measure he acknowledged will go a long way in confronting diseases such as blindness, stunting and anemia especially among children and pregnant women who are most vulnerable to the diseases.

Speaking further, Governor Idris Wada noted that it was his administration’s goal to make agriculture a noble profession in the State hence his drive to ensure that the sector is driven by the private sector in order to position the state for the  emergence of cassava as the top forex earner in the nation.

Speaking earlier, His Royal Majesty, the Ohimegye of Koton Karfe, Alhaji Sani Isa Koto sought the State Government’s collaboration with HarvestPlus in the cultivation and dissemination of other fortified staple crops such as Zinc Rice and Vitamin A Maize and the provision of technical training in the production of these fortified crops.

In his welcome address, the Country Manager, HarvestPlus –Nigeria, Dr. Paul Ilona, said the dissemination of vitamin A cassava stems was to secure the future of the Nigerian child so that that he or she will reach his/her potential in life.

The flag off ceremony was witnessed by farmers under the aegis of different farmer groups across the two local governments’ areas of Koton Karfe and Lokoja in the state. These farmers were then registered to aid their being tracked and the effective monitoring of their activities by HarvestPlus- Nigeria.

The occasion also witnessed the display of various food products made from vitamin A cassava. These products were tasted and eaten by the people. This then led to the request by the Ohimegye for their women folk to be empowered with the skills to produce the sumptuous meals on display.

A major highlight of the event was the award of a chieftaincy title to the Director – General of HarvestPlus global, Dr. Howarth Bouis,,in appreciation for the development of vitamin A cassava and its distribution to the people of Ebira land in Nigeria.

HRM, Alhaji Abdulrazak Sani Isa Koto (2nd left) and the Executive Governor of Kogi State, Captain Idris Wada handing over the cassava stems to a farmer at the event.

Please leave your comment below. Your name will appear next to your comment. We'll also keep you updated by email whenever someone else comments on this page. Your comment will appear on this page once it has been approved by a moderator.

Please enter some keywords that you'd like to search for. Your results will be displayed below.
