
A medley of Baloch insurgent groups keep the embers of insurgency burning. And the worst sufferers of this fighting are the Baloch people. Chief Minister Dr Abdul Malik Baloch advises insurgent groups to ‘revisit their  approach’ in order to lessen the sufferings of their brethren.

“Historically, insurgency has given the Baloch people nothing save death and destruction and triggered forced migrations. This 12-year-long insurgency has destroyed the economy and disrupted social services in Balochistan,” Dr Malik told The Express Tribune in an exclusive interview.

Since coming to power as a result of the 2013 election, Dr Malik has been conciliatory in his tone and tenor. He believes in putting out the insurgency through dialogue and healing the scars of war.

“I’ve been mandated by the federal government to bring all Baloch leaders into the political mainstream. I want to persuade them to attain their rights through a democratic struggle. And I’m sure my efforts will yield results,” he said.

Asked about the achievements during his year-long rule, the chief minister said that the security situation has comparatively improved.

However, he said there were still some troubled spots where the government was trying its best to maintain law and order.

“The projects to lay 20 KV Khuzdar-Dadu and Loralai-DG Khan transmission lines are in full swing and one of them will complete by May 20 while the other in July. These projects will help in curtailing load shedding in Balochistan,” Dr Malik said.

He said Gwadar-Rato Dero and Quetta-Chaman highways would be completed soon while construction work on highways in Panjgur and other areas has been expedited. “Nothing like this has happened before,” he claimed, adding that previous governments could not complete these projects during their tenures.

Responding to a question regarding the upcoming budget, the chief minister said his government’s focus would remain on law and order, education, basic healthcare, agriculture, women empowerment and water issue.

The chief minister said it was an achievement of his administration that the federal government had released 80% of Balochistan’s funds while the remaining amount was going to be released in coming days.

“After a long time the Balochistan government has received Rs28 billion out of Rs38 billion, 80% of the total allocation from the federal government, which released it about 15 days ago.

He said the release of funds had helped expedited work on transmission lines and highways in Balochistan. “For the past many years Balochistan had never been released such a huge amount. People will see positive results of this in coming months,” he added.

Published in The Express Tribune, May 20th, 2014.

then talk about respectin the law’s of pokistan. War crimes of F.C and pok army must be adress by international law’s.

Your comments may appear in The Express Tribune paper. For this reason we encourage you to provide your city. The Express Tribune does not bear any responsibility for user comments.

Comments are moderated and generally will be posted if they are on-topic and not abusive. For more information, please see our Comments FAQ .

Notify me of new posts by email.

Unless otherwise stated, all content is copyrighted © 2014 The Express Tribune News Network.
