
A SECRET report has warned Black Saturday red tape has caused a crisis for thousands of Victorians facing financial ruin, because they can’t build on, or sell, their land in bushfire zones.

The report, handed to the State Government seven months ago, was highly critical of new building codes implemented after the 2009 fire tragedy, which killed 173.

In a leaked memo obtained by the Herald Sun, government Red Tape Commissioner John Lloyd warned Planning Minister Matthew Guy and Deputy Premier Peter Ryan in October that if concerns over new building regulations in bushfire-prone areas were not addressed, it would “rapidly develop into a crisis”.

Mr Lloyd was responding to the complaints of people who owned land before November 2011, when the new regulations came into effect, and who now found they could not build.

“The consequences are devastating,” Mr Lloyd said, as people realised their land “has become virtually worthless”.

“The landholders are facing financial ruin, as foreclosure and bankruptcy loom for many of them,” he said.

He said the problem extended statewide, including the “Dandenong Ranges, Yarra Valley, Gippsland, Mornington Peninsula, Otway Ranges and Surf Coast, Alpine areas, Mt Macedon, Daylesford, Hepburn Springs and Nillumbik”.

Buxton Black Saturday survivors Arthur and Angela Jones have lived in a shed on their property since September 2009 after spending money set aside for rebuilding on paying mortgages on adjacent land that was now worthless.

“You can’t go forward, you can’t go back. It’s a merry-go-round,” Mr Jones said.

Mr Lloyd said CFA and council behaviour had been “callous, haphazard, insensitive and often officious and arrogant”, and   homeowners “are starting to realise that they may be unable to extend, refurbish or repair their properties”.

He said real estate agents in affected areas were refusing to accept vacant blocks for sale.

Opposition Leader Daniel Andrews said senior ministers had been warned, yet nothing had been done.

“Three hundred thousand properties, thousands of families, businesses and builders have been left to fend for themselves because of how (Premier) Denis Napthine has botched this,” he said.

Government spokesman Les White said the Black Saturday fires royal commission had recommended “primacy of life” should be key in decision-making about building regulations, and improvements to the code would be announced soon.
