
For more information about Maker Faires and the Maker Movement, go to  makerfaire.com .

The maker movement landed in Davenport Mayor Bill Gluba's office Monday.

Gluba hosted Davenport West High School students and staff for a White House-led conference call on a planned Maker Faire next month in Washington, D.C.

The Maker Movement pushes for do-it-yourself innovation and inventiveness, with Maker Faires providing a place to feature inventions or new products. Gluba and school officials would like to hold a local event in the fall.

West senior Wade Rollins and sophomore Tony Nguyen thought the call was "pretty cool." They've been around similar events before, such as the Iowa Invent program, but they like to hear this push coming out of Washington, D.C.

"It was a lot of stuff you don't hear about," Rollins said. "There are a lot of people who are high up who are thinking about this stuff."

Rollins used an example of a new wood screw that doesn't strip out the wood as ways of innovating.

"Who would think of a wood screw?" he asked. "There are always ways to make things better."

Gluba is interested in the Maker Faire concept and would like to see one put together for the entire Davenport community, from school students to tinkerers. He wants to motivate young people.

The Public Works Department hosted a science fair Saturday, drawing hundreds of students and their families, that Gluba described as "pretty amazing."

Davenport is moving in the right direction, with Davenport West's advanced manufacturing and engineering programs and the Blong Manufacturing Technology Center, part of Eastern Iowa Community Colleges. Davenport West instructor Jason Franzenburg is going to Boston next month in hopes of getting a Massachusetts Institute of Technology grant for the school.

Quad-City leaders are seeking a manufacturing hub designation from the federal government. Gluba thinks it would be great to land that and develop innovation programs for young people.

"I don't want to see it in Davenport or Cedar Rapids. I want it to be identified with Davenport," he said. "Quite frankly, we're the state's manufacturing hub."

Copyright 2014 The Quad-City Times. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

We have a local makerspace in Davenport, The QC Co-Lab. www.qccolab.com & also Facebook. Open house every Saturday afternoon. Stop by & check us out!

Username & Password Required!
