
which the future of the Hadassah Medical Organization was endangered by a NIS 3  billion debt, the government, five different hospital unions and the Hadassah  Women’s Zionist Organization of America have accepted a painful recovery  program.

On Tuesday, the creditors are due to approve the program, in  which all sides made significant concessions, and Wednesday, the Jerusalem  District Court will begin to bring an end to the freeze of HMO’s financial  activities.

This is meant to put HMO on a new path and give it a hopeful  new life in Jerusalem.

The agreement, forged by the Treasury, and with  behind-thescenes involvement by Jerusalem Mayor Nir Barkat and the Histadrut  labor federation, will mean the dismissal of a few hundred more administrative,  paramedical and maintenance workers and early pension agreements for about 30  physicians.

However, it will not entail the closing of HMO’s Mount Scopus  hospice, osteoporosis center, psychiatric department, School of Dental Medicine  or other facilities that were endangered during negotiations.

Nothing  will be closed now, and nothing in the future without agreement from the Finance  and Health ministries.

The NIS 3b. debt will be eliminated in equal parts  by HWZOA, which own all the facilities, and by the Treasury. HWZOA will forgo 25  hectares (60 acres) of land in Ein Kerem that the government will sell, along  with ownership of the “Little Hadassah” clinic currently rented out to other  facilities and some Jerusalem apartments.

HWZOA has committed to make a  onetime gift of $25m. and to complete its $360m. modern hospital tower on the  Ein Kerem campus, as well as to provide $19m.

in financial aid for  operating expenses.

HWZOA will retain control of its property and have  four board of directors members, along with four others representing the public  (to be chosen by a retired senior judge) and a chairman to be appointed by HWZOA  and approved by the government.

Previously, HWZOA had a large majority  and monopolized the running of HMO.

Monthly board meetings will be held  in Jerusalem, and not in New York, starting in January.

The Treasury will  supply up to NIS 190m.

as compensation for early retirement of some  staffers and establish income targets.

It will also finance more  profitable delivery rooms at the Mount Scopus hospital and help pay for  insurance protection against lawsuits over medical malpractice. About NIS 100m.  will be supplied to strengthen HMO’s medical faculty and preserve medical  residencies.

According to a Treasury demand mitigated somewhat in the  last week, an external accountant will make some financial decisions and “raise  the red flag” when financial problems arise, but he will have less power than  originally conceived in a previous version of the recovery plan.

HMO  director-general Avigdor Kaplan, who was brought in by HWZOA about a year ago to  save the day, stated in a formal letter on Monday that he would agree to the  recovery plan despite his opposition to the role of the  accountant.

Kaplan said the authority the accountant will have limit his  powers too much.

Kaplan, a septuagenarian insurance expert and  businessman, is likely not to stay on in his post in the long term. A new  director-general will eventually be chosen by HWZOA for approval by the  board.

The two lawyers who were appointed as trustees, Lipa Meir and  Asher Axelrod, will complete their service soon.

Prof. Dror Mevorach, the  director of the internal medicine B department in Ein Kerem who heads the  hospital’s committee of department heads, told The Jerusalem Post that “this is  not the end but the beginning of a new path for HMO.

The vote by senior  doctors today ended with 435 in favor of the recovery program and just 15  against,” he said.

For months, opposition by the doctors to what they  viewed as excessive concessions prevented agreement.

He hoped that the  next director-general would be a physician, but praised Kaplan, who “came to  pull HMO out of the mud.

Looking back, Mevorach said the dispute should not have gone on so  long and added that the strike of several weeks against management and in  protest of government policies regarding HMO “was devastating and very  damaging.

Important doctors have or will leave, as have some  nurses.

A major achievement for HMO, according to  management sources, was that after many decades, the government has recognized  that hospitals owned by voluntary organizations deserve to be valued and  supported, and that they are also the business of the state that received  medical facilities and service from the charitable organizations.

This  could serve as a legal precedent in any future eventuality of financial crisis  in voluntary hospitals.

The government did not approve the HWZOA and HMO  proposal to set up a separate private hospital on the Ein Kerem campus, in one  of the buildings vacated for the new hospitalization tower. Such a building,  they proposed, would be the site of private medical services (Sharap) carried  out by senior physicians in afternoons and evenings rather than its continuation  in regular departments.

Avi Nissenkorn of the Histadrut said he was  involved in bridging the dispute because “I saw only one task, to save Hadassah  and prevent its dismantlement. I want to cite the responsibility and maturity of  the staff throughout the negotiations while making very painful  concessions.

A government source close to the negotiations said that “we  didn’t enjoy the talks.

It’s very complicated to get approval. It  probably could have ended earlier, but there is an internal clock in each  dispute.

HMO is a vital institution, and there is no alternative to it.  The state does not run voluntary hospitals. We won’t control HMO.

The  management has that responsibility.

Michal Shalem, the chief of staff at the Jerusalem  Municipality, told the Post that resolving the long dispute was very important  to the mayor, who worked many days and nights behind the scenes.

“There  is no Jerusalem without Hadassah. HWZOA was sometimes treated  badly.

Now we hope there will be a true partnership between HWZOA and the  government. Thought must be given to build a business plan to run HMO  without deficits,” she said.

In the Knesset Finance Committee’s session  on Monday summarizing the HMO’s problems, Bayit Yehudi MK Nissan Slomiansky,  said his committee will continue to follow up on the issue after the recovery  plan is implemented.

He called on the Treasury and the government in  general to avoid a similar crisis in other hospitals around the country so they  too will not be plunged into crisis like HMO.

“Such crises can be  prevented in advance,” he said.

Prof. Arnon Afek, who will become  director- general of the Health Ministry in 10 days and until now has headed its  medical branch, said that choosing the board of directors, setting down the new  management framework and preserving excellence at HMO will now  proceed.

The issue of Sharap will continue to be discussed at the  ministry, he added.

United Torah Judaism MK Moshe Gafni concluded that  the public health system cannot be preserved without government infusion of  money.

Your comment must be approved by a moderator before being published on JPost.com. Disqus users can post comments automatically.

Comments must adhere to our Talkback policy . If you believe that a comment has breached the Talkback policy, please press the flag icon to bring it to the attention of our moderation team.
