
Barack Obama made an important promise when he first ran for president. “The Internet is perhaps the most important network in history, and we have to keep it that way,” he said in 2007. As a senator, he had similarly called for a “ neutral platform ” uncontrolled by “some corporate media middleman” like Verizon or Comcast. Obama, in other words, was committed to preserving network neutrality—the notion that Internet service providers like AT&T, Comcast and Verizon have to provide fair and neutral access to all websites and applications; they can’t make small websites slow to load and give “ fast lanes ” to monopolies and large companies who pay extra for special treatment.

But last Thursday, the chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, Tom Wheeler, proposed a network neutrality rule that would authorize those pay-to-play fast lanes. The FCC approved the proposal but will take public comment over the next four months before a final ruling. The problem with Wheeler’s plan, though, is that discrimination begets discrimination: Without net neutrality, bigger companies will get more traffic and more power, and will in turn have more money to pay for even more access. Eventually, they can control what we see and read. It’s the opposite of the American commitment to decentralized democratic and economic power.

The Obama White House responded to the FCC’s proposal with a distancing statement , noting that the FCC is “an independent agency” and adding, “We will be watching closely as the process moves forward in hopes that the final rule stays true to the spirit of net neutrality.” While the statement overall was a clear snub of Wheeler’s efforts, the term “independent agency” is merely code for saying Obama’s hands are tied. After all, he can’t legally fire any of the FCC commissioners, including the chairman, during their fixed five-year terms in the same way that he can fire, at will, the heads of non-independent agencies and departments such as the CIA, State Department or Defense Department.

But the president (and everyone else) seems to be overlooking one power he does have: the authority to remove Wheeler from the chairmanship, promoting another commissioner to that spot and leaving Wheeler as one of the other four commissioners. In particular, both Mignon Clyburn and Jessica Rosenworcel, the two other Democrats on the five-person board , spoke out eloquently in official statements on Thursday, criticizing Wheeler’s proposal for authorizing fast lanes and being a “network neutrality” rule in name only. Either Clyburn or Rosenworcel could take over the agency, scrap Wheeler’s plan in favor of an alternative and move quickly to ensure an open Internet, thereby fulfilling the cornerstone of the Obama campaign’s tech agenda after the four-month comment period.

While firing Wheeler as chairman would be an unusual move, there are at least four solid reasons the president should do it.

Second, it’s not just that Obama can demote Wheeler—he also should. Wheeler has lost just about everyone’s confidence. Three weeks ago, word of Wheeler’s proposal leaked to the public and prompted a massive backlash. More than 150 companies , 100 investors , dozens of nonprofit groups , dozens of congressmen and senators and hundreds of thousands of citizens have written or called the FCC urging it to stop the proposal—well before the proposal was officially released on Thursday. What’s more, Wheeler’s rhetoric on what he insists is a “network neutrality” rule that does not authorize paid fast or slow lanes directly contradicts the substance of the proposal itself: Paragraph 97 plainly permits “individualized arrangements for priority treatment.” That kind of doublespeak will make it difficult for anyone to believe Wheeler’s claims over the next months.

Zephyr Teachout is fellow at the New America Foundation and associate law professor at Fordham Law School. Her book, Corruption in America: From Benjamin Franklin’s Snuff Box to Citizens United, will be published by Harvard University Press in September.
