
Scientific evidence of climate change mounts steadily and only determined sceptics deny its reality and the human activities, especially the burning of fossil fuels, that cause it. The last six months have brought exhaustive reports by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and now a landmark study by the US National Climate Assessment programme.

The last report tells us that climate change already is having specific regional effects all over the United States – from torrential rain storms and flooding in the Southeast to heat waves, droughts and wildfires in the Southwest. This assessment makes climate change a more concrete and immediate problem and it may help to build a public sense of urgency about action that has been sadly lacking.

The implications of these scientific reports are clear. The United States must try to limit the worst effects of climate change and adapt to the inevitable impacts, from flooding of coastal areas by storm surges to drought and water shortages in the West, that are coming regardless of what we do. These challenges call for governments at all levels to respond with creative, effective and equitable policies.

At the national level, President Barack Obama has done much through his executive authority. The president’s Climate Change Action Plan announced a year ago justified relying on executive measures like these because a bitterly divided Congress was unlikely to do anything. Congress today remains just as politically polarised and unwilling to act.

Nonetheless, it is imperative that the Senate and House at least try to draft climate change policies, hold hearings, review the evidence and debate the issues. Congress needs to act for two reasons. One is that major policy changes are more likely to be effective and acceptable if they are seen as politically legitimate.

White House and agency efforts are important, but they cannot substitute for national legislation. Congressional action also sends a more definitive message to other nations about US commitment and a willingness to lead on solving a global problem.

The second reason is that executive authority is inherently limited. Executive agencies certainly can institute changes that make us less reliant on coal and other fossil fuels and also foster energy efficiency and use of renewable energy sources. Yet the President cannot make law by himself much less forge the needed political legitimacy. Only Congress can do that.

What kind of policies do we need? Energy experts advocate use of a revenue-neutral carbon tax as the most efficient way to reduce reliance on fossil fuels.

Such a policy could be used in combination with other steps, such as setting national renewable energy goals for utilities and offering incentives for switching to non-carbon energy technologies, including nuclear power.

No one, and especially elected officials, likes to vote for a tax increase. But a revenue-neutral carbon tax is a tax shift, not an increase. Other taxes are reduced by the same amount as the new tax on carbon. The higher price of carbon-based fuels will discourage their use, promote the search for alternative fuels and stimulate energy efficiency. Such a policy relies on market mechanisms that conservatives advocate, which makes bipartisan cooperation possible if not assured.

The IPCC studies and the new report from the National Climate Assessment programme set the agenda for national action on climate change. Congress now needs to be at the centre of this important debate even as states move ahead without a national policy.
