
Share This Story!

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

Marvin Wilson of Thorntown, Indiana, picks out post cards at the Colorado Welcome Center in Fort Collins in 2010.

More than 1 million tourists visit Fort Collins every year. The Fort Collins Convention & Visitors Bureau wants to make sure they have a good experience while they’re here.

That means being able to find their way around and being greeted by friendly hotel clerks who know a little about the city’s history, culture and events. Or by rafting guides knowledgeable about the flora and fauna along the Poudre River. Or by retailers who go out of their way to make shoppers feel welcome. And even by police who might provide directions.

That’s why the Fort Collins CVB plans to spend $35,000 on a certified tourism ambassador program to train those inside and out of the hospitality business on how to make sure visitors have a good experience and a reason to return.

Fort Collins will be the first Colorado city to adopt a certified tourism ambassador program, Clark said.

The national program developed by Mickey Schaefer and the Tourism Ambassador Institute will begin its first training session in the fall, with the goal of having 200 trained tourism ambassadors by the end of the year.

Schaefer, who will headline Wednesday’s CVB luncheon to celebrate National Tourism Week, will also conduct the first focus groups for a cross-section of people who deal with tourists in some capacity.

Schaefer’s team will spend several months developing curriculum for Fort Collins’ program that will include information on the city’s history and culture, outdoor life, sports, economic drivers, Colorado State University and “anything else a visitor asks about,” she said in a telephone interview.

The program is now in 17 states and has trained 11,000 certified tourism ambassadors, Schaefer said. More than 80 percent of ambassadors surveyed have said “they have more pride and passion” about their city.
