
The news hit them like a thunderbolt.  Many residents of Imo State were shocked when the news spread like a harmattan fire May 15, 2014, that sounds of loud explosions were heard inside the Owerri residence of the immediate past governor of the state, Chief Ikedi Ohakim. The frightened residents were later told that unidentified persons threw bombs inside the Aladinma residence of the former governor, leading to the massive destruction of the house, including household property worth millions of naira.

When Chief Ohakim arrived at the affected building, he wept profusely like a baby. He told sympathisers that his ‘enemies’ had destroyed the only house he built in Owerri, the state capital.

According to the former governor who ruled the state from 2007 to 2011 on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party, (PDP), he built the house in 1992 “with my hard earned money” after serving as a commissioner in the administration of late Senator Evan Enwerem.

He said he had become homeless, at least in Owerri capital city, following the bombing of his Aladinma residence. He disclosed that he went on a medical trip abroad alongside his family, and returned to the country few days before the incident to participate in the burial ceremonies of his late uncle.

According to him, he had on his return from abroad decided to reside in the house, but had to move to his country home Isiala Mbano, alongside members of his family when he had a hunch of danger ahead.  The implication is that the bomb explosion at his Aladinma residence would have either killed or maimed the former governor and his family members.

But without waiting for security agents to investigate the incident and come up with a report, the ex-governor traced his ordeal at the doorsteps of his perceived political opponents.

The PDP leadership in Imo State described the bomb explosion as shocking. State secretary of the party, George Eguh told journalists in Owerri, at a press briefing that the bomb explosion in Ohakim’s house was intended to kill the ex-governor.

Eguh said that there was no incident of bomb blast or assassination attempt for the 12 years the PDP controlled the affairs of the state.

But while condemning the bomb blast during a press briefing, the state commissioner for information and strategy, Dr Theodore Ekechi, urged the PDP to look inward for the perpetrators of the dastardly, rather than point accusing fingers to outsiders.

He said,  “In as much as I sympathise with the former governor, the PDP  should look inward rather than pointing accusing fingers to outsiders,  especially now that the PDP is experience some problems in the state and elsewhere”.

First, Ohakim was rumoured as having a senatorial ambition – to unseat the incumbent senator representing Okigwe senatorial zone, Mathew Nwagwu. Other politicians allegedly contending for this plum job include the current speaker, Imo State House of Assembly, Benjamin Uwajumogu, and Cosmas Iwu, former secretary to the Imo State government and younger brother to former chairman, Independent National Electoral Commission, (INEC), Prof Maurice Iwu.

A source close to the former governor said he later dropped the senatorial ambition, after he felt he needed to go back to Douglas House, (Government House, Owerri), perhaps to pick some items  he left there following his ouster by the incumbent Governor Rochas Anayo Okorocha.

Okorocha was elected governor in 2011 on the platform of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), but later defected to the All Progressives Congress (APC).Ohakim had since then, vowed to use the ‘federal might’ to flush out the APC from the state.

In fact, Ohakim had scheduled to hold a rally in Owerri on May 17, probably to unveil his gubernatorial ambition, but the bombing of his house on May 15, clearly put a clog on the wheel of this proposal. Some of his supporters say he is discouraged, so the botched political outing may be for another day.

LEADERSHIP sources in Owerri, say that if Ohakim has ‘political enemies’, those enemies exist within the PDP and not outside of it.

And by ‘political enemies’, the source say Ohakim may be referring to a prominent woman politician in the PDP and a high ranking House of Representatives member from the state. Ohakim is also contending with the governorship ambition of the speaker of the House of Representatives, Emeka Ihedioha.

Ihedioha is believed to be putting structures in the 27 local government areas of the state that would leverage his ambition to contest the PDP governorship ticket in the state for the 2015 general elections and is believed to have the support of the national women leader of PDP, Kema Chikwe.

Last week a group in Owerri allegedly close to Ohakim, took up a full page newspaper advertisement warning Chikwe to desist from openly supporting Ihedioha’s alleged gubernatorial ambition.

The group also urged the national headquarters of the PDP to warn Chikwe to desist from using her exalted position to canvass support for Ihedioha at the detriment of other politicians from the state who may be as well interested in the job.Though Ohakim said last week that he would still make public his political ambition, there is a groundswell of opinion here that he should forget his rumoured senatorial and/or governorship ambition.
