
Telugu Desam Party president N. Chandrababu Naidu has advised Telangana Rashtra Samiti and Telangana JAC leaders to desist from making provocative statements against Seemandhra people.

“It is easy to drive away investors. Now that the State is bifurcated, these leaders should avoid making provocative statements against the people of other States,” Mr. Naidu said.

He asserted that the TDP which was the second largest party would take the responsibility of protecting the investments in Telangana. The two States needed investments afresh as this would help in employment generation, failing which there was every chance of youth taking to extremism.

He recalled how he visited the United States and other countries for attracting investments to the State in core sectors and said his initiative created wealth in Telangana, but there were still problems in the region pertaining to power, drinking water and other issues.

The TDP president was speaking to reporters after meeting Governor E.S.L. Narasimhan at Raj Bhavan on Monday evening. He described his visit as a courtesy call and said he had requested the Governor to ensure transparency in following the processes involved in bifurcation and ensure that the two States got equal justice.

Mr. Naidu said he had also discussed about the new issues that cropped up because of the “irrational” manner in which the State was bifurcated by the Congress without consulting the local people or political leaders. The delay in the issuance of notification ending the President’s rule in the State was also discussed.

He said there was a need for cooperation between the two States for addressing the grievances of the people and ensuring speedy development. The TDP would play constructive role in the Telangana region and would focus on issues of public importance. “The TDP is sure to come to power in Telangana in 2019,” he averred.

The TDP president said that he would be visiting New Delhi on Tuesday to participate in the meeting of the NDA coalition partners. The meeting would chalk out the future course of action that should be adopted in the coming days. Asked whether he preferred a common minimum programme for the NDA coalition, he said the issue would come up for discussion among the allies and efforts would be made to ensure that there was cohesion in the functioning of the coalition.

“An atmosphere is already created in the country after the election of Narendra Modi-led coalition in the Centre. Mr. Modi is clear that his focus will be on addressing the issues facing the people and take the country on the development path,” he said.
