
The approval of the Cabinet of Ministers was granted to the proposal made by Higher Education Minister S.B. Dissanayake for signing of the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between Tribhuvan University, Nepal and University of Peradeniya, with the view to promoting academic exchange and co-operation between the two countries.

Non-destructive Testing (NDT) is a process of physical inspection of metallic and non-metallic (concrete) structures without causing any damage to the structure. It is a method widely used in industry to assess whether a product is free of defects. Non-destructive Testing and related services will certify the quality of industrial products which will contribute to industrial productivity. The proposal made by Technology and Research Minister Patali Champika Ranawaka that government institutions, statutory boards and corporations be required to obtain Non-destructive Testing Services from the National Centre for Non-destructive Testing, was approved by the Cabinet.

The proposal made by Education Minister Bandula Gunawardena to upgrade Vavuniya Gamini Vidyalaya as a National School; and for the construction of a two storied building and to provide basic facilities and equipment to Vavuniya Bogaswewa Vidyalaya, to provide better education facilities to children who were displaced due to conflict situation prevailed some time back and who have been resettled in Vavuniya and Mannar Districts, was approved by the Cabinet. During the second stage of the project, a suitable National School out of the five such schools in the Mannar District will be selected to be developed as a trilingual school from 2015 which will provide opportunities for Sinhala and Tamil children to learn together in the same school.

The proposal made by President Mahinda Rajapaksa, in his capacity as the Minister of Law and Order, to establish an Advisory Council on Law and Order to obtain expertise knowledge for compiling policies and plans to cover the subject field of the Ministry for the creation of a disciplined and law-abiding society, was approved by the Cabinet.

The proposal made by Health Minister Maithripala Sirisena to award the tender for supply of 1,200,000 doses of Absorbed Diptheria Tetanus, Pertussis, Hepatitis Band Haemophilus Influenza Type “B” Conjugate Liquid, Vaccine BP, USP or EP, IP or WHO IP for US $2,340,000 as recommended by the Standing Cabinet Appointed Procurement Committee (SCAPC), was approved by the Cabinet.

The proposal made by Health Minister Maithripala Sirisena to award the contract for the construction of radiation protective bunkers at the first five priority hospitals indicated below, to the Central Engineering Consultancy Bureau (CECB) at a cost of Rs. l,103,061,593.82, was approved by the Cabinet: National Cancer Institute (NCI) Maharagama; Teaching Hospital, Jaffna; Teaching Hospital, Karapitiya; Teaching Hospital, Kandy; and Teaching Hospital, Batticaloa.

The proposal made by Higher Education Minister S.B. Dissanayaka to award the contract for the construction of a four storeyed building complex for the Department of Statistics and Computer Science of the Faculty of Science of the University of Peradeniya to the lowest evaluated substantially responsive bidder at a cost of Rs.156,220,000, as recommended by the Standing Cabinet Appointed Procurement Committee (SCAPC), was approved by the Cabinet.

The urgency of upgrading the Information and Communication Technology (lCT) related Degree Programs and ICT based higher educational facilities in Universities has been emphasized to address the demand for ICT professionals in that sector.

Accordingly, the Industrial Management Department of the Kelaniya University has planned to introduce three new degree programs, namely, B.Sc. in Software Engineering, B.Sc. in Information Technology, and B.Sc. in Management and Information Technology and to open an ICT Centre to offer practical knowledge to students to develop open software and fulfil their requirements in relation to the software solutions and maintenance.

The proposal made by Higher Education Minister S.B. Dissanayaka, to construct a building complex for the Kelaniya University at a cost of Rs.500 million and to proceed with the relevant activities, was approved by the Cabinet.

The proposal made by Youth Affairs and Skills Development Minister Dullas Alahapperuma, to award the construction works on the University College proposed to be established in Batangala in the Dehiowita Divisional Secretariat Division in Kegalle and modification and improvement works on the existing training centre to be converted as the University College proposed to be established at Sapugaskanda in the Gampaha District to the Central Engineering Consultancy Bureau (CECB), was approved by the Cabinet.

The contract for the construction of the University College, Batangala in Kegalle at a cost of Rs.259.94 million, will be awarded to the Central Engineering Consultancy Bureau (CECB).

The contract for the modification and improvements to the existing Training Centre of the National Youth Services Council at Sapugaskanda in the Gampaha District, to be converted to a University College, at a cost of Rs.153.64 million, will be awarded to a contractor selected through open tender procedure.

Cabinet approval has been granted to conduct loan negotiations with the International Development Association (IDA) of the World Bank to borrow Special Drawing Rights (SDR) 53.7 million (US $83 million) for the implementation of the Skills Development Project with contributions from the government.

The IDA has agreed to provide a further SDR 12.0 million for the purpose, making the total contributions to be SDR 65.7 million (US $101.5 million). The proposal made by the President, in his capacity as the Minister of Finance and Planning, to proceed with the activities relating to the loan agreement, was approved by the Cabinet.

The Japanese Grant Aid for Human Resources Development Scholarship Program was introduced to Sri Lanka by the Japanese government in 2010 for capacity building of executive level public sector officials by way of providing opportunities for them to undergo Post Graduate Degree Programs in prominent Universities in Japan. The Japanese government has agreed to provide grant assistance of Rs.245 million to Sri Lanka to implement the Scholarship Program in 2014. The proposal made by the President, in his capacity as the Minister of Finance and Planning, to proceed with the related activities, was approved by the Cabinet.
