
Some politicians on Monday in Lagos expressed support for the extension of the emergency rule in Adamawa, Borno and Yobe.

The politicians told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in separate interviews that they were optimistic of early resolution of the insurgency in the three states.

President Goodluck Jonathan had on May 13, sought for an extension of the emergency rule in the affected states over the next six months, because of the activities of Boko Haram.

Borno, Yobe and Adamawa had suffered series of attacks by Boko Haram, compelling the Federal Government to seek the imposition of emergency rule since May 1, 2013.

However, the Senate on Thursday withheld approval until they were properly briefed on the current situation in the affected states.

The latest extension, if implemented would extend the emergency rule up to November — three months before the 2015 general elections.

A chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Movement, Mr Dennis Aghanya, described the proposal `as a good one’.

“The members of the National Assembly from the North, particularly the affected states should support the extension for a speedy end to insurgency.

“No stones should be left unturned; we should not politicise the issue, if that is what will give us the desired result, it should be supported.

“The issue of playing into the hands of the insurgents should be avoided because when we are sentimental about our comments and decisions, at the end of it, we will still be the ones at the receiving end.

“The ultimate is to make sure that the insurgency is stopped,’’ Aghanya said.

Chief Winston Odumu-Ojobi, the African Regional President of Global Care, Education and Peace Initiative, called on the Federal Government to extend the emergency rule to states experiencing similar problems.

“The president is the commander-in-chief of the armed forces and all security matters are in his hands.

“I also think that this state of emergency should be extended to every state that has this kind of problems — Nasarawa, Benue and everywhere else.

Odumu-Ojobi called on every Nigerian to support the president’s initiative.

However, the National Chairman of Inter-Party Advisory Council, Dr Yunusa Tanko, told NAN that he did not think that extending emergency rule in the three states would make any difference.

“I think it’s not necessary because it has not made any particular difference.

“It is not about imposing state of emergency because state of emergency will only polarise the system, making it uncontrollable, rather when we work together as a team — the military and the civilian — we can curb the situation.

“We have written to Mr President, asking him to listen to some of our suggestions.
