
The former Sultanah of Johor, who is challenging the validity of her divorce from the late Sultan of Johor, will know on Sunday whether the Shariah Court of Appeal will allow her appeal to set aside the divorce.

A three-man bench led by judge Syed Ali Syed Abu Bakar adjourned proceedings after hearing submissions by parties to the action brought by Tuanku Zanariah Tunku Ahmad (pic) in January this year.

The other judges are Marsid @ Morsid Mahrof and Jainuddin Mt Sum.

One of Tuanku Zanariah's lawyers, Kamar Ainiah Kamaruzaman, said today's proceedings were a closed-door session.

She said security around the court premises was also tight.

Tuanku Zanarah's predicament started in August last year when she received a letter saying the ruler had divorced her in January 2009.

She married Sultan Mahmud Iskandar Ismail in 1961 but he died on January 22, 2010.

A letter from the Johor Mufti Mohd Tahrir Syamsuddin to her was accompanied by three other documents, including a divorce certificate dated October 8, 2010, that stated the divorce took place on January 23, 2009.

She also received a second letter from the former Johor menteri besar Datuk Abdul Ghani Othman dated December 9, 2010, informing her of the Johor fatwa committee’s decision on August 6, 2010 that recognised the validity of the divorce.

The final document was from the Lower Shariah Court dated September 30, 2010 that affirmed the divorce.

On January 1, Tuanku Zanariah filed a review application to set aside the Lower Shariah Court order which stated that her late husband had divorced her.

She wants the order declared null and void because she was not called for any divorce proceedings.

She also sought the court's assistance to investigate whether Sultan Iskandar's proclamation in January 2009 that was allegedly witnessed by Ghani and the Johor royal committee chairperson Tengku Osman Tunku Temenggong Ahmad was valid, based on a statutory declaration they made.

She had also wanted the ruju’ (resumption of conjugal relationship) pronounced a week after the purported divorce to be declared invalid.

In her affidavit in support of the application, she had alleged that the state administration, especially the religious authorities, was used in an attempt to defame her and the late Sultan.

Tuanku Zanariah said that the late ruler did not make any application to verify the alleged divorce, adding that she and the late Sultan were both living together as lawful husband and wife in peace and harmony until he died.

However, the Shariah High Court dismissed the application on January 20 as judge Muhammad Khaldun Mohd Sharif said he was bound by a fatwa on the matter.

In March, the Johor Islamic Council was made a party to the suit. – May 19, 2014.
