
— House could take up the USA FREEDOM Act this week: The Washington Examiner reports this morning that House Majority Leader Eric Cantor (R-VA) has “tentatively placed” the USA FREEDOM Act on the calendar for consideration this week . The weekly floor schedule notes that the bill is “subject to a rule,” which means that amendments could be limited and vetted by the House Rules Committee in advance. The USA FREEDOM Act is the best of the reform proposals introduced in recent weeks. Normally we’d use the “it’s happening” gif to express our glee, but we have a story about the latest developments on this issue later today that is causing us to hold back.

— Feinstein still defending NSA: A friend once told this author that Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) is the most statist member of Congress. He was so right. From spending to foreign interventionism to gun control to domestic surveillance, Feinstein is pretty much the worst. During an appearance on CNN’s State of the Union, Feinstein defended the NSA, saying that the bulk data collection program is “not a surveillance program.” Uhhh, yeah, the “all calls” database  is a domestic surveillance program . The California Democrat was noncommittal on reform proposals, including the USA FREEDOM Act. “We are looking at those bills,” she said. “It may be that we can find a way to make some improvements that may solve everyone’s problem at this point.” The problem is that Feinstein doesn’t have a problem with what the NSA has been doing. So, yeah, we’re going to go ahead and call bullshit on pretty much anything Feinstein says.

— Oh, and while Feinstein was blowing smoke up our asses: Glenn Greenwald was on Meet the Press praising the bipartisan work in the House of Representatives to reform the NSA’s domestic surveillance programs.  According to The Hill , Greenwald said that there is an “extremely inspiring bipartisan coalition” working on NSA reform, later noting that there has been “a complete breakdown in the traditional standard divisions” that divide Republicans and Democrats. Greenwald’s new book,  No Place to Hide: Edward Snowden, the NSA, and the U.S. Surveillance State , hit bookshelves last week. It’s a must read for anyone interested in this issue.

— Because interventionism has been working so well: Secretary of State John Kerry spoke at Yale University on Sunday and warned against “isolationism,” a misnomer used to describe those who don’t believe the United States should involve itself in every world conflict. “In 1966 I had suggested an excess of isolation had led to an excess of interventionism,” Kerry said at his alma mater . “We cannot allow a hangover from the excessive interventionism of the last decade to lead now to an excess of isolationism in this decade.” It’s not an isolationist point of view to be skeptical of intervention in foreign conflicts that don’t represent a threat to the United States. The brand of interventionism of this administration has adopted undermines the seriousness of real foreign policy threats, and puts taxpayers in a precarious position.

— Oh, yeah, about those Obamacare bailouts: In the event that health insurance companies sustain higher than anticipated losses because of Obamacare, the Obama administration will find money to bail them out. “Bowing to an aggressive lobbying effort by insurers, the Obama administration announced Friday it would use ‘other sources of funding,’ if needed, to finance a bailout for insurance companies if the industry racks up excessive losses through President Obama’s health care law,” Philip Klein explains . “The news, buried in a 435-page  regulatory filing by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, undermines prior assurances by the administration that the program would be budget-neutral.” Well, that’s wonderful news.

— “If we win the Senate…”: Senate Republicans are writing a lot of checks that they may not be able to cash if they take control of the chamber this fall. Some members have said in recent days that they will take up or pass tax reform , immigration reform , and Keystone XL if they win the Senate. These are tricky subjects that, despite having a majority, Republicans may not be able to get through the chamber, not to mention President Barack Obama will need to go along to have any chance of becoming law. On tax reform and immigration reform, specifically, Republicans could take fire from conservatives, making it very difficult to get them done. Just sayin’.

— Rand Paul leads Hillary Clinton in Kentucky: Yeah, this is in his home state, but a poll conducted by SurveyUSA on behalf of several media outlets (PDF) shows that Sen. Rand Paul (R-KY) takes 48 percent to former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s 44 percent among registered voters in Kentucky. The crosstabs show that Paul is tied with Clinton at 44 percent among Millennials and receives 29 percent of the black vote. Those are significant numbers for two important voting blocs with which Republicans have struggled in recent presidential elections, both of which Paul has reached out to in recent months.

— Swiss voters reject $25/hour minimum wage: And they did it by a huge margin. “Initial results suggest that the Swiss have rejected a referendum proposal to create the world’s highest minimum wage, an idea that government and business leaders criticized as likely to drive Switzerland’s high costs even higher,” USA Today reported on Sunday . “Swiss TV reported Sunday that 77% were rejecting the proposal to create a minimum wage of 22 Swiss francs ($24.70) per hour, based on unofficial vote tallies.” It’s worth noting that Switzerland doesn’t currently have a minimum wage, but, as USA Today points out, “the median hourly wage is about 33 francs ($37) an hour.” In case you’re wondering, out of all 34 OECD member countries, the United States has the 10th highest real minimum wage .

— Operation American Spring flops: We mentioned this in Thursday’s Today in Liberty . Organizers of “Operation American Spring” predicted that 10 million to 30 million protesters would show up on The Mall on Friday to call for the resignations of President Barack Obama, Vice President Joe Biden, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-NV), Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY), Speaker John Boehner (R-OH), House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-CA), and Attorney General Eric Holder. Yeah, the protest flopped. “We were getting over two inches of rain in hour in parts of Virginia this morning,” Jackie Milton told The Washington Times . “Now it’s a nice sunny day. But this is a very poor turnout. It ain’t no millions. And it ain’t looking like there’s going to be millions. Hundreds is more like it.” We almost made the trip down to The Mall on Friday to see what the crowd looked like, but the torrential downpour kept us away. Truth be told, we didn’t expect to see millions, maybe a few hundred at most.

— Georgia Senate candidates won’t back McConnell: Former Secretary Karen Handel and businessman David Perdue didn’t mince words, they don’t support Mitch McConnell to lead the Senate Republican Conference , in the majority or minority. “My answer is no,” said Perdue in a debate over the weekend. “Absolutely not,” said Handel. “We need new leadership with new people there.” The three congressmen running for the open Georgia Senate seat hedged on the question, including Rep. Paul Broun (R-GA), who voted against John Boehner for Speaker at the beginning of the 113th Congress.

— Regulators gonna regulate: The Environmental Protection Agency is working at a feverish pace to enact President Barack Obama’s destructive regulatory agenda before the clock runs out on his second term. “White House records show there have been a flurry of meetings in recent weeks between administration officials and outside groups trying to influence the final language of EPA rules under construction,” The Hill reports . “The activity is evidence that Obama’s push to combat global warming with regulation has entered a critical phase, with officials hammering out the details of rules that carry major implications for the environment and the economy.” The regulations include the Obama administration’s war on coal, which will not have much of an impact on climate change .

Privacy Policy | © 2005-2009 UnitedLiberty.org. All rights reserved.
