
VICE President Jejomar Binay on Monday said that economic expansion is meaningless if it does not eliminate poverty.

Binay, who spoke before the Financial Times- First Metro Philippines Investment Summit, further said that economic expansion is meaningless without inclusion, when it does not alleviate poverty, and when economic gains with the society's marginalized sectors.

The Summit is a gathering of senior policy-makers, financiers, economists and business leaders to discuss strategies for the impending Asean integration.

The Vice President noted the economic gains under the Aquino administration, calling it a "springtime" for the Philippine economy.

According to Binay, the economic growth must be sustained by diversifying into job-generating sectors such as manufacturing, agriculture, and tourism.

Binay added that various critical areas need to be addressed to attract investments in these sectors.

At the same time, he pushed for revisiting the Constitution to allow the entry of foreign direct investments to the country.

"The goal is to liberalize the entry of foreign investments in economic priming sectors like infrastructure, energy and telecommunications," he said.

He also urged increasing infrastructure spending, as well as fast tracking the implementation of public-private sector partnership (PPP) programs, particularly in the transport sector.

"Parallel to our relaxation of the restrictions on foreign investments in the power sector, we must revisit the Electric Power Industry Reform Act, or Epira. We need to unlock investments in alternative power generating systems to reduce the cost of electricity and expand power generation capacities in the power-short areas of Mindanao and the Visayas," he said.

"We must make our higher minimum wages irrelevant by raising workers’ productivity through expanded and aligned technical vocational education," he added.

Binay also said that a true open skies policy, airport development program, and expansion of the portfolio of tourist destinations and activities in the areas of gaming, cultural and eco tourism, health and wellness, and retirement would boost tourism in the country.

The Vice President added that the Philippines' agriculture industry should be modernized.

"And we must energize the development of medium, small scale, community based enterprises by liberalizing government regulations for business startups. We need to expand the already vibrant micro finance sector and seed capital formation initiatives for small and medium scale enterprises in the Philippine Stock Exchange," Binay added.

He also reiterated the need for a new execution paradigm for development plans that does not solely follow a top-down approach and is aligned with realities on the ground to truly achieve inclusive growth.

"Inclusion is achieved when the execution is aligned with sectoral, geographic and ground level realities. It means that we must understand the unique requirements of each economic, geographic or political sector and adjust our execution strategies accordingly," he said.

"Inclusion, after all, is not just statistics. It must accrue to all citizens, rich and poor, one member of society at a time. Inclusion must have a name, a face and an address," he added.

Binay recalled that his ideas on economic inclusion were honed over his 20-year leadership of Makati City.

"From the outset, revenue generation has been one of the key elements of the Makati narrative. I distinctly recall meeting with a group of businessmen early in my term, where I made one simple promise to them: I will focus only on governance. I will work to provide the environment for business to grow, but you must do your share in supporting the government by paying your taxes, among other civic responsibilities. I kept my promise, and so did the businessmen."

"The rapid growth of Makati's revenue base was the result of our efforts to collect taxes more efficiently. I would like to emphasize that in those 20 years, we raised taxes in Makati only once, and that was to simply adjust the rates from municipal to city level. Just as importantly, the expanded revenue base was the direct result of the improved performance of the business enterprises," he said.

Binay added that as Makati prospered, the city's officials worked to ensure the continued expansion and stability of its economic fundamentals by improving revenue collection efficiency through technology. Progressive land use and zoning policies were also adopted, besides granting incentives to emerging industries.

DISCLAIMER: Sun.Star website welcomes friendly debate, but comments posted on this site do not necessary reflect the views of the Sun.Star management and its affiliates. Sun.Star reserves the right to delete, reproduce or modify comments posted here without notice. Posts that are inappropriate will automatically be deleted.

Forum rules: Do not use obscenity. Some words have been banned. Stick to the topic. Do not veer away from the discussion. Be coherent and respectful. Do not shout or use CAPITAL LETTERS!
