
Ten years ago, thousands of gay couples rushed to the Multnomah County government building the same day the clerk's office started giving same-sex marriage certificates.

Ten years later, Deborah and Betty, married in March 2004, say they won't rush to the clerk's office again this time around even if given the chance on Monday by Federal Judge Michael McShane.

"We've watched what's happened in the last ten years," said Betty, who asked not to use her last name. "We want it to stick. We want it to be real."

Judge McShane will announce his decision at noon on Monday that could overturn Oregon's Measure 36, which banned gay marriage in November 2004 and ultimately un-married the 3,000 gay couples like Deborah and Betty who got licenses in Multnomah County.

The ban was passed by 57 percent of Oregon voters.

If Judge McShane overturns the ban on the grounds that it violates the 14th Amendment, he could make his decision effective immediately or put a hold on it, known as a stay, until the legal process plays out in higher courts.

The Oregon Family Council is hoping the ban will remain in place.

"Everybody's had their opinion heard except for the majority of Oregon voters who passed Measure 36," said Shawn Lindsay, a lawyer hired by the Oregon Family Council.

Judge McShane heard arguments from people suing to throw out the ban, but he did not allow anyone to defend it.

Oregon's Attorney General, who would normally defend existing state laws being challenged in court and would have been permitted to defend the ban, declined to defend Measure 36, and no outside group or organization had the legal standing to step in instead.

Lindsay expects the case to ultimately reach the U.S. Supreme Court along with similar cases in other states and federal court districts challenging gay marriage bans.

Gay-rights supporters are planning for a victory even before the announcement.

Some groups are organizing rallies and social media campaigns to encourage gay couples to get married at 12:01pm Monday -- if that's what the judge allows.

Deborah and Betty say they'll wait.

"We want it to be tangible," said Betty. "We want to plan."

WE WON!

B y the way he has to pass it ..because a house divided against its self will fall. If he rules agaisnt it then he is divded. So he has to pass it and he will. In this case civil rights or not, he has to do the ruling in a yes favor irregardless .Other wise he is divided.

Interesting how this is all sorting out.Â  Overthrow of the vote of Oregon's Constitution is based on the 14th Amendment.Â  That amendment was enacted in 1868 basically to guarantee citizenship to emancipated slaves.Â  Interesting how over the years it has morphed into something unrelated.Â  Even the protection of "life, liberty, and property" says nothing about marriage.Â  It is an odd amendment, flailing about on a number of subjects, rights of freed slaves, qualifications for public office, and public debt.Â  Looks a lot like current stuffed legislation.Â  Even seems to step on the Bill of Rights guarantees of states' rights.

But in any event, it remained dormant on marriage for well over 100 years.Â  Marriage was never mentioned.Â  Now it is used by the federal government to overturn the votes of people of the states wherever it seems useful to do so.Â  Suppose the states may as well just give up and let the federal government assume total control of every aspect of our lives.Â  States really no longer play a role.

As to homosexual marriage, we all, nationwide, may as well just accept it and get back to the important stuff.

@N-acetyl-p-aminophenol Â  Â Kinda gave me chills. Â Congrats to those whose lives will be impacted by this....it was long overdue.

Well over 100 years? You should go back and look at cases like Loving v. Virginia (1967). Those are the cases that set precedent for marriage being a right.

Many of the rights we have - like Miranda - are not in the Constitution, but instead are court interpretations. The founding documents and subsequent Amendments are purposefully a little vague because you can't tell the future and these items are supposed to stand up fairly well throughout time. That is why they set up the judicial system to deal with issues of constitutionality, as they could take into consideration today's world with regard to the Constitution.

@Nobody Â Aww, someone's mad the US Constitution overrules the Oregon one.

@Unknown Â  @lee98632 Â  Â It's THE WORST word I ever hear. Â I've pacifically hated it, hated it being added to the dictionary. Â It's indeed a slippy slope when a double negative is accepted, but now I've accidentally plunged myself into mathy stuff. Â Oops.

@Unknown Â  @lee98632 Â As much as I hate it, irregardless was added to the dictionary a few years ago.

The kidney stone is dividing the judge in half....unless it was a "plug" that got stuck.

@Jenni S. @Nobody Sorry.Â  Guess I should have said 99 years.Â  BFD.

@JTesla Too big a leap of illogic for me to follow.Â  Firearm ownership is guaranteed in the Bill of Rights.Â  Contrary to responses, I have no problem with the 14th Amendment as it was originally intended.Â  I just feel it has been twisted for use in situations that it was never written or adopted to cover.Â  Life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness as guaranteed when the country was formed is probably sufficient to sanction marriage between whomever wants it.Â  But again that can be twisted to allow marriage between 80 year old men and 12 year old boys if someone really wanted to push for the limit.

Same here, and next month my husband and I will be celebrating our 17th wedding anniversary. So it obviously doesn't directly benefit me.

Me too, now if only I had someone to marry.Â  Definitely gives me goose bumps.

@Jenni S. Â  Â Me too, but then I get teary when I see the Budwiser Christmas ads on TV with the horses pulling the sleigh. Â I'm a mush-head.

@kdagg Â  @Unknown Â  @lee98632 Â But only as "non-standard".

There's a pretty big difference between "well over 100 years" and 99 years.

Things such as slavery, women being property, etc. stood for a long time as well. Didn't mean that they were right.

@Nobody Â  @JTesla Â  Â I don't mean to be arbitrary, but many believe today's interpretation of the Second Amendment has been twisted from what the founding fathers had in mind.

@Nobody The Bill of Rights does not apply to the states, per the founding fathers and per Barron vs. Baltimore (1833).

It is ONLY because of the 14th Amendment that the rights in the 2nd are applied to the states (through "incorporation"). The 14th guarantees due process and equal protection, which come to play in this decision.

No leap of logic.

Portland,

Copyright © 2014 Sinclair Interactive Media, LLC; a member of Sinclair Broadcast Group, Inc.
