
ELECTRICIANS knew the foil insulation which led to the deaths of four young men during the $2.8 billion home insulation roll-out was potentially lethal.

But Chief Executive Officer of Master Electricians Australia Malcolm Richards has told the insulation Royal Commission that the Rudd Government was so dismissive of his input he doubted he would be listened to, even if he had raised the red flag.

Mr Richards’ evidence was the last to be heard in the public hearings of the $20 million commission which began in December last year and which will report back to the Governor-general on August 31.

Chief Executive Officer of Master Electricians Australia Malcolm Richards (left) attends the Royal Commission into the national Home Insulation Scheme in Brisbane yesterday.

Commissioner Ian Hanger, QC, announced the extension of his original reporting deadline of June 30 yesterday after an exhausting 37 days of public hearings, 120 interviews and 125 summonses to produce documents.

In his evidence, Mr Richards said foil should never have been permitted in older homes.

“I was not aware that foil insulation products had been included in the Home Insulation Program until about August 2009,’’ Mr Richards told the inquiry in his statements.

“It was a critical oversight by government not to consult with the Master Electricians.

Mr Richards said if the government had asked the Master Electricians at any time during the framing of the insulation policy about the potential for foil to be used, they would have waved a red flag.

Master Electricians actually drafted a letter warning of the dangers of foil for the then Environment Minister Peter Garrett who had carriage of the insulation policy soon after the roll-out began in July 2009.

But the letter was not sent before the death of Queenslander Matthew Fuller, who at 25, became the first installer to die when he drove a metal staple through electrical cabling in a Brisbane house on October 14, 2009.

Two days after Mr Fuller’s death, Mr Richards sent the letter which urged the government to immediately ban foil from the scheme.
