
THE provincial committee on discipline and investigation is investigating eight Capitol employees who were caught drinking during office hours last May 16.

Five of them were spotted by Gov. Hilario Davide III in one of the establishments on Avila St., which is near the Capitol building. The other three were seen drinking beside the Capitol by security deputy chief Bobby Legaspi.

Davide is withholding their names while the investigation is ongoing.

The governor said he approached the five employees at their table and asked them if it wasn’t too early to be drinking. It was 3 p.m.

“On leave kuno sila (They said they were on leave),” he said.

Davide said the five employees are assigned at the Provincial Disaster Risk Reduction Management Office, which is headed by Baltazar Tribunalo. Tribunalo was in Manila on official business last week.

“Nagtuo diay sila nga moipon ko kay kadtong usa nitagad man, so abi niya’g moapil ko, di ko (They thought I was joining them because one of them greeted me but I told them I couldn’t),” Davide said.

He said he checked with the Human Resource Management Office (HRMO) and discovered that the five employees, four of whom are outsourced and the other a casual, had punched in earlier.

At 4 p.m., Legaspi caught three regular employees drinking beer in an establishment on M. Velez St.

They told him they were working under-time but HRMO records showed that they punched out at 5 p.m.

“Double ilang sala (They committed two errors). Drinking during office hours, lying pa gyud,” Davide said.

The three employees are assigned at the Provincial Health Office, headed by Dr. Cynthia Genosolango.

A department head who asked not to be named said drinking during office hours has become a common practice. “Buotan man gud si Gob (The governor is nice),” the department head said.

However, Davide said they won’t tolerate abuses.

“We are very serious sa atong trabaho dinhi sa Capitolyo (with our work here in the Capitol) because what they do outside is a reflection on me, sa akong (on my) governance,” he said.

Published in the Sun.Star Cebu newspaper on May 20, 2014.

DISCLAIMER: Sun.Star website welcomes friendly debate, but comments posted on this site do not necessary reflect the views of the Sun.Star management and its affiliates. Sun.Star reserves the right to delete, reproduce or modify comments posted here without notice. Posts that are inappropriate will automatically be deleted.

Forum rules: Do not use obscenity. Some words have been banned. Stick to the topic. Do not veer away from the discussion. Be coherent and respectful. Do not shout or use CAPITAL LETTERS!
