
Participate in Share Chat.

New Delhi (Alliance News) - India's prime minister designate Narendra Modi held meetings Monday with senior party members over the formation of the next government, while the outgoing Congress party met to ponder its crushing electoral defeat.

The Bharatiya Janata Party won by a landslide in the general elections, with 282 seats in the 543-member lower house of parliament and 31% ot the total votes. The Congress came a poor second with 44 seats, one-third of its tally in the previous election.

BJP leaders Arun Jaitly and Sushma Swaraj were among the party's politicians who met Modi. They also met BJP president Rajnath Singh.

Jaitly and Swaraj were leaders of the opposition in the upper and lower houses of the previous parliament and both are contenders for top portfolios in the Modi government.

BJP legislators were scheduled to meet Tuesday and formally choose Modi as their leader, to be invited to form a new government by the president, party spokesman Prakash Javadekar said.

Smaller parties of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) will also meet with with Modi, and are expected to get a couple of ministerial positions for their support of the next government.

Modi is expected to be sworn in as prime minister this week.

The losing Congress party's working committee was also meeting in New Delhi to discuss the poll debacle.

The party put in its poorest electoral performance since independence, failing to score a single seat in 12 states.

Party president Sonia Gandhi and her son, vice president Rahul, accepted responsibility for the defeat.

Speculation that the two might resign was scotched by senior party members.

"We have to discuss not just what went wrong, but what went right for the opponents. I don't think resignation and designation are the way forward," party spokesman Manish Tiwari said. "We need to do exhaustive analysis before any decisions are taken."

Datafeed and UK data supplied by NBTrader and Digital Look.      While London South East do their best to maintain the high quality of the information displayed on this site,

we cannot be held responsible for any loss due to incorrect information found here. All information is provided free of charge, 'as-is', and you use it at your own risk.

The contents of all 'Chat' messages should not be construed as advice and represent the opinions of the authors, not those of London South East Limited, or its affiliates.

London South East does not authorise or approve this content, and reserves the right to remove items at its discretion.

This site requires cookies in order to give you the best user experience. By using this site, you are agreeing to the use of cookies.
