
In his first day back at City Hall since news broke over the weekend that he’s being vetted for a likely nomination to become HUD secretary, Mayor Julian Castro escaped a gaggle of reporters by slipping into an elevator in the Municipal Complex.

About a dozen print, radio and television reporters and photographers attended a health forum in City Council chambers, where Castro helped give awards to representatives of local businesses and government entities that have held successful health and fitness initiatives.

The event was quiet. Recipients posed for photos with the mayor and others, not unlike any other similar event in chambers — except, perhaps, for the throng of reporters waiting on the side. Once it concluded, Castro slipped back into the bowels of the chamber, surprising the journalists on hand. There was a mad rush to catch him exiting a back door.

Castro fielded questions very briefly, saying only that he loves being mayor and had no comment about his future here or in Washington. The mayor repeatedly declined to answer questions and reaffirmed his joy of being mayor.

Castro declined to answer several questions about his past and what’s in store, and he demurred when asked whether he spent any time on his treadmill this morning as part of his typical daily routine.

Castro slipped into the elevator with his security detail and chief of staff as he headed for an SA2020 board meeting. He’s expected to appear later in the day at the Pearl Stable, where he’ll be honored for his contributions to San Antonio’s children by SA Youth, a nonprofit organization that focuses on keeping at-risk children off the streets and in school.

Columnist Brian Chasnoff broke the news Saturday that the mayor is being vetted for a cabinet position. Several sources confirmed after his column ran that Castro is expected to accept a nomination to become President Barack Obama’s secretary for the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, spurring national speculation that Castro could end up as the vice presidential nominee on a ticket with former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton.

Browse previous blog posts by month and year of entry. You’ll see all the posts for that time period.

Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
