
We have re-imagined our design in a bold new way. Before we roll it out for everyone, we are giving select readers an opportunity to try out the new design. We welcome your feedback.

We've removed you from the beta test of the new design.

Please note: if you clear your cookies you may be invited back to the beta. In order to prevent this from happening, please do not clear your SFGate.com cookies for the next 30 days.

This weekend moviegoing America will watch Godzilla stomp the daylights out of San Francisco. I wish it would happen more often.

From the car chase in "Bullitt" to the "Make my day" moment with Dirty Harry to "The Princess Diaries," there have been many, many great moments in San Francisco moviemaking.

It wasn't that long ago that we were Hollywood north, with so many movies, TV series and commercials being filmed here that neighborhoods were complaining much the way they now complain about techies.

We even had soundstages out on the old hangars on Treasure Island, where Robin Williams often shot his movies.

The last film I recall being shot here was Woody Allen 's " Blue Jasmine ." In fact, it was one of the few recent movies even shot in California.

Apparently you can shoot a movie just about anywhere these days, so all the lights, cameras and action are going to Detroit, New Orleans, Vancouver or even Romania.

And with them go all the accompanying catering jobs and the like that come with every movie shoot.

If I were to bet, I'd say the city stands a good chance of keeping George Lucas' museum in San Francisco - the key is swinging a deal by the waterfront.

My sources tell me that Lucas' people are fascinated by the possibilities of housing his extensive collection of illustrative art and Hollywood memorabilia on Piers 30-32.

As we know, building anything on those aging piers will probably require a citywide vote.

But so far, there doesn't appear to be much opposition based on the " Dear George Lucas " ad in The Chronicle on Thursday. The full-page advertisement showed that every former mayor since the 1970s has signed on to the idea (with Gina Moscone signing on behalf of her husband) as well as Mayor Ed Lee and House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi . Eight members of the current Board of Supervisors signed on, as did another 1,000 or so San Franciscans from every neighborhood. Unless opposition comes from John Avalos , Jane Kim or Malia Cohen - whose names were absent on the elected side - getting approval looks like a slam dunk.

Pelosi remains optimistic that the Democrats can retake the House in November, although the effort could spell trouble for some of her longtime friends here in California.

They need to pick up a net of 17 seats.

If the Democrats really think they can win, that means they'll be focusing money and resources on races mostly outside of California, where the Republican Party actually exists. That might not be good news for a few Democratic incumbents - Rep. Mike Honda would be a prime example - who will face stiff challenges under the top-two runoff from younger Democrats.

Like it or not, when it comes to counting up the totals in November, a Democratic seat is a Democratic seat, whether it's held by a longtime ally or a young upstart.

I revisited one of San Francisco's most popular and least talked-about restaurants the other night and, as usual, it was packed.

I'm talking about Hillstone along the Embarcadero, which has got to have the most diverse clientele in the city.

The outdoor patio bar scene was hopping, and everyone looked like locals.

And it is one of few venues left with live music. A jazz trio, and they are very good.

Personally I go for the ribs, but they have a dish for everyone's taste.

Movie time: "Fading Gigolo." John Turturro wrote, directed and starred in this tribute to Woody Allen movies. It even stars Allen as an AARP-aged pimp, along with Sharon Stone .

The plot centers on a 50-year-old who services women of like age. It's filled with Jewish and New York humor, and it's well worth the hour and a half of your life.

I can't say the same for "Neighbors," which takes one joke and repeats it over and over for what seems like hours.

I went down to Los Angeles for the annual Jewish Federation dinner. The master of ceremonies, Frank Luntz , opens the program by saying, "Please be advised that we have a sold-out house, 1,500 people, 150 tables. We're returning one table. We're giving Donald Sterling his money back."

That's how he starts. Then he says the organizers have set a three-minute limit for speakers.

"What can anyone complete in three minutes?" Luntz said he asked of the event chairwoman.

Her reply? "You obviously do not know my husband."

"Ask their wives. Three minutes is more than enough time for these guys to do anything."

Confluence of factors means few in Napa will get paid out.

Billy Crystal's moving tribute to his late friend during Emmys.
