
Chandrababu, along with newly-elected TDP MLAs from Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, met the Governor and discussed formation of a Government, sources said.

He is expected to take the oath on or after June 2 when the new residual State of Andhra Pradesh would formally come into being.

As promised to the people, the TDP chief would take oath in either Vijayawada or Guntur, which are in the post-bifurcation residual State of Andhra Pradesh and may also choose one of these cities to run his administration, since they are centrally located, sources said.

Though Hyderabad would continue to remain the joint capital of the residual State of Andhra Pradesh as well as Telangana for ten years after bifurcation, Chandrababu Naidu is said to be keen on running the administration from a city in the residual State.

Meanwhile, Chandrababu is scheduled to leave for New Delhi tonight to take part in a meeting of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), sources said.

The TDP, which returned to the NDA after a decade, is expected to join the Narendra Modi-led Government at the Centre.

On the other hand, BJP president Rajnath Singh rang up Telugu movie star and Jana Sena chief Pawan Kalyan over phone this evening and invited him to attend the NDA meeting in New Delhi on Tuesday, sources said.

The Jana Sena had extended its support to the TDP-BJP combine during the general election and campaigned extensively along with Narendra Modi and Chandrababu Naidu.

Please read our terms of use before posting comments.

TERMS OF USE: The views, opinions and comments posted are your, and are not endorsed by this website. You shall be solely responsible for the comment posted here. The website reserves the right to delete, reject, or otherwise remove any views, opinions and comments posted or part thereof. You shall ensure that the comment is not inflammatory, abusive, derogatory, defamatory &/or obscene, or contain pornographic matter and/or does not constitute hate mail, or violate privacy of any person (s) or breach confidentiality or otherwise is illegal, immoral or contrary to public policy. Nor should it contain anything infringing copyright &/or intellectual property rights of any person(s).
