
THE importance of railway transport cannot be over-emphasised because it plays a very important role in the  transportation of heavy cargo over long distances.

Zambia Railways (ZR) is one of the two major railroad organisations in Zambia.

The other one is the binational Tanzania Zambia Railway (TAZARA), which interconnects with the ZR at Kapiri Mposhi and provides a link to the Tanzanian port of Dar es Salaam.

TAZARA’s single-track railway, which is 1,860 km long, was built from 1970 to 1975 as a turnkey project financed and supported by China.

Built at a cost of US$500 million, TAZARA was the largest single foreign-aid project undertaken by China at that time and played a key role in helping Zambia export copper when Zimbabwe was blocking Zambia’s commercial prospects.

It is, therefore, important that the railway line is maintained because apart from its historical importance, it helps in the transportation of heavy goods.

We, therefore, welcome the efforts the governments of Zambia and Tanzania are making to help salvage the situation so that the railway line is not defunct.

The two governments are planning to discuss the financial troubles of TAZARA, where unionised workers recently went on strike over salaries.

Minister of Transport, Works, Supply and Communications Yamfwa Mukanga said both governments cannot continue putting money in a loss-making company.

Last year in September Government put in about US$5 million while the Tanzanian government put in about US$4.5 million to recapitalise the railway.

“We are trying to call for an urgent meeting where we are going to discuss the challenges affecting the growth of TAZARA because there is no way a company which is supposed to make profit is every time recording losses,” he said.

TAZARA plays a very crucial role because it provides an alternative route for Zambia’s exports and imports.

It also helps in extending the life span of the Great North Road, which would be under a lot of pressure if all the traffic the railway line handles were to be transferred to the road.

But as the minister has observed, operations of TAZARA need to be streamlined and operational costs reduced so that the railway can become profitable instead of relying on government hand-outs.

Management and the trade unions must find a lasting solution to the challenges the company is facing so that it can become profitable.

We sympathise with the plight of workers who went on strike last week over delayed payments of salaries but a strike is not the best option to resolve their problems.

The striking workers should consider giving management chance to discuss the financial quagmire the firm is facing instead of holding management to ransom.

Basic HTML code is allowed.
