
"We make every effort to see that our actions live up to our words and be vigilant with regards to our behavior."

Auditor General of Sierra Leone,. Lara Taylor-Pearce,  is the newly appointed chairperson of the Governing Board of African Organisation of English-speaking Supreme Audit Institutions (AFROSAI-E) for a period of three years (2014  2017).

Mrs. Taylor-Pearce was appointed during the 11th AFROSAI-E Governing Board Meeting in Ethiopia on the 9th May, 2014. She succeeded the previous Chairman, Ludovich Utouh, Auditor General of Tanzania, whose tenure ended in May 2014.

Mrs. Taylor-Pearce was nominated by the South African Auditor General, Thembile Kimi Makwetu and seconded by the Auditor General of South Sudan, Ambassador Steven Wondu. The nomination was overwhelmingly and unanimously endorsed by all Auditors General present. Prior to her appointment, the nominee had been a member of the Finance and Audit Committee of AFROSAI-E.

AFROSAI-E is a subset of the International Organisation of Supreme Audit Institutions (INTOSAI) with other subsets in the French, Arabic, Asian and Latin America Regions. AFROSAI-E consists of 22 English-speaking countries and 2 Portuguese-speaking countries in Africa. The AFROSAI-E values are built on the eight pillars of the independence of Supreme Audit Institutions (SAIs) as agreed in the Lima declaration of October 1977, the Mexico declaration of November 2007, and the UN Resolution A/66/2009 adopted on 22nd December 2011 during the UN General Assembly.

Since the establishment of AFROSAI-E, this is its first appointment of a female chairperson and also a chairperson from the West African Region. Mrs. Taylor-Pearce was formally presented to the general body of the organisation during the closing dinner at the Hilton Hotel in Addis Ababa.

In her acceptance speech, she thanked all for the trust and confidence in her ability to lead AFROSAI-E in accomplishing its goals in the next three years. She commended the past chairperson for his great achievements and revealed that her predecessor had been a source of inspiration for her over the years because of his dedication in taking the Supreme Audit Institution (SAI) and AFROSAI-E forward.

As the chairperson of AFROSAI-E, she will be supporting all members of SAIs to successfully fulfill their mandates by helping them to achieve the objectives outlined in the region’s institutional capacity building framework. The chairperson now has the ultimate responsibility to ensure that the policies of the organisation are implemented in all twenty four member countries. She will also be responsible for taking policy decisions and providing strategic direction, review progress, and establish guidelines necessary to attain the objectives of the organisation.

Mrs Taylor-Pearce is a Fellow of the Association of Certified and Chartered Accountants in the United Kingdom and a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Sierra Leone. She spent almost ten years at KPMG as a private sector auditor and then joined the public sector in 2000, where she held senior management positions in various departments. She joined the Audit Service Sierra Leone in 2007 as Deputy Auditor General and was appointed as Auditor General of Sierra Leone in November 2011.

Awoko Newspaper Copyright © 2010-2011. All rights reserved.
