
May 19, 2014, 4:09 p.m.

Tom Intorcio has joined Alaska Lt. Gov. Mead Treadwell’s Senate campaign as communications director.

Prior to joining Treadwell’s campaign, Intorcio worked on President George W. Bush’s 2004 re-election bid as a field coordinator, as well as on House and Senate campaigns in Colorado, Idaho, Ohio and South Carolina, among others.

Treadwell is running for the GOP nomination to take on Democratic Sen. Mark Begich . Treadwell is currently being outraised by large margins by the Republican front-runner, former Alaska Attorney General Dan Sullivan. The GOP primary in Alaska is Aug. 19.

The Republican State Leadership Committee announced last week that Christine Toretti will join the group’s board of directors, a move the group says will help the GOP elect more women to state legislatures across the country.

Toretti, who is chairman and CEO of S.W. Jack Drilling Co., is the founder of the Anne Anstine Excellence in Public Service Series, which teaches Republican women how to become active in politics.

She is also the founder of the Women Lead PAC, a group that seeks to boost female GOP candidates. Toretti also serves as the Republican national committeewoman from Pennsylvania.

“We are honored to welcome Christine to our Board of Directors to help guide our women’s recruitment and training efforts and lend her exceptional talents and vision to the full mission of the RSLC,” Chairman Bill McCollum said in a news release.

The New Hampshire Republican Party announced on Sunday that Lauren Zelt will come onboard as a communications adviser and spokeswoman.

Zelt, who is vice president for media affairs at the GOP firm FP1 Strategies, will begin work at the NHGOP as it heads into the midterms with former Massachusetts Sen. Scott P. Brown looking to unseat Democratic Sen. Jeanne Shaheen in the Granite State.

Zelt served as director of media affairs for Mitt Romney’s 2012 presidential bid. She has also served as deputy press secretary for television at the Republican National Committee.

Revolvis Consulting recently announced that Hector Barajas was promoted to partner at the firm.

Barajas was a vice president of the GOP consulting firm when it launched in 2009. He left to serve as a spokesman for Meg Whitman’s failed 2010 gubernatorial campaign in the Golden State, and also served as communications director for the California Senate Republican Caucus before rejoining Revolvis in May of 2013.

Barajas had been working at the firm for the past year as a vice president, before being elevated to partner this month.

The Illinois Republican Party unanimously elected Tim Schneider as chairman over the weekend, according to the Chicago Sun-Times .

Schneider, who ran unopposed, served as Cook County commissioner before being elected to a four-year term as chair of the state party on May 17.

Schneider replaces Jack Dorgan, who is leaving the role to become co-chairman of the finance committee looking to elect GOP gubernatorial nominee Bruce Rauner, according to the Sun-Times.

Former Sen. Scott Brown, R-Mass., candidate for U.S. Senate in New Hampshire, holds his hand over his heart during the singing of the national anthem as he waits to take the stage for his town hall campaign rally with Sen. John McCain at the Pinkerton Academy in Derry, N.H., on Monday, Aug. 18, 2014.

Sign up to have the print PDF emailed to you.
