
BRENTWOOD — A news conference is scheduled for 5 p.m. this afternoon regarding further details of the murder of Brentwood Police Officer Stephen Arkell.

The press briefing will be held at the Brentwood Fire Department on 419 Middle Road. It is unknown what details are to be shared, during the event.

Killed in the line of duty one week ago, on Monday, May 12, Arkell was met with immediate gunfire after entering a Mill Pond Road residence while responding to a verbal domestic dispute. He was the first officer responding to the scene.

On Friday evening, Troopers from Troop B and officers of the Manchester Police Department lined the highway of Interstate 93 as Arkell's body was escorted from Concord to Brentwood. Law enforcement officers from dozens of departments participated in the procession, led by the Brentwood Police Department, all paying their respects to the slain officer.

The procession, for which members of the New Hampshire Police Association Pipes & Drums Band took part, could be seen by motorists, many of whom stopped at points off Route 101 including the overpass of Mammoth Road in Manchester.

The dispute between father and son, loud enough to prompt calls to police from neighbors, took place at 46 Mill Pond Road between Walter Nolan, 86, and his son Michael Nolan, 47.

The son is believed to have opened fire on Arkell after the elder Nolan gave permission for the officer to enter the home. An autopsy determined homicide as the manner of death with multiple gunshots as the cause.

Shortly after gunshots were fired, a fire and explosion tore through the home, blowing through the roof and presumably killing Michael Nolan in the process.

Neither Nolan nor Arkell exited the home, which became engulfed in a four-alarm blaze.

Many have taken to social media to remember Arkell and share in mourning.

“My family has lived in Brentwood since 1961. This is the most painful and somber event my little town has ever had to experience. May this servant of the community rest in peace and may his wife and daughters find solace,” Jay Hett wrote.

Others called the tragedy a senseless one and offered continued thoughts and prayers to Arkell's grieving family, friends and colleagues.

“We will never forget the sacrifice you made,” Mark Giro, wrote.

A public wake for Arkell will be held from 4 to 7 p.m. Tuesday, followed by a memorial service at 10 a.m. Wednesday. Both will be held at Exeter High School, located at 1 Blue Hawk Drive, Exeter.
