
Hundreds of people were evacuated from the market and the surrounding area as the blaze took hold - sending a giant cloud of black smoke high into the sky over the capital.

London Fire Brigade announced it had got the fire under control just before midnight.

The area around the market remains closed off.

The extent of the damage to the market is not yet clear - or when it will reopen.

The fire was reportedly first spotted by a security guard who tried in vain to tackle it before firefighters arrived at the scene.

Music fans have faced some difficulties getting home following the blaze in the market.

Thankfully the fire has now been put out. We are yet to hear from the Fire Brigade about the scale of the damage to the market.

Last night's fire is reported to have begun in a shop that had closed for the day.

A security guard is said to have tried in vain to put the blaze out - with ten fire extinguishers used to try to douse the flames.

London Fire Brigade arrived at the scene to tackle the fire and around 600 people were evacuated.

The fire at Camden Market is now under control, London Fire Brigade has announced.

The extent of the damage is not clear at this stage.

But the fact the blaze is under control is some consolation.

The fire at Stables Market on Chalk Farm Road in #Camden is under control.

The blaze was so large that ten fire engines were sent to the scene.

Huge crowds surrounded the historic market as a plume of smoke hung over it.

It is still unclear how the fire began, or the extent of damage done.

An eyewitness told Camden New Journal that the fire had originally been spotted by a passing security guard.

The extent of the damage to the popular shopping attraction is yet to be revealed.

The fire was witnessed by funk and reggae band Times Six.

They were preparing for a concert in a nearby bar when they saw the smoke.

As reported by the Camden New Journal, keyboard player K-Loe said: "We suddenly saw smoke gushing in and security saying we had to evacuate immediately.

'There was at least 200 - may be more - people rushing out. The smoke was thick, black.'

X Factor band Rough Copy have tweeted about their sadness over the fire.

The area of north London has many live music venues with a number of high-profile musicians living in the area.

Famously, singer Amy Winehouse lived close-by and was often seen drinking in Camden's pubs.

As well as large numbers of firefighters, police officers are also on the scene.

A Scotland Yard spokesman said: "Police were called at approximately 8pm to Stables market in Camden following reports of a fire.

"Officers including the British Transport Police and the fire brigade are assisting and several buildings have been evacuated and road closures remain in place."

Camden is one of London's favourite destinations for youngsters and music fans.

With London basking in sunny weather today, many people are drinking in local pubs.

Eyewitnesses have tweeted pictures from the scene, with some expressing their sadness at the blaze.

Although nobody is thought to have been injured, those who own shops in the market will be extremely worried tonight.

A London Fire Brigade spokesman said the blaze "can be seen from miles around".

He added: "We're working hard to bring the fire under control."

There are no reports of any injuries, he said, and the cause is not known at this stage.

Some 40 million people visit the market each year, according to its website.

It houses dozens of stalls selling international cuisine, fashion and home decorations.

Camden is one of London's busiest areas, attracting many tourists as well as locals.

There are hundreds of eye-witnesses to the blaze who are posted images on social media sites.

This picture above shows the blaze inside the market.

Cordons have been placed around the market and local roads closed off.

Good evening and welcome to our live blog.

About 600 people have been evacuated tonight after a huge fire broke out at Camden market in London.

Police and firefighters attended the scene at about 8pm with pictures showing huge plumes of black smoke.

As reported by the Evening Standard, the fire involves a number of railway arches used as shops in the Stables Market.

In 2008, a large fire devastated parts of Canal Market in Camden.

A total of 100 firefighters attended that blaze and there were no casualties.

Stay with us for the latest updates.

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).

You've turned off story recommendations. Turn them on and we'll update the list below with stories we think you'll love ( how we do this ).
