
The Ministry of Housing and Works has issued charge sheets to and initiated disciplinary proceedings against several of its officers for their alleged involvement in corruption.

According to official documents available with The Express Tribune, charge sheets have already been issued in 83 cases and are in the process of being served in 51 other cases. Proceedings against officers responsible for irregularities in several of the ministry’s development schemes have been initiated under Efficiency and Discipline Rules, 1973, the documents revealed.

In addition to this, the ministry has also registered criminal cases against officers with the National Accountability Bureau (NAB) and the Federal Investigation Agency (FIA) in cases where there is a possibility of corruption.

One such case concerns misappropriation in the salaries of WC staff, Central Civil Division (CCD) II, Pakistan Public Works Department (PPWD), Lahore. According to documents, as many as 13 officers are suspected of involvement and are currently under trial at NAB Court, Lahore. Seven of them have already been retired from service.

Another case referred to NAB pertains to the embezzlement of Rs19.6 million in a development scheme in Sheikhupura district by officers of CCD-I, PPWD, Lahore. The housing ministry has also referred the names of four officials and construction companies to NAB for allegedly embezzling Rs17.88 million from development schemes in Gujranwala district.

In addition to this, the ministry has referred cases against nine officers of PPWD, Lahore – who have caused a loss of Rs758.7 million in 75 development schemes – to the bureau. Cases against five other officers and a construction firm – who have caused a loss of Rs336 million in 74 schemes – have also been referred to NAB.

The accountability watchdog has also been engaged in the cases of four housing ministry officers accused of embezzling Rs145.23 million from development projects in Gujjar Khan. The names of three officers, held responsible for irregularities worth Rs179 million in the construction of the 35-kilometre Musakhel Taunsa Road, have also been forwarded to NAB.

Published in The Express Tribune, May 19th, 2014.

Your comments may appear in The Express Tribune paper. For this reason we encourage you to provide your city. The Express Tribune does not bear any responsibility for user comments.

Comments are moderated and generally will be posted if they are on-topic and not abusive. For more information, please see our Comments FAQ .

Notify me of new posts by email.

Unless otherwise stated, all content is copyrighted © 2014 The Express Tribune News Network.
