
The governor of Niger State, Dr Babangida Aliyu, has faulted insinuations that the Islamic extremist group, Boko Haram, was created to frustrate and crumble President Goodluck Jonathan’s administration.

Aliyu, who described the statements as erroneous and misleading, said it was worrisome that the federal government had not been able to unmask the sponsors of the violent sect five years after their destructive activities.

The governor, who made this known while playing host to the minister of state for works, Amb. Bashir Yuguda, stated that Boko Haram should be crushed in three months with the support of the international community, stressing that the foreign countries supporting Nigeria in the fight should not stay in the country for too long.

“We could not have spent four or five years fighting an insurgent group, and we have not been able to crush them. Whatever we do, we must realise that there is need for peace for any growth in gross domestic product (GDP)”.

Aliyu explained, “Boko Haram did not start with the presidency of Goodluck Jonathan. Maybe that is why we have not been able to nip this in the bud, because there is this belief by some people that Boko Haram was essentially created to stop Jonathan from being president. I do not think we should continue with that belief.

“I believe that might have stopped the crushing of Boko Haram at the right time. In this country, we must be bold to say that we must fight extremism in whatever nature; whether political, religious or social extremism, we must fight it.  We must appreciate the need for moderation.

“It used to be like a rumour but I saw an interview in the print media that ‘oh, they are killing their people; let them continue to do it.’ This is a social malaise that has come. You and I know that there is an intense competition between those of us that have gone for western education and those that have gone to Almajiri system. The only beautiful part of it is that some of us have gone through it too,” he said.

Aliyu, who also condemned the comparison between the Boko Haram sect and Niger Delta militants, said Nigeria must look at its social fabric to understand that the iniquity committed in the country created some of the evils perpetrated by the sect.

We are told that Boko Haram under Yusuf was used as a killer sqaud by politicians against their opponents in the North. It is true that when Jonathan emerged as president in 2010, Some politicians in the North hijacked Boko haram, armd them, and used them to make the country ungorvernable.

Pls name those politicians who are arming BH or shout up because your claims have no substance.Why is our president who has all the powers as conferred on him by our constitution not been able to come out with those names if he knows are in his govt as he claimed?Let`s stop beating about the bush and address the issue squarely.If mere civilians are capable of confronting and arresting these hoodlums and our military cannot,then something is fundamentally wrong with the govt somewhere.

IF WE TAKE PEOPLE BY THIER WORDS, THE SUBMISSION OF THE GOVERNOR HOLDS NO WATER. SOMEBODY POSITED THAT THOSE WHO RSIST PEACEFUL CHANGE, MAKE VIOLENT CHANGE INEVITABLE.OTHERS THREATENED TO MAKE THE NATION UNGOVERNABLE FOR MR JONATHAN. THESE THREATS WERE TO BE ALTERNATIVES TO THEIR FAILURE TO CLINCH THE PRESIDENCY. SINCE THEY DID NOT CLINCH THE PRESIDENCY, ARE WE NOT TO TAKE THEM AT THEIR WORDS THAT THEY CREATED BOKO HARAM TO ACHIEVE THEIR THREATS? GOD IS THERE TO JUDGE EVERY MAN ACCORDING TO THEIR WORKS.

When President Jonathan denied the involvement of Niger Delta militants in Abuja bombing of 2010 and now their leader is languishing in a South African jail for the same offence,what did you say about it?You people should stop heating the polity with your mundane comments and ask our president to use his powers as the c-in- chief of the armed forces to address this situation.If these people you claim made these statements and evidences lead to their involvement  ,let the full arms of the law take their course.That`s the only way you can convince us about their culpability in this matter.Otherwise leave them alone.

BH was specially fashioned to ruin GEJ but God dey ! We know u  are a Hausa Fulani Mr Simon Gideon ! or is it Sani Garba and you are  struggling to put on a mask to cover the great terrorism you people keep visiting on Nigerians in a heartless struggle for power  .Go and relax abeg.

BH started before President Jonathan became the president of Nigeria.,so it is absolutely wrong for you to claim that it was fashioned to ruin Pres Jonathan administration.That`s why I always tell you people to write with facts and not imaginations.What ever name you call me does not matter to me.All that I`m interested as a concerned Nigerian is that our President must sit up and do what he is put there to do, if he cannot ,then let him leave the place for another person.I don`t care where or who the person may come from or be,provided he stems the tide of insecurity and other vices destroying our very fabrics it will be ok.I`m not a tribalist and will never be,even if my own father is there and he is unable to do what is expected of him .I will candidly advise him to go and rest and not sing his praises any where.

Boko Haram came into being during late Yaradua’s rule. I dont know why people could be so naive as to think it came into being to make “GEJ’s government ungovernable”.

How can a set of people kill, maim, kidnap, burn THEIR houses, destroy THEIR economy just to make a southerner rule ungovernable? This is the dumbest theory I have ever heard.

No Ma  !  the north will do anything no matter how evil  for power ! they have being destroying their own economy ,killing and maiming their non muslim minorities for ages  through all manner of  crisis that this evil is now on industrial scale in the north ! This is long before GEJ .Northerners are a people full of hate and destruction .May God re orient their lives .Pray for them Ma.

Boko Haram is making Jonathan popular. Presently, he is one of the most popular presidents in the world today.

All this talk by apologist of GEJ government buck passing will not change the fact that God will require the blood of every Nigerian killed under Gej’s watch. Both u is supporter.

sanusi saleh Esq.

BH started in July of 2009 when GEJ was VP. All these Bambi Alas that are writing rubbish here should go and have their facts correctly before they come here and start saying what they don’t know. It was GEJ that allowed BH to fester through cluelessness and incompetence in governance as the C-IN-C but the Bambi Alas will never admit that, here they are pointing accusing fingers at the wrong direction.

Babangida Aliyu,please learn when to speak,you irritates people any time you open your mouth and talk,people like me don’t take your comments sirios because you always don’t mean what you said,infact you are a double jeopardy.
