
“I think that more than just selling a book, I think I’m really interested in the personal therapy here,” the former Fed chairman said Monday at a conference on monetary policy hosted by former President George W. Bush’s policy institute in Dallas. “I really want to go back and think through all these decisions and recognizing that many of them were made under very tight timelines under very difficult circumstances, try to understand where we did the right thing, where we made mistakes, try to really come to grips with all of this.

His as yet untitled book, set for release next year, will cover his years at the Fed and his response to the 2008 economic crisis.

Bernanke stepped down in January after eight years as Fed chairman. He started his career at the Fed in 2002, when he joined the Board of Governors. He was appointed chairman in 2006 by Bush, a Republican, and reappointed four years later by President Barack Obama, a Democrat.

“It’s really hard now to remember how black the situation was in October of 2008,” Bernanke said.

Bush also spoke at the conference and recalled a meeting with Bernanke during the financial crisis.

“Relying on the Fed to take care of all these problems — income distribution, long-term growth, the fact that the Nationals are only in second place, all that — the Fed cannot do all those things. If people are concerned about these distributional issues, we’ve got educational policy, we’ve got immigration policy, we’ve got (job) training policy. There’s lots of stuff that can be done in Washington to address these issues,” Bernanke said.

Thank you for registering!

We have sent you a confirmation email. Please check your email and click on the link to activate your account.

Thank you for registering!

We look forward to seeing you frequently. Visit us and sign in to update your profile, receive the latest news and keep up to date with mobile alerts.

Don't worry, it happens. We'll send you a link to create a new password.

We have sent you an email with a link to change your password.

We've sent an email with instructions to create a new password. Your existing password has not been changed.

To sign in you must verify your email address. Fill out the form below and we'll send you an email to verify.

Check your email for a link to verify your email address.
