
He also played the same number of rounds of golf.

The military post had reported an active shooting situation via social media Monday morning.

Undersecretary Brothers launches collaborative online channel for feedback on long-term strategies.

Retiring Wisconsin Republican says he is looking forward to the results of the inquiry he requested earlier this year.

Allegations of feds abusing telework at Patent and Trademark Office put honest employees and managers in a tough spot.

Eugene W. Grant is conducting city business in a tent.

After two months of press and industry speculation, the General Services Administration has announced that its top acquisition policy officer will become a senior adviser at the White House, possibly a step toward filling the vacant post of administrator of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy.

In March, Federal Computer Week had reported that Rung was to be the next head of the White House procurement shop vacated in December by Joe Jordan, who went to the private firm Fedbid. OMB has not confirmed that Rung will run that office.

Rung took the reins of GSA’s governmentwide policy operations in August 2013, overseeing efforts at transparency, public access to information, acquisition policy, strategic sourcing, asset and transportation management, high-performance green buildings and information sharing.

Before joining GSA, Rung was senior director of administration at the Commerce Department, where she worked in acquisition reform. She played a similar role at the state level in Pennsylvania’s General Services Department. She also spent five years as congressional director of the nonprofit Democratic Leadership Council in Washington.

The OFPP job has been filled temporarily by Deputy Administrator Lesley Field.

Want to contribute to this story? Share your addition in comments .

By using this service you agree not to post material that is obscene, harassing, defamatory, or       otherwise objectionable. Although GovExec.com does not monitor comments posted to this site (and       has no obligation to), it reserves the right to delete, edit, or move any material that it deems       to be in violation of this rule.
