
VietNamNet talked with Mr. Le Nam, vice head of Thanh Hoa Province’s delegation of National Assembly deputies, about Vietnam’s marine sovereignty, on the occasion of the new NA session, which begins today, May 20.

NA deputy Le Nam.

Le Nam: China has shown its ambitions to monopolize the East Sea and has taken a lot of actions to gradually implement this plot. Its act of setting the rig in Vietnam’s water at this moment of time shows China’s meticulous, thorough calculation.

As are other Vietnamese people, I’m very disgruntled and indignant at this brazen act of aggression by China. But to join together to fight for the country’s territorial sovereignty, I hope that the Vietnamese people can remain calm and have a thorough look at the incident to behave properly. They must be vigilant to not be tricked.

Le Nam: More than one million Vietnamese fishermen are living on the sea. They are considered living milestones and one of the main forces to defend the country’s marine sovereignty.

China clearly understands that so they have sought all ways to prevent Vietnamese fishermen from catching fish in the fishing grounds of Vietnam.

With this act of deploying a drilling rig in Vietnam’s sea, China is trying to turn Vietnam’s exclusive economic zone into its waters by using its material power.

The most obvious impact is that the fishing ground of Vietnam will be narrowed. Once they set their milestones in Vietnam’s sea, they will adopt tougher measures to manage it. We should note that once they succeed in putting their rig here then they will put it in other places. And so, not only Vietnam but neighboring countries will be also affected.

Le Nam: I have repeatedly told the National Assembly that our fishermen have faced a lot of difficulties. Our policies seem not to reach fishermen. The NA recently issued a resolution asking the government to have more positive actions to help fishermen.

Le Nam: In my opinion, it’s the time for us to take stronger actions against China. Our reactions to China’s harassment were incommensurate. This time, I think we must take China to the international court.

To defend the country we must look to the people. We have to evoke the patriotism of the people and turn it into power. China is treating us with the law of the jungle but we will never treat them like they did. At this moment we need cautious patriotism.

Internal unity is very important, in addition to promoting international support for Vietnam’s just struggle.

Le Nam: In fact, the East Sea issue has not only been discussed in terms of economic and social issues. However, I think that the voice of the NA on this issue has still been limited.

This NA session is taking place at the time of China’s escalation of its provocation in the East Sea. I and many other NA deputies will definitely propose that the NA spend adequate time in the agenda to discuss issues related to the country’s marine sovereignty.

Le Nam: Voters nationwide have expressed their very intense, clear attitude and requested that the Party and the State defend our sovereignty and territorial integrity. That burden belongs to the Party and the State, including the responsibility of the NA.

The agenda of the NA session has been sent to deputies but NA deputies will surely propose that the NA add the East Sea issue into the agenda.
