
Share This Story!

Op-ed: The region must overcome its fear of shared services and start down the path of greater government cooperation.

Sent!

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

Posted!

John Frank Jr. is chairman of the Cincinnatus Association’s government cooperation task force as well as chairman of the Cincinnati office of Cassidy Turley.

John Frank Jr. is chairman of the joint government cooperation task force created by the Cincinnatus Association and Citizens for Civic Renewal, as well as chairman of the Cincinnati office of Cassidy Turley.

Southwest Ohio is a patchwork of 130 political jurisdictions, including four counties, 80 cities and villages, 50 townships and dozens of school and fire districts. After looking at the issues created by such fragmentation, our government cooperation task force has decided we need to be the catalyst for change through an initiative similar to a grassroots project in St. Louis.

Better Together was recently initiated there to address the fact that the 1.3 million people who call St. Louis city or county home are served by 116 local governments as well as 23 fire districts. The group is compiling information on the costs and qualities of municipal services. It will not advocate for specific changes, but rather act as a facilitator and make data publicly available.

We believe that to start with, an initiative here should just deal with Hamilton County, which alone has 49 municipalities. However, in the future other Ohio counties should be involved and even someday Northern Kentucky. We also believe the initiative needs to represent all stakeholders. That means business and labor, local universities, all races, all political parties, and citizens from cities, villages and townships.

The task force has been working on the issue of government cooperation for three years, since a survey found it was far and away the most important issue to Cincinnatus members.

We have talked with leaders from government, business and education. We have traveled to other cities. We have learned a great deal, including this: Government cooperation does not necessarily mean sharing services, merging governments or any other drastic steps.

If the citizens of this area are not concerned about the future of receiving quality services without paying higher taxes, they should be. There is less and less money coming from the state and federal governments, and residents can only afford so much taxation. Businesses could not profit if they had the duplication and inefficiencies of government services.

The task force has looked at the many ways other metropolitan areas have dealt with these problems. Charlotte, North Carolina, for example, merged most city and county services. Lexington merged city and county law enforcement. Indianapolis has a metro government. But no one size fits all. It is up to the citizens of every political jurisdiction to decide what is best for them; and we believe when the facts are presented to them, they will understand that these issues need to be addressed.

Kenton County sets a good example for government cooperation. The Kenton County Mayors Group has been meeting for nearly 20 years as a forum for city and county leaders to share ideas as well as to lobby for state money. At a recent meeting, all 21 mayors from Kenton County, half the mayors from Campbell County and the judges-executive from Kenton, Campbell and Boone counties were present. They have an incredible spirit of cooperation. They all try to assist each other. And occasionally they find ways to share services.
