
NasDem Party chairman Surya Paloh said Joko “Jokowi” Widodo and Jusuf Kalla would complement each other in building a good and solid government, following the official announcement that they would run as a candidate pair in July’s presidential election.

On Monday, Jokowi announced that Kalla, a senior Golkar politician, would be his running mate, following an agreement made by the Indonesian Democratic Party of Struggle (PDI-P) and its coalition partners — the NasDem Party, the National Awakening Party (PKB) and the Hanura Party, with consideration from PDI-P chairwoman Megawati Soekarnoputri.

“We consider that Jokowi and Kalla will meet every requirement, including being a combination of senior and junior candidates, as well as the experience of Kalla as a former vice president during the period of 2004-2009,” Paloh said after the declaration at Gedung Joang ’45 in Central Jakarta, as quoted by Antara news agency.

When asked whether Kalla would be more dominant, Paloh said there would be a balance, and that Jokowi would be supported by Kalla’s experience in the fields of government, economy and international access.

“Their wide age disparity will be a positive trait, because Kalla can give guidance to Jokowi,” Paloh added.

Also on Monday, Jokowi and Kalla were slated to visit the General Elections Commission (KPU) to register their nomination as a presidential pair, as the registration period is open from May 18 to 20.

Previously, media reports said Kalla, as well as Corruption Eradication Commission (KPK) chairman Abraham Samad, were the most likely potential vice-presidential candidates to be chosen by the PDI-P and its coalition partners.

The PDI-P and its three coalition partners have a total of 37 percent of seats in the House of Representatives and 40 percent of the national vote. The figures are more than enough for the PDI-P to register its presidential candidate in line with the requirement of the 2008 Election Law, which stipulates 20 percent of seats in the House or 25 percent of the national vote as a minimum threshold.

Selected comments will be published in the Readers’ Forum page of our print newspaper.
