
State Sen. Creigh Deeds speaks during a luncheon at the National Press Club in Washington in March.

CHARLOTTESVILLE — Six months removed from the morning he lost his son, state Sen. Creigh Deeds is trying a new tack to shake the system he says failed them both.

The notice of claim he filed last week against the Rockbridge Area Community Services Board is the first step in potentially bringing a lawsuit, a rare if not unprecedented move, according to mental health insiders. Deeds said he regards it moreover as a first step to change the system, comparing it to the civil rights movement’s use of the courts to tear away at discrimination. He said he has not yet decided whether to file notice with the state Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Services, which licenses community services boards, the front line of defense in Virginia’s mental health network.

Few people dispute the need Deeds cites, particularly in the wake of his own traumatic experience. Thirteen hours after being released from an emergency custody order, the senator’s son, Austin “Gus” Deeds, 24, attacked his father, stabbing him 13 times before killing himself with a rifle Nov. 19.

That tragedy brought to light simmering tensions within the bureaucratic world of mental health, where dire warnings had long sounded with little action from the state’s lead health agency and little help from the General Assembly.

“I find the irony so stark here — that the General Assembly has created the policies, they have not given the funding and they have not followed the recommendations they asked for,” said Chuck Hall, executive director of the Hampton-Newport News Community Services Board.

The legislature has studied Virginia’s mental health system 15 times since 1949, Hall said, frequently after crises thrust service gaps into the spotlight. Findings were made, recommendations issued and the system lurched forward under the weight of ever-increasing mandates. But holes still gaped in the safety net.

Subtle reforms and more money for mental health followed the Virginia Tech shootings in 2007. Even that injection of money largely was lost as a result of cuts amid the recession, leading to another modest funding boost in 2010.

Former Gov. Bob McDonnell proposed $38 million in initiatives after the Deeds tragedy, a tiny fraction of total mental health funding in a state that ranks in the middle of the pack nationwide in per-capita spending on the issue, according to research by Governing, a government trade journal.

It’s not all about money. Deeds’ letter to Rockbridge cited a lack of protocols guiding his son’s clinician as time ran out on the emergency custody order, the document providing for further mental evaluation, on the condition a psychiatric bed can be found. In Deeds’ case, no bed was found.

An inspector general’s report in March found that an absence of protocols, communication breakdowns leading to costly delays, barriers to finding care and missteps by the clinician combined to produce a tragic outcome.

That scenario was forecast by the former director of the state inspector general’s Behavioral Health and Developmental Services Division in April 2011, when he wrote then-Commissioner James Stewart to ask the department to intervene in cases like Deeds’, where an order to hold someone in need of further care expires before treatment is found.

“The current situation … is a tragedy waiting to happen, and, with each day that passes, the likelihood of a disastrous outcome increases,” Douglas Bevelacqua wrote of the practice dubbed as “streeting” by Hampton Roads crisis workers who had trouble securing treatment after Eastern State Hospital downsized in 2010. The term refers to cases similar to Gus Deeds’, people in need of further care and with an emergency custody order calling for it, being released into the streets because a bed cannot be found.

Bevelacqua raised the issue again and again — in letters to the department, reports to the governor and General Assembly and Bill Hazel, secretary of health and human resources — but the 13 recommendations he suggested in February 2012 went largely untouched until after Gus Deeds died.

The department issued a three-page guidance document 22 months after the initial report was published calling for policy revisions that Bevelacqua said would have gotten Gus Deeds the emergency care he needed.

Mary Ann Bergeron, executive director of the Virginia Association of Community Services Boards, said she could not recall another instance in which a notice of claim had been filed against a community services board. She declined to comment on the Deeds case.

In a statement affirming the agencies’ commitment to serving Virginians, she noted that the department in January — more than a month after the attack and suicide in Bath County — “communicated” enhanced protocols in cases such as Deeds’.

Omnibus mental health legislation Deeds spearheaded this year extends the time someone can be held under emergency custody and temporary detention orders and requires state facilities to admit patients who qualify for court-ordered treatment, if a suitable bed in a private hospital cannot be found.

The package includes provisions for 30 new staffed state hospital beds at three locations across the state, bringing the department’s operational capacity to 1,330 beds. A combined 1,228 additional psychiatric beds, with the staff to support them, are licensed at 38 private hospitals across the state, according to a department spokeswoman.

Lawmakers ordered the department to maintain an electronic registry of available beds to streamline emergency clinicians’ efforts to find placements in public and private facilities.

When Hall checked the site Thursday, he said, some hospitals had not updated bed availability in days.

In Hall’s mind, a critical component still is missing, something that’s not addressed in Deeds’ push for accountability.

Although top mental officials have criticized the system and acknowledged it failed the Deeds’ family in November, no one has publicly taken responsibility for the outcome.

“That means we had no leadership, and I’m not going to say any more about that,” Hall said.

Stewart, then the state’s top health official, stepped down in January, saying in a release it had always been his intent to retire when former Gov. Bob McDonnell left office.

His boss, Hazel, a McDonnell appointee, was reappointed by Gov. Terry McAuliffe after a series of “intensive” interviews in which Deeds’ case was discussed, said Brian Coy, a spokesman for the administration.

“Secretary Hazel had many ideas of his own for how to improve the mental health system and was already part of the governor’s task force examining the issues,” Coy said.

McAuliffe asked difficult questions and ultimately determined Hazel the best one for the job, Coy said.

Hazel did not respond last week to a request for comment on his reappointment and leadership issues at the agency.

The man who oversaw the section of the department that would have been tasked with implementing findings of the 2012 report, John Pezzoli, received a promotion and raise upon Stewart’s departure. Now second in command, Pezzoli makes about $155,400 annually.

“The pay for my position is commensurate with its responsibilities, comparable to other positions at DBHDS and other large, complex state agencies and is consistent with [state human resource] policies,” Pezzoli said, through a spokeswoman.

What officials describe as a lack of resources was compounded by conflict between Bevelacqua, a McDonnell appointee, and Stewart, the former inspector general for Behavioral Health and Developmental Services under Democratic Govs. Mark Warner and Tim Kaine, Hall said. Pezzoli worked for Stewart in the Office of Inspector General for nearly five years and stayed on for several months under Bevelacqua before joining the Behavioral Health Department in August 2010.

“You had the former inspector looking at a report critical of his office, and it complicated the implementation,” Hall said.

The department issued a response the month the 2012 report was released agreeing to implement the suggestions. A month later, Stewart wrote Bevelacqua saying the report “fundamentally misrepresents both the behavioral health emergency response system and data” he collected during a three-month period beginning in July 2011.

“I think [Stewart] had different priorities,” Hall said. “I think both of these very key individuals thought that they were doing the right thing, pursuing the right demons and dealing with them, and the casualty was those recommendations.

Stewart has not returned interview requests. Bevelacqua took issue with the characterization of a conflict, saying minimal efforts would have yielded policies that would have kept Gus Deeds from falling through the cracks.

While Deeds said he regards legal action as a possible means to accomplishing the kind of change that not even the Virginia Tech shootings could engender, Hall said he remains dubious.

Medicaid expansion would increase access to care and help strengthen the safety net, he said. McAuliffe, a Democrat, is pushing for that, with Deeds’ backing. Keeping Hazel, the Republican administration holdover, was regarded as a move that could help pull support from across the aisle, where resistance to expansion is steadfast.

The commitment to real change, Hall said, must come from a General Assembly that has juggled competing priorities of its own. Otherwise, realities that prevailed before that tragic November morning will endure.

Posted in Virginia on Saturday, May 17, 2014 11:55 pm.
