
The Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa (K-P) Flour Mill Association warned it would block the route through K-P which was used to export flour from Punjab if the ban on inter-provincial wheat movement is not lifted.

According to the association, the government of Punjab has not allowed the transport of wheat grain to the rest of the country for the past month. This, association members believe, is against Article 151 of the Constitution and can result in the closure of 300 flour mills in K-P.

The mills of Punjab are now directly exporting flour to Afghanistan instead of routing wheat through K-P’s mills, he added.

“We will challenge this illegal and unconstitutional step taken by Punjab’s government,” said Ashraf.

Flour mill owners have been compelled to purchase wheat at almost double the price from the open market to compete with the refineries in Punjab, claimed members of the association.

“We are sure they will remove the ban when they lift all the grain from the market and nothing is left for other provinces,” he claimed.

According to the chairman, the association has spoken to K-P authorities who assured them of legal action against the government of Punjab.

“Capitalists are actively purchasing grain in Punjab; they are busy storing the grain,” said Naeem, another flour mill owner.

Every year, claimed Naeem, the Punjab Food Authority sets a four-million-tonne wheat purchase target and the Pakistan Agriculture Storage and Service Corporation a 1.6 million target, while the rest is procured at low prices by hoarders.

The set target of the K-P government to purchase 4.45 million tonnes of wheat will be badly impacted because of this ban on the movement of wheat, said Naeem.

Published in The Express Tribune, May 20th, 2014.

Your comments may appear in The Express Tribune paper. For this reason we encourage you to provide your city. The Express Tribune does not bear any responsibility for user comments.

Comments are moderated and generally will be posted if they are on-topic and not abusive. For more information, please see our Comments FAQ .

Notify me of new posts by email.

Unless otherwise stated, all content is copyrighted © 2014 The Express Tribune News Network.
