
Hyderabad: What is common to J Jayalalithaa, Mamata Banerjee , Naveen Patnaik and K Chandrasekhara Rao? In spite of airing their opposition to Narendra Modi ’s leadership and staying away from the NDA, which they all partnered at one point in time or the other, they could marginalise the Modi wave in their respective states, including Telangana .

Except KCR, all others are already chief ministers in their respective states and KCR is just ascending his way in a few days from now. He was formally and unanimously elected the leader of the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) Legislature Party on Saturday evening. He submitted the resolution to Governor ESL Narasimhan and staked his claim to form the first ever government in India’s 29th state, Telangana .

With the Telugu Desam Party too insisting on advancing the appointed day for the bifurcation of Andhra Pradesh from 2 June to 26 May, KCR is raring to assume charge and begin his innings as the chief minister of Telangana.

A swarm of visitors—senior IPS officials to discuss on how to beef up his security, executive officer of Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanam along with a posse of head priests of the temple to bless KCR on the eve of assuming charge as chief minister, senior and junior IAS officers urging him to agree to their request to stay put in Hyderabad by opting for Telangana cadre and many others finding one reason or the other to draw his attention—is an all new experience for KCR who led a movement for 13 long years before it reached a logical culmination.

KCR’s son Taraka Rama Rao and daughter Kavita were elected to the assembly and the Lok Sabha respectively, while his nephew T Harish Rao was elected to the Assembly. KCR himself was elected to the Lok Sabha and the assembly and obviously he would resign from the Lok Sabha seat to become the chief minister.

He is said to have already discussed the strategy on the Cabinet formation and distributing posts within the party and the government.

Winning a simple majority by just crossing the threshold of halfway mark, KCR will be walking a tightrope in the newly formed state. He cannot antagonize any four members of his party in the assembly, for he has a niggardly majority of just three members – 63.

Already, Chandrababu Naidu openly declared that he would explore all possibilities to form a TDP government in Telangana even before 2019. Passing this snide remark in TV interviews on Saturday evening in a couple of vernacular channels, Naidu winked and sported a smirk on his face. What does this mean? He also asserted that his target was that the TDP should capture power even in Telangana by 2019.

Though he has acquired several accolades to his credit, Naidu could never wipe out the blemish of "backstabbing of NTR" from his track record. His thousands of diehard supporters may brush it aside as a non-issue. But it is as stark a reality as Naidu was the longest-serving chief minister and also the longest-serving Leader of the Opposition in united Andhra Pradesh.

This surely a reason KCR needs to be wary about.

KCR, who had boisterously announced that he would make a Dalit the chief minister if Telangana was formed, backed out on his promise and had to bear the brunt of criticism by Congress and TDP leaders, including Chandrababu Naidu. In fact, Naidu sharpened his saw of criticism by highlighting this retraction by KCR.

The TDP chief went about town telling everywhere that KCR had no habit of sticking to his promise. When Naidu began to stick his neck out and spurn KCR, others too mustered courage. The TDP and the Congress have successfully given an impression that criticism of KCR doesn’t amount criticism of Telangana sentiment or its people.

Naidu asserted in the TV interviews that Hyderabad was not KCR’s fiefdom for him to ask anyone to leave the City. The city is part of a democratic India and nobody could excommunicate anybody or expel from this. This has emboldened people in the city. This encouragement worked like a mantra that fetched 14 seats to the TDP-BJP combine out of 26 Assembly constituencies within the vicinity of Hyderabad.

Interestingly, KCR demonstrated an unmatched humility in preaching peace and amity among people of all regions living in Hyderabad and appealing to TRS MLAs and MPs to stay away from political and any other form of corruption. He wanted the MLAs to practice austerity and lead by example, instead of basking in the afterglow of the party’s success and being drunk with power. KCR also talked about installing power utilities to make Telangana a power-surplus state with the Governor in his meet on Sunday morning.

For a fledgling party that struggled for 13 years to come to power, running the administration would not be a bed of roses – TRS party’s signature colour is that of the rose.
