
Senate negotiators toiled for months to revive long-term unemployment benefits in a manner that could draw the support of both centrist Republicans and liberal Democrats.

But in a few days, that effort will be all for naught.

The jobless aid bill that narrowly passed the Senate in early April would extend the benefits to June 1 — but barring a surprise breakthrough, there’s almost no chance the House will take up that legislation or an alternative of its own during the last two weeks of May.

So, the lack of agreement between the two chambers is sending the bill’s chief sponsors back to square one — with several Republicans doubting the Senate has the stamina to find billions more dollars to pay for a longer-term bill and then persuade the House to pass it.

Complicating things further is the Senate’s partisan deadlock over GOP demands for amendment votes from an unbending Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.), an ugly war that has killed two bills recently that are far less controversial than a pricey extension of unemployment benefits.

There had been talk of adding unemployment insurance as an amendment to a tax extenders bill, but that legislation is on the verge of dying a quick death after failing to clear a procedural vote on Thursday.

It looks increasingly likely that this spring’s rare bout of bipartisan cooperation on unemployment benefits — the deal was backed by all Senate Democrats and six Republicans — will be impossible to re-create. Senate leaders are turning their focus to the November battle for the majority rather than working together on, well, anything.

There is one exception: Sen. Dean Heller (R-Nev.), who spearheaded passage of the unemployment extension in April with Sen. Jack Reed (D-R.I.). Heller met with Reed on Thursday to plot a path forward — which at this point looks like a fresh piece of legislation that must be paid for at a cost of about $2 billion per month and include benefit program reforms that can appeal to the five other Republicans that Heller brought aboard.

Further working against lawmakers is the nation’s plummeting unemployment rate, which economists and lawmakers say betrays the lingering crisis of sky-high joblessness among those who haven’t worked for months — or years. A renewed focus on the long-term jobless could help lawmakers re-energize their uphill battle to revive unemployment benefits.

There are 3.5 million people who have been jobless for more than 26 weeks, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics . That’s nearly a million fewer people than 12 months ago but still a national problem of epic proportions, according to advocates.

While unemployment benefits can temporarily ease the pain of those who are unemployed, some studies suggest that reducing aid helps the unemployment rate decline more rapidly.

Diane Swonk, chief economist with Mesirow Financial, said policymakers should focus on longer-term solutions to boosting economic recovery.

“We have a wound that’s too gaping to be covered by a band-aid,” Swonk said.

At the direction of the six supportive Senate Republicans, Reed and his Democratic colleagues inserted language in their UI bill to enhance job-training and placement programs. There had been talk among Heller and Sen. Rob Portman (R-Ohio) and GOP House members about adding further job-creation measures or reforms to the Senate’s bill, like cracking down on people drawing both disability and unemployment benefits.

But the House has yet to articulate those ideas in legislation.

“If there was progress, believe me I’d tell you,” Heller said of his discussions with House leaders.

But that’s not the Senate-passed legislation, which House Speaker John Boehner (R-Ohio) has called “unworkable” because he believes it burdens state benefit agencies and lacks job-creating provisions that conservative House members might be able to support.

If there’s any hope of an eventual law, it will be up to Reed and Heller to again navigate the Senate’s choppy procedural atmosphere.

Time is working against the unemployment issue in more ways than one. Not only does each passing day make a retroactive bill more expensive, but consideration of UI again this year could disrupt Senate Democrats’ carefully crafted midterm schedule of votes on poll-tested wedge issues.

If Heller and Reed can come up with another bipartisan compromise, Democratic leaders would have to shake up an agenda that includes planned votes on student loan legislation and a constitutional campaign finance amendment and perhaps revisiting failed votes on raising the minimum wage and pay equity between men and women.

Despite the obstacles, no one is counting out Heller and Reed, whose states’ inordinately high jobless rates have kept them singularly focused for five months on reviving unemployment benefits. Heller met with Labor Secretary Tom Perez in early May to discuss potential ways forward on UI and stays in constant contact with influential House members.

But for now, all that energy has yet to result in a new law that gets the unemployment checks flowing back to Nevada and Rhode Island.

MJ Lee contributed to this report.

Friends E-mail(s) Separate emails with a comma. Maximum of 5 emails allowed.
