
CSS Industries, Inc. ( CSS ) announced today that its Berwick Offray  LLC company has completed the acquisition of substantially all of the  business and assets of Carson & Gebel Ribbon Co., LLC, a manufacturer  and supplier of decorative ribbon to wholesale florists, packaging  distributors and bow manufacturers. Key product categories include cut  edge acetate ribbon and velvet ribbon used in everyday and holiday  floral arrangements. The business will be combined with Berwick Offray’s  existing business headquartered in Berwick, Pennsylvania. The Company  expects the transaction to be accretive to its fiscal 2015 earnings per  diluted share.

“We welcome Carson & Gebel’s customers and vendors to the CSS family of  companies. Carson & Gebel’s products and markets are highly  complementary with the floral business of Berwick Offray. We plan to  continue to support the depth of the Carson & Gebel product line,” said  Christopher J. Munyan, President and Chief Executive Officer of CSS.

CSS is a consumer products company primarily engaged in the design,  manufacture, procurement, distribution and sale of all occasion and  seasonal social expression products, principally to mass market  retailers. These all occasion and seasonal products include decorative  ribbons and bows, boxed greeting cards, gift tags, gift wrap, gift bags,  gift boxes, gift card holders, decorative tissue paper, decorations,  classroom exchange Valentines, floral accessories, Easter egg dyes and  novelties, craft and educational products, stickers, memory books,  stationery, journals, note cards, infant and wedding photo albums,  scrapbooks, and other gift items that commemorate life’s celebrations.

This press release includes “forward-looking statements” within the  meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995  including, among others, statements relating to expected future earnings  and financial performance resulting from the Company’s acquisition of  substantially all of the business and assets of Carson & Gebel Ribbon  Co., LLC, and the future operations of the business. Forward-looking  statements are based on the beliefs of the Company’s management as well  as assumptions made by and information currently available to the  Company’s management as to future events and financial performance with  respect to the Company’s operations. Forward-looking statements speak  only as of the date made. The Company undertakes no obligation to update  any forward-looking statements to reflect the events or circumstances  arising after the date as of which they were made. Actual events or  results may differ materially from those discussed in forward-looking  statements as a result of various factors, including without limitation,  general market and economic conditions; increased competition (including  competition from foreign products which may be imported at less than  fair value and from foreign products which may benefit from foreign  governmental subsidies); increased operating costs, including  labor-related and energy costs and costs relating to the imposition or  retrospective application of duties on imported products; currency risks  and other risks associated with international markets; risks associated  with acquisitions, including acquisition integration costs; risks  associated with the acquisition by the Company of substantially all of  the assets of Carson & Gebel Ribbon Co., LLC, including the risk that  the Company will incur additional acquisition integration costs not  currently expected and the risk that the Company may not be able to  integrate and derive the expected benefits from such acquisition; the  risk that customers may become insolvent, may delay payments or may  impose deductions or penalties on amounts owed to the Company; costs of  compliance with governmental regulations and government investigations;  liability associated with non-compliance with governmental regulations,  including regulations pertaining to the environment, Federal and state  employment laws, and import and export controls and customs laws; and  other factors described more fully in the Company’s annual report on  Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013 and elsewhere in the  Company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. As a  result of these factors, readers are cautioned not to place undue  reliance on any forward-looking statements included herein or that may  be made elsewhere from time to time by, or on behalf of, the Company.
