
Stoke Volunteer Firefighter Mark Janssen has raised the most money as an individual for the 10th annual Firefighter Sky Tower Stair Challenge.

Janssen raised $13,000 in the fundraiser which has raised more than $870,000 for Leukaemia & Blood Cancer New Zealand (LBC).

Janssen was 28th in the masters section, climbing the 1103 stairs of Auckland's Sky Tower in 13 minutes 19 seconds.

Janssen raised $4000 more than the second-best individual fundraiser, Brian Clancey from Onerahi Volunteer Fire Brigade, who raised just over $9,000.

More than 700 firefighters from across the country took part in the event on Saturday.

Josh Harrison from Otara Station set a new event record, reaching the top of the tower in 8 minutes and 36 seconds.

The fastest woman up the tower was Sandra Hearn from Metropolitan Fire Brigade Melbourne, with a time of 14 minutes 12 seconds.

The firefighters raced up 51 flights of stairs wearing full firefighting kit and breathing apparatus weighing up to 25kg. This year 181 brigades and stations were represented in the challenge. International firefighters also flew in from Australia and as far as Washington and Hawaii. In addition to training for the gruelling event firefighters gave up hundreds of hours of their time fundraising for LBC.

Janssen had a strict training regime before the challenge, including training on Nelson's steep Tamaki Steps twice a week.

Last year Janssen was one of 12 New Zealand firefighters in the New Zealand Firefighters' Calendar.

The top fundraising brigades were Airport Rescue Fire Auckland, which raised almost $88,000 and Porirua Station which spent more than 360 hours shaking buckets and collected over $40,500.

Leukaemia & Blood Cancer New Zealand chief executive Pru Etcheverry said it had been incredible seeing how generous New Zealand firefighters have been with heir time and energy to raise this breath-taking amount of money.

To find out how to support Janssen's efforts, visit firefightersclimb.org.nz.
