
Anderson, CA - The following is a review of, & comment on, some of the statements made by the participants in the "May 1 2014 League of Women Voters (LWV) sponsored Shasta County Dist. 5 Superviorial Candiates' Forum".

When asked about his opinion on the idea of whether or not he, personally, be in favor of the idea of the State of Jefferson, Les Baugh responded by stating that the question should be decided by the voters.  Interestingly, a Sept. 28 2013 Record Searchlight article reported Baugh as expressing skepticism about whether or not it be right to move forward with the idea.

When asked the same question, Butch Shaefer expressed full & enthusiastic support for the idea.

And when asked the question, Rodney Jones also expressed his support for the idea.

When asked about the rectitude of limiting the State's intake of the NorthState water that makes it down to the Delta, Rodney Jones answered that he desires for there to be more off-stream storage (a sentiment shared by the other candidates).  He added that he be opposed what Nestle was endeavoring to do, in terms of rates of usage, to local water supplies.  When asked the same question, Les Baugh spoke of the threats, to local water supplies, posed by the so-called Bay Delta Conservation Plan, threats which, incidentally, are very real, indeed.  He also stated that the State of California is desirous for NorthState groundwater.  They are.  At April 1 2014 Redding City Council meeting, Councilman Gary Cadd reported that the Metropolitan Water District of Southern California, having abundant water reserves, themselves, (whilst ours be greatly depleted), nevertheless expects to make great use of NorthState water supplies to replenish theirs.

Butch Shaefer, in his response to the question of the rectitude of limiting the State's intake of the NorthState water that m akes it down to the Delta, gave an opinion that be the same as that expressed by Baugh.  In fact, the only substantive difference between the opinion that Baugh expressed & that expressed by Schaefer was that Schaefer included, in his response, a reaffirmation of his statement of support for the State of Jefferson, stating that to split off from California would give the people of Shasta County greater latitude in the use, etc., of local water supplies.

When asked about whether or not it be a good idea to raise Shasta Dam, Les Baugh stated his support for raising of Shasta Dam, for increased off-stream storage (in general), & for Sites Reservoir (in particular).  Butch Schaefer, gave similar response to the same question, save for inclusion, in his response, a reaffirmation of his statement of support for the State of Jefferson.  Rodney Jones, in response to the question, stated opposition to the raising of Shasta Dam, promoting, as an alternative, the idea of increased off-stream storage.

Butch Schaefer, in response to question about medical marijuana (MMJ), & the County's ban on ourdoor cultivation (of MMJ), stated that although medical marijuana is a legitimate form of medicine for those patients who truly need it, he supports the County's ban on outdoor cultivation of MMJ.

Les Baugh, in the first part of his response to the question, stated that he had opposed the County's earlier ordinance limiting ourdoor cultivation to certain numbers, based on graduations of parcel size (Ordinance SCC 2011-05).  And, indeed, he was opponent of the earlier ordinance.  Baugh, in the remainder of his response to the question, claimed to have authored the County's outdoor cultivation ban, an ordinance that is currently on hold, pending the outcome of a Nov. 2014 referendum vote.  The truth?  Baugh was not the official author, at least not according to the Jan. 28 2014 Board of Supervisors' Staff Report & the Jan. 9 2014 Planning Commission's Staff Report.  The official record shows a certain Richard W. Simon (a.k.a., Rick Simon) as the author.  The ordinance, as initially proffered to Board of Supervisors at Jan. 28 2014 meeting, did not originally provide for a total ban on outdoor cultivation of MMJ.  The fact that the ordinance, as adopted, does so provide results from the fact that Leonard Moty moved, motion seconded by Pam Giacomini, for the plant limits contained in the proposed ordiannce be removed from the proposal & that the ordinance, instead, provide for total ban on outdoor MMJ cultivation, just as the original version of the proposal did when Staff presented it to the Planning Commission Nov. 14 2013.  The Jan. 28 2014 ordinance proposal was remanded to Staff for a rewrite of the proposal, that the amended version provide for total ban on outdoor MMJ cultivation.  Eventually, Staff returned with new draft, one providing for total ban on outdoor MMJ cultivation.  The Board of Supervisors (BOS) unanimously approved the new proposal, the motion being made by Moty & seconded by Giacomini.  Now, it is true that Baugh had received numerous complaints about the outdoor MMJ cultivation that had escalated since the adoption of the County's earlier ordinance (Ordinance SCC 2011-05), as had other County Supervisors.  And it is also the case that Baugh had been an outspoken opponent of Ordinance SCC 2011-05, in part, for that very reason.  What County Staff originally presented to the Planning Commission, Nov. 14 2013, provided for, among other things, a total ban on ourdoor cultivation.  The official author of the proposal, according to the Staff Report, was Rick Simon.  But the Planning Commission, after two successive meetings, wherein the matter was discussed, decided to amend the proposal to allow at least some outdoor cultivation.  That amended version is what was presented to the Board of Supervisors Jan. 28 2014.   And it was Moty, seconded by Giacomini, that moved to restore the outdoor MMJ cultivation ban that was in the proposal, originally.  Moty's motion was unanimously approved.

All three candidates, in response to question concerning the subject of "greenbelts" stated their opposition to the idea of the three cities being physically combined into one contiguous metroplex.  The people's vote on Measure A certainly echoes that, much to the chargin of Les Baugh, who voted for the Knighton Rd. development proposal, that despite the traffic impact issues & sewage disposal questions.  Of course Baugh, at the candidates' forum, made a statement of acquiescence to the people's will, as reflected in the Measure A vote.  It should be noted, of course, that the people's vote was as overwhelmingly oppositional to Measure B as to Measure A.  The people's voice, as thus made known, was that although there should not be a contiguous tri-cities' metroplex in Shasta County, neither should there be such restrictions on private property use as provided for in Measure B.

In the course of the candidate forum, the candidates spoke of tax sharing agreements.  And Les Baugh wasted no time in going after the idea proffered by Redding City Councilman Patrick Jones, the idea of participation-based tax sharing agreement.  Les Baugh claimed it to be illegal.  He spoke of it as a shady investment scheme, hoping to leave the impression of it being some kind of Madoff-esque scheme not worthy of any official consideration.  Laying aside, for the moment at least, any considerations of the fiscal & political worthiness/unworthiness of the idea, let us focus on the question of legality.  Baugh claimed the proposed participation-based tax sharing agreement to be illegal.  But is it?  Baugh cited no legal authority to back up his claim.

Looking through California Code indexes for statutes that govern tax sharing agreements such as that discussed, I came across Cal. Gov. Code § 53601.

This section shall apply to a local agency that is a city, a district, or other local agency that does not pool money in deposits or investments with other local agencies, other than local agencies that have the same governing body.  However, Section 53635 shall apply to all local agencies that pool money in deposits or investments with other local agencies that have separate governing bodies.  The legislative body of a local agency having moneys in a sinking fund or moneys in its treasury not required for the immediate needs of the local agency may invest any portion of the moneys that it deems wise or expedient in those investments set forth below.  A local agency purchasing or obtaining any securities prescribed in this section, in a negotiable, bearer, registered, or nonregistered format, shall require delivery of the securities to the local agency, including those purchased for the agency by financial advisers, consultants, or managers using the agency's funds, by book entry, physical delivery, or by third-party custodial agreement.  The transfer of securities to the counterparty bank's customer book entry account may be used for book entry delivery.

The remainder of the section discusses various securities, bonds, & other "paper" instruments.  As can be seen in the first sentence of the first paragraph of the above excerpted section, it does not apply to local agencies that pool monies in deposits or investments with other local agencies.  Therefore, § 53601 does not apply.  Let's go on.

Cal. Gov. Code § 53601.6 --- at least as inapplicable as Cal. Gov. Code § 53601.

(a) A local agency shall not invest any funds pursuant to this article or pursuant to Article 2 (commencing with Section 53630) in inverse floaters, range notes, or mortgage-derived, interest-only strips.

(a) This section shall apply to a local agency that is a county, a city and county, or other local agency that pools money in deposits or investments with other local agencies, including local agencies that have the same governing body.  However, Section 53601 shall apply to all local agencies that pool money in deposits or investments exclusively with local agencies that have the same governing body.

This section shall be interpreted in a manner that recognizes the distinct characteristics of investment pools and the distinct administrative burdens on managing and investing funds on a pooled basis pursuant to Article 6 (commencing with Section 27130) of Chapter 5 of Division 2 of Title 3.

(1) No more than 40 percent of the local agency's money may be invested in eligible commercial paper.

(2) No more than 10 percent of the total assets of the investments held by a local agency may be invested in any one issuer's commercial paper.

This applies to paper investments, & does not speak, at least not specifically, to participation-based tax sharing agreements.  Still more material to swim through.

Now, this more closely than the previously looked at code sections resembles the thing contemplated.  But it resembles, more closely, to be sure, than that, more conventional tax sharing agreements than the participation based tax sharing agreement proposal that the County rejected.  That said, it really doesn't answer the question of whether or not participation-based tax sharing agreements, per se, be legally permissible.

Likewise, Cal. Gov. Code § 55704.5 speaks to tax sharing agreements, in general --- not specifically to participation-based tax sharing agreements vs. more conventional tax sharing agreements.  Same for §§ 55705, 55706, & 55707.  So far, Les Baugh's claim does not appear to hold water.

But wait.  There's more.

Looking through additional code sections, & through several State Constitutional provisions, finding provisions applicable to tax bond sales, among other things, but nothing to prohibit at all the kind of participation-based tax sharing agreement proposal that Redding City Councilman Patrick Jones proffered.

So I turned to look at case law.  What would it reveal, concerning the question of whether or not participation-based tax sharing agreements, as contrasted against more conventional tax sharing agreements, whether or not they be legally permissible forms of tax sharing agreements.

"City of San Marcos v. California Highway Commission (1976, Dist. 1) 60 Cal. App. 3d 383, 131 Cal. Rptr. 804."  What about that one?  Would it answer the question?  No.

Neither did "Hayward Bldg. Co. v. State Bd. of Equalisation (1958) 164 Cal. App. 2d 607, 330 P2d 855."  "Tidewater Marine Western, Inc. v. Bradshaw (1996) 14 Cal.4th 557, 59 Cal. Rptr. 2d 186, 927 P2d 296" was not helpful either.

Shepardising each of the aforementioned case opinions lead, similarly, to "dead ends".  To wit, the case opinion research had failed to answer the question of whether or not participation based tax sharing agreements, per se, be legal or not.

The simple fact is that Les Baugh has made a statement he, evidently, could not back up with any citation of legal authority.  What was his state of mind when he made the allegation?  Was Councilman Jones attempting, as Les Baugh alleged, to suck the cities & county into some illicit investment scheme disguised as a tax sharing agreement?  The research has failed to turn up anything to substantiate Baugh's claim.

When addressing the matter of tax-sharing agreements between the cities & the county, Butch Schaefer spoke of different tax sharing agreements made between the City of Anderson & the County of Shasta, agreements made while Schaefer was still a City Councilman.

Baugh's response to Schaefer was to dispute the claim that the agreements be tax-sharing agreements at all.  Baugh stated that the agreements spoken of by Schaefer be not tax sharing agreements but tax exchange agreements.  On this, Baugh seems to be making a distinction without a difference.  And to do so, in this context, smacks of too much "hair splitting", a poor attempt to try to impeach the credibility of one's opponent.

When addressing the matter of tax-sharing agreements, Rodney Jones stated his opposition to tax sharing agreements that be, in his judgement, too general, that tax agreements should, instead be of a more specified nature as to the who, what, where, why, how, & under what circumstances.

Les Baugh, in his closing statement, claimed that he was the only local official to oppose TANC proposal to install additional high voltage transmission lines along the route then proposed.  While, in absolute terms, that might be a bit of an overstatement, on Buagh's part, that he be the ONLY local official ever to have at all spoken critical of TANC project, he was, incontrovertably & by far, the most outspoken in opposition to proposed TANC project.

Also, Les Baugh, in his close, stated that he supported Sylvia Milligan's efforts wholly to reopen the ML3 (Maintenance Level 3) roads, touting as he spoke, the work of the Shasta County Coordination Committee.  During the 2010 election campaign, he was quite outspokenly opposed to the Forest Service's plans to close ML3 roads.  But following the certification of results, his zeal waned remarkably.  Interestingly, the Coordination Committee had, prior to Dec. 17 2013 Bd. of Sup.s meeting, received a note from a County employee identifying herself as "Megan Dornan" stating that the County of Shasta was not interested in Coordination Process regarding CARB's PM-filter retrofit mandate.  Thereafter, the County Staff drafted a resolution that, according to representative of Shasta County Coordination Committee, fell significantly short of actually invoking Coordination Process, a resolution opting instead for collaboration.  Compare & contrast the one used by County of Shasta vs. the one used by City of Redding, then make your own judgement.  Couple the action the Bd. of Supervisors took on Dec. 17 2013 with the action taken by the Shasta Air Pollution Control Bd. at their Apr. 8 2014 meeting, a watered down resolution that asks practically nothing of CARB, in terms of any possible equivocation of their PM filter mandate, beyond what they did pre-Apr. 2014.

After the forum concluded, a member of the audience had approached one of the people handling the question-cards to ask why no question specific to matter of Coordination Process was posed.  The response given was that it was not well enough known, for purposes of organisation of audience questions, what Coordination Process is.  This response was included in an apology for the oversight.  The counter to that was that no question regarding that matter was, during the forum, posed, not even one.  But by then, of course, it was too late, for purposes of getting the candidates to publicly state their positions on the matter.

This story is contributed by a member of the community and is neither endorsed nor affiliated with Record Searchlight.

Ready to subscribe to the Redding Record Searchlight? Choose between a Premium or Digital subscription below.

Need Help? Call us at 1-877-710-6185.
