
The Tourism Council meets at noon Tuesday at Woodstock Cafe, 117 S. Main St.

The Board of Zoning Appeals meets at 6 p.m. Wednesday in the county government center, 600 N. Main St., Woodstock.

The Architectural Review Board meets at 5 p.m. Thursday in Town Hall.

Town Council will hold a meeting of its streets, finance, ordinance and personnel committees beginning at 5:30 p.m. Tuesday in Town Hall, 135 N. Main St.

The Board of Supervisors meets at 7 p.m. Tuesday in the county government building, 220 N. Commerce Ave., Front Royal.

The Transition Committee of the Rappahanock-Shenandoah-Warren Regional Jail Authority board meets at 1 p.m. Thursday in the government center. The full board meeting follows at 2 p.m.

The Anti-Litter Council meets at 4 p.m. Thursday in the government center.

The School Board meets at 7 p.m. Thursday in the government center.

The Social Services Board meets at 8:30 a.m. Tuesday in the county government center at 107 N. Kent St., Winchester.

The Board of Zoning Appeals meets at 3:30 p.m. Tuesday in the government center.

The Handley Regional Library Board meets at 4:30 p.m. Tuesday at the Handley Library, 100 W. Piccadilly St., Winchester.

The Sanitation Authority meets at 5:30 p.m. Tuesday at 315 Tasker Road, Stephens City.

The School Board meets at 7 p.m. Wednesday at the administration building, 1415 Amherst St., Winchester.

The Development Review and Regulations Committee meets at 7 p.m. Thursday in the county government center.

Town Council holds a meeting of its committees beginning at 7 p.m. Tuesday in Town Hall, 7875 Church St.

Town Council holds a special meeting at 7 p.m. Wednesday in Town Hall.

The Historic Preservation Committee meets at 5 p.m. Tuesday in Town Hall, 1033 Locust St.

The Public Works Committee of Town Council meets at 4:30 p.m. Wednesday followed by the Water and Sewer Committee at 5:30 p.m. in Town Hall.

Town Council's Public Safety Committee meets at 5 p.m. Wednesday in Town Hall.

The Newtown Heritage Festival Committee meets at 7 p.m. Thursday in Town Hall.

Sign up here to receive Northern Virginia Daily news delivered to your email box each morning and when breaking news occurs.

Comments that are posted represent the opinion of the commenter and not the Northern Virginia Daily/nvdaily.com. View our comments/submisssions policy . Report abuse by clicking the X next to the comment.
