
Employees outside a nuclear power plant in Avila Beach, California.

Employees outside a nuclear power plant in Avila Beach, California.

Bloomberg BNA — Nuclear power plants that have recently ceased operations are storing more spent nuclear fuel in on-site fuel pools than the facilities were originally intended to hold—with the consent of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission—senators said at a May 14 hearing.

The NRC decommissioning regulations have come under increasing scrutiny with the closure of four nuclear reactors in 2013, one planned for the end of this year and possibly more nuclear plant retirements on the horizon.

Boxer, along with committee members Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) and Ed Markey (D-Mass.), introduced three bills May 13 designed to strengthen decommissioning requirements on plant owners, to expedite the transfer to dry cask storage, and to provide more meaningful state and local involvement.

Donald Mosier, a Del Mar, Calif., city council member, told the committee that the two spent-fuel pools at the Southern California Edison San Onofre Nuclear Generating Station hold more than 2,600 spent fuel assemblies, or about 4,000 tons of radioactive waste, but were designed to hold 1,600 assemblies.

The San Onofre plant was shut down in 2013 because of a major failure of recently replaced steam generators.

Boxer was critical of the NRC's consistent approval of requests by owners of decommissioned reactors for exemptions and waivers from emergency response regulations that apply to operating reactors.

“Every time operators of decommissioning reactors have asked to be exempted from NRC's emergency response regulations, NRC has said yes,” Boxer said.

Boxer's bill, the Safe and Secure Decommissioning Act (S. 2324), would prohibit NRC from granting waivers and exemptions from emergency preparedness and response and security regulations that are supposed to protect against a spent-fuel accident until all spent fuel has been transferred to dry cask storage.

Boxer said she is determined to prevent the NRC from granting any waivers or exemptions from emergency response requirements for the San Onofre facility, with 8 million people living within 50 miles of the plant, which is located on the Southern California coast and on an active fault zone.

“There will be hell to pay” if NRC grants any exemptions, Boxer said.

Christopher Recchia, commissioner of the Vermont Public Service Department, said the Entergy Corp. Vermont Yankee nuclear reactor currently holds 3,879 spent-fuel rod assemblies in a spent-fuel pool that was designed to hold 350 spent-fuel rod assemblies.

The facility has 13 dry casks on site with room for 36 dry casks, but the plant will need 58 casks in all, Recchia said.

Entergy plans to close the Vermont facility by the end of 2014 and enter the decommissioning process, which can take up to 60 years to be completed under NRC rules.

Vermonters are concerned that Entergy plans to leave highly radioactive waste in spent-fuel pools at the closed reactor site for decades to come, Recchia said.

Recchia was critical of the NRC's proposed revised waste confidence rule, which he described as “incomprehensible” in his written testimony. The rule relies on a draft generic environmental impact statement that concludes nuclear fuel is equally as safe in spent-fuel pools as in dry casks, Recchia said.

The NRC plans to issue a revised final waste confidence rule in October, in response to a court remand. The rule says that radioactive spent fuel can be safely stored on-site 60 years beyond the licensed life of a reactor.

The states of Connecticut, Massachusetts and Vermont wrote April 24 to NRC staff requesting a supplemental waste confidence environmental impact statement in light of issues that they said were not addressed in the staff's draft document.

Sanders said his bill, the Nuclear Plant Decommissioning Act, is designed to give states and local communities “a meaningful role” in preparing decommissioning plans that are prepared by the licensees of retiring nuclear plants. The bill requires more public and transparent approvals or rejections of the elements of a decommissioning plan, he said.

Markey said the spent-fuel pool at the Entergy Pilgrim, Mass., nuclear power plant, which is still operating, contains four times more radioactive waste than it was designed to hold.

Markey's bill, the Dry Cask Storage Act, would require nuclear reactor operators to remove spent nuclear fuel from spent-fuel pools and place it into dry cask storage within seven years. The measure would expand the emergency planning zones to 50 miles.

“The fuel is being safely stored,” Michael Weber, NRC deputy executive director, told senators.

Since 1982, the commission has overseen the successful completion of decommissioning at 11 nuclear power plants, Weber said.

There are 17 reactors in various stages of decommissioning, he said.

Marvin Fertel, president and CEO of the Nuclear Energy Institute, said he is concerned with the “cumulative impact” of additional safety regulations when the nuclear industry already is facing economic challenges that make it hard to finance new reactors.

“Adding more uncertainty will make it much more difficult for us to build new plants,” Fertel said.

Geoffrey Fettus, senior attorney at the Natural Resources Defense Council, said the NRC oversight regime should not be scaled back when a nuclear reactor ceases operation.

The commission also should revise its rules to ensure that licensees have enough funds to complete the decommissioning process, which can cost from $400 million to $1 billion per reactor, Fettus said.

For more about Bloomberg BNA, click here .

Visit www.bloomberg.com/sustainability for the latest from Bloomberg News about energy, natural resources and global business.

Press spacebar to pause and continue. Press esc to stop.

Nations and companies face rising competition for strategic resources — energy, food, water, materials — and the technologies that make best use of them. That's sustainability. It's about the 21st-century race for wealth, health and long-term security, across the global grid.

Analyses or commentary in this blog are the views of the authors, and do not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg News.
