
Angry WA mayors have issued a three-week ultimatum to Premier Colin Barnett to respond to demands for more funds for council amalgamations.

The fight between mayors and the State Government escalated after the recent state budget failed to set aside the significant funding that local governments had been promised to get on with the mergers.

Following a meeting today, local governments say the threat to walk away from the amalgamation process remains, but in the interim they will wage a campaign warning the community that without funding, rates will rise.

"The clock is ticking and we do need a clear decisive response to the State Government on what they plan to do," West Australia Local Government Association (WALGA) president Troy Pickard said.

"We will be running a metropolitan-wide campaign raising concerns to the West Australian community about the significant cost of reform and that the concern from the sector that they may be exposed to pay for that through their rates."

But Mr Barnett says that if local councils will not cooperate, the Government will run the amalgamation process without their involvement.

"Well, I hope local government doesn't do that, but if they were to walk away from the process, the process will go on without them," he said.

"The State Government will then run the process."

The state budget allocated $5 million a year for the next three years in grants to assist the process, and on top of that the Government is offering $45 million in low-interest loans to local governments.

But Perth mayors say the funding is nowhere near enough.

WALGA wants $60 million in the coming financial year to fund the merger process.

Kwinana mayor Carol Adams said local MPs would be targeted in the campaign for more Government funding.

"We're ... going to go and speak to our local members to really get their view on it, and to make them understand how much this is going to be hurting their constituency," she said.

Local Government Minister Tony Simpson said he would be disappointed if mayors walked away from the local government amalgamation process because of the stoush over funding.

Mr Simpson today indicated the Government was willing to negotiate the offer, even though Mr Barnett last week ruled out any additional funding in the mid-year review.

"There's $60 million on the table and I think there's a bit of debate around what part should be grant and what part should be loans but we will work through that with them," Mr Simpson said.

"I would be disappointed if they were to walk away from this process at this time, keeping in mind they are elected to represent a ratepayer group."

The Government plans to halve the number of metropolitan local councils from 30 to about 15.

If you have inside knowledge of a topic in the news, contact the ABC .

An aid worker becomes a little girl's sole guardian after Ebola wipes out a family in Sierra Leone.

This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.
