
The Supervising Minister of Education, Nyesom Wike has linked the Borno State Government with the abduction of the over 200 School girls in Cbibok.

Wike said the Governor of the state should be held responsible.

The Minister made the accusation when he received some chiefs from Ogu-Bolo local Government area, the Ogu Divisional council of Chiefs, in Port Harcourt.

He said the Borno State Governor, Kashim Shettima turned down a request to shelve the examination following a request from the West African Examination Council, WAEC that there was insecurity in the area.

According to him, “WAEC wrote to me to inform me that we have a security problem in that particular school and therefore they wouldn’t want exam to take place in that school.

“I wrote a letter to the Governor to say that this is what we have observed, so please there should no be exam in that school, move them to the city and get an alternative place because of the security reports we have.

“The Governor never reverted to me or wrote to me to say we are doing this or we are doing that. We wrote a letter a month to the time, not that we just wrote it within two days”, Wike said.

The Minister explained that his Ministry started taken cognizance of the security of school Children since the last incident in Federal Government College, Yobe.

He also said the Federal Government could not shutdown the school because it is a state school.

“The school is owned by the Borno State Government. They are aware that they have attacked federal government colleges before in Yobe and Borno states and what we did was to move the students.

“When we even moved the students, people from that area complained that we should re-open the schools and we said we would not re-poen the schools because of security threats”, he further stated.

Wike also assured that the current insecurity in Nigeria would soon fizzle out, adding that it was a temporary challenge.

“People play politics with everything. It’s so unfortunate that this thing happened. We are talking about girls, our daughters. So let me tell you, what is happening is a temporary thing. It is a thing that by the grace if God Mr. President will get through. It is a temporary set-back. He is working very hard”, he said.

He has promise 9ja that He will give in4mtion of their release. He is part of them.

God wil punish u  @Wike u shall neva no peace;o ma run down ni.student of poly n college dey houz all dis yl u nl do anytin shey cos ya children no dey der abi.By d grace of God where u don carry moto go na bathroom slip u go use go d place.

Mike John,

You maybe thinking with your anus. Even for the safety of WAEC officials they have the right to advice the Govt.

my friend did you hear yourself? If the governor does not know the security situation around that place, the I should be the governor of that state, not Shettima.

God go purnish who go talk nonsense, instead of seeing reasons, we find faults. Even though Shettima, is not involved or knows something about this case, he has failed in response to a call that needs attention.

It is now is duty to bring those girls OUT! Or get arrested till further notice. Who knows? He might be the informant for the BH asses.

Fellow Nigerians, let’s take religion & politics out of this and let’s reason wisely. Now, following Wike’s proper explanations, I think Governor Shettima should be blamed, and should be made to bring back our girls.

Abeg, when they’ve succeeded in kidnapping u,tell them that am also availaible 4 kidnap too,& God ‘ll bless u mightily.Don’t mind those who’ll go inside d bush & makes noise,then comes out 2 ask,who made d noise.God is xposing them one by one.

@Ayobami:Abeg, when they’ve succeeded in kidnapping u,tell them that am also availaible 4 kidnap too,& God ‘ll bless u mightily.Don’t mind those who’ll go inside d bush & makes noise,then comes out 2 ask,who made d noise.God is xposing them one by one.

When I first say the headline about pressure being applied to the President to accede to B’ Haram’s demands for a swap of girls for prisoners, I was apprehensive, disdainful, and momentarily opposed to the ideal. However, as I read the article and I thought about the girls and then came to the comment about a “moral burden” that would be required to justify such an arrangement, I thought what moral burden can exist when the lives of these girls are weighed against the lives of the captured criminals and their already completed criminal acts that can’t be undone. For that is what’s at stake — costs. If the swinish criminals are released in exchange for the lives of those girls, then justice will be delayed for the victims of their completed crimes. There is also the certain possibility that the released criminals will reengage in support if not active participation of additional B’ Haram crimes until recaptured or killed. However, those are acceptable costs for the life still in those girls and the enormous relief their families — mothers, fathers, siblings, grandparents, cousins, friends and neighbors — will receive as well as Nigeria and sympathetic nations and people around the world. In other words, as unpalatable and distasteful as it is, the reality is we cannot undo what has already been done, but we can possibly change the result for what otherwise might be which is the loss of or further emotional and physical harm to the girls. And that’s what really drives me towards what shuddered abhorrence in me when I first saw the proposal, the fact that we’re dealing with the lives of children, and a lot of them at that. We, Nigeria and the world community with Nigeria, can always go after those released and the rest of those miscreants who are continuing to daily bring misery to victims in the Northeast and shame to the nation and its military and civilian government for not respectively eradicating them as a threat and for their crimes and, secondly, providing the necessary ingredients for stability of jobs, education, infrastructure, and other quality of life improvements to the people of the Northeast and throughout the nation. The President with all resources at his disposal which are allocatable to this effort to exterminate B’ Haram must immediately go on the offensive after a quick exchange is arranged. There must be present protection for citizens from further attacks until these sorry excuses for humanity are disposed. There can be no error in that regard, and the military must find the courage and determination to establish an unyielding and impenetrable line of defense against further attacks and take the fight to and the offensive against B’ Haram and fully defeat them. They must be made to understand that Nigeria’s pride and image rest on their shoulders as Nigeria’s soldiers, and they must demonstrate to the world the fierce zeal and professionalism that we want to know them by.

Notify me of follow-up comments by email.

Notify me of new posts by email.
