
Twenty-one of 37 members of the ruling Human Rights Protection Party (H.R.P.P) signed a final letter calling on Prime Minister, Tuilaepa Sa’ilele Malielegaoi, to remove Faumuina Tiatia Liuga from Cabinet.

Dated 14 March 2014, the letter leaked to the Sunday Samoan, was handed to Prime Minister Tuilaepa before Parliament’s session on 18th March 2014. It was during that session that Tuilaepa had promised a discussion of the Officers of Parliament Committee (O.P.C) report, in particular, Faumuina’s behaviour.

Two days into the Parliament session in question, Prime Minister Tuilaepa was evacuated from Ti’afau during one of its night sessions.

He was later flown to New Zealand for medical treatment, where he remained for a couple of weeks.

A month later, on 17 April 2014, late at night, Faumuina resigned using a Ministerial statement, during which he strongly defended his behaviour.

The O.P.C report was not debated.

The resignation though was unexpected especially since he had spent nearly two hours talking about his work as a Minister.

But the letter from the H.R.P.P members, written in Samoan, has now confirmed that a new and stronger bid had been made to sack him.

The letter shows that the issue of “corrupt practises” which plagued Faumuina peaked one month before his resignation. The letter also showed that the H.R.P.P was clearly divided over the issue. The members who signed the letter included Deputy Prime Minister, Fonotoe Pierre Lauofo, four other senior Cabinet Ministers and the Deputy Speaker, Agafili Patisela Tolova’a.

“We the Members of the H.R.P.P. whose signatures are affixed hereto so to record and convey to you, Sir as Leader, that we no longer trust the Minister of Finance Hon. Faumuina Tiatia Liuga,” the letter reads.

They cite the reasons for their mistrust are contained within the pages of the Auditor and Chief Controller’s 2010 and 2011 Annual Reports and the responding report tabled by the Officers of Parliament Committee.

“At the H.R.P.P. Caucus dated March 4 2014, you said the Minister of Finance would reply during the Parliamentary session of March 18 2014 to the issues affecting him as per the above Reports,” the Members write.

“However, we respectfully feel that the decision of this issue should have been dealt with in the H.R.P.P. Caucus.

“You also said in the H.R.P.P. Caucus of March 4 2014, that the result of the vote as to the removal or stay of the Minister of Finance from his portfolio were 16 votes to 16.

“Two members of the Party namely Tuisuga and Lafai did not attend the Caucus of 4/3/2014 except the 35 of us that attended including Tu’u’u and Faumuina."

The Members then offer up their recommendations to the Prime Minister as to what should happen to Faumuina.

“To now remove the Ministerial portfolio of Finance from Hon. Faumuina Tiatia Liuga, and that the same be also removed from Cabinet,” the letter reads.

This is the second letter that has been handed to the Prime Minister concerning the Finance Minister.

The first letter was handed to the H.R.P.P. leader last August, with a source saying it contained the signatures of more than 15 Members.

A translated copy of the letter is published in verbatim below.

14th March 2014 The Hon. Prime Minister Leader of the HRPP Sir,

1. Report of the Controller and Chief Auditor for the Financial Year ending 30 June 2010.

2. Report of the Controller and Chief Auditor for the Financial Year ending 30 June 2011.

3. Report of the Committee of the Officers of Parliament P.P.2012/2013 No. 13 & P.P.2013/2014 No. 12 Report of the Controller and Chief Auditor to Parliament for the Financial Year 30 June 2010, and the Financial Year Ending 30 June 2011 (Report of the Committee).

II. At the HRPP Caucus dated 4th of March 2014, you said the Minister of Finance would reply during the Parliamentary session of 18 March 2014 to the issues affecting him as per the above Reports, however we respectfully feel that the decision of this issue should have been dealt with in the HRPP Caucus.

III. You also said in the HRPP Caucus of 4th March 2014, that the result of the vote as to the removal or stay of the Minister of Finance from his portfolio were 16 votes to 16. !Two members of the Party namely Tuisuga and Lafai) did not attend the Caucus of 4/3/2014 except the 35 of us that attended including Tu’u’u and Faumuina.

With respect, according to our count, there were more members who expressed their views suggesting that Hon. Faumuina Tiatia Liuga be removed from the portfolio of Minister of Finance and Cabinet.

IV. GIVEN the reasons contained in this memorandum, therefore, we the Members of Parliament of the HRPP doth hereby affix our signatures and strongly recommend the Hon Leader, Susuga Tuilaepa Lupesoli’ai Sailele Malielegaoi to now make the following decision: 1) To now remove the Ministerial portfolio of Finance from Hon. Faumuina Tiatia Liuga, and that the same be also removed from Cabinet.

2) That the Report of the Committee be referred to the Office of the Attorney General for legal advice as to whether any laws of Government have been violated by the Minister of Finance, as well as relevant charges pertinent to the same offences.
